It's outside, but... The news is coming, isn't it? Yeah, but Rachel said it'd be a few minutes late. There it is. Right there. Oh, there it is. Thank you, Rachel. Okay. All right. Sorry about the delay there, folks. Good morning and welcome to the January 28th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Roll.
 Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone. Welcome. We're going to have some communications items up front, and then we're going to have our regular calendar. If you're here to speak on a regular calendar item, we typically allow people three minutes to testify. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization under our code, you do need to disclose that and let us know who you're representing.
 We maintain a tradition here of dialogue and openness, so if you agree with your fellow citizen, feel free to make some kind of nonverbal demonstration, but we ask that we not cheer or boo our fellow citizens in a diverse point of view that we hear in this room. So welcome, and we'll proceed into item number 96.
 Request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address council regarding health care rally in Salem on February 11, 2015. Good morning. Yeah, I'm Shedrick J. Wilkins, and there's a health care rally in Salem. The First Unitarian Church on 13th and Salmon is the best place to pass to get a bus to go there. I'll try to be there. Thank you.
 I decided to switch back to the Democratic Party because I believe that we need to have at least a base or platform for government spending to solve people's problems. So I'm a Democrat again, so that's all I'm going to say. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Okay, item 97. Request of Crystal Elinsky to address council regarding start anew. Good morning, Crystal. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm glad you're all here.
 It's actually on starting anew. I don't know how I managed to have bad grammar. I actually meant to testify on the day I was being evicted, New Year's Eve, midnight. But you guys took the day off and also Christmas. So meanwhile, I was...
 I was looking for housing for eight months. I have Section 8, and the first time I ever came to speak to you, I had just received it. I'd been evicted by the landlord. I showed it to him. Look, I have Section 8. And he was like, bye-bye. And I was testifying about how difficult it is to get housing in this city. That was 2010.
 six, seven, no, sorry, eight, because that's when the storm came and the roof caved in and the next place I lived in. But I pretty much covered the whole gamut of agencies and services. And this time around, it's even worse. So many years later, I don't see any improvements at all. And I have, I pretty much know the services like the back of my hand, but I'm doing it again. I had to take a...
 After looking for housing until November, I packed in December. The agencies that said they would help me clean and pack and get movers fell through the day before my eviction. And I was more disabled. My disability just gets worse. So it was a lot harder than last time. So I took a self-inflicted sort of...
 therapy a couple weeks off in my mother's attic. And now I'm back and living in a shelter down the street. And I figured as long as I'm downtown, I'm going to keep coming to City Hall, go to all these agencies and ask for help and not just start it over again. So 600 places in eight months, most of them saying no because of Section 8. And I talked to the head of Home Forward as well. And
 And he said, yeah, well, the new law, you know, there's a new law. Everybody talks about it. And I was like, yeah, it's like the law they introduced in 2008. Nothing's happened. He said, yeah, that's true. There's not really much teeth to it. We're looking for a legal precedent. So I said, I might be your first precedent. Hopefully I can get the legal stuff in place. So I fought it. It was essentially Section 8 that maneuvered things to make sure I was evicted. And I fought it, and I didn't win. So...
 So it's just a little harder. I came also to testify about, I think it's Agenda Item 121 today at 2 o'clock. If anyone can come again today. I'm not sure I can make it because I have to go to have meetings at other agencies. But I'm here to help. I attended these hearings for my old neighborhood, North Northeast. And the $20 million that is going into this construction is...
 We never got a call back on it. I had people who attended it ask me about it, and I went to Mayor Hill's office to ask about it. So I never heard about the feedback. They said they would give us 10 days to see the preview on what you were going to present, apparently today. And the only reason I knew about this is because I heard it on OPB.
 they said it was 20 million on monday now they say it's 14 million so something's changing but please please postpone this so that we can get more people involved because this is uh it's happening in all of our backyards and um i'm also still suffering from the september 4th assault by the federal agent and i'm glad to be downtown because now i can get free services for health care again but after over a year
 It's just I see more and more people in my circumstances, and I can't believe it's happening again. We wish you well. Thank you for being here this morning. Thanks for your future help. Thank you. Take care. Okay, item 98, please. Request of Josh Maurice to address council regarding et cetera. Maurice, come on up. Good morning. Morning. I hope everyone's... Just get a little closer so we can hear you. Thank you.
 Well, actually, Crystal kind of put me up to communicating today. So I guess I just thought I would go ahead and get acquainted, get friendly with people. I'm Josh Maurice. And I've been going over a lot what might be an interesting frame to kind of think about the state of the union, the state of...
 the world right now. And I have really positive overall opinions and perceptions of things that are happening, you know, globally, long-term. Yeah, you know, on large scales. We're solving a lot of problems. It does seem like there are a lot of upgrades we could make, potentially kind of quickly, you know, if opinions, people's minds...
 about certain topics start to change very rapidly, as can happen, you know, more and more so, it seems like. So recommendations to, you know, honor the progress that we've made and be in line with whatever positive large-scale changes are happening. Just be open to...
 memes that arise, movements, initiatives where people are trying out different systems if it's peaceful and have tolerance for people who are doing things differently and maybe even anticipating in a way a new paradigm, etc. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, next.
 99, request of Catherine Smith to address council regarding issues with police. Come on up, Ms. Smith. Are you okay? Sure. Can you give me the color TOC reports? They're on my desk right there. My name is Catherine Smith. Dear Mayor Hales and Portland City Commissioners, I am back here again to ask you, Mayor Hales, as the Portland Police Commissioner, to use the authority you legally have to talk to new Police Chief Larry O'Day
 Sergeant McCormick and Commander Day, to tell them it is their legal duty to stop assaults on people, no matter what kind of weapon is used. Some Tigard cops still burn me 20 to 24 hours a day with microwave and ultrasound harassment weapons, voice-to-skull command weapons. Those are actually mind control when the volume is turned down so you can't hear it, and used subliminally when the volume is turned down.
 All these are easily verifiable on the internet for anyone to look up. I am one of hundreds of their targets in Portland. They are able to shoot, harass, injure, incriminate, etc. So many people because they are used remotely in many businesses, residences, and even in the city council room. Sergeant McCormick, Commander Day, and the previous Police Chief Reese
 are some of the main police covering up for this. Why would they do that? As I've said before, some of the crooked cops don't want the public to know they have such weapons because they sometimes actually torture people with them. Some of them do. Injure them, including fatal injuries, incriminate them, suicide them, and do slander campaigns on those they want to discredit. I believe you are being distracted from following up on this.
 Sergeant McCormick has been taking my reports of these assaults evidence about me that those Tigard cops say they do to my son also when he's sleeping. And McCormick has been keeping these reports from Police Chief Larry O'Day. His lack of response tells me that and those Tigard cops told me that also. They would know because they say...
 and I've seen a lot of evidence of it, that they spy on lots of Portland police, including McCormick, O'Day, Reese, Commander Day, and others. Shooting someone with microwave and ultrasound weapons 20 to 24 hours a day for years and months is attempted murder. I have burns and burn scars and deteriorated skin all over that shows this evidence.
 So please, Mayor Hales, as police commissioner, talk to them about this. If they deny I'm being shot or if they act as if they don't know about it, they are fibbing to you. Thank you. Thank you. You take care. 100. Request of Montserrat Shepard and Susan Stringer to address council regarding development on Northeast Russell and Northeast 7th. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Susan Stringer and this is Montserrat Shepherd. We are part of the Committee for Demand Redesign Concerned Neighbors Asking for Responsible Development in the Elliott Neighborhood. We are representing more than 1,300 supporters in Elliott and surrounding communities who are here today to address the lot at 2603 Northeast 7th Avenue and the impact on traffic, parking, and the development's excessive density.
 Dan Neal of Paradigm Properties is proposing a six-story, 62-unit apartment building. The neighborhood around 7th and Russell is a residential community with mostly single-family homes, some two- to three-story apartment complexes, and a few one-story commercial buildings. We strongly feel that the proposed development does not fit the neighborhood and are deeply concerned about the impact it will have on 7th Avenue.
 On parking, because the proposed underground garage will have 42 parking spaces and there will be overflow. On traffic, adding hundreds more daily trips. On safety, since 7th is a narrow street used daily by hundreds of cyclists and pedestrians. This will only worsen existing conditions for the children who cross daily without any visible crosswalk at Brzee Street to attend Irvington School.
 In addition, the building's parking garage will have a single entrance on 7th, which will create a dangerous pinch point where cars, cyclists, and pedestrians will converge on an already congested street.
 it is important to note that prior to mr neal's proposal the elliott neighborhood association had requested the lot be down zoned and according to the portland comprehensive plan the zoning is proposed to change from high density to medium density limiting the height to 45 feet seventh has also been proposed as a neighborhood greenway the city defines greenways as streets with low traffic volume and speed where bicycles pedestrians and neighbors are given priority
 We do not believe that 7th is currently a low-volume street, and that will not improve with the proposed development. Here are some important traffic statistics from the current traffic studies.
 South of Knott, where the lot is located, car counts are 71% higher than north of Knott, where speed bumps are already in place. Traffic speeds are more than 10 miles per hour over the posted 25 mile per hour speed limit. In contrast, north of Knott, the average speed does not exceed 25 miles per hour. It seems obvious that speed bumps on 7th north of Knott have effectively impacted traffic speeds.
 There are also infrastructure concerns. The zoning of this lot, an abandoned gas station, was changed when the Albina plan was adopted. When this zoning change occurred from commercial to high density back in 1990, were the existing ancient clay and brick sewer lines taken into account? No.
 Furthermore, 7th Avenue is not within the density corridor of Williams, MLK, and Lloyd Center, where 80% of the increased density is expected, making this development even more out of line.
 In closing, we would like to ask that the City require the developer to adhere to a height of no more than 45 feet, which would mitigate the amount of congestion, to install speed bumps on 7th and Russell to decrease vehicle speed, and to paint a zebra crosswalk across 7th at Brzee to protect our neighbors and our children. We are here appealing to our elected officials' good judgment and common sense. Will this zoning anomaly and its repercussions be a part of your legacy?
 Thank you again for allowing us the time to voice our concerns and for considering our requests. Thank you very much. Where is this project in the permit process right now? I think he's going to apply for the permit. He doesn't have it yet. Hasn't started yet? Yeah, he demolished the building, and he proposed that you have the picture. That's all we have.
 So his building plans have not been presented to the city yet. So we're hoping to be able to get something maybe changed before that process starts. And is there an active negotiation underway between the Neighborhood Association and the applicant at this point? We've been talking to him.
 Unfortunately, he's still set with the six-story building. And we believe that such a tall building in that location, it doesn't fit the neighborhood. And it's not going to bring anything good. And again, we're like in the middle of all these Williams and Fremont and Lloyd Center. So the density is just going to change. And if we have that, it's just not going to help us at all. So, yeah.
 It's a building that if you imagine, you know, like a building that's in the Pearl District sitting next to single-family homes, you know, that are two-story single-family homes, it really – on MLK, it would make total sense. But in the middle, just like drag and dropped right in the middle of a neighborhood, it's just – and the point that it's at, it's on a small street. And so, you know, if you –
 The building is not – there's three-story condos next to it, which go about a half a block, and then here's this building. And already the traffic at 5 o'clock backs up from not past like four blocks down to almost Tillamook. You've got people trying to get in there and out of there in that one garage space. The parking – I just – it's going to be –
 It's going to be insane. Well, we appreciate you calling us to our attention here this morning. So thank you. Thank you. Please refer to all. We gave you all the traffic data and all of the signatures from our change.org petition with comments and also the comments from the Portland comp plan.
 So according to the state land use regulations, we're not allowed to change the rules in the middle of an application. So the mayor's question is as to whether the permit has been put in. Even if it hasn't yet, it would be, we have the state mandated steps for us to require things. Possibly the mayor could, in response to your concern, have a word with the developer and see if they can negotiate something. Your other concerns regarding traffic, as part of the permit review, there is an extensive traffic statement.
 study done and the requests for zebra crossing or other mitigation might be required by the Transportation Bureau. So those are things that we as neighbors can affect. The overall regulation for what they're allowed to do. I mean, you point out helpfully that there's discussions in the comprehensive plan to change it. And at the very least, you're drawing attention to let's change it for the other nearby lot so that this doesn't happen again. It's
 I appreciate the mayor asking you to talk with the developer and that you're working with them and with the neighborhood association because often it is encouragement rather than us being able to actually require that they lower the height and the density. Well, and I think some encouragement may help. I mean, he knows that we're coming to speak, and he actually contacted us saying, oh, you know, it's a shame you have to go do that. So there's something that, you know, he's, I think, still –
 And I think with a conversation with you, Mr. Hales, would be probably very helpful. He said that he was willing to put in traffic calming measures. And correct me if I'm wrong, but he can't do that without having a traffic study to show that? Or can he just say he will do that and pay for those speed bumps and crosswalks?
 i think that people will have to be involved one way or another i will talk to the staff and follow up on this since october he said a traffic study is coming a traffic has study is coming and we haven't seen anything yet so i don't know if he's really doing it or not but that's you know we would love to see that because the past studies and that you know was a year more than a year ago and it's just gotten worse well
 Well, we will follow up with you. I appreciate you, one, getting organized and, two, calling this to our attention so that what authority we do have will have the opportunity to exercise it, whether it's persuasion authority or legal authority. So we do appreciate you getting organized and, again, being ready for that kind of negotiation, assuming that the developer on the other side of the table is willing to negotiate, which sometimes isn't the case but sounds like it might be in this instance, so that's good.
 So we at least have a few things to work with, and we, again, appreciate you being here this morning. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Appreciate the time. Okay. Let's move to the consent agenda and see. I think we have a couple of things that we are pulling to the regular agenda. One is 105-105.
 Anything else going to the regular agenda from the consent agenda? So if there's not, then can we have a roll call, please, on the balance of the consent agenda? Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Time is certain. Number 101. 101.
 Amend Bureau of Development Services fee schedule to add a peer review fee. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales. And I'd like to ask the staff to come forward. Andy Peterson from the Bureau of Development Services. This is quite a technical issue, and it's interesting, I think.
 So I hope you find it so too. The Bureau of Development Services has prepared this ordinance proposing, in addition to their building permit fee schedule, to allow for the collection of a peer review fee. This is outside of our traditional fee schedule, so approval is required under the way we operate in the state building code. This peer review fee provides cost recovery to the Bureau of Development Services when the Bureau contracts with qualified engineering professionals for certain projects. And Andy Peterson will explain it.
 all to you in great detail or less detail, whichever you prefer. Right. Good morning. I'm Andy Peterson, Bureau of Development Services. As Commissioner Fritz stated, BDS has prepared this ordinance proposing an amendment to our building permit fee schedule.
 so that we can incorporate a peer review fee, and we're requesting approval for that addition to our fee schedule. The international building model building codes, as well as the 2014 Oregon structural specialty code, require building officials to approve alternative design and construction methods not specifically described within the OSSC. Where the building official finds that the material, method, or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the OSSC.
 We have a pending project that's been proposed to us over in the Lloyd District that chooses voluntarily to go through what's called a performance-based design methodology, where both the Oregon Structural Specialty Code and the American Society of Civil Engineering Engineers, ASCE, require a peer review of that design methodology.
 to make sure that it is in conformance with the building code. We currently don't have a path to do that in our fee schedule. This amendment to the fee schedule would allow us to have a fee that
 supported and paid for that peer review team. The new fee means that gives BDS the means to contract with a qualified independent peer review team and manage the contract on a cost recovery basis for that contract plus a small management fee that takes care of staff time. This is only for the structural part of the building. The typical
 Design review aspects would continue to be in place, whether it's the design advice or the design commission would still have their input and say on the final design of the project. But again, it's the ability to meet the design criteria for the structure itself, for structural and seismic analysis. Yeah.
 This has been used up and down the West Coast, major cities including Seattle, L.A., San Francisco, San Diego, since about 2008.
 internationally longer than that. It's now here because the building being proposed is over 240 feet in height, and they have an alternative design that they wish to explore and utilize. With that, we have done outreach with the Development Review Advisory Committee, the Structural Engineers Association of Oregon, regional engineering and development firms, as well as the State Building Codes Division. We've published this information about the peer review fee on our website.
 and at this point are going through an evaluation of peer review teams to be able to move forward with this project as the next major development in the Lloyd district. With that, I'd open it up if you have questions. We can get into details on nonlinear seismic analysis if you want, but that's fine.
 probably even outside of my range of specialty. The one thing I would add is that the cost will vary depending on the project. It'll probably be somewhere between $50,000 to $100,000. Correct. That includes a 3% contract management fee for the Bureau of Development Services. Exactly.
 And other than that 3%, the rest of it is essentially a pass-through, right, to the private consultant that you hire to do the work. Exactly. Yeah. That's pretty low overhead, something Commissioner Saltzman is always looking for. That's great. Okay. All right. Any questions? Thanks. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? No one signed up. Okay. I'm astonished that nobody wanted to speak. Yeah, never, never. All right. Then we'll take a roll call on this emergency ordinance then.
 Fritz? It's an emergency because we do have this project that is wanting to use it. It was interesting information to me to hear that this was in the model building code which the state passes and that we had to then negotiate with the state because they were not necessarily aware of all the details of it. So we're once again setting the standards for the state, and we appreciate both Andy Peterson and your team, Director Pearl Scarlett, and the Development Review Advisory Committee and others who have been supportive of this. Thank you.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Thanks very much. Aye. Okay. Item number 102. Accept the quarterly technology oversight committee reports from the chief administrative officer. Good morning and welcome. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Jen Clodius with the Office of Management and Finance, and we are here to present information from the Technology Oversight Committee
 for the quarterly reports. TOC's last appearance before you was at the very beginning of September, kind of midway between the two reporting periods. So we're bringing you two reports today for the fall and the winter quarters. However, we're going to report only on the most recent report, which spans from October through December 2014. Thank you.
 As you know, TOC is made up of five community members, each appointed by a City Council member. Currently, there is one vacancy, and we are actively working with Commissioner Fritz's office to find a replacement. Today, Ken Neubauer, TOC member and the Director of Platform Engineering with Standard Insurance, joins Chief Technology Officer Ben Berry in providing you with updates on the project under TOC oversight. The other members are Wilford Pinfold, Joshua Mitchell, and Colleen Gadboy.
 We're going to project dashboards where applicable. Each dashboard contains information from the project management staff, from Quality Assurance, and the TOC. And with that, I will turn it to Ken. Thank you. Pardon me while I get slightly organized here, or reorganized. I'm not sure I've got the right. Yeah, I'm not sure I've got the right month out here.
 There it is. Sorry about that. It's marked incorrectly. Great. Good shape. Sorry about that. Good morning, City Council, Mr. Mayor. My name is Ken Neubauer. Thank you for your time today as I present the TOC's quarterly report. During this reporting period, the TOC has six projects to review. They are the Information Technology Advancement Project, ITAP, the Affordable Housing Software Project, HDS, Office 365, City Risk Information Solution Connection, RISC,
 procurement solicitation system, and the lien accounting system rewrite. Following my report on each project, Chief Technology Officer Ben Berry may provide any updates he feels is necessary. The first project, ITAP. This project develops a paperless permit and case management process and allows complete online access to permitting and case review services.
 Project deliverables include digitization and online access of historical permits and property information, implementation of an updated permit and case review information management system, online access, case and permit application and review services, mobile online access for field staff, and implementation of an automated queuing system. The TOC has concerns around the project schedule and additional unplanned scope. Some accomplishments this quarter.
 Several deliverers were partially completed. This is likely due to the project manager delivering deficiency reports to the contractor, which has led to the completion rate and quality improving. Regarding schedule, the TOC lacks confidence that the project will meet schedule. Although work is being accomplished, it's at least five months behind.
 Regarding budget, the TOC is concerned about login integration, which is additional unplanned scope. If that work can be quantified, the TOC will consider returning budget to yellow. Regarding scope, the TOC is concerned that logging in through the PortlandOregon.gov portal is unplanned scope. If the work can be quantified, the TOC will consider returning the scope to yellow status.
 Good morning, City Council. I'm Ben Barry. I'm the Chief Technology Officer for the City of Portland. Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, I just want to give you a verbal overview of where I see the last TLC meeting for the ITOP project. As Ken Neubauer mentioned, it's red in schedule, red in budget, and now red in scope in the eyes of the TLC. From the quality assurance assessment, it was red in schedule, yellow in budget, and yellow in scope.
 Now, I think the biggest stumbling point that we're seeing with the ITAP project is the ability to deliver a schedule that is salient and that can be depended upon without it being changed. And, of course, schedule has both plan to actuals. And so it's in the meeting of the actuals in terms of milestones is where I believe the issues have been with delivering this project beyond anything in red in schedule.
 So that's where the project management team and the director have been involved in conversations with the vendor, Sierra Systems. And to date, I think they've changed out a number of staff. But as you will recall, the last time I was here, I reported, I asked the project, well, how many months behind schedule is it? At that time, it was five months. I asked the same question now, and I don't have an answer from the project.
 The only thing I do have is when I look at the chart that shows the status, the current expected completion date is winter 2015 through 2016.
 Now, typically, that's so wide, you could drive a truck through that. It's just too wide. And that's why we need a schedule that is dependable and trackable. On the budget, because of it being a schedule that we can't depend on yet, there's implications to how much money the vendor spends and how much the city spends. And that's why that's in red.
 We believe the scope has never been changed from a customer standpoint, from a bureau standpoint. But because the vendor looks at the scope and then kind of interprets what the scope is,
 into the complexities which drives the schedule again, that's why the scope is in jeopardy and you could see change orders. We haven't seen change orders to date, but change orders from either the city side or from the vendor side could in fact impact the schedule and the budget. Thank you, Ben. The next project is the affordable housing software project.
 Portland Housing Bureau has contracted with Housing Development Software, HDS, to implement a solution that will provide a single data repository for the city's affordable housing programs. This effort replaces disparate systems with a modern and effective single core system, providing data entry efficiencies, reducing overall costs, and improving access to data and reporting tools.
 The city, for status, the city and HDS have reached an agreement, may have reached an agreement on a path to move forward and completion integration. Portland Housing Bureau will pay outstanding professional services, and HDS will deliver a major release to resolve the outstanding defects in the system and loan servicing module. One of the upcoming milestones...
 Upon receiving the next release, Portland Housing Bureau will commit to accepting or reporting critical issues by no later than January 9th or 15 days from the receipt of the major release, whichever is later. HDS will also commit to follow up on any defects or major issues that are identified within 48 hours with an analysis of the defect and the anticipated plan date for resolution of the defect. Some risk or concerns from the TOC.
 The TOC stopped providing a colored dashboard rating for this project in April due to going live. We have, however, provided a current status dashboard below. The delays on final acceptance are a concern, and the TOC recommends that the project continue to check in with the TOC until the final acceptance and payment issues have been resolved. City Council, just as an additional set of information on this project, we actually feel pretty good about the housing data system project now. Okay.
 TOC scored it on the 19th of January yellow in schedule, green in budget and green in scope.
 It's the first time we've seen a measurable change in the reporting of the project. You'll recall the last time we spoke about this, there were 21 issues that had to be resolved. They're now down to the three minor issues, and they believe they're on the right track. They've also had the city attorney as well as the vendor's attorney in discussions on payment, and they have now negotiated the payment schedules to both groups' satisfaction.
 So we are looking very happy on this one. We think we will hopefully close this out the next time we report this. Thank you, Ben. The next project is the Office 365 project.
 This project is responsible for migrating all city computers to Microsoft Office 365. The city currently uses Microsoft Office 23, which Microsoft will no longer support after April 2014. Migrating to the cloud-based Office 365 will save approximately $1.2 million over five years and provide more disaster recovery options and a larger email storage. The status on this is this project is complete and the TOC has chosen not to track Phase 2.
 As for more information about the Microsoft Office 365, very successful project. We were actually able to return some of the dollars, just over $400,000, to the next phase of the project. And we came in roughly about a month of the scheduled due date. Okay.
 And then we also had a 90-day report from Quality Assurance. And I might say it's one of the best 90-day post-implementation review reports I've seen in terms of its framework and the way they report it out for case associates. Thank you, Ben. The next project is the City Risk Information Solution Connection, also known as RISC.
 The existing risk management data system is out of compliance with the city's technology standards and is becoming increasingly difficult to support and maintain. This project replaces several existing independent systems with one integrated system that will support key business activities, increasing effectiveness through integrated data management, increasing effectiveness, efficiencies, and automation.
 and implement best practices. This project was originally assessed in the winter of 2012 and not requiring TOC oversight. Due to increased risk and delays, the project joined the TOC portfolio in June of 2013. Current status on this is the TOC has received the 90-day post-implementation report. All payments have been made and contracts have been closed. Final comments from the TOC on this. Regarding schedule, the project took 19 months instead of the estimated 10.
 Schedule improved after the appointment of a new project manager. Delays between the contractor and its subcontractor meant that the final component was delayed to September 5th of 2014. Regarding scope, scope remained stable throughout the project. No scope-related change orders were required. Regarding budget, project came in on budget in spite of lasting nine months longer than scheduled. Delays were vendor-caused, and contracted resources were hired on an as-needed basis and released when delays occurred.
 Regarding product performance, generally positive. New system has increased efficiencies, reduced paper flow, improved time to accomplish tasks, and has eliminated 10 shadow systems used to support the older system. We're very excited to see the finality of the project and its conclusion, and I have no further comments on that one. Thank you, Ben. Next project is a procurement solicitation system.
 Procurement Services is outgrowing their current solicitation system, which doesn't offer a cost-effective solution or the functionality required by the City. Procurement is planning to replace an integrated three systems into one and add functionality that will allow electronic requests for proposal submissions. Currently, the TOC has no additional comments on this project. Thank you.
 This particular project is a new project for us. The QA has been on board for about three weeks now, so it is still relatively early in the process, and it's all in green at this point. Even though your confidence level on the budget is low? Tell us about that. Well, under the current revision, I do show the expected completion confidence level at medium level,
 Okay. It just said that? Oh, as of the 19th of January. Okay. So this is more recent information for you. And I also show as of 19th of January, budget confidence is medium, and the scope stability is medium. Okay. Good. Thank you. Thank you, Ben. The next and last project is a lien accounting system rewrite. A lien accounting system is used to record and manage assessments and liens for the city as required by city charter and Oregon state law.
 The application is written in an old programming language and is one of two remaining applications on the mainframe, which is scheduled to be decommissioned July 1, 2015. Because of the tight timeframe and resource constraints, the decision was made to rewrite the existing system using a more modern programming language and transfer it to a Microsoft Windows environment.
 As of this reporting cycle, the project is meeting expectations. However, the TOC has concerns with the disconnect of the QA and the project team regarding the lack of project plan and using the agile project management methodology.
 And Mr. Kim, Neubauer just heard. Can you elaborate? What does that mean, agile methodology? In project management, there's two basic methodologies. There's waterfall, which is, I would say, a legacy methodology, but used by most projects. And agile is a more time constraint. You have quicker deliverables. It's intended to have quick turnaround, but it's just a completely different methodology than most companies and people are used to using. Okay.
 Just as a follow-on for the lien accounting system, the most recent January 19th finding from the TLC was red in schedule, yellow in budget, and green in scope.
 Although the quality assurance vendor has a yellow in schedule, yellow in budget, and green in scope. I think the disconnect between the yellow and the red there, we just have seen the much detailed project schedule for lean.
 that's been in the work for some time, and I believe it's been signed off at this point by the sponsor. The QA wants to make sure that we can check the results of the schedule before they move the needle back into yellow. And so it's just a little bit early to bless it at this point, but we now know that the QA and the sponsor in the audits department is actually working together now.
 That's actually been a very good situation from what we were looking at before. As you'll know, the city's mainframe has two users. We have the Portland Police Bureau data system. It's earmarked to come off that mainframe on April 14th of this year.
 and then the only other customer on that mainframe will be the accounting or will be the office with the lean accounting system. Failure to come off that system means the last customer
 standing on that platform will have to pay the full freight on the mainframe. And that's about $700,000 a year. So this particular executive advisory group for the lean accounting system has added resources. They've actually added up about $164,000 from the auditor's department to bring in more resources for programming and the discussions that are having between the development team and the...
 the QA have been going a lot better now. So, I mean, I am encouraged that they'll make their deadline.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for the report. Well, obviously the project here that's got the most question marks and also the biggest price tag is the ITAP project. We knew that when BDS took this on it was a major undertaking, and we knew that Mr. Scarlett was volunteering for risk, so we thank you for that. But any more comments or particular issues you want to raise about that just because of the scale of the thing and the level of certainty or uncertainty at this point?
 Mr. Mayor, I would be more than happy to have Director Scarlett come up and say a few words. He's here in the audience today. It might be helpful, Paul, if you would, to give us a little bit of a management view of that issue from the Bureau. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Paul Scarlett, Director for Bureau Development Services. I'm with Rebecca Spanzel, Project Manager. I appreciate the report from the TOC and Ben Burrys.
 And we do share concerns about the schedule.
 Certainly the schedule could impact the scope and the budget. However, I have to tell you and first share that Commissioner Fritz and I, this is one of our highest priorities to make sure this is being managed correctly and that we do maintain and achieve the goals of the ITAP project, which is to improve the access for our customers and our employees. And to that end, I am happy.
 pretty inserted in the process, meet weekly, whether in person or telephone conference with the CR executives along with Rebecca. And we are focused on, of course, all of the deliverables and the concerns around the schedules. I can share with you just this morning, one of the things I pressed and have been pressing is delivery.
 the schedule, which of course is of concern, and did get commitment to have a revised schedule by next week for our view. And so that will be a big relief, if you will, or progress. Certainly a number of the other aspects which our quality assurance program,
 consultant continues to monitor is also showing some progress. And as Ben shared with you, the schedule is read and the report, which is for the last three months, if you will, and we're looking at
 forward also. Some of those areas have improved the color grading, if you will. It's changed from red to yellow, for example, in the scope. That's something we're feeling better about. We are pleased to share that we have put more resources to the ITAP.
 project from BDS's team. This team has about doubled over the last year or so. We've got about nine BDS employees along with of course, SARA team members and other BDS staff that are considered subject matter experts. So overall, yes, we shared a concern about the schedule, but we're laser focused on knowing that this is a technology, one that's outdated and that's needed. And so we're committed and
 feel confident that at this point that it will work. We've seen some delivered, some completed folders, if you will, that actually does work. So that's sometimes a concern. Will this work? Which is, of course, what we want to be assured of. And so, yes, it's delayed, but we do know that we feel the vendor can do the work, and it's a matter of
 adjust in or getting on top of the schedule. And, of course, the budget and those pieces will come into plan B and hopefully address holistically as well. I can have Rebecca share a few words, being that she's on the project daily. Thanks. So can you tell us what is the new, based on your conversation with Sierra Systems yesterday, what is the new timeline for completion?
 I was just this morning. And so the commitment from Sarah is to have a revised schedule delivered to me by next week. We meet Wednesday mornings, whether in person or by telephone. And so I should be able to...
 look at that schedule by next week and have a better sense of what that revised date looks like. We are moving, I know Ben shared winter 2015-16, we're saying winter 2016. 2015 realistically is in December, and the way things are looking, that might be a hard date to deliver to, but we are feeling the winter gives, of course, there's more flexibility there, and part of
 To better answer that question, we'll be reliant on what's provided to us next week. Other comments you want to add? Well, I have plenty of things. We do have some success on the project, as Paul mentioned. The foundational blocks that we've had to build with regard to the platform complexity and integration and with regard to the integrated nature of the City of Portland's permitting practices presented some problems for our vendor.
 and all their partners. And we believe that we have made significant headway in that way. We have achieved integration between Project DOCS and the IN-4 permitting system, which allows us to use that to go forward with all the future integrations.
 We've tested successfully 18 separate configurations. They do work in their unit structure, and there are teams working behind the scenes to integrate those into the data and the other interfaces that connect.
 so we have made foundational improvement as well as integrational in a improvement we are not exactly where we wanted to be that being said with the foundation blocks in place and some process improvement on the part of the vendor
 plus additional resources on both sides we believe that we will have a more confident view of what this end date looks like it could still be winter 2016
 Part of the challenge is that the contract, although it specified deliverables, it didn't specify deadlines for those deliverables. And so learning from that experience, we want to make sure that the next timeline is realistic. We also, of course, don't want to ease up on the pressure to get the job done. So that's also part of the negotiation is tell us what's realistic, vendor, and make sure then that we continue to follow through to get those deliverables done. Okay.
 Certainly from BDS's side, I'm confident that we've got the right staff and that we've got sufficient staff dedicated to doing our pieces of it. Rebecca's instituted some new reporting mechanisms on a weekly basis to let the vendor know what we're expecting and to tell them how they did the week before in our evaluation. So it's a lot of project management. Well...
 To that last point, I'll try to put this a little bit delicately, but not so delicately that the point will get lost.
 We are commissioners in charge of bureaus, but we're also board of directors. One of the reasons why we have this technology oversight exercise here at the council is that no matter which the color of money is being spent, whether it's utility money or general fund money, or in this case, the fund that's paid for by building permits, it's still public money, and so we do this ecumenical effort of looking at all the technology projects and with the help of these volunteer advisors, make sure that...
 each of those is being carefully watched and managed in this particular case bds is the lead bureau but our permit process of course spans almost every bureau that that's represented by the five of us so i wouldn't expect commissioner fritz to be shy on this subject but want to encourage you and paul as well if you need specific performance from any of our bureaus that are linked into this
 permit clearinghouse, which is what this system is going to create, obviously don't be shy. Ask us for additional staff support or the ability to meet the schedule. If we're having trouble meeting the schedule because of one of my bureaus, I certainly want to hear about it.
 So this is a big deal. It's now over $10 million. It's really important. It's going to be a great service for our customers. But obviously, as you said, Paul, it's got to work. So call on us, please. And again, that's a little bit redundant, because I know you would. But I just want to put that out there and obviously put all the bureaus on notice as well. This is a big deal for us corporately. And everybody should be helping make it succeed.
 Well, thank you, Mary. I appreciate that. In my first term, we had a big discussion about consolidation versus co-location for the permit services, and we went with co-location. As Rebecca mentioned, we do it differently from other jurisdictions. So it's not like you can buy a laptop, plug it in, and expect it to work the same way that –
 if you want it to work, that it needs to work. And so it is multi-bureau, and I very much appreciate your acknowledgments of that. Well, let us know when you need help to make all those things go green. I'll stick you up on your offer right away. I just had one last question, and that is the Oversight Committee raised concerns about
 logging in through the PortlandOregon.gov portal is a change in scope? It's not a change in scope. The issue before us was how we were going to authenticate, and we had several choices. The original plan called for Active Directory, and now we're going in the direction of Portland Online. We've made that decision, and there is a task team working that puzzle, and there are vendor items to now add.
 work on and complete, and then we'll do some testing on it. So we've made the decision. It has not been fully resolved, but it is in process. And I do want to point out that we are working on Phase 2, which is the requirements gathering, and Phase 3, which is the configuration. That is the bulk of the work.
 And those take a long time. So we are in the middle of that process. This is also where issues are discovered and resolved. And we are actively engaging on all those fronts. So this is painful but normal. And I would also say I would agree. We talked about that issue. I think it's been resolved in the way we worked through it.
 Ben, can I do a follow-up on that? Yes. I have a more than passing interest in this question of how you access the Portland online portal. And today the Water Bureau is announcing a quantum leap forward in monthly billing because we've been able to crack the nut and allow people to get that service if they don't want to do e-bills but want to get a paper bill. So we kind of figured that out. Okay.
 I think almost everyone up here now does monthly billing, and it's not the easiest system to access. Or maybe I'm making a comment about my technological competence. But is there a way – is there some thought, short-term, medium-term, to making the system more accessible? Sure.
 For Portland Online in particular, for monthly billing for water bills? Well, we have lots of – you can go on to pay the arts tax. You can go on to pay your leaf fee. You can go on to pay your water bill. But for anyone accessing, I find it a little challenging. Sometimes you have to put in two sets of codes, and that creates –
 So, any thoughts about that? So, this is Commissioner Fish. This is a question about usability of the system. I don't know of any usability initiatives going on with Portland Online right now, but I can take that question back to our development team and get some information back to the committee.
 Yeah, what I'd be interested in is what options do we have with our current configuration? Are there shortcuts or other kinds of things? And, of course, doing so in the context of ensuring safety. Obviously, we have to make sure that people who access are protected. Thank you. I will take that from the minutes, and we'll get that to the team so I can get back to you. Thank you.
 I had one last thing I'd like to offer from the TOC. ITAP was one of the first projects that came to the TOC in the fall of 2011. And actually at that point they were still in their analysis phase trying to go out and figure out what programs to bring in. And when they were doing that, we actually had a TOC member go and work with some bureau members. And when they came back, the report to us was this is a really complicated project.
 And when we looked at the dates, the TOC really felt they were incredibly aggressive dates. I'm not sure who selected the dates, but they were very, very aggressive. We're not at all surprised to see some of these delays that have happened. I think with projects that have this magnitude of scope and complexity, especially when you have homegrown systems that the city has, I think this is to be expected. Good point. Thank you. That's really helpful. Yeah. Other questions for our team here?
 Thank you all very much. Appreciate it. Appreciate your work. Do we have anyone signed up to speak on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet, but Mr. Lightning has requested to speak. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog. The only concern I have on this is you've stated it's very complex, there's going to be some delays, and I understand that.
 But my main concern on this is pertaining to the affordable housing software. One of the things I have done some speeches on in the past is to make sure that these loans are serviced properly. And I want to have a clear understanding on this loan servicing module, which you state here is the most important module, which I do agree, is operating properly, the loans are being serviced properly.
 And we're not going to have at the end of the year the auditor come in and say we are not able to service our loans in a reasonable manner due to software problems. And I don't want to hear that again this year. I want to make sure that these systems are in place. If they're not working right, fine.
 Make sure that the loans are being serviced properly. And that's my main concern on this whole issue pertaining to the affordable housing software. Thank you. Thank you. Good point. Morning. Morning, Council and Mayor. I'm Stephen Etwistle, a 55-year resident of Portland. We talked a little bit about affordable housing. Well, I live in affordable housing. And my question is, if you're going to –
 put people in affordable housing, then it would be a good idea to have some kind of a noise control ordinance around the affordable housing. Because right now, we don't. And I had a friend die because he was on a medication and wasn't getting sleep. His name was Don Estep. Okay, nothing has been done. His death has been years. Okay.
 And let me tell you what happens. Okay, this morning, okay, there was a whole group of people. There was a little convention right underneath my window. Okay, everybody's laughing and yelling and screaming and keeping all our neighbors awake. Okay, I know we all want to hear that, right? Unless it happens to you, you probably don't take it into consideration. But anyway...
 So the only option that a person has when they live in affordable housing, okay, since there is no noise control officer anymore that deals with those issues, that they have to call the police. Okay, a lot of people are a little apprehensive about calling the police, especially these days, okay, especially on a noise issue, okay, and the police don't take noise issues as the very lowest priority of all. But this is about public health, okay, this isn't just about some little annoyance.
 This is something that happens seven days a week. This is not just on the weekends. This happened this morning. Now, that being said, do you know what happens when you call the non-emergency police number? Do you know what happens? Okay, let me show you what happens. I had to call the non-emergency police message. Now, what I asked the dispatcher is, is, um...
 Do you want me to call you guys before or after I go down and confront the folks? And they go, no, no, don't confront them. Don't confront them. We'll take care of it. I go, okay, fine. So I call the non-emergency number reluctantly. I don't like to call the police for anything unless it's absolutely necessary. Now, what happens is this. This is the answer. This is... Okay. Okay.
 Let me get this down. Okay. You've got to hear this. I'm not going to be very much longer. This is just going to be a few more seconds. But this is what happens when you call the non-emergency number and you get a police response. Now, what time did I call? I called at 318 this morning. Okay, here it is. Oh, are you getting through? Thank you. Appreciate you bringing that to our attention. Sure. I called at 318, okay? He didn't get back to me until after 340. That was 30 minutes, okay?
 Now, a lot happens in 30 minutes, okay? These guys know what they're doing. They're doing this on purpose to bother us, to keep us up at night, because it happens every single night. We've made complaints to the management. We've made complaints to the neighbors. We've made complaints...
 all around. But you know what? It's just, it's nothing. Okay. And if I go down there and confront them, guess what? I get 40 shots in me from the cops. Okay. They will kill me and let me bleed to death in the street over a noise issue. We appreciate you bringing this to our attention, but we've got to get on with our agenda. Are we going to do anything about this or not? Well, I will talk to the police for you about that report. So thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you very much.
 Okay. I move to accept the report. Second. Is there any further discussion? Roll call on accepting the report. Fritz? Very much appreciate the work of the Oversight Committee in partnership with the Bureau of Technology Services and also Commissioner Saltzman for establishing or leading us in establishing the Technology Oversight Committee. I am still looking for a delegate from my office, so if anybody is interested, having seen this presentation, please contact my office.
 Obviously, the main concern to me in this report is regarding the ITAP project. I very much believe in the team that we have put together at the Bureau of Development Services. Very grateful to Rebecca Sponsal, who's the project manager, and to Paul Scarlett for his in-person oversight of it on a weekly basis. I'm hopeful that our contractor has put together a team that will now meet our needs.
 Just as a reminder, this project was envisioned by Commissioner Leonard, and I vividly remember him describing the current process in development services where applications are on paper and taken around in shopping carts from one desk to another. And we need to get into the 21st century and to have mechanisms so that people can check on their application remotely so they don't have to drive downtown. We need to make sure that all of our systems work better.
 Co-location has helped our systems to work better. This will be the next stage. I was interested to hear that the Technology Oversight Committee warned in the first place that the schedule was too ambitious. Obviously, the schedule affects the budget, and then it affects what can be done as well. So my intent with this revision that we'll be doing is to make sure that we do set a realistic schedule that's still ambitious and sets a good target and doesn't let the
 although obviously with any technology project there are going to be upgrades over the years. So we're going to set a realistic schedule so that we can then stick to it. There are robust reserves within the Bureau of Development Services, thanks to development picking up, which is helpful. There will not be a general fund asked for covering any additional resources that might be needed for this project.
 And so I appreciate this work, particularly Ben Barry and the team at BTS and also Jennifer Cooperman, the city treasurer, has also been involved. So speaking to the mayor's point about this being an entire city project, that's absolutely the case. And so I'm happy to be leading it and grateful that we have these frequent updates so that we can let the public know. It's not going to be a surprise if we have to extend the schedule. Aye. Thank you.
 Thank you for the report. I want to begin by thanking Ken who is my designee for his continued service. It seems like we have a lot of people from standard insurance playing critical roles in helping us run this city. I'm guessing if everyone at the standard who serves on the committee is here at the same time, who actually does the work over there?
 But we appreciate their public service, appreciate the report, and I appreciate Commissioner Fritz reminding us that there were two reforms in the past that were really important. One was the decision on co-location, which was controversial, but I think has proven itself over time. And the second was this technology oversight process that Commissioner Saltzman led.
 And I think it's proven itself, its value, and so much so that I think it's really the model for how we should approach contract oversight, which I think is the next piece of work for this council. And I really appreciate the good work of the committee, and as always, Ben, you and your team for your work. Aye. Seltzman? Well, I want to thank the Oversight Committee for their continued good work, and Ben Berry and his shop for...
 working with the Oversight Committee. I think the Oversight Committee, I think as the Mayor just said a minute ago, is accomplishing exactly what we intended and that is to make sure that complicated projects and software projects are overseen by all five of us in terms of monitoring issues and that's through our appointments to the Oversight Committee. You're doing exactly that, so thank you very much. Aye. Novick. Thank you very much to the members of the committee and to the Bureau of Staff involved in presenting this report. Aye.
 Hayles. I'll paraphrase Senator Proxmire's remark, a million here and a million there, and eventually you've got real money. So we appreciate watching not just the millions but the months and weeks and dollars involved in these really important projects. And thank you, Ben. Thank you, all of you, for good work. Aye. Okay. Item 103.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro to develop a preferred alternative package, locally preferred alternative and draft environmental impact statement for the Southwest Corridor Plan and fund the city share of the local partner agency contribution. Commissioner Novick.
 colleagues i'd like to invite metro counselor stacy malou wilkinson from metro art pierce from pbot and joe zender from bps to the podium before we begin with the presentation for mr zender and mr pierce i want to take this opportunity to make a few acknowledgements washington county commissioner roy rogers is unfortunately unable to be here today but he's kindly written a letter of support that will be read later in the presentation
 Metro Counselor Bob Stacey is here, as they noted. Thanks for making time in your schedule to join us today. And thanks to Bureau and Metro staff for their work thus far. I also want to take a moment to thank the community organizations, institutions, and individuals that are present today and have been involved throughout this process. I believe that both PCC and Northwest College of Natural Medicine are here, and we'll have some comments from them later on. And also, of course, Marianne Fitzgerald is here, although I understand she's going to be speaking for herself, Dr. Sweeney, for once.
 If I missed any organizations involved in this process over the years, thanks for being here today. Joe and Art, please take it away. Well, good morning, Commissioners. I'm Joe Zender, Chief Planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I've been asked to kick this off by providing some context for the
 for the decision that you're going to be asked to make today and remind everybody of what we've been doing up to this point. Now, the southwest corridor, including Barber Boulevard, was made a priority in Metro's regional high-capacity transit plan, and so we've been following through on that designation over the years. And the first thing that we did in terms of city planning was to undertake the Barber concept plan, which you all looked at a couple of years ago. That project, our ability to do that, was funded by Metro Grant.
 Now, that Barber concept plan was a community-driven project that filled in the blanks that we left when we finished working on the Southwest Community Plan. And in doing it this time, we reached an unprecedented consensus about a vision for how we want Barber to develop. The concept plan identified places to focus development.
 It identified how to design these places. It considered how to connect those places into the neighborhoods because the neighborhoods at Lime Barber are a critical part of what we're trying to create at Lime Barber. It looked at the urban design of those places. It looked at the mix of uses, the size, and the amount of development.
 The Barber concept plan also looked at the economics of when and how we expect this development to pencil. And it found that high-capacity transit is critical to achieve what we actually proposed, what the community consensus was in the Barber concept plan. And it also reminded us that with these local benefits, also there's a regional benefit to connecting to the employment centers farther out into the county.
 We carried the concept plan into the comprehensive plan. The concept plan and the progress along the way with the continued work with Metro and the city and TriMet has been brought to the Planning and Sustainability Commission twice. The Plan and Sustainability Commission reviewed what's called the purpose and need statement, so the framing statement for this work that we're doing and in doing that.
 brought it back to the barber concept plan. So that link is solidly tied to the project. We all need to stay involved to ensure that it follows through on the promise or sort of the priority set in the barber concept plan. But that's the context for what you're looking at today, and this is the next step. Council, Art Pierce, Policy and Planning Manager for the Bureau of Transportation. Just add a couple notes. Joe, you did a great job on
 One of the important pieces that, if you recall, when Southwest Corridor came, previously, Council was talking about the shared investment strategy. So this is a focusing of energy regionally and within the city of Portland and other local partners
 around creating some great places, around really emphasizing some key corridors. And it's more than just high capacity transit projects. So it also includes tying in multimodal access projects, so sidewalk improvements, better bike improvements to connect people who currently don't have very good connections to the Barber Corridor and connecting into the high capacity transit facility.
 facilities themselves that we're working on collectively with TriMet and Metro. It's also really, really important in reaffirming and investing in some of these key places such as the Naturopathic College and PCC Sylvania campus. So those are key places that these investments and the overall strategy can really help to strengthen and affirm. So I encourage you to support this today and we're here to answer any questions.
 Actually, just to add a few points. As you've heard, Southwest corridor plan will introduce a fast, reliable, high-capacity transit option, connecting jobs and housing throughout the region while strengthening pedestrian and bicycle connectivity to keep places in the neighborhoods across the corridor. The Southwest corridor plan is advancing in two phases. The first phase of the plan is the southwest corridor plan.
 It's already complete and resulted in the creation of the Southwest Corridor Planning Shared Investment Strategy, which Council endorsed in 2013. During the second phase of the Southwest Corridor Planning Process, Metro will refine the project and strategies identified in Phase 1. In FY14-15, this Council adopted a budget that set aside one-time general fund special appropriation for the first year of the Southwest Corridor Graft Environmental Impact Statement.
 This IGA represents the transfer of funds already approved last budget cycle and documents worked to be completed by Metro and project partners to narrow the high-capacity transit options, identify a preferred alternative, and create a subset of road and active transportation projects to be studied jointly in a draft environmental impact statement. Previously the PATH Board would have had project partners do a draft environmental impact statement before resolving some rather large issues.
 Councillor Stacey will speak to the shift to a preferred alternative and its components in a moment and talk about why this shift will make a process we think much more efficient than the process we were previously contemplating speaking of project partners I mentioned previously Washington County Commissioner Roy Rogers is off the letter of support which I'd like to read into the record dear mayor Hales and members of the Portland City Council I regret that I am unable to attend today's City Council meeting due to personal business they must attend to
 My purpose in attending was to convey Washington County's support for the Southwest Corridor Plan and our intentions of adopting an IGA similar in scope and scale as the one you're considering today. The Southwest Corridor Plan is an important multimodal regional effort. The high-capacity transit project will address the need for more frequent, faster, and reliable transit service and other transportation needs in the corridor and region-wide.
 The multimodal projects in the preferred package for the Southwest Corridor will improve access to the transit station areas and within the corridor for all modes. Washington County is also committed to partnering with other agencies and jurisdictions to leverage funds for multimodal projects within the corridor. The Southwest Corridor Plan is essential for resolving the traffic problems within the corridor. Washington County is in full support of the efforts of the Southwest Corridor Plan. Counselor Stacey. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Mr. Mayor, Council Members, I'm glad to be back before you again to give you a progress report and to explain from the perspective of the Steering Committee, on which I serve as co-chair with Councillor Craig Dirksen, along with Commissioner Novick and Commissioner Rogers, that change in the work program that the IGA will contribute toward.
 as a senior partner in this enterprise, along with TriMet, Washington County, and the region as a whole, and ODOT, we want to make sure that you understand that we're trying to increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of a decision-making process, which we thought would be ripe for entering a draft environmental impact statement at this point, but which would be more cost-effective if we refined the remaining choices, which are pretty big choices,
 There are options for tunneling, for surface alignment. There are options for splitting between Tigerton and Tualatin service or having a single line that continues down to Tualatin. There are station location options. We have a number of vibrant and important locations in southwest Portland. They don't make a straight line. And so we have to be very thoughtful in a mixture of...
 technical information analysis and policy decisions that have to be ventilated with the public, sharing that technical information, whether we're in an environmental impact statement or focusing on a locally preferred alternative before we enter that environmental impact statement. But the DEIS process under federal law and regulations is probably the most costly way to make those kinds of narrowing decisions and to achieve community consensus.
 So those are the practical considerations. Can we have a high-quality public engagement and interaction with the communities, including the communities of southwest Portland that are engaged in this process, make decisions which are going to be laden with community design objectives as well as transit efficiency, and then can we have a locally preferred alternative, a location for those stations and that alignment and that mode, before we enter the draft environmental impact statement?
 There's also another very practical consideration. Two of our partners in this regional enterprise, the cities of Tigard and Tualatin, have had citywide votes that, in the judgment of the city councils of those communities, require them to obtain voter approval before making further investment beyond this study phase in a high-capacity transit system.
 Knowing and being able to present to voters as well as all community members what that option is, where it will be located, how it would function, would be very important in any kind of dialogue and any kind of public election to decide whether to proceed with such a project.
 A draft environmental impact statement is a pretty obscure thing to take to voters. A proposed project is clearer. And I think those members of the steering committee are very intent upon being able to talk in real terms about the proposed decision in all its parts. So for that reason, on the same schedule, with the same monetary outlay by the City of Portland, we propose to deliver the draft environmental impact statement.
 on the date required with an LPA and just move the locally preferred alternative to the front end of that EIS. It's not unusual. It's unusual in our practice in LPAs.
 high-capacity transit corridor decision-making in this region, but many other regions are using it for high-capacity transit decisions and across the country for other federal investment or federal decision-making that require an EIS. I'd be happy to answer any questions, but I think Malou and your staff will do a better job of giving you those answers. Thank you. Thank you. Malou, would you like to elaborate on the work plan?
 I am going to try not to be repetitive with what we've already heard from these gentlemen next to me, so I will do my best to really focus on the areas that I don't think that you've heard yet, and also get some images in your minds in terms of what we're looking at
 So I want to talk a little bit about how we are approaching the next year and a half in terms of a work plan, when we expect milestone decisions, and also get throughout the reasons why we're looking at the Southwest Corridor and how we invest in the Southwest Corridor. So with that...
 You know, I wanted to just remind us, as we heard from Joe and our and Councilor Stacy and Commissioner Novick, we are really starting with the local community visions. And that's why we're looking at that.
 thinking about how we invest in transportation in concert with not just the Barber Concept Plan, but also the Linking to Alton Plan, the Tigard High Capacity Land Use Plan, the Sherwood Land Use Plan. So each of the communities in the Southwest Corridor did a land use plan, and that is the foundation of what we're doing. And, again, there are a lot of reasons why we started looking at the Southwest Corridor. Some of the opportunities and challenges in this area, it's an area with a lot of travel demand
 Significant anticipated increased growth in jobs and housing. There already are a lot of jobs and housing in the area, and there's a real lack of safe infrastructure, along with a lack of transit opportunities in the Southwest Corridor.
 So I'm going to talk a little bit more about the impact of traffic congestion and unreliable travel times in a moment. You heard from my colleagues here about the reasons why we started looking. This corridor was identified as one of the region's top two priorities in 2010 for high capacity transit investment. The other one is PAL Division. That is also moving along right now at the same time, and we're excited about being able to think about how we address those needs together. So...
 We're looking, as you heard Art describe, we have a shared investment strategy and we're not just looking at an investment in high capacity transit. A full suite of transportation investments is going to be needed to address the challenges in the corridor. But there are a couple of really good examples from the potential impact of a high capacity transit investment that I just wanted to share with you today.
 What you see up on the screen is an example of the unreliability of the transportation system right now in the Southwest Corridor. We have real-time data from 2013 that shows that it takes 14 minutes with no traffic to go from Portland State down to Tualatin. But you can't rely on there not being any traffic. In fact –
 If you want to be on time 90% of the time to get home to pick up your kids from daycare or from school or get to an interview or get to a dinner date, you need to plan for 58 minutes. And that's a big difference in the amount of time that it takes. When you think about investing in light rail or bus rapid transit that's in a dedicated right-of-way, we're looking at a 30-minute –
 travel time that's always, it's dependable and reliable. And so that's part of the benefit of having high capacity transit as a transportation choice in the Southwest Corridor. I also just wanted to let you know about the potential performance and return on investment from a broader regional perspective as we think about investing in this corridor.
 We have initial modeling results that show ridership projections for 2035 for the Southwest Corridor, both for bus rapid transit and light rail transit, and they are very robust. Bus rapid transit being a little bit over 30,000 daily rides, light rail close to 37,000,
 That's 60% new transit riders, which is a really strong number that is really, I think, indicative of the lack of choices that there are right now in the Southwest Corridor for how we get around. And just for context, Portland, Milwaukee is projected in 2030 to have about 25,000 daily rides. So this would be a very competitive corridor when we're thinking about how we look for funding beyond just our region and in the national framework. And there are some numbers up there in terms of
 current light rail lines ridership for context for you to look at. So we already heard from my colleagues about the progress to date. We have a shared investment strategy. It's more than transportation. Really, it's the kinds of investments we need to make to create the places that people want to live and work in in the Southwest Corridor, from Portland to Sherwood, you know, little bits of Beaverton and Lake Oswego. And then, we
 I think another important point here is that when we started looking at transportation investments outside of high-capacity transit, we put together everything. We came up with over $3 billion worth of road, bicycle, and pedestrian improvements. What we worked together with our project partners to do was to narrow that down to $500 million that best supports the land-use vision, not that high-capacity transit line, but all of the visions for employment and mixed-use areas throughout the corridor.
 But we didn't take the next step of figuring out how we get those projects on the ground, and that's part of what we're looking at over the next 18 months. So you heard last June the steering committee refined the high-capacity transit further
 In the last few months, what we've been doing is working with the steering committee to figure out the best path forward. Councilor Stacey described what that is. We're really aiming for a preferred package in May of 2016, and how we get there is based on some guiding principles. We are aiming to make as many decisions locally as we can, as Councilor Stacey referred to do it,
 based on the information that our decision makers need to define a project that would then go into a more costly and federal planning process. This is also in alignment with the Federal Transit Authority's guidance to be sure that by the time we bring them a project to partner with them on, we're ready at the local level to move forward with it. So this fits in with the streamlining approach of MAP-21.
 One of our guiding principles is to activate the shared investment strategy with a focus on places to figure out how to get those road, bike, and pedestrian projects in place over the next 5, 10, 15 years to help community members be able to move around better now.
 and to allow for enhanced engagement and community discussion. Councilor Stacey talked about that. So there are three main elements, and I'm going to get to those a little bit more in a minute. The shared investment strategy projects that aren't part of the high-capacity transit project,
 defining the high-capacity transit package very clearly, and a development strategy that really helps further that land use vision and implement it with strategies and partnerships that are specific to key places in the Southwest Corridor. So we're aiming for really three chunks of decision-making over the next year and a half. In July, what we're aiming for when we think about high-capacity transit, we want to make some of those major alignment choices
 How do we directly or indirectly serve Markham Hill, Hillsdale, and Portland Community College, the Sylvania campus? And also figuring out how we make our way through Tigard. We have a lot of little lines on the map going through Tigard, and we can work with the Tigard community to figure out how to narrow that further. So we're trying to...
 make a chunk of decisions in July that are related to those. In December, what we're aiming to do over the fall is really focus on the discussion of what is the best investment in terms of mode to serve the needs of the Southwest Corridor and the region and how these pieces all fit together. Is it light rail? Is it bus rapid transit? How far south does it go? And
 which alignments do we really want to take into that expensive federal planning process. We'll have a four-month time frame between December and May to have a lot of engagement on what the steering committee will put together into a preferred package that will be recommended to each of the project partners and the region. So I want to spend just a moment talking about engagement. We have heard.
 that we haven't been out there talking enough over the last six months. We agree with that. We have done a lot of technical work. We haven't had a chance to go out there and talk about it very much. We're ready to do that now. There are five main activities that we are intending to undertake over the next year and a half
 The most important is really the place-based outreach where we want to be out there at neighborhood meetings, business associations, institutions, stakeholder groups. We want to be out there hearing what people have to say about the local considerations and tradeoffs of these issues.
 major investments. But then we also want to pull those together into community planning forums where we are inviting people from across the corridor to be able to think about how those local choices and tradeoffs impact the corridor-wide, region-wide investment.
 online engagement will be really important to us because we are more effectively able to reach more people online than we are in meetings. And we are really working to build our relationships with the environmental justice and underrepresented populations in the Southwest Corridor. It's a...
 a corridor that is different than other parts of the region, but we do have a number of populations that we need to work with effectively so that their voices are heard in that corridor. And then we're also going to be engaging with… Before you move on from that, how are you going to do that? Because that's not likely to be folks who would participate online.
 Exactly. We are currently working with different groups, with the community leaders in different groups. For example, the Somali Family Center, and there's a youth farm in Tigard, and we've been out visiting with them to work with them to figure out the best way to engage because, frankly, it's been a challenge in this corridor to be able to reach out to those groups. So it's not online, and it's not at our regular community meetings. Right.
 and we're trying to work with those leaders in the communities to figure out what works for them. Have you talked with the staff at Markham Elementary? I will check with our public involvement person and see if we have. That's a built-in community of a lot of different kinds of folks, and that would be a great spot for you to go to them. That's terrific. Thank you.
 And we'll be working with ID Southwest as well to help them engage their networks. So I want to leave you with some pictures of the places in the Southwest Corridor. I'm not going to read through anything on these. But, you know, we're talking about South Portland, Hillsdale,
 Portland Community College, Sylvania, that campus is their largest campus. There are a lot of opportunities up there. Barbara Boulevard, Tigard Triangle, and the downtown Tigard area are about how those connect, are really important to think about, and how those connect to the cruiseway employment area. That is a
 an area with a significant number of jobs. And in Tualatin, Bridgeport Village, downtown Tualatin, Durham, all of those areas are really important to be able to better serve with transportation choices. And then when we think about Sherwood and Washington Square, we're not so much thinking about high-capacity transit here, but we're thinking about how do we implement some of those shared investment strategy projects like improvements to Tualatin-Sherwood Road,
 enhancing the local transit service. TriMet has been working on the Southwest Service Enhancement Plan, and that's really critical. You cannot get from Tualatin to Sherwood in either direction without going north to Tigard.
 And so that's a problem for people in those communities who would like to be able to have other choices to move around. So our schedule here is, again, between now and spring 2016, we'll be developing this preferred package. We've reviewed what would be in that preferred package. Towards the end of 2016, early 2017, we're anticipating scoping for a draft environmental impact statement.
 where we'd work through that process. We'd be able to move through that very rapidly because we would have such a well-defined project. And so we're aiming to be complete with all of that by the end of 2017. So in a nutshell, that's kind of what we're doing, how we're doing it, when we anticipate doing it, and just a reminder of why. So with that...
 Thank you very much. Thank you all. Any questions for this panel? I have a question for, I think it's Councillor Stacey. That's my name. It's such a different look, I barely recognize you. Oh, it comes and goes, Commissioner. The hair, that is. I can relate to that. Question for you is, where does housing fit in the planning process, particularly around
 capturing opportunities that are going to come through some decision making in this planning process. So we're going to have chances to think about where we put affordable housing or family-friendly housing or perhaps steer some city investments and other things. Could you give me, as one of the two champions for housing at Metro, how are we doing in that regard?
 Commissioner, I can't give you specifics about current proposals or strategies that have been developed in conjunction with the Southwest Corridor, with the Housing Bureau, for example. Joe may be able to shed more light on that, but I can tell you that that's a rising consideration in all our high-capacity transit corridor work.
 The steering committee of Powell Division Project, a bus rapid transit proposal that we're working with TriMet, the city, and Gresham to proceed on, another steering committee which Councilor Novick serves on, has seen remarkable development of strategies to avoid displacement, which is one objective behind investment in affordable housing. The encouragement of...
 economically balanced communities in and around the transit station areas will be another incentive and motivation, I hope, for city and non-profit investment in the station areas of this corridor. It's a natural match to have workforce housing, to have mixed income communities, and to ensure that every part of the region, particularly parts of the region that
 have some natural area and other benefits that exceed those of, say, inner southeast Portland, will have opportunities for people of limited means. Same token on Powell Boulevard, part of the other project,
 I think we have real opportunities for redevelopment that include affordability, which is much more lacking in inner southeast. So I'm very interested in the objective. Metro has limited resources for transit-oriented development, which we can target for affordability as the leap that we want a project to make with our modest investment. And so we should be in a continuing dialogue about that. And by the way, I was at the rollout the other day of the Jade District vision,
 And there was someone from Metro there. And, in fact, there's a prime piece of property within the Jade District that Metro has acquired for a transit-oriented development. It's the furniture store. Yes. That's on the corner there. And I was delighted to learn that. We're modestly proud of that, yes. And –
 I guess the concern that we all share is that as people are making bets about where those stations are going to be or what kind of transit or whatever, a lot of speculation happens in terms of the dirt. And it obviously happened with Portland-Milwaukee light rail. It's going to happen here. And at some point, we may be too late to put our marker down.
 And so thinking about it, you know, holistically around where are we going to do some, around the zoning decisions we make, around the investment decisions is very important. So I hope we have a chance to continue to think about that and make some choices before things are cemented and we've lost some leverage. Thank you.
 That's the tutorial Joe gave me, so I'm just repeating it, but it's being upstream so we don't lose these opportunities. Absolutely. And I think that's sound advice to the council in terms of some of the decisions you'll make in your comprehensive plan update because there's some tools that our region has left on the table that are allowed under state law, such as incentive-based inclusion in housing development. We were at a legislative breakfast this morning, and one of the city's top priorities is lifting the preemption.
 So we hope to have some more tools in our toolkit. So thank you, sir. The other thing I guess I'd mention is that we're doing the local work, but we're in a federal process, and the federal New Starts process evaluates projects in part based on what the land use plan, including housing, has done to key to the transit opportunity. And, in fact, in this administration and in the Obama administration,
 those agencies of HUD and EPA and transportation actually put people from the other federal agencies on evaluation panels, which is unheard of. If we think we have silos, take a look at theirs. So they actually have had people from HUD and EPA sitting in on the panels that evaluated projects and scored them.
 So they not only have the stuff, you know, the words are on the page, but the right people are in the room when they actually adjudicate who gets the money. And I like that. I think it's great. And, Mayor, you have someone on your staff who's the right person, too. Yes. Because I'm reminded that when you had that, there was that sort of brownfield site on Interstate that TriMet owned.
 that later became the site of a housing development that now REACH operates that's next to the IFCC. It was a very complicated plan, but Jillian helped navigate all the partnership relationships to get that done. Right.
 Great. Other questions, comments for the panel? Thank you all very much. Councilor, thanks for coming. Appreciate it. So public testimony on this item, please. Yes, we have five people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are David J. Schletch, Marilyn Considine, and Keith North. Good morning. Morning. Oops. How are you going?
 How are we all this morning? Very well, thanks. Thanks for coming. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. We're grateful for the opportunity to express support for the Southwest Corridor Plan, IGA, between Portland and Metro. My name is David Sleig, President of National College of Natural Medicine in Portland. With me are Marilyn Considine, Director of Public Relations and Communications, and Keith North, who is our Director of Campus Development.
 Our college has been in Portland for 60 years, and we are growing more rapidly than ever before in our history. Our impact economically in the community is closing in on about $70 million a year. We're regionally and federally accredited, a nonprofit educational institution, producing physicians and experts in naturopathic medicine, nutrition, integrated mental health, global health,
 and very soon we'll be adding undergraduate programs, probably in this year. In addition to those daily programs that draw over 640 students to our campus every day, we have a robust clinical presence with, last year alone, upwards of 35,000 patient visits to our teaching clinic and facilities. NCNM has an increasingly national reputation in the integrative medicine sector, and we want to stay strong in this work,
 and do our city proud. NCNM's master plan commits us long term to our location and that's one of the reasons we're so supportive of this initiative. Not only for our growing student population but which will soon climb to as much as 800 but also for those patients. That growing patient population is such that we've had to in fact spread to Beaverton recently
 We also have a research institute and community education facility that's growing more customers, more patients, and also, of course, more clients. And it's on our footprint. And we conduct an increasing portfolio of research that involves lots of visits from interprofessional groups. So safe, environmentally savvy, supportable transportation solutions are very much part of our strategic planning and daily operational routine.
 For example, we provide free bus passes for everybody, our students, staff at the college. We encourage carpools, cycling, walking, running, in my case sometimes. As our very neighborhood-friendly campus footprint knits together within the master plan approved recently, which includes not only new buildings but gardens and the upcoming seasonal season.
 whole life market that we're planning and our year-round educational and patient care operations, transportation in and out of the Layer Hill area is a key component. We're very grateful to be part of those conversations and planning, which can bring about enduring solutions in our rapidly evolving corner of a city which is nationally known as progressive and trendsetting.
 I just call on my colleagues to add to those comments, particularly about safety and our experience with Metro and the groups doing this planning. Marilyn? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for having us today, giving us this opportunity. NCNM has had a keen interest in transportation issues around our college for many, many years, and we have had developed very good relationships with Metro and other agencies, TriMet, PBOT, ODOT,
 And the Southwest Corridor Plan is we're looking at with a great deal of interest because we are isolated in the small five-acre section of Portland that we're in. We're actually cut off from Lair Hill, which is our neighborhood. We don't have direct access to the waterfront and to our associates at OHSU or OHSU.
 PSU for that matter, a couple of you have been to our campus and know that it's very difficult to get in and out and find. And it's particularly NATO Parkway is very unsafe. It's a super highway for that matter right across the street from our school in addition to being noisy which comes with traffic.
 It's very dangerous. There are no stoplights, no way to cross that street except for a bridgeway that most people don't use because the switchbacks extend so far. And they're very hard for handicapped access. I've actually seen a blind person with her seeing eye dog.
 accidentally step into traffic on Nato Parkway without knowing it. The dog got her safely back. So we have a lot of interest in safety and accessibility, not just for our students, not just for our faculty, and not for our staff alone, but also for the nearly 40,000 patient visits that we have coming into our clinic right on campus. Thank you.
 We have had a very good working relationship with Metro. As I mentioned, they were just at our school yesterday talking about the options, Barber Boulevard and Nato Parkway, as it affects our college. We truly appreciate their reaching out to us that way. So I wanted to offer these comments to you and thank you very much for having us today.
 Good morning again. My name is Keith Thomas North. I'm the director of campus development and part of the strategic planning team of the college. So I wanted to concur with my colleagues about the future of rapid transit down either Barb or Nado Boulevard to help support our school.
 Part of what we're planning for future with the enrollment opportunities that we see coming is how do we solve parking. Parking, as we all know, is a commodity with it. We just don't have the luxury of having enough of. So in planning for the future, we understand how this will alleviate a lot of the parking issues that we know will become a problem in the future. I also wanted to lend support today to the Metro and PBOT agencies.
 I've had the opportunity to sit on several different committees with both PBOT and Metro and I can speak from my experience with them that the
 they're the right choice in moving this forward. They have some great leadership within those departments and those agencies that I learned a lot from in my times on those committees. So I have a lot of respect for them. In particular, I won't mention Art Pierce's name, but we will. So anyway, I wanted to, again, thank you for letting us appear today. And we fully support...
 rapid transit down the southwest corridor. Thank you.
 I just wanted to say thank you. This long planning process is a big commitment of time on the part of people who do have other responsibilities like the three of you. And we just appreciate you being engaged because whether we like it or not, these projects take years to plan. And these are big, long, complex documents like environmental impact statements that have to be produced in order to satisfy the federal government. So even if we wanted to do it more quickly, you know, if we couldn't,
 So the fact that you're in it for the long run as a community member is very helpful. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thanks very much. The last two are Linda Degman and Marianne Fitzgerald. Okay. Good morning. Excuse me. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm Linda Degman. I'm representing Portland Community College. I'm the director of the bond program for the college district. And I'm here on behalf of the college to show support for the city funding for the Southwest Corridor Plan. Several of us at the college have been very...
 in the process, attending committee meetings, meeting with TriMet and Metro and City of Portland staff on what's been going on. So we really appreciate all the time and energy that they've put towards this project.
 As far as looking at this, working with them at the best options to meet the needs of future students and staff with a variety of transportation investments that support future plans for PCC's growth in the future. And as Malou alluded to, this is our largest campus. We serve about 30,000 students annually at this campus.
 and that's a lot of trips and a lot of our students do use transportation options to get there. It's difficult currently. Coming from Beaverton out to Sylvania, it can take about a 60- to 80-minute bus ride to get there, which is a long time for somebody to sit on transportation. So we're hoping that this will help mitigate that somewhat. We're excited about this, and serving the campus directly would be clearly our –
 best option for us. We're working with the staff continually. We have meetings set up this afternoon with them. And so we are excited about continuing those dialogues. So thank you for your support of this project and we appreciate it. Thank you, Linda. Thanks.
 Hello. My name is Marianne Fitzgerald, and I've spoken several times in support of the City of Portland allocating funds for the Southwest Corridor Project, specifically on October 9, 2013, and April 8, 2014. But Sweeney has not taken a position on the intergovernmental agreement because we only received it this weekend, along with the other City Council items. And I'm just sharing some preliminary thoughts, but these are my personal thoughts. Thank you.
 So when the committee adjourned on June 9th of 2014, it was our understanding that the next phase would be the draft environmental impact statement phase. And on December 8th of 2014, they changed the schedule and said that it would be a new phase called focused refinement before proceeding with the draft environmental impact statement phase.
 I looked in the dictionary for the definition of refinement, and it is the process of removing unwanted substances from something or the act or process of making something pure. So my personal main concern is that during this next phase, this focus refinement phase, we will not be able to get enough information to make recommendations from the citizen perspective.
 We were originally told that that would happen in the draft environmental impact statement, but as recently as January 15th of 2015, two weeks ago, I was told that it was not publicly available yet.
 So I'm really urging you to really take a look at the IGA and the partnership between the City of Portland and Metro and engage the citizens and the interested stakeholders. I mean, not everybody's going to want to delve into the details, but I can name at least 15 people that are ready to.
 we need that kind of information well in advance of meetings, well in advance of when decisions are made. So we have time to read them, talk about them and make our own recommendations because neighbors are looking to neighbors to understand what this means as much as they are looking to officials. So with that, I'll just conclude and say that the citizens and the,
 The Southwest Neighborhoods Board believes that this project has the potential to provide the people of Portland and Metro with greater access to jobs, education, and services. You've heard over and over this morning about the public needs information before the important decisions are made in this focused refinement plan and whatever this locally preferred alternative is.
 So Southwest Neighborhoods did support this budget year funding, but now that we're just entering the next budget cycle, we'll reevaluate and decide whether to continue support for planning. Thanks. Thank you. So you haven't had an opportunity, the Sweeney Transportation Committee or any of the neighborhood groups to look at this proposal and decide whether or not Sweeney or neighborhoods are in support of it? The IGA? Yes. No. Okay.
 And your concern is that it's proposing to make the preferred alternative decision with inadequate public input? Right. Marianne, I'm just looking at the Exhibit A in our packet, and it has a public involvement provision at Paragraph 3 under key elements of the process. Is it your concern that that's not robust enough, or you haven't had a chance to make that determination? Yes.
 i haven't really had a chance to make it but based on the vagueness of it my concern is that it will be a lot of fancy documents that have a lot of bullet points but not the in-depth analysis that you might get in something like a draft environmental impact statement so the the preferred alternative will ultimately come back to council for further discussion is there
 Is there something in the nature of guidance you want us to give to our partners about the level of public engagement that we expect before it comes back to us? Yes, and I added a few things that we would like more information about. One of my personal concerns is that they use the term integrated land use and development strategies, but I've been told verbally that it may not include specific station locations.
 And I don't understand how you could make decisions about projects and about alignments without making decisions about station locations. They all tie together. So that's the kind of thing. You know, we did – I was a participant in the Barbara concept plan, and that had very good public input. But I first learned of the station locations in this phase one or two, whatever it was,
 at an open house in Tualatin, and I walked in and said, where did these come from? And they said, well, fill out a comment card. Thank you for your input. So, you know, I think that we need to have a more robust decision about the station locations. We know that there's a ton of pros and cons, and it's not going to be an easy decision, and I appreciate that you'll be making that decision, not the citizens, but we want to be able to advise you from the neighborhood perspective. Thanks.
 I talked with Mary Ann last night and I committed Councilor Stacey to something that I haven't talked to him about yet, but I'm sure we've met up all day. At some point, I would hope in the next few weeks, we should sit down with Mary Ann, with appropriate staff, with other advocates and talk about what the involvement process will look like during this next year or so when we're going through this identification of infertile terms. MR. Yes, that sounds like a helpful step.
 Commissioner, I'm not comfortable voting on this today given this concern and that the neighborhoods were not aware that this was coming. So I wonder if you would be willing to have that conversation between now and next week. We could defer action on it, leave the emergency clause on it, but have that conversation in short order because I participated in the steering committee for a few months in between the transition between terms.
 And I was concerned about the level of public engagement, the ability of citizens to affect the steering committee members' choices, because there was pretty limited testimony from citizens at the end of the meeting rather than being an integral part of that steering committee. So I want, before we vote, to...
 change the process and to go with the steering committee developing the locally preferred alternative, I'd like to have a better concept of how the community is going to be engaged, not just informed about what the steering committee is doing. Commissioner, the point of this IGA is to transfer money that we've already agreed to transfer to Metro for a process, and I don't think that the shift to –
 from doing a DAS first to doing a locally preferred alternative, in and of itself, has any impact on the level of public involvement. I suspect that Mary Ann would have the same concerns about public involvement if we were still going down the DAS path.
 So we do need to address the issue of how much public involvement there will be, but I don't think that by adopting this IGA we're endorsing a lack of public involvement. Yeah, I want to second that thought in that it's how it's done.
 matters. And I'll, at the risk of geeking out a little bit on you, I spent the last 10 years of my life doing projects in this order, because that's how most metropolitan areas do it. They do the LPA work first, and then they dive into the details of the DEIS process. So, you know, it's different for us, but the question is, can you have a bad or good public involvement
 process obtains in either case. You can either do a good job or a bad job of it. So this conversation about what the public involvement process looks like and how people engage in it and what level of data is available to people who do geek out and want to know a lot, and there are quite a few of them involved in this process, that's really important. But doing the compliance exercise of the DEIS document is not
 It's not the only way. So I do think this is a smart way to proceed in the mechanics of the process, but then how the public involvement process fits into that and what level of information you and other volunteers and the colleges that have been here today, anyone else, has is really important. But frankly, this process is so technical that a lack of detailed data will probably be the least of your worries. Commissioner Novick, can I just ask a procedural question?
 This is an emergency item, so it requires five votes to pass, I think. So is there – if we don't have – if there is some desire to set this over a week for purposes of having a preliminary conversation, maybe just agreeing on the boundaries of future public involvement, does that adversely impact the project? That's an important question for me. Let me ask –
 Any Malou, Denver, Teresa, does one of you want to talk about what the practical implications would be? Our councilor's facing. Does a one-week setover with an emergency clause change any of the timelines that you're operating in good faith under? Mr. Mayor, Commissioner, I don't think that the setover that the Commissioner has proposed would cause any undue effect on the completion of the work under the IGA, as long as it is completed.
 7 to 10 days. We have had my own conversation with Mary Ann Fitzgerald recently. She shared similar concerns, I take it, to those that she shared with Commissioner Novick. I shared those because I join in her concern that we have adequate data early enough for community participants to understand, to communicate to other community folks, and to formulate their own views
 and that we need time at the steering committee to learn about alternatives in public, hear testimony, and then come back at a later time to make a decision on that item, whether it's a station, location, or a mode. And that's a commitment that I'm confident the steering committee would make. We should have the conversation that Commissioner Novick has agreed to, and if a further temporary stay of your decision is necessary to ensure that, we don't object. Thank you.
 And let me just be clear. One of the things I'm concerned about is that you continue down this road. We then have a hearing on a locally preferred alternative. We get a boatload of people in saying this is not our preferred alternative. We're then told, well, everybody else has agreed to it, City Council, so you have to too. And that's not a good process. That's not going to get us to where we can move the project forward. So...
 I'd like to leave the emergency clause on and set it over for a week. I want to be really clear that unless the Southwest Neighborhoods folks are comfortable with the proposed plan forward, I'm
 I reserve the right to not support it next week either. I think given how invested Southwest neighborhoods have been and given that they are able to act quickly when pressed to do so, and I know that you are all in wanting to do the right thing. It's a project where everybody wants to do the right thing, and I appreciate your leadership, Robert Kivishinovic. I hope you can get to somewhere next week where Marianne can come in and tell us, yes, we're comfortable.
 Ms. Fitzgerald is already on my schedule, along with other representatives of Sweeney. We could invite Commissioner Novick or, more likely, adjust our calendars to his. Well, Councillor Stacey, just one other thing. I mean, we were prepared to vote on this today and appreciate the presentation and the good staff work. Mary Ann is often in the position of coming to Council with the approach to wanting to get to yeses.
 and helping us do the heavy lifting. And so I appreciate that maybe the extra conversation and creating some framework that gives her the confidence about what that process will look like so that she and like-minded people can be especially constructive is probably helpful to the process. I would hope we could come back next week and move this forward.
 folks in Portland who are following this process and engaged in it and the institutions that you've already heard from are the most valuable participants we have right now. And we hope to build that kind of confidence and participation in the suburban communities that are also part of this process. And so shame on us if we can't maintain what we have. And by the way, this does look mind-numbingly complicated. Is it more complicated here than the tree cook? Yes, unfortunately. All right. Well, I was going to
 I would beg to differ on that one. I was going to say that Mary Ann spent many years helping us get to yes on the tree code, so we appreciate that. Commissioner, having had a recent personal experience with the tree code, I would be appalled that this is more complicated than that. Thank you, Tom. Thank you, Mary Ann. We'll be back next week. All right, anyone else want to speak? If not, then I will set this over for, continue this for one week. I'll take it up then.
 Okay, we are now at both the one item we pulled off consent calendar and the regular agenda. I think it would probably be good, since we have people in the room, to take item number 105. Authorize city attorney to appear as amicus curiae.
 To support President's executive order granting relief to undocumented immigrants. Well, I know this is an issue that's of interest to everyone on this council. We have a lot of immigrants in this country who are in limbo and who may be eligible for help under the executive action that President Obama has taken. And we as a city, as with other cities around the country, I think, have a real vested interest in the defense of the President's authority to do his job effectively
 and to provide relief to people within his authority. I think that this action will fuel economic growth. It will also have a human impact that we might just hear a little bit about today, but I think all of us have met people and talked to people and have friends and neighbors and friends
 and family members and coworkers, all of whom are affected by this. So this is an issue where, again, I think we as a community have stood up and done the right thing within our authority and where the President has done that as well. And I'm very proud to say that there are a lot of other communities around the country, as I saw last week at the U.S. Conference of Mayors, that are taking the same approach that we are to say these are issues
 the right things for a president to do, and that's what this amicus brief will put Portland on record saying. With that, let me turn it over to Harry Auerbach, our deputy city attorney, who can explain this better than I just did. Well, no. Thank you, Mayor. I certainly cannot do that. Before we get to the good parts, let me just make two disclaimers for the record.
 One is, and they're both based on the same thing, this came up rather quickly to our attention. We got called, it was brought to us from government relations who, and so we didn't have time to get this resolution before we had to sign onto the brief. So as we disclosed in the impact statement, we've actually already done it, and if you change your, based on feedback from your offices that you were going to support this resolution.
 So if you have changed your minds, I will apologize for having jumped the gun, and we will take steps to remove ourselves from the process. But we believe that staying on board is consistent with the city's approach toward people in our communities, regardless of their immigration status. The brief was, in fact, filed on Monday, and there were 33 cities who joined it. Just to give you the – well, let me give you the other disclaimer –
 I had understood this to be an executive order we were supporting. There isn't actually an executive order that was issued. It's an executive action by the president, so I'm sorry for the default in my civics. But I don't think you need to do anything about that. The brief's been submitted. It's a very good brief. It was written by a firm in Los Angeles. To give you a little bit of the context,
 A number of states, 25 I believe, brought an action in the United States District Court in Texas to try to enjoin the president's implementing his executive action to grant limited relief to certain groups of undocumented immigrants. So what's on the table right now is the motion for a preliminary injunction, which would...
 which would prohibit the president from going ahead with this action while the case is being litigated until there's an ultimate determination on the merits, which is anybody who's been in federal court can tell you it can be anywhere as much as a year or two from now and longer if the thing gets appealed, which I anticipate it will. So in granting or denying a preliminary injunction, a judge exercises—
 discretion, and the federal courts have adopted a balancing test to help guide their discretion on whether or not to grant temporary relief. And...
 they balance such factors as the likelihood of success on the merits, the balance of hardships, whether the person seeking the injunction would suffer more from not having it than the person against whom it sought would suffer if it was granted. And then the overall public interest. The only reason I'm walking you through this is because the, the brief that we joined, which was joined by 33 cities, uh,
 focuses only on that last element, the public interest. As Mayor Hales points out, makes a very good argument on roughly three bases, why it's in the public interest not to enjoin this action at this time. First, because of the economic impact of immigrants in our communities, regardless of their immigration status.
 Second, because of the disruption to families and communities, particularly if you have a family where one parent is legal and one parent is undocumented, or you have parents who are undocumented and children who are born in the United States. This creates tremendous impact and hardship on families if members of the family are removed from the country. And also, the police community...
 is very concerned about the impact of being able to have effective communications for community safety and law enforcement investigation when people are hesitant to talk to them because of fear of their immigration status.
 So from a law enforcement perspective, local law enforcement perspective, this makes sense because it will help us better engage with the community to try to help make their communities safer and to perform law enforcement functions. So that's basically what I can tell you. I'm happy to answer any questions, but the resolution is before you to formalize our support of this amicus operation. Questions for Harry? Okay.
 and maybe there will be more later, if not. But I know we have Andrea Miller and Yuri Hernandez here to talk about this and others as well, but please. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Commissioners, thank you so much for having us here. Good morning. Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony in support of your amicus briefing that does support the President's actions on immigration. As you know, I'm Andrea Miller, the Executive Director of COUSA, which is Oregon's statewide immigrant rights organization. We have supported immigration reform for the past 15 years.
 and played a major role in the implementation of deferred action for childhood arrivals in 2012. And needless to say that we were elated when President Obama made his announcement on November 20th of 2014, stating that his administrative changes would allow the parents of U.S. born children and legal permanent residents to receive deferred action, which, as you know, allows them temporary relief from deportation and a work permit.
 We were thankful because we've seen the kind of impact that deferred action has had for young undocumented students such as Yuri. You know, now the same opportunity will be granted to the parents. And in Oregon, there's about an estimated 64,000 people who will be eligible for the expansion of deferred action.
 And I want to make a note that it's not just the parents that are going to benefit. The impact is exponential because, as the attorney said earlier, there's children, there's spouses. And so the economic opportunity, the family stability, and the reduction of stress actually is more than the 64,000. It's, you know, times how many people are in each of their families. So it's huge for Oregon. Okay.
 But we know that these administrative changes are currently under attack through the lawsuit. And this is, you know, putting at risk the chance of thousands of families to improve their lives for the better. And so we're incredibly concerned about this lawsuit.
 And it's obvious that we fully support the council's resolution for this amicus briefing, and I thank you for your obvious support of this. Needless to say that as Congress stalls on passing any serious immigration reform effort, it becomes more and more important for local electeds to stand up for immigration issues, not just in the city but also statewide.
 and we appreciate your support. I mean, as you know, this impacts our economy, but also our families' stability and reduction of stress and fear, which impacts people's health. So thank you, Mayor Hales, commissioners, for your support of this, and I really look forward to continuing to work with you to enhance the welcoming policies that you all have placed in Portland. Thank you.
 Welcome, Yuri. Hello. Once again, my name is Yuri Hernandez. I'm a social work student at the University of Portland my last year here. Well, at the University of Portland. So I'm here to give you a little bit of my story, put a face to the issue. So I was brought here at the age of three and have been continuously reciting and
 Oregon. I lived in Coos Bay and then when I was accepted to the University of Portland, made the move up here to Portland. So four years now in Portland, a great city. So before DACA, there's living the effects that it had on my life. I can't sum up in three minutes, but before the DACA program,
 I lived in constant fear. I was unable to work. I was not able to drive. So paying private university tuition is very expensive and a very hard burden on my family financially. So when I qualified for DACA, that opened up
 tremendous doors for me. I was able to do undergraduate research at the University of Portland. I was able to work on campus. I was able to drive, which is a very simple but necessary need for me. And luckily through this program,
 I was given all these opportunities and was able to take advantage of them. And now my last year at the University of Portland, I have just been accepted to the top program in the nation for social work and as well as Portland State. So I'm very excited about that. So I'm here to help.
 tell you that this program has real effects and is very beneficial to my community as well. It's not just my successes. It's for my family. So my dream is to be a social worker, and I'm one step closer to doing that because of this program. So I'm here to thank you for your support and
 Also reiterate the fact that it's affecting families and the expansion of DAPA will give parents the ability to work and drive as well, which is a big need. So I'm here to say thank you and to have you continue to support programs like these. Thank you. Thanks for coming today. Thanks for having us. Which is the top social work school in the country? University of Michigan. Sorry.
 Well, no matter where you go, we hope you come back to Oregon and apply your skills. I thought you said top program, Portland State University. So I thought it was redundant, but now I hear that there's a competitor to Portland State University. One of the top programs. We hope you will come back to Oregon to practice. I think I'll stay in Portland. Look forward to having you back with that credential. Thank you so much. Go Pilots. Thank you both. Thank you. Are there other folks that are interested in testifying on this? Come on up, please. Yes.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We came here today to poll 105 because we fully support it, and we didn't want it to go through a consent agenda and be unknown. We really wanted you to brag about it, and you have, and that's good, because you're on the side of the angels on this one. And I'm just going to read you one line from the supporting paperwork, which I think is very significant in this issue.
 And it says under the authorization given the city attorney the right to appear. It also says, whereas the city of Portland supports the humane treatment of all persons regardless of their immigration status, and then it goes on. That's a perfect description of Portland, Oregon. Those words, whoever wrote them,
 should be really congratulated because it encapsulates the entire battle that we constantly have here about equality, about justice, about immigration. All of the issues that we deal with and fight over and get angry over are very valuable issues, and this one you should be proud of.
 And it's not often I come before you and congratulate you on anything. And this afternoon, I will be yelling at you again. But on this one, you're on the side of the angels, and we congratulate you. And you all stand tall on this one and with the other cities and with the President of the United States. Thank you. Thanks, Joe. Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, then let's take a roll call, please, on the resolution.
 Fritz? Thank you very much, Mayor, for leading us in this. It is a very important resolution. I love our president. I think he's doing an amazing job, and I am especially proud of this as an immigrant myself. Came here on a student visa when I was 19 years old, changed visas multiple times. I would be an illegal immigrant if I had not been trained as a nurse, because when I got married to my husband in 1982,
 the rule was if you were here as a student visa and you married an american you had to leave for 10 years and we could never afford it to have done that so i would certainly not have been apart for 10 years and i think the rules may still be the same which illustrates that we need fair reasonable compassionate enforceable immigration laws and until we have those
 Mechanisms like this are absolutely necessary, and we need to be compassionate to people who are here and wanting to do good things for our community. I appreciate Yuri's testimony. I think of Hector Lopez, who was a Milwaukee high school student at PSU who we were able to save from being deported. These are individual people who deserve help.
 what other immigrants like myself had when we came to this great country of immigrants and of native peoples who have been welcoming and who understand what it feels like to be now a minority oppressed community so thank you mayor for leading us in this i fish thank you charlie for bringing this forward joe thanks for uh pulling it if you pulled it because oh you were going to pull it happy thanks for your testimony and um
 My wife is the daughter of a first-generation American, and this is very important. Thirty-two years ago, I worked in Washington, D.C., and some people in this room may not have been born by then. But 32 years ago in Washington, there was a bipartisan consensus on immigration.
 And every year, the Republican, ranking Republican member of the Immigration Subcommittee worked with the Democratic chairman to set the preferences at a very high number. I just don't understand how we've fallen so, we've moved so far away from those days when we celebrated immigration in this country to a time now where some people see political value in demonizing immigration.
 And it happened in 32 years, my lifetime. So thank you, Mayor, for bringing this forward. And I'm very honored to vote aye on this friend of the court brief. Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor, for bringing this issue to us. And I'm pleased to, very proud to support it. Novick. Thank you, Mayor. And thanks to the city attorney's office for bringing this issue to us.
 Ideally, I think that the test for admission to this country should be very simple. We should simply ask, are you tired? Are you poor? Are you now or have you ever been part of a huddled mass? Have you ever been tossed by a tempest? Do you yearn to breathe free? But until we get to that point, I'm proud of the President's efforts in this area. I'm proud to support them. Hi.
 Well, thank you all very much. Harry, Albach, thank you for good work, and Nils Tilstrom and the Government Relations Team for fast work for us to be able to join in. I've got to tell you, I was really proud to be able to not only be there with other representatives of cities around the country, because both the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities joined in to this brief.
 But I was able to tell the story about how our community came together to support Francisco Aguirre. And now we have Yuri's story, if you don't mind, to add. Because I think it's so important to tell the stories of individual people and how this matters. And so thank you for being here today. You know, there's that line in...
 in Casablanca where Claude Raine says round up all the usual suspects. And maybe that would apply to the other side of this argument. But I stood there with not only the mayor of New York and the mayor of San Francisco, but also the mayors of Houston and Galveston.
 who all come, like I do, from a community that has heart in this issue. So it was a proud moment for me as a representative of this council and this community, and I think it's a proud moment for our country that the President has taken the action that he has and that the rest of us are gathering around him to support it. Thank you all. Aye. Okay, fun and wonderful stuff. Thank you for being here. Let's go win that case.
 Let's move to the regular agenda and take item 112. Address the city's infrastructure maintenance and replacement funding gap, amend City Comprehensive Financial Management Policy 2.03, and rescind Resolution 34423. Thank you.
 commissioner fritz would you like to make some opening remarks thank you mayor so in the 2014-15 budget the council asked bureau bureau asset managers to work with the city budget office to look at how resources could be allocated to address major maintenance and replacement of infrastructure needs based on the recommendations in a report delivered to council in october
 This resolution would do what that group suggested and desiccate 50% of ending fund balance, money that's still left at the end of the fiscal year, and also add 50% of all projected one-time money identified in the budget and allocate it to maintenance of capital assets owned by the city.
 i certainly became much more even more aware of the challenges of infrastructure maintenance as we looked into the parks bond measure which the citizens of passed last year and although we greatly appreciate the 68 million dollars that the bond measure will provide it did not increase the tax rate and therefore we still have a funding gap of about 300 million at least 20 million dollars a year and so we need to start
 being very dedicated and disciplined in setting priorities, and that's what this resolution attends to.
 attempts to do or begins to do. The resolution would replace the one that was passed by council in 1988 that directed 28% of utility license fees to be dedicated to transportation needs, which is a policy that was followed by council for only two years after it was adopted. So I'd like to turn it over to the city budget office staff, Andrew Scott, director, to give us more information about what is being proposed here and why.
 Okay. Thank you, Commissioner. Again, I'm Andrew Scott, Director of the City Budget Office, and Jeremy Patton, the Assistant Director, is with me as well. I will be relatively brief because Commissioner Fritz covered most of the background here. But just as a reminder, last fall, actually as part of the 14-15 budget process, the Mayor and Council passed a budget note, which directed us to work with city asset managers to develop these funding options.
 And the report came back to you all last fall. And what I'm passing out now is just a summary of the recommendations in that report. And what we've done is just highlighted those things in red that are either done or in progress. And this is one of those actions. And so, you know, in terms of the 14-15 recommendations, increasing the general fund fall bump allocation for major maintenance replacement,
 The Mayor's proposed budget in the fall did that. We didn't quite get to 50%, but we were close. We were at 42%. And then, obviously, the pursuing new revenues for PBOT is an ongoing task as well. The resolution before you today in 15-16 is the first one there in terms of enacting some policy revisions and reestablishing the general fund capital set-aside using one-time general fund dollars.
 And then below that, the debt financing of the fuel system infrastructure replacements, again, was in the mayor's proposed bump last fall, and council has approved that as well. The other things on here are worthy of discussion as well, and we're going to be bringing those forward as part of the budget process just to continue looking at all the options. What this capital funding group needs.
 did in their overall report, and they really said, we're laying out a whole menu of things. No one solution will get us there. Even all of the solutions on this table, on this list, will not necessarily take care of the problem, but at least it begins to make some progress towards that. What this specific recommendation resolution does, as the Commissioner laid out, we have an existing policy that sets aside 25%.
 of excess balance from the prior fiscal year that at least 25% should be spent on capital infrastructure maintenance and replacement. And this increases that to 50%. And again, that process happens in the fall bump every year. It also adds a new provision that 50% of one-time resources that are identified in the city's five-year forecast for the next fiscal year would also be dedicated to the city.
 for capital infrastructure maintenance and replacement. And again, that's a floor. So a minimum of 50%, council can go above that number as well. So they're relatively straightforward, and it does amend the financial policies to include that in policy. Just to make sure I understand something you just said, one-time money is identified in the five-year period.
 forecast, five-year plan, but is that the same as whatever the actual one time is that we are taking up? Yeah. And so we always have a December forecast, which is our planning forecast, and then in the April forecast would be the final number, and then that would be the actual number. We're talking actual. Well, it would be the actual forecast number. That would be what we would budget. Okay.
 So as with everything, I mean, we forecast, you know, $400 million of general fund discretionary. It may be 395, maybe 405. There's lots of mechanisms to deal with that throughout the year. But these would be budgeted projects that would receive funding as part of the budget. Okay. Thank you. And you're going to be continuing to discuss the
 of developing ongoing general fund CalTarget changes to adjust to the needs? Yes. One of the other recommendations there, the bottom one on the 2015-16 column, there are a number of, within our bureaus, above and beyond sort of the regular daily and weekly operations and maintenance,
 But below the sort of major system replacement, there are those major maintenance projects that are often unfunded. And so what this proposal was, but bureaus don't have necessarily a good sense of what they are and how much those dollars are. So what this recommendation is...
 to direct that work group to go back and those individual bureaus to calculate what those amounts would be and bring them forward as part of the 16-17 budget process to talk to council about increasing current appropriation level targets to adequately fund those.
 Can I follow up on just one additional point? So, Andrew, you are the head of the Independent Budget Office, which means you sometimes agree with us, disagree with us, but you give us your best advice. So could you just briefly explain why, as a general matter, you're not so keen on dedicated funding like carve-outs that are dedicated for a particular purpose, but this approach is something you can support?
 So the set aside for infrastructure funding in general is, again, it's not getting at specifics. It's saying as a city we have a backlog, and it's an important, from a policy perspective, one-time funding should be spent on one-time projects. Infrastructure are, you know, the best example of that.
 And so from that standpoint, it is really saying council find, you know, because of the infrastructure backlog, that's a high priority. We're going to set that aside. And so, again, that I think is actually a really good policy. We do in the budget office have concerns about allocating to specific things just because –
 We don't know what the situation two, three, four years from now is going to look like. As Commissioner Fritz in this resolution dedicating for emergency preparedness, parks and recreation, transportation, there are a number of projects in those that ranked very highly on our list in this last ranking process. So I'm quite confident we can find projects for at least 50 percent in those areas.
 an overall standpoint, would be dedicating that, you know, again, in future years, there may be higher priority things that come our way that council may want to fund in future fiscal years. And that's why the specific interest areas that are being funded, that piece would sunset after four years. So the policy of the 50% set-aside for capital asset maintenance would continue in perpetuity, and then the council will have a discussion as far as –
 Are those three areas still the same ones that we need to focus on in 2019? MR. Thank you. In addition, your general preference is that when we're allocating one-time or ongoing general fund dollars that we apply the dollars in some strategic way, so ranked and we look at where we get the most mileage.
 As crafted, does this approach give us, within that 50%, carve out the flexibility you'd like to see for making decisions as to which projects get funded and some kind of prioritization?
 I think as we go through the budget process every year and bureaus submit these projects, we will continue in the City Budget Office to do the ranking, which we just started this last fall, again, at the Mayor's direction, to rank the capital projects based on some consistent criteria. I think the challenge will be if a project ranks very highly on that list that it's not in these three areas, I think that's a challenge that Council will need to consider as part of the budget process. Now, I will say this sets a floor.
 And so to the extent council wants to dedicate more money towards infrastructure, that's one way to deal with that. 50% would go to these areas. These other high-priority projects would be funded from the other 50%.
 Andrew, speaking of the scoring process, I do want to raise a concern that PBOT staff had, which I'm comfortable about this, but I wanted a chance to air it. We have found that your current scoring process for a capital allocation does not rate street preservation very highly among other PBOT assets. The PBOT projects that score highly are bridges, retaining walls, and signal rehabilitation
 CBO use high risk from the life safety perspective, not the financial risk that we have with roads, which we'd like to see have more weight in the process. Now, it's my understanding from reading this resolution that this resolution does not bind the council to only spend money on maintenance projects that score highly in your current scoring rubric. You can still go through your rubric and make recommendations, but this does not require us to follow the current scoring procedure.
 That's right, and I would actually point out you would never have been bound to follow those procedures. They are just advisory in terms of that scoring. Just in terms of the specific process, PBOT's been heavily involved with multiple staff on this task force and work group, and they have raised, you know, these issues. I think some of the discussion we've had among all the asset managers, though, is what is the appropriate –
 weight that risk should have when applied to projects. And while street preservation hasn't ranked as highly compared to those other projects, I think there's really good reason for that. And I hope that that's something council takes into account as well. Street preservation has been something we've talked about a lot. It's obviously a hugely important issue with huge financial risk.
 If one of PBOT's bridges falls, it has a much different type of risk, and that is the reason why it has ranked higher. And I think there's actually an argument to be made which doesn't devalue street preservation. It actually says PBOT has so many assets that are so important that, you know, even street preservation, which does rank –
 It's just some of the bridges and retaining walls that would have a more catastrophic effect if they failed ranked even higher. Okay. Other questions for our team? Anything else you guys want to add? Thank you very much. Do we have anyone signed up to speak on this? Yes, we have four people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Lightning, Joe Walsh, and Craig Rogers. Okay. Come on up. Lightning, I think you're on first. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog.
 One of the things that I found a little bit confusing on this, are you still planning on implementing the utility fee at this time? It's my understanding you were planning on possibly rescinding that. We've set aside action on that until after the legislature acts on transportation funding. But we're not.
 Which utility fee are you talking about? The franchise fee? Well, were you normally on the utility fee, which was applied toward transportation, a percentage of that that wasn't done in the previous years? Oh, the utility license fee. This resolution does not change that. Does not? No, we will continue to be having the utility license fees. License fee. Okay, very good. The other issue that I had on this is just that there's
 This amount, does this have any effect on the, what we call the surplus budget dollars that are considered surplus?
 Yes, it allocates the so-called surplus. So, but it's actually a set-aside, not an actual allocation, is my understanding. It's just setting it aside? No, it says that the council will allocate it, 50% of the so-called surplus. The council will then have a discussion about which of these areas to provide to fund projects in. Okay. But it kicks in when we have...
 ending fund balance or one-time funds at the end of the budget period. Okay, so I have an understanding on that. And one of the main things that I wanted to just, I guess, state from my position is that we know the concerns on transportation, and especially on the maintenance and the paving of the roads. And I would think that a tremendous amount of money or a large percentage would be automatically allocated in those directions. Now-
 I understand other bureaus are looking at those dollars very close, and I would just think that would be the top priority. And it sounded to me like there's going to be kind of a test on who actually gets those dollars, and that will be determined. I can't see why transportation wouldn't be at the top of the list on that unless, of course, as you know, we see what happens on the gas tax or vehicle registration fees or any other types of –
 revenue that can go in that direction. So I'm just looking at this, trying to have an understanding that I think the top priority needs to be transportation and allocated in that direction. And that's just my opinion on that. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. It is. It is afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Good afternoon.
 When we looked at this, we had some concern about the percentage, that you're moving from 25% to 50%, which seems to be a lot to us. Now, our understanding also, and please correct me if we're wrong on this, because budget is probably our weakest subject, you're going to take 50% of the monies and then argue about who gets what?
 I mean, you're going to move from 25% of funds that are over budget, correct? That's surplus. And you're going to take 50% under this ordinance, but you're still going to remain under the same rules and regulations from the 25%?
 You're just adding it, or did you change the rules also? Changing it from 25 to 50. Then our question is, how do you divvy up the money? In the budget process with public input. So you fight over it. So the public has input into what they want, what you want. Okay, but you're going to fight for your bureaus,
 I mean, that's one of the negatives about this form of government, that you guys are going to fight over this money. Say there's $100 over. That's an easy figure to screw around with. How do you do that? Do you say, well, you know, transportation's a mess, and we need all this money, and parks, they're doing okay. Not so good. All right. The police department, not so good. How do you decide and –
 You're saying the public will have input on how we spend the money during the budget hearings? Not during the council hearings, but during the budget? Both. Both. Okay. So we were taken back by that a little bit, and I really appreciate the answers. Thank you very much. Yeah, and remember, Joe, that this fences us in a little bit. It says at least 50%.
 from now on has to go to infrastructure. The first time that this opportunity of spending ending fund balance came along during the time I've been here as mayor, this council decided to put about 80%, I think it was about 80% of that money into paying off old general fund debt. And I think that was the right thing to do, and obviously we did as well, because that's what the council decided to do with those funds. Now, we don't have a lot of
 general fund debt laying around at this point. So dedicating at least half of these monies when they come available in the future to infrastructure seems to me a reasonable parameter for us to set. Within that 50% gets what? You're right, it's still subject to debate. What we do with the other 50% is still subject to debate. And as Andrew just pointed out, we could dedicate that to infrastructure too.
 But this just says there's a baseline. At least half of this money is going to go into taking care of stuff we own that needs to have maintenance and investment. I'll have one more question, then I'll shut up. Is this a reaction to the bureaus, especially transportation and parks, being in deficit? I mean, is this a reaction to that?
 It's a partial solution to that. It's recognizing that we have a problem. Yeah, I'm not criticizing. I'm just curious. I mean, that's the way I would look at it. Okay, there's a problem here. We can move some money over here, and we have to up the ante to 50%. Yeah, and the challenge in the budget process is that, as Commissioner Novick has said, people rarely come in and say, please cut this. People come in and say, please fund this.
 So there are always way more money-worthy projects than there is money available, and something like paving tends to not rise to the top of the wish list for most people. So this is an attempt to be more disciplined and focused. And from my experience after six budgets looking at these, there's actually four areas that are grossly underfunded in the city, parks, transportation, emergency management, and housing. And I had originally discussed having housing in the mix.
 Mayor Hales pointed out that the city doesn't own the housing. We help manage it. We help provide it. But this resolution is focused on how do we take care of city-owned assets that you, the citizens, owned. And so we certainly need to be looking at the other 50% for how are we going to help with the housing crisis. But this is about let's be disciplined in putting the money where we know the greatest infrastructure needs are. I'm putting it to these three areas for the next four years. After that, we'll have another discussion about it.
 where are the most important needs for infrastructure maintenance. Okay. I appreciate the exchange. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Craig Rogers, and I am definitely in support of this item 112. And I came across something that I thought was significant that I'd like to share with you for your consideration. It was in the week back in December, and it's under best columns in the United States.
 a country that can't fix what's broken by Lawrence Summers, the Washington Post. For two years, said Lawrence Summers, a critical bridge over the Charles River in Boston has been under repair, and the work will continue for two more years. Why does it now take four years to repair a bridge when the Empire State Building was constructed in two years?
 General George Patton took one day to build several bridges over the Rhine, sturdy enough to carry a tank column. It is little wonder that Americans have lost faith in the future and in institutions of all kinds. Both in the public and private sectors are failing the competency test. At busy LaGuardia Airport in New York City, for example, a private airline escalator has been broken for six months and won't be repaired for six more.
 For this sorry state of affairs to change, Americans need to be much less accepting of institutional failure. We have to demand that public officials make our existing infrastructure work before spending billions on spiffy new high-speed rail systems. Fixing roads, escalators, and bridges may seem like small stuff,
 But if Americans are to have faith in the future, government and private institutions have to get the small stuff right. Great. Thank you very much. Thanks. Okay. Next. The last two who signed up are Mary Ann Fitzgerald and Lori, I'm sorry, I don't see the last name. Good afternoon. Hi.
 Thank you, Marian. Marian Fitzgerald back again. This time as a member of the PBOT Budget Advisory Committee, but once again I'm testifying on my own behalf because we just got this Monday.
 PBAP Budget Advisory Committee has been recommending more of the utility license fees go to the PBAP budget. And this is, I think, the seventh year in a row that we'll be including it in the letter that you'll get with the budget package next week.
 So I am very aware of all the maintenance needs in parks, in transportation, in all the bureaus. And I think, you know, using the surplus funds is a good idea. But just the gist of my concern is that rescinding –
 resolution 34423 without time to deliberate it among the Bureau Budget Advisory Committees and during this next three-month budget process seems a little premature. And so my main concern is that the utility license fees for using the right-of-way that
 any dedicated funds. Right now it's only 2%. In the letter that you'll see soon, we're asking for more for street maintenance, but this essentially takes it away. So that's it. That's a very fair criticism in terms of the resolution being out. I did put a press release out a couple of weeks ago that outlined this concept. We didn't see it, yeah.
 The utility license fee dedication would require $13 million to be going to PBOT this session. So that would require cuts somewhere because we don't have $13 million. Right. So that then would be the question. And this, to me, my reason for proposing this, and I think the reason that my colleagues are supporting it, rather than an aspirational policy that we haven't met for 15 years at least,
 Let's have something that we can stick to that is realistic, that is reasonable. And so that's the reason for it. I agree there could have been more public discussion. We're heading into the budget cycle, so I think the budgets have to be submitted on next Monday. So I wanted to make the policy reasonable before we head into budget process, and that's why, but it's a fair criticism.
 marianne i very much appreciate the facts support of resolution 34423 for which i have a personal affection um the problem is as we've seen is that 34423 said that pbot is supposed to ask every year for 28 utility license fees but not buying the council to actually providing that and it's the last part that has been ordered for the past 27 years so given commissioner fritz's proposal that
 the council should commit to actually spending a chunk of money each year on a combination of parks, emergency preparedness, and transportation maintenance. I thought that was a better deal than maintaining this aspirational goal.
 Yeah, I'd add, you know, if this ordinance had a slogan, it would be get real. I mean, that measure was passed in 1988. Two years later, voters passed Measure 5. So, you know, that's part of the history. By the way, Dennis Thirald, I think, is still here. If you haven't read his column in last week's Mercury about the history of these things, it's worth reading. But the reality is the council passed this, and two years later, the voters pulled the rug out from under public finance in Oregon and
 it became an aspirational goal, as you just described it. Thank you. Please. Hello. My name is Laurie Benoit. I would like to impress one thing
 right now and then something later overlays you need to do overlays on your street my husband has more than 30 years of designing streets in this this state he works and retired last year after 27 years uh in a municipality uh and we've been looking at your streets here he's designed streets sewers gutters sidewalks uh bike paths you're going to be turning your streets
 in this town into bike paths, which I don't have a problem with. My husband doesn't have a problem with. We're retired, so it doesn't really matter, and we take bikes all the time. But if you don't start doing overlays, you're going to be putting a lot more money into your streets because you're going to have to rip them totally up. You know, the CRC, don't even think about that. You know, the more max stations, if you don't start doing your overlays, you're going to have to rip them totally up.
 and other bridges other than the I-5 one, there's going to be major problems. And people are just going to have to ride more bikes, which we love. But, you know, if you don't want to spend the money in transportation and make that a priority. And then the other issue is housing. Definitely that needs to be a number one issue. And transportation right behind it. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else?
 Any further questions or discussion? Then let's take a vote on the resolution, please. Fritz? So thank you to all of my colleagues who have been involved in this discussion for several months since the Bureau Committee put together their report. And I very much appreciate the discussions that have refined this resolution and made it better and appreciate those who have signed on to co-sponsor it, particularly Mayor Hales for being the first to ask. And that was very helpful. Thank you.
 I want to discuss Mr. Walsh's concern that the flaw of the commission form of government is that commissioners only advocate for their own bureaus. Actually knowing that the one power that the mayor has by him or herself is to assign the bureaus, I certainly am always aware that the bureaus I have today may not be the bureaus I have tomorrow and that the ones I get assigned tomorrow might be even more poorly funded than the one I have today.
 We do tend to, we certainly are responsible for advocating for our bureaus in the budget process. We are also very aware of citywide needs. And that's what this resolution speaks to, is that we know that there are some priorities that we very much need to focus on. And I...
 personally commit to supporting allocation of this funding in the budgets that I have the privilege in voting on. Aye. Oh, by the way, thank you very much to the City Budget Office who were very helpful in crafting this. People have asked why is this different from the previous one that the Council ignored. The answer is because we have the City Budget Office who brings us information and tells us whether we're complying or not with the City Budget and makes it much more transparent and accountable. So I appreciate that too. Aye. Thank you.
 Fish? Pleased to support this. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your leadership. And, Andrew, thank you for reminding us that this is a floor and not a ceiling. Aye. Seltzman? Well, I guess I do find irony in the fact that we are considering a resolution to repeal one city binding policy that was ignored and replacing it with a new binding city policy, which equally has the potential to be ignored.
 But we're setting ourselves up to be criticized because once again we passed a policy saying we're going to commit investments in three categories for four years at a minimum. And if something comes along like a measure five, which happened in 1990, which upsets the apple cart or library district gets passed, which upset the apple cart in this budget.
 we are going to be faced with the position of having to make some tough choices. And I don't mind making tough choices. I feel that's what we were all elected to do, is to use our best judgment and make tough choices, and not to artificially constrain ourselves to a particular set of priorities that we may not be able to fulfill. I don't have the ability to predict the future. I cannot tell what our economic climate's going to be like one year from now, let alone two years, three years, or four years.
 or what other unexpected financial dilemmas this city may face and needs the flexibility to be able to be able to poise to respond to it so while i understand the popular appeal of this resolution i mean infrastructure you know if one thing we've learned over the past 18 months you know infrastructure resonates with a lot of people maybe how to pay for it doesn't but the need to do something about it resonates
 So I understand the popular appeal of this, but I just do not think it's a wise policy, and therefore I vote no. Novick?
 first of all I'd like to take note of a concern that was raised about this resolution by cave ourselves and Borwin green last night and they came to me and said this resolution dedicates 50% to maintenance and replacement and in terms of transportation in East Portland we don't have enough infrastructure to maintain so they're concerned that this resolution might limit the opportunity to get money for safety programs in transportation
 and I understand that concern. What I told them is that, as it's been stated now a couple of times, this is a floor, not a ceiling, and it's certainly not a ceiling on overall investment in infrastructure. This does not mean that some of the 50% that's not dedicated cannot go to infrastructure projects that aren't maintenance.
 it's certainly my intention in this budget or PBOC's intention to propose investments in transportation which we divided along the 56% maintenance 44% safety lines we've discussed in the context of the street fund and 56% can come from the 50% dedication and the 44% to come from the remaining part of money. I think we talked about 56-44. Ms. Scherer you're just trying to wrap a couple extra
 I wanted to appreciate EPAP's careful attention to this issue and I wanted to bring that point.
 In addition, I wanted to note that a few days ago, one of the headlines about this issue asked the question, can Amanda Fritz bring sizzle to maintenance? And I think the obvious answer is that she can. However, there's nothing that lends sizzle to a subject like a song. And there's a classic song that addresses the importance of maintenance that I could play just a few seconds of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to give you Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons.
 Very good.
 Thank you very much, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Hales. I was wondering, Steve, how you were going to top your introduction of Ms. Wilkerson and Mr. Zender when you, last time they were here, said that we should skip to Malou and then return to Zender. But you have managed to top that, and thank you for that. Again, I think the message of this is get real, both because...
 There's plenty of maintenance and replacement to do in these bureaus over the next four years. I would love to have as much one-time revenues and ending fund balance.
 as it would need to meet a fraction, a half of those requirements. We will, of course, only address a fraction, a small fraction of our backlog in these areas with what we will have available over the next four years. So we ought to get real that way. Second way that we're getting real is that this resolution is dedicating one-time revenues. The previous policy dedicated a portion of an ongoing
 and this is much more realistic to do it this way. Every now and then, when the economy's good and our management is good, and those are the conditions right now, we'll have some extra money. This says, take care of what we own first with
 with that extra money, and I think that's the right way to proceed. We still have plenty of flexibility about how the other 50% gets spent while we're following this policy, and as we've discussed here today, there's quite a bit of flexibility about which projects within that 50% get funded. But I think it's good stewardship, good management, and good financial policy. So thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, staff, Andrew, and your team for putting this together. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, let's move on into the remains of the regular agenda and then give people a little bit of a break. 113, please. 113, authorized rental of office space at non-city-owned facility for the independent compliance officer and community liaison for the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement. Ms. Wesson-Mitchell.
 Hi. Good morning. So as you all know, we signed the contract earlier this year. You're in the room, Deanna. Sorry. Thank you. Deanna Weston-Mitchell, work in the Mayor's Office. We, the city signed the contract with the Compliance Officer Community Liaison in early January and agreed to be responsible for administrative costs. Part of that was office space, and the COCL team had made clear that they needed space that was not inside of a city building.
 We agreed to do that, and we actually need an exemption from a city admin rule to allow us to lease property that is not in a city building to comply with that. So that's what this resolution would allow us to do. Per the COCL's request, it is the Rosewood Initiative is out on 162nd and Stark. And this location, the lease would be a month-to-month agreement to see how –
 It's not a long-term lease. If this location doesn't work out, they may need a different location, or they may need to reserve space for other meeting purposes, and we would like to not have to come back to council every time. So this resolution would cover the entire time of the contract, which was a five-year contract, to make sure they have the autonomy that they're supposed to have.
 Thank you. Does it set a dollar amount then since it's so flexible? No. The current lease, this is Pauline Goble with our leasing office. The lease at Rosewood Initiative is $700 a month.
 The overall budget for the COCL team related to administrative costs is quite flexible at this point. We're still trying to figure out how much it's going to and how much it will cost to operate the COAB and all of the COCL's responsibilities. As we said last time we were here, we're hoping to have a more set amount in the next few months after we get the first budget.
 probably, hopefully by the end of this budget year, we'll know more accurately how much it will cost to manage the administrative needs of the COAB and the COCL team. But how will the council, the council's responsibility is to pay for that, right, not within the COCL contract? Correct.
 It's in the materials and services side, isn't it? Yeah. So there's three different accounts that were set up. One is for the actual contract. One is for the administrative costs. And then one is for – where did I just lose it? M&S, I think. Yeah.
 So there is a set amount set up for the administrative, and that will come out of that? Yes. Yes, there's a limited amount that was approved in the early January budget amendment. Sorry. And it will come out of the existing funds. So in the unlikely event that the COCL decided they wanted to have a swanky penthouse suite on some downtown office building, you would have to come back to council to authorize additional money for that because the amount doesn't cover a swanky penthouse suite? Yes, and that would be highly unlikely. Okay.
 I was not aware, and I appreciate you daylighting the fact that this is a flexible contract that we're approving today. Thanks. Questions for Ms. Gogol? Any more? Okay. Thank you both very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then we'll take a roll call.
 Well, thanks very much to Deanna Wesson-Mitchell for your work on this. I also want to put in the record my thanks to State Representative Lou Frederick for his facilitation of the selection committee that came up with an excellent group of community members to be part of the Community Advisory Board.
 Now, I want to note here that if I were making the decision about where to put an office, it would not necessarily be right on the border with Gresham. And I do think that the co-op and the co-call are going to need to have a discussion about how low-income folks, people with disabilities, are going to be able to access this facility, which is fairly far out. It is on light rail, but it's…
 could be challenging for people to get to. I'm mentioning that as an example of, I'm trusting this community process. I'm trusting the COCO and Justice de Munez in particular to make decisions that they believe are in the best interests of the community. And I, as a city council member who wants them to succeed, will support their decisions. And I appreciate knowing that it's flexible so that if it turns out that that facility, while a wonderful location in outer East Portland,
 isn't convenient for other people to get, for some people in North Portland, for example, to get to, that you would be looking at either moving it or adding additional meeting space to support that purpose. So thank you very much. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Thank you very much. Aye. Okay. 114. Aye.
 Authorize the city attorney to institute legal proceedings against Pabst Brewing Company to recover damages from Portland, Oregon, sign trademark violations, and enjoin future unauthorized use. Because of an impending potential settlement, this is rescheduled to February 4th. 115.
 115, authorize four price agreements not to exceed $500,000 each for on-call civil engineering services in support of Bureau of Environmental Services Capital Improvement Program projects. Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Welcome, Scott Gibson and James Allison from the Bureau of Environmental Services. I have a very brief introduction. This item would authorize four on-call contracts with engineering firms
 the Bureau of Environmental Services will use on sewer system and stormwater facility construction projects. Projects that the Bureau may use these contracts for are already in the BES budget, and authorizing this ordinance will not alter in any way the Bureau's budget. Each contract would be for a three-year term. And let me just give you a preview of something Scott's going to highlight in his presentation.
 The MWESB numbers in these contracts are off the chart, and I'll reserve some special thanks at the end for the extraordinary outreach work to get to these numbers because it's very impressive and it builds on some work the Bureau has been doing every couple of years now for some time. Scott, take it away. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good morning. As the Commissioner said, we're here to ask for approval for our four on-call consulting contracts. Okay.
 The selection process was conducted in accordance with Chapter 5.68 of the City Code. The firms, HDR was actually awarded two. Parametrics and Greenworks were selected based on their qualifications. These firms have put together a very diverse team that include 26 certified minority women and emerging small business consultants.
 And we're looking at 41% participation by those firms throughout the duration of the contracts. Let's see. These are on-call services. They're very routine contracts, but...
 They basically will cover work that's already approved in the CIP, and we use them for workload balancing, for surprise projects, things that come up that weren't in our advanced planning, more routine tasks. And then we do individual procurements for projects that have very special requirements. Most of the larger products, we procure a specific contractor for those based on their qualifications. And as Commissioner said, James Allison is here. He'll be the contract administrator for us. He's a...
 senior management analyst, and if you have any questions, we're here to answer them. Thank you. Questions? Well, maybe you'll answer this in your comments, Commissioner Fish, but how did you get those great levels of participation? Well, so I called Sam Brooks yesterday at Awami, and he gave me the long version, and it was very effusive of a partnership.
 where deep commitment to this work, which started long before I had the honor of leading this bureau, and that involves AWAMI, the Oregon Association of Minority Entrepreneurs, MCIP, the Metropolitan Contractor Improvement Partnership, BDI, the Business Diversity Institute, and NAMCO, the National Association of Minority Contractors of Oregon. So great partners, real intentionality, a lot of upstream work.
 And Sam Brooks was just effusive in his praise of the BES folks that are at the table with him. I mean, there are 30 subcontractors identified in this proposal before the council. The MWESB participation is 87%.
 And for those of my colleagues who remember the last time we took up the disparity study and we looked at, you know, where in the MWESB categories are we doing well and not so well,
 You'll be pleased to know that 27% of the subcontracting opportunities are going to minority-owned firms, 27%. That is substantially more than women or minority women close to where Emerging is. So the hard work of getting at the area where we've often fallen short, which is not women-owned, not the Emerging, but the minority-owned.
 is highlighted in this. And I have to say, from the briefing I've got, we have gone, these numbers have improved over time. So this is a commitment that my predecessors, including Dan Saltzman and Mayor Adams, had a deep commitment to. We have great partnerships. We have people at the Bureau that are committed to making it work. The numbers have been getting better. And these are really extraordinary numbers. But how would you answer that, Scott? Yeah.
 Well, so there are a couple things that we did in preparation for this procurement that we've found to be successful in the past. We obviously changed the scoring for minority participation to be 25% of the total scoring. When that helped us signal to our partners that this was very important to us.
 And we've been doing this for a long time, so they've been able to establish their own relationships with these subconsultants so that the bigger firms build these partnerships so that they are comfortable working, they know how to work them into their organization, which tasks are appropriate for them, and they can find opportunities to bridge that. The other thing we did through outreach was we held the pre-proposal meeting at Awami.
 So the staff went up to Awami, and all the prime contractors were asked to come. And so we coordinate sort of a networking opportunity so that minority firms have access to the primes and to the people who are proposing. In addition, we give them a good discussion of what we're going to use the contracts for, what we've done in the past. We give sample projects so people can see how their business might fit into the work that we've got in these contracts. Thanks.
 And that combined with the Bureau's commitment long-term through Andy Gresh and others at our organization to build ties and open communication with the community, I think is sort of why we ended up where we are. Just to put a fine point on this, I asked Mayor to see the comparative data the last time we went out for this solicitation, and we're talking about a four-fold increase.
 in subcontractors that have a minority ownership. That's great. So it's a very intentional process, and there were some changes made in how we do the scoring. And I think we also have to acknowledge that the Bureau of Procurement has been a great partner in helping us administer this and in pushing us to get to these goals. But this is...
 I just have to say on behalf of the Bureau, we're very proud that this team has hit the mark like this. Thank you. Great. Thank you, Commissioner Fitch, for your leadership and for your diligence. I appreciate the step-by-step explanation of how you got to the numbers. I also appreciate these flexible contracts.
 become more accustomed to them with parks than we just have with transportation. Knowing how challenging it can be to do individual contracts and come to council, it takes a long time. This kind of a flexible contracts agreement with a rotation so that everybody gets a fair share of the work allows more businesses to participate because they only have to go through this process once rather than every single time. So thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you both. Anyone else want to speak on this item?
 If not, then it moves to second reading. 116. Extend contract with Madison Biosolids Inc. for biosolids use services for an additional five years for $3,250,000. Mr. Fish. Mayor and colleagues, at the legislative breakfast this morning, there was some talk of how we bridge the urban-rural divide and of Commissioner Saltzman's leadership in this area.
 I guess this fits generally under that category, not perfectly, but this ordinance will execute the remaining five years of a 10-year contract with Madison Biosolids to land-applied Portland's biosolids on eastern Oregon dryland agricultural ground. That's quite a mouthful. Biosolids produced and processed at the city's wastewater treatment plant are a valuable soil amendment.
 This agreement will continue, if approved, a cost-effective way for Portland to beneficially reuse this renewable resource.
 And Greg Char from Environmental Services is here to give you a quick update. Greg? Thank you, and good afternoon. Just a little bit more background information on what's in front of you today. The City of Portland beneficially reuses approximately 75,000 wet tons of biosolids or treated wastewater residuals from the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. Approximately two-thirds of this amount are beneficially reused at the City's primary land application site at Madison Ranches near Echo, Oregon.
 The contract for this project was unanimously approved by Council in December of 2013. The remaining one-third of biosolids goes to sites in the Wasco area of Sherman County as part of Contract 3100149, which is the topic of discussion today.
 This contract has reached the end of its initial five-year term. An amendment to the contract is needed to extend the contract for its remaining five years. This contract was unanimously approved by Council in 2009 with the provision to extend the contract an additional five years if mutually agreed to by both parties. This contract resulted from an extensive request for proposals process which was conducted by BES and Procurement Services in 2009-2010.
 The aim of the process was to examine ways to strengthen, enhance, and diversify the city's existing land application program and explore opportunities for cost savings and possibly reductions in fuel consumption.
 The successful offer was Madison Biosolids Inc., who proposed seasonal land application of City of Portland biosolids in the Wasco area of Sherman County, Oregon. Madison's proposal scored the highest when looking at factors including cost, experience, environmental benefits, community impacts, and company diversity. The reference contract has resulted in an approximate annual cost savings of $280,000 per year.
 Based on the 120,000 wet tons of biosolids that have already been successfully applied in Sherman County, this contract has already resulted in cost savings of approximately $1.3 million for ratepayers.
 Also, it has reduced transportation distance by approximately 54,000 road miles per year and reduced diesel fuel consumption by approximately 17,000 gallons per year, which represents a reduction of CO2 emissions of approximately 200 tons per year. And finally, it has benefited local Oregon farmers by providing a soil amendment and fertility source that replaces commercial fertilizers, which are produced through energy-intensive processes. I'm here if there are any questions. Thank you.
 Just one. The fuel efficiency stuff work is great, but under the structure of this contract, given the –
 historic fall in fuel costs that we've just experienced who accrued where do those savings accrued they accrue to the contractor do they accrue to us do they say yes okay so there is a basically an escalating and de-escalating factor for fuel so we feel being cheap right now this is a even more cost efficient program that's great good thank you other questions by the way when we
 we use a lot of fancy language about you know how this is used as fertilizer for other things down the road what what what is grown with our final with our biosolids which is essentially the solids from our wastewater for this particular site in sherman county we are growing predominantly a crop of soft white winter wheat is which is predominantly exported to asia for use in noodles and crackers that sort of thing for our primary site at madison ranches it's mostly dry land pasture or grass
 which is used in a cattle grazing program. So it's not a stretch to say the next time you flush your toilet, you can say thank you, but that's contributing to the noodles you're going to have when you have a bowl of noodles at your favorite Chinese restaurant. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, anyone want to speak on this item? Lightning? Can't resist. I do like what I'm – my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog.
 I like what I'm seeing here. I have a little bit of a concern here. You said that a smaller percentage is going to this company in Sheraton. When I talked about this issue before, I wanted to make sure that we shortened up the travel distance. So obviously from my position, as I'm looking at working with companies that are obviously closer to the plant itself and
 That was one of my biggest concerns. Now, as you know, our fuel prices have dropped, so we're showing that savings. But I hope in the future that we also consider companies that are closer to the plant to save costs. And another issue I do have on some of these bids is that when we look at the overall costs on some of these jobs,
 Is there a way that we can also look at the possibility of doing some of this in-house as far as on having certain trucks that the city owns and also having land and doing this within the city's budget itself? And can there be cost savings gained by doing that? I haven't heard a lot of talk on that. I was hoping that maybe we could have some analysis on that to see if we can save costs by more.
 having the city of Portland doing these type of projects. When we get into the larger dollar amounts in some of these projects, I've always wondered if we could possibly do that and save some costs. Thank you. Great question. Lightning, I'll follow up with you with some data. One of the benefits of this program is it is the low-cost option. And so taking biosolids to –
 dumping areas within the metropolitan area turns out is a lot more expensive than reusing it in this creative way in other parts of the state. But we'd be happy to show you the analysis, and you can come to your own conclusion on that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Come on up.
 To me, that seems like a lot of money. Your name back in the record, sorry. Oh, my name's Lori Benoit. It seems like there's other, like Lightning was saying, things that you could do closer with resources here in the city, and methane gas, you know, using that. I know that there's a lot of farms that are close, and I'm not real familiar with this particular place, but it seems like it's pretty far to be taking that money.
 and a lot of money. Thank you. Thanks for the comment. Again, we'll always be looking for the most cost-effective option, considering also our climate action plan goals. And we are actually generating electricity from methane gas at the site, which is used in part to offset our energy costs. So good call, and we are contemplating expansion of that program, so you'll be hearing more about that.
 All right. This will pass to second reading. I think also, just to address the question, it's always been my understanding that the distance to eastern Oregon was necessary because no matter what the source of the fertilizer, you can't spread it very well on the fields in the Willamette Valley in the winter because you lose the trucks up to their ankles in mud. Maybe now that the climate's changing, that won't be the case anymore. But I think the programs always had to take material to eastern Oregon because you can still –
 get out in the field. I think that's the answer. It's also who we do these open solicitations and it turns out there's a specialized interest in this and there are other challenges with this product not the least of which is odor. Thank you very much. Let's pass the second reading. 117.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the Southeast Division Place and Southeast 6th Avenue sewer rehabilitation project number E10630 for an estimated cost of $720,000. Second reading roll call. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hale? 118. Aye.
 authorize a competitive solicitation for the purchase of a new community emergency notification system and related services for an estimated cost of $900,000. Novick? Colleagues, the City of Multnomah County provides public safety, health, and infrastructure services to a population of approximately 766,000 residents and 75,000 businesses over a 431-square-mile area.
 The shared responsibility dictates the need for a shared emergency notification system designed to be accessible to city bureaus and county departments for emergency management, emergency communications, fire and rescue, law enforcement, and water utilities. The city's current system, public alerts, is supported by a vendor whose contract with the city will expire in August 2015.
 EMAM in conjunction with the Portland Water Bureau, BOAC, and Multnomah County Emergency Management wishes to select a new vendor via competitive RFP process before the current contract expires. Thereby continuing to ensure public emergency alerts are disseminated to residents and emergency responders. I'll turn it over to Dave Blitzer for further details. Thank you, Commissioner. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm David Blitzer. I'm the Operations Manager for the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management. Thank you for your time today.
 emergencies often happen without warning. Sometimes the public must take immediate action to remain safe, such as to evacuate, stay inside, or boil water. One of several methods Portland and Multnomah County use to communicate urgent safety messages is the Community Emergency Notification System, or SENS. The common name or the public name for this system is Public Alerts. Since 2009, residents of Portland and Multnomah County have been able to visit the website publicalerts.org to sign up to receive emergency alerts.
 on their landline phones, mobile phone, and at an email address. We've been using the vendor First Call since the system was first launched, and we've reached the end of the contract period with First Call. The ordinance in front of you today will authorize the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management to work in partnership with technology services, procurement services, and users of the system, including police, fire, water, 911, and Multnomah County to seek a new vendor.
 The new contract will be approximately $900,000 over five years. Multnomah County has agreed to fund 25% of this contract total. The remaining 75% will be funded by us, the city. That's all I have. Thank you again for your time, and I'd be happy to take any questions you have. I'm interested in the numbers. It seems to me that the ongoing funding that you have is $100,000 a year.
 and yet the contract is for $900,000 over five years. And Multnomah County is only going to be paying a total of $125,000. Where's the rest of the money coming from? So this is the over five years. Essentially, we are appropriated at $100,000 a year, and Water Bureau and Police Bureau have agreed to make up that difference at each year. And is that already budgeted?
 They fund the current system that way, and they have agreed to fund the future system that way as well. You're welcome. Question for Commissioner Novick. Steve, maybe I'm mixing apples and oranges, but in the last winter storm, my recollection is one of the challenges we had with either this system or another system was that if we sent out a notice, we couldn't limit it just to Portland residents.
 residents that it over alerted. And so we had to balance that against the desire. Is that still...
 a challenge with this system or can we tailor it just to Portland residents? I let me defer to Mr. Blitzer on that question. It's a different system. The wireless emergency alert system provided by the federal government was the system we used during that event, and that did have some leakage into Clark County and other areas of the region. This system can be very specifically tailored to neighborhoods and even smaller areas within Portland.
 Great, because I remember that concern that we were going to send out a notice that went to a larger audience than we wanted and therefore, like a boil water notice or something, it might cause some havoc. So this system allows us to target more efficiently? Very much so. Thank you. You're welcome. And how might this tie in with a future 311 system?
 I think one of the most obvious connections would be we give people the ability to enroll their information, and I think that would be a prompt we could work into the scripts at 311. So when you call about certain issues, particularly emergency preparedness, great, here's some things about emergency preparedness we can tell you to do, but, hey, have you also registered for the public alerts program? It's a good way for us to give you information during an emergency. Okay.
 Would it require an affirmative sign-up, or could we make it the default that you get signed up unless you ask not to be?
 I think that's a policy we could certainly explore. We do have landline data that we buy and upload about citizens for citizen information. However, we don't have people's cell phones, so we really want people to agree to that. So we can ask them to enroll their information, or we could talk about a policy that sort of mandates it. Okay.
 Well, perhaps as you're going forward with the solicitation, I'd appreciate it if you include that discussion of how might your system interact with 311. I'd be happy to. Thank you. You're welcome. Other questions for David? Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then we'll take a roll call, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Thank you, David. Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, 119? Aye.
 Vacate a portion of an unnamed street north of North Shmur Road subject to certain conditions and reservations. I understand when there's a request to refer this back to your office, Commissioner Novick, and without objection, we're doing that. And then 120. Authorize an agreement with Portland Streetcar, Inc. to provide streetcar operator relief point. Second reading and roll call, please. Fritz? Yes.
 I very much appreciate the discussion last week and the testimony of Dan Bauer. I'm going to support this on the understanding that the contract is open for bids and there's no guarantee it will continue in a new contract. I would suggest that part of a new contract ought to be that the contractor provides their own janitorial services. We have city offices that don't get janitorial services, but it's a small amount, and I appreciated the discussion last week. I wish. I do.
 Salsman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. And we're recessed for one hour until 2 p.m. So you have our love note for us. Welcome to this afternoon's session of the January 28th City Council meeting. Would you please call the roll?
 Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. We're going to have a couple items on the calendar this afternoon. As always, we'll typically have testimony once we get done with presentations about these items in three-minute blocks for those of you who came here to speak.
 because this body likes to hear all points of view we ask if you agree with somebody that you give them a wave or a thumbs up but that we don't have any vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens as they have their say so with that minor limitation and the other one which is if you're a lobbyist for an organization you need to disclose that when you speak we'll get started with item number 121 let the record note show that Commissioner Novak here as well
 121, accept north, northeast neighborhood housing strategy from the Portland Housing Bureau. Well, let me say a couple things and then hand this over to my colleague, Commissioner Saltzman. There's a lot of good work that has been put into what's going to get discussed this afternoon. There's also a lot of heartache from the past and from the present that we're trying to address. I just saw recently this copy of this map from 1950.
 of the distribution of African-American families in the close in east side before Memorial Coliseum, before the freeway, before Emanuel Hospital. And it's just, frankly, it's just shocking to look at that history. This is one way to see it. A lot of stories that make it more human than dots on a map. But when you see that,
 graphic change from then to now and you see the change that's around us right now. I think all of us are in this room because we want to manage change to a better result.
 And that's why we're here and why there's some volunteer activists that have put a lot of time into this issue, and we appreciate them, and why people on this council and in the bureaus that report to the five of us have put a lot of effort into housing issues as well. So with that, let me turn it over to Commissioner Salzman, the Commissioner in Charge of the Housing Bureau. Thank you, Mayor. Last year, Mayor Hills took a bold step to increase affordable housing
 and to address displacement in north and northeast Portland by allocating an additional $20 million in funds for housing in the interstate urban renewal area. The Portland Housing Bureau was tasked with reaching out to the community to create a strategy for this additional investment. And this strategy that you'll hear today is the culmination of more than seven months of work by the Housing Bureau and community partners. It's also an opportunity to improve the way we do business,
 to craft policy in partnership with the communities we serve, and to redress imbalances that continue to echo from our past. This strategy is about helping to keep people where they are, or in some cases, helping them come back to the neighborhoods where they grew up, where they worship, where they have community ties. It attempts to factor in the needs of an entire community, from the elders who want to age in place,
 and one day pass down their family home to young renters wanting to find housing that they can afford near family and community, to those wanting the security of buying their own home. Before we get to the details of the Housing Bureau's recommendations for how we will achieve that, we need to acknowledge two things. First, there's an important history, as the mayor was just saying, that brings us to this moment. It's a history that has resulted in gentrification.
 and displacement. Second, it was the resolve of community members and leaders that made this possible, made this investment plan that you're going to hear possible. So we will begin today's presentation with Portland Housing Bureau Director Tracy Manning and also Bishop Stephen Holt. And Bishop Holt will give us sort of a historical overview of displacement in North Northeast Portland and Director Manning will cue up the recommendations.
 And then we have several invited guests after that, and then we can open it for public testimony. Great. So, Director Manning. Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor, City Council. So, since you allocated these funds last year, PHB has been engaged in a process with the community to ensure that we steward these funds so they have a real impact on the community that you asked us to serve. Okay.
 So we have a map up here. We'll have a few maps to go along with that that the mayor. And this is our study area. It aligns with the URA boundaries in interstate, but it also corresponds with areas of historic redlining and displacement. So as a starting point, we reached out in a number of ways, including four community forums that attracted 451 participants and a gathering of faith leaders serving North and Northeast congregations.
 And to us, this outreach was really vital because we knew that we had to do things differently. And so we couldn't go to the community already having answers and plans. Building housing is frankly something with our partners we're pretty good at, and we could have accomplished that without a lot of process. But to have a different impact, the strategy had to be more about the people, more about the community, and specifically about this community.
 And the community offered quite clear feedback on what kind of housing would have the most impact. They very generously came and shared personal stories of those of theirs and of friends and of family. They sent us written notes, and they spoke of the reality that they're living in the community every day.
 During our early planning stages, when we were reaching out to understand how to best get this information from the community, we were incredibly fortunate to meet Bishop Stephen Holt of International Fellowship Family and the 1145 Group, Faith Leaders Engaging in Social Justice Issues. And I will say that Bishop's willingness to engage...
 His leadership, his counsel to this process, and quite frankly to me, have been instrumental in our ability to connect with the community. He has lent his time, his name, and his credibility to shepherd this process because he needed to see that it was true to the people that we're trying to serve. In Bishop Holt's role in facilitating our community forums, he presented the historical context this work is based in,
 and how displacement was more recently impacted the community of North and Northeast Portland. And so now I will turn to him to share that history again with us here today. Thank you, Tracy. If you will look above or at the screen, it talks about something I call a backward glance and a forward look.
 meaning we took a moment to look back, to take a view of our history, take a moment to look back, to learn from our past, and then take a moment to look back so that we don't repeat our past. And, Mayor, you already identified, if we can go to the next slide, some of the displacement events, the Vanport Flood, I-5 Freeway, the Coliseum,
 the central albana study, Emanuel Hospital when it broke ground, and then the interstate urban renewal area. All of these events impacted thousands of families and thousands of households and caused what we're calling gentrification or intentional displacement that left significant emotional and relational boundaries.
 The next portion of what we're going to talk about or what I want you to see, the slides that we're going to show, are from 1970 to 2010. It is also the area of study, and each one is in a decade increment, so 1970 to 1980, 1980 to 1990. And what you have is it's color-coded to illustrate where the concentration of African Americans lived during this period until –
 As you're seeing them switch, we have 1980. In 1990, you see what I call the dark chocolate extending. Then we see 2000, there's a switch, not as much. Then 2010, there's almost an absence of the dark chocolate, or where African Americans were concentrated. As you know, it's gone from 31% of people of color who lived in that portion of the city to less than 13%. It's been a significant impact. Thank you.
 During that period of transition, there have been promises that have been made and weren't kept. And what we're trying to do is make sure that that doesn't happen again. I'm a native to the city. I've been here all my life. I don't see it from a distant position. I see it from direct impact. I also was one who lived in that area no longer. My family lived in that area no longer. Businesses that were there and no longer.
 There's something we have to do, and I'm excited about our opportunity to do something in regard to that. It brings us to this moment. And so we look back, but we don't look back to stay there. We look back to learn. We look back to change. And then to see what we can do as it relates to going forward.
 To that extent, then, we've got some community people here to talk about currently how the impact of gentrification and displacement is happening or what it's caused. Yeah. So I'd like to ask now Andrew Colas of Colas Construction, who is a long-term member of the Portland Housing Advisory Commission, where he's played a lead role in guiding the Housing Bureau's equity agenda. And we will also hear from Dr. Mark Strong. Thank you.
 lead pastor of the Life Change Church in North Portland, and Katrina Holland, a community member who was a passionate advocate for this funding from the very beginning. Katrina here? Okay.
 OK, Andrew, why don't you go first? Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Mayor, commissioners. I'm very happy to be here today. Just wanted to talk to the commission and the folks in the room today just a little bit about why I'm here and kind of what role I've played in this. I've been, as you said, on the Portland Housing Bureau Advisory Commission. So it's an advisory role. It's a committee.
 But we all every single month meet for two hours and we talk about these kind of these problems that Bishop Holt spoke to you so eloquently about earlier. And I've been on that for five years and I've constantly, you know, we've gone through a tumultuous time as far as our our economic situations. We went from a time where there were zero dollars. Banks weren't lending to anybody. Housing wasn't an option for anybody to now where you see.
 23 tower cranes in the air. You see a bursting economy right now. For me, I'm the president of the National Association of Minority Contractors. I want to make sure that while there's these huge development opportunities, that we're creating opportunities for our minority businesses. It's about economic development for me.
 I'm happy that we've gotten to this point today. Is this the solution? No. But I think this creates a really good template and model. One of the biggest things that I'm excited about was the process that we went through. I think it was a very inclusive process. I commend Commissioner, I mean, I commend Director Manning for her outreach.
 But she has some great people that work in that organization. Specifically, I'd like to mention Nate McCoy, Leslie Goodlaw, Carl Dinkinsfield. They were really involved in this process. And it was a very engaged process. There were four community meetings that were taking place. And we got some really good feedback from a lot of different members. So I feel good about hearing a lot of different voices because it's important that we hear various voices in the community. For me...
 I look at the fact that right now they've identified 120 homes, that they want to make sure 40 homes to be built, and hopefully we can create those opportunities so that African Americans and Hispanic Americans and Native Americans, other community covers have opportunities to live in those homes, and then making sure that we retain 80 homes.
 So that's not a huge number. It's 120 homes. But if you think about it, the average cost of a home in that area is about $250,000. So if you do the math on that, you're looking at it right around $30 million. Over the course of the next 20 years, I believe that the price of homes in that area will double with the amount of people that are moving in. The key to economic success
 success in the United States is home ownership. And it's so important that we invest in this. 120 is not enough, but it's a start. It's a template. These aren't the only dollars that are going to be deployed from the Portland Housing Bureau, but these dollars we're going to look at. We're going to have community members that provide oversight. And I think we're going to create a template of how dollars in the future should be deployed. So I'm very excited about that opportunity. For me, in regards to NAMCO, making sure that we create
 opportunities for our businesses to grow. We have some great, we have over 30 businesses that are members of this organization. I think we played a key role in kind of bringing together communities and putting together this petition to hopefully get to this point today. And for me, you know, looking at creating opportunities for businesses like Affordable Electric, Professional Minority Group, Raymoor Construction, and just to name a few, City of Roses. There's a lot of great contractors out there. Primo Construction, Ramos.
 So when we make sure that these dollars that are going to be deployed, 20 million, actually impact these businesses that employ diverse communities, again, we're touching on economic development. That's how we make sure that people within our community have the opportunity to purchase these homes, have the opportunity to maintain in these neighborhoods,
 And it's so important that we focus on that as we deploy all funds, not only out of the Housing Bureau, but every bureau, making sure that we're really creating real opportunities for these businesses. And I feel very strong about the group that's at the Housing Bureau, and I believe in them, and I know they're going to listen to the oversight. There's some great people that have been at the table, and they're going to continue to be at the table. But we need to push this forward and make sure that we do create these economic
 opportunities for all these businesses so that our communities can start being more prosperous in this city that we've been a part of.
 for generations so thank you very much for hearing me today and i look forward to hopefully moving forward to some positive outcomes thank you andrew dr strong all right good afternoon everyone uh just appreciate the opportunity to just kind of share a little bit about some of our experience has been i've been a pastor uh in the williams corridor area for about uh close to 27 years
 pastor and life change. And to say the least, there's been quite a bit of change that has happened in our neighborhood and our community. It's a whole nother world than when we started. I think one of the impacts that some of the changes had on our congregation has been that, for one, you know, you can't get to church unless you have a place to park. You know,
 People have not really had some people that have really had an impact. I'm sorry, had the ability to to speak or have any influence in terms of what's been going on in the community. And it just kind of creates a lot of a lot of angst, emotion and frustration. And so part of, you know, my responsibility as a pastor is to care and love for the people.
 But this whole gentrification piece has created a whole other entire issue because it's almost as it's like a loss or someone is grieving because what was there prior is not there anymore. And, you know, grief, if you don't have a proper outlet for.
 to be able to find the support or even sometimes just to talk, it makes it difficult. That's why I appreciate the process that the Housing Bureau is going through that gives the community an opportunity to share some of the pain, the frustrations that...
 the faith community has experienced. I think to kind of just sum up what some of that angst and some of that psychological pain that the community has experienced is just two conversations I had
 One with a young woman that went to our church. She's probably I'd say maybe 23 years old. And so we were I was having lunch with her and she says, Pastor Mark, you don't you don't understand. She said, when you guys are grown up in this area, you guys had places where you could go to.
 places where your friends can hang out that you called your own. We don't have that here anymore. There's no park that's our own. There's no place that we can just hang out and say is ours. And it's true. That has been kind of obliterated with some of the changes that have taken place. And then the other conversation was with my own mother.
 My mom is 76 years old. My dad just turned 80 this year. He's still in good health. He still works every day, still sober-minded. And my mom just began to open up and pour her heart out, and she says, you know, she says, your dad is like a lost man.
 She said he comes home from work, he sits around, he's just lost. There's been so many changes that have taken place in the community that he has no place to have his, to find his bearings or find his moorings because of all the changes that have taken place. And so I think it's important to realize those are just two conversations, but you can multiply that numerous of times in terms of what people are feeling in their hearts and what they're feeling in their souls and,
 concern the change they have taken place. Now, much of what has happened has happened. Not all of it's bad, but I think that a process like this, where the city can come back and say that we are interested in trying to do something to improve
 make this situation a little bit better, I think goes a long ways opposed to just saying that it's done, it's over with, and get on with your life. So I think even this is kind of a compassionate way to put a little ointment on a wound that's gaping in the faith community and the African-American community as a whole. Thank you, Dr. Strong. Katrina? Yes, Dr.
 I also want to thank the Portland Housing Bureau and the city for devoting a lot of their time and effort in making this an inclusive process for how we can repair some of the issues we've faced in north and northeast Portland. I'm here to kind of give a perspective of what I see happening with the opportunity that's presented before us and also kind of give a perspective.
 an outlook as a millennial, a young person who is looking to establish roots in Portland and grow and invest. And I would say there's a general sentiment among community members outside these walls, namely historically marginalized populations, and it's a sentiment of angst. It's a skepticism mixed with hope that this time things will be different. And as we sit here and stare at the frankly horrific situation,
 history in Portland, ridden with racism, with shame, targeted displacement, we also sit, I feel, at a fork in the road that presents new paths that are untrodden to some really incredible opportunities.
 I could sit here today as an African-American young woman, as a soon-to-be graduate student, a mother, and I could tell you the troubles I faced despite many hours toiling through education, through efforts of economic advancement in several career sectors, and the shameful struggle I've had in trying to find a decent house for my daughter and I that doesn't cost $4,850 just to move in. That's real. But I feel like...
 You've heard these stories time and again, the stories of skyrocketing rents and moving fees, ungodly wait lists, and overcrowded multifamily units, stories of unnecessary instability.
 but instead i want to talk about the opportunity that i see the opportunity we have in adding to our great reputation of micro enterprise culture world leadership and sustainable green living international recognition for our innovative transportation policy and planning this addition lies in executing true equity and i don't say equity defined as the means to achieving
 the ends of diversity or equality, but equity defined as the infrastructural modifications necessary to end, to achieve the ends of justice, of enhancing accessibility to opportunities for socioeconomic stability and advancement that Andrew was talking about, and to achieve ends of simply living. This opportunity is about fully realizing our potential in our city by investing in those who have been historically alienated,
 folks who give major contribution to our city's well-being in so many ways and have for generations. So, when deciding how to spend this money in this proposal and coming dollars, I do implore you, not for the sake of appealing to your heartstrings, but for the sake of realizing what's really before us, to keep in mind the following realities. One,
 I don't know if everybody remembers the process, but we are on a national stage with just this little bit of money due to its symbolism and how it came about. Two, we cannot wait for and rely on the private sector to raise wages enough to support some of the changes that have happened in north and northeast Portland. And we cannot wait on the rental market to crash to make units affordable again. I mean, lack of demand may bring prices down, but again, the stakes and damage control on such conditions are way too high.
 Not only that, but people are paying these astronomically high rents, so there's really no reason to change them. And if these changes were to happen, I don't think none of these phenomena are going to happen anytime soon. However, the demand is now. We can't wait because people like myself, millennials attempting to build our socioeconomic foundations,
 are staring at unjust scales. I mean, we have to make decisions between health care, food, paying rent or the mortgage, building a family, career choices, caring for our loved ones as they age, student loans, and more. And I really think that's unfair, despite doing all that we were raised to do, which is go to school and have lofty career aspirations. So...
 I support the plan that comes before you today. Like Andrew said, I don't think it's a complete fix, but I think it's a step in the right direction. So as you hear this proposal, I ask that you keep in mind this fork in the road that I've attempted to bring to the forefront of this discussion. We can continue business as usual, investing in things we've done previously, increasing our risk of stifling advancement towards true socioeconomic equity and justice, or...
 We can stare in our, we can stare history in the face and say no more. And I think we have that opportunity. We can be example to the state and to the nation because of where we are with this process.
 And we can show them what equitable and impactful economic development looks like. So I challenge you to not look at this proposal as not just another series of line items in a budget, but as the catalyst to a driving force that is going to promote equitable advancement for all Portland citizens, especially the historically disadvantaged. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Our last panel before we bring Tracy Manning back up to walk through the details are Reverend Dr. T. Allen Bethel, President of the Albina Ministerial Alliance, and Kat Guggenauer, who is with the Portland African American Leadership Forum, a group that was instrumental in bringing this proposal forward. Welcome and welcome back.
 Good afternoon. Dr. T. Allen Bethel, Senior Pastor of Maranatha Church, Alabama Minister of Alliance President, member of POF. I am a Portland resident. Thank you for the opportunity to address the council today in referencing the approval of the Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy and the Interstate Corridor Urban Renewal Area Tax Increment Financing as well as General Fund dollars.
 While it remains true that the African-American black population in Portland and Multnomah County has been identified as one of the most vulnerable and most at risk for continued displacement or loss of stability in the Portland Housing Bureau study area, the gentrification factor, which has and still does impact the North Northeast community, is still a concern.
 Mayor Hales and some PDC members and perhaps some Portland Housing Bureau members may remember October 2013, of a tour hosted by PAWF to view those gentrification impacts on the Williams and Vancouver Avenue corridor and the conversation at Legacy Emanuel Hospital about the community concerns and some specific requests of the mayor and the PDC.
 Subsequent to that date, yes, due to the significant role that Paul played in hosting community forums and et cetera, which led to the announcement of the additional $20 million that we are discussing today. In fact, we need multiple $20 million to adequately address these issues. Now, the proposed distribution plan contains items that are conducive to rebuilding the North Northeast neighborhood community.
 and yet the amounts do not go far enough to address long-term housing stability. What other funds can be leveraged with this small amount of $20 million? Are there funds in the affordable housing set-aside? What other funding streams are available from the city, from federal funds? How will these funds and others address and benefit long-term stabilization, homeownership, low-income affordable housing?
 Realizing that this $20 million is a budgetary shift of funds from PDC to PHB and that there is no expected or forecasted any increase in the urban renewal area budget, are there other funds that should be included in this discussion and the North Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy?
 I ask further that as these funds and others are distributed, invested, used for land banking, that the opportunity for housing, construction, planning, design, and development opportunities, but not limited to those, be made available openly, fairly, equitably to guard against any single source individual firms.
 that we further work towards a comprehensive plan that includes self-determination where the people of the community have a stronger vested say in how their community is developing.
 This comprehensive plan, or a people's plan, will help address the long-term solutions for the $20 million over the next five years that will yield a response when these systemic issues that have affected North and Northeast neighborhoods rise again, and I believe that some of them will, that the response will be we, speaking on behalf of the city, we did do, we did give, but it does not go far enough.
 While the issues still remain for the housing issues in North Northeast, we remain unabated to the remediation and the elimination of these issues. The critical work of moving these policies to practice is our utmost priority. To ensure that the mistakes and short-sightedness of the past are not repeated, and to directly address current realities for Portland's African American and Black population, this is a marathon, it's not a sprint.
 We join you on the marathon to design with the people's input and rebuild our North Northeast neighborhood. And I remind you, what's going to be different about this? We want to hold you accountable, as you said. It's going to be the way we go about doing it. Let's go about doing it the right way so that we can eliminate these issues, not repeat what was in the past, and see a fruitful North Northeast community rebuilt, reliving,
 That's not a correct word, but you got my point, that we can go together hand in hand and achieve a great community in the Portland area. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Bennett. Thank you very much. Ms. Guggenheimer. Good afternoon, Council. Thanks for providing Paul the opportunity to weigh in on the North Northeast Housing Strategy discussion.
 I'm Kat Gogenauer and I'm a graduate from the Portland African American Leadership Forum. I'm also a community health worker and an equity consultant. And today, I serve as an advocate for the Portland African American Leadership Forum for our people and as a steward of the process to stabilize and heal Portland's black African American community.
 First, I did want to echo Dr. Bethel's points and the points made by all the other panelists about the impact of displacement and gentrification on our community and lift up the urgency of the issue we face.
 I also really want to commend the responsiveness of the city to PULF's advocacy in 2014, which lifted the needs of our community to the national level. It facilitated the beginning of a difficult and long overdue conversation about the root causes and upstream solutions available to overcome Oregon's racially exclusionary past. Through this good faith effort, we see the promise of a long-term city-community partnership
 to continue allocating resources based on need. The impact, the individual and community impact of multi-generational disinvestment and displacement for any people is trauma. Dr. Strong spoke to this. It's a pain, suffering, loss of community ties, loss of place and loss of belonging.
 In 1993, we had created the Albina Community Plan in conjunction with the city, and it was a proactive, comprehensive, community-led, anti-displacement, anti-gentrification planning document, which promised to stem the impact of hyperinvestment in the interstate corridor urban renewal area. And the purpose was to bring the benefit to the residents, not just redevelop sticks and bricks.
 an area that was segregated, redlined, disinvested in, and whose people's equity was stripped through the housing crisis. However, over the past 15 years, our people have not been able to take advantage of the renewed investment.
 Therefore, we think a health wealth strategy is needed. So, by investing in the most vulnerable and excluded, we can achieve multiple returns on investment, including both regional economic prosperity and well-being. As Katrina outlined, the returns on investment are exponential. Therefore, we need to aggressively tackle the root causes, which concentrates poverty and which at this point is moving our community members out to underdeveloped parts of the city and concentrating poverty again.
 To this end, we believe a right to return policy to areas of higher opportunity makes a lot of sense. We believe the $20 million allocated by the city marks a sea change in budget and policy practices and bodes well for future policy intervention system, disparate impact, and different treatment that our community has faced and continues to face.
 At this point, we do need, as Dr. Bethel said, explicit assurance and commitment that this $20 million will be the seed that catalyzes strategic systemic change to close the gap between those who are thriving and those in need, and it's not just a one-off.
 We need to leverage this investment many times over to address the long-term housing stability, home ownership, community development and place making for our community members. Pulse advocacy made plain the push-pull factors and showed market forces were one of the main determinants of where our people are living. Therefore, housing choice was not the thing that moved our people around the city, desegregating this area.
 The affordable housing dollars that are made available through the city is 30% set aside from tax increment financing. We'd like to know what amount has been captured to date. It was always meant to be a floor and never a ceiling. So we're curious as to what other anti-displacement resources are truly available in this strategic stabilization policy.
 As Dr. Bestel mentioned, PULF has just been given funding to go forward with our People's Plan, which will be another community-led community development plan. It's a whole system comprehensive approach to addressing and redressing the critical social, environmental, and health issues facing our community. We do think it's important to say that there are differences of opinion within our community. We are not monolith.
 However, we all agree that $20 million isn't enough. We all agree that promises have been broken. We all agree more can and must be done, and we want to work in collaboration with the city to create a holistic community development strategy and action plan. I'm not sure how much time I have. Probably at the end. May I ask a question of Dr. Bethel? Sure. Quickly. Thank you.
 Dr. Bethel, you said a lot of things that struck me, but one was you raised a cautionary flag about how the monies are distributed. Yes. And so that goes to this whole question of transparency and the integrity of the process.
 You know, sir, that the Housing Bureau uses a notice of funds available process where they advertise their dollars and they solicit proposals and they rank them and they use a value system to rank them. And under Director Manning's leadership, equity has been raised to a more prominent place. That's created some conflict with some of our partners. But what specifically in that system do you want us to pay particular attention to, sir? Sure.
 Thank you for the question. I would, you would pay careful attention to the ranking, the questions asked, and the persons who do the ranking. I'm familiar with, in several organizations, not only for the city, for TriMed, and for other groups, that when you do the ranking,
 based on who's sitting there and relationships with a particular firm or individual that you've had history with, say, for 5, 10, 15 years, there is sometimes an inherent bias when you sit down that I know this company can do. And so sometimes they're ranked a little higher and the other companies are ranked a little lower.
 a little lower. I think we need to have a comprehensive look at that to try to guarantee that we don't end up with the same company or companies always getting the contracts and then talking about we're going to subcontract something out and we get some subcontracting
 very little to low-end jobs or we get subcontracting to a front. Those are issues that we know are there. We've just got to work to eliminate them, and especially in north-northeast Portland in its redevelopment. Thank you, sir. Thank you both. Thank you. And now I'd like to ask Tracy Manning to come back up, and she'll actually walk us through a PowerPoint, the details of the plan. Thank you.
 Leslie Goodloe. Leslie, yes. Had a big role. Anything that goes well is her doing. So thank you very much. Really appreciate the commentary of our guests registered. Very true, I'm sure, to our own experiences, certainly to what we heard in the forums. And hopefully these recommendations respond to what we heard from the people who are living these experiences every day.
 So as part of those community forums, we asked people to fill out comment cards. 300 people agreed to.
 Nearly half of the African-American homeowners said they were at risk of displacement. And a common reason they listed was an inability to afford costly home repairs. So the first strategy that we are recommending is to spend $4 million on keeping people who are still in the community from losing their homes through the provision of home repair loans and grants, an already successful strategy.
 Another common theme, and one you've heard today, was the need to help people become homeowners. The studies have shown that one key driver in the wealth gap between African Americans and whites is the years of family homeownership.
 So we're recommending allocating $5 million over two different strategies to increase homeownership opportunities in the area. First is to assist first-time homebuyers. $2.4 million would allow us to move an additional 40 households into homeownership, and an additional $2.6 million to develop new affordable housing homeowner stock in the area. Okay.
 We're also recommending the creation of rental homes. We found through comments at the forum 83% of all of the renters who attended those forums responded saying they were at risk of displacement, and half of those were people of color.
 So we are recommending that we invest $4.5 million plus land that PHB owns currently on the east side of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, just south of Fremont. This is something, as all of these strategies are, that we can put in place immediately to increase the supply and availability of affordable rental units. This investment would allow us to build 40 to 80 new units, depending on size.
 And one of the other things we heard very strongly at the forums was the need for family size units that worked with family amenities. Another thing we heard a lot at the forums was...
 was about mixed-use developments, that there should be a space in the ground floor of this building to support neighborhood businesses, something that Bishop Holt, as well as a number of the panelists, talked about those economic opportunities accruing back into this community. And so partnering with PDC and a number of the folks that we met through this process, we think we can identify local businesses to be part of that development process.
 Next up, after that project, we've identified an additional $3.5 million to assist a second development. PHB owns a second piece of land at Rosa Parks and Martin Luther King. TriMet owns a piece of land. Multnomah County owns a piece of land that they have expressed real interest in. They attended all of the forums with us.
 to hear from people what they might want them to do with their land. We've also been approached by three different nonprofit organizations that own land in the district, so we know there's a lot of potential there.
 And finally, we received really strong support from the community for a strategy of land acquisition. And so we have recommended $3 million of the money be used to acquire land. I was very compelled by the thoughtfulness that they came up with this idea.
 strategy. It's very important to us to get this money on the ground quickly. And when I say us, Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Hales have felt very strongly that we need to move quickly, and I appreciate that prompting.
 But we also know that five years is really a short period of time, and acquiring land that can be used in the community is a way to have a longer-term play and a longer-term strategy and, frankly, have faith in the people who...
 have been part of this process and have said they want to step up and figure out how to get that land developed. Is this in addition to the previous list that you just gave of the PDC? It is, yes. And is it multifamily properties? To be determined. Land that would be for affordable housing development guided by the community. Maybe mixed use land?
 Mixed use, certainly, always when it's on the main arterial streets, which of course most of the urban renewal area is. And that would mean PDC putting additional resources in to make sure that the commercial side of it worked. Yeah, that would be fabulous. Yes, they've worked with us closely on that. So I think something you also heard from the panelists and something that we heard and challenged ourselves with all the time is how is this really going to be any different?
 The communities offered feedback and plans before and previous public processes were developed with outcomes that are yet to be fulfilled. And so we knew we had to answer that question. And much of what you've just heard is, in fact, not that different. These recommended investments expand a number of our existing effective programs to fund affordable housing development.
 So the strategy also includes several new practices and policies that will impact how we do our work.
 shaped by the stories people have shared. So during the forums, a lot of what we've heard also had to do with access to housing, again, part of the testimony you've just heard, as well as the economic forces that have shaped this community. So there's a number of practices outlined in the full report, which I will not go into all of them, but I do want to highlight a few.
 Fortunately, very early on in the process, Commissioner Saltzman expressed an interest in whether we could create a priority in the housing we'd create for people who have been displaced or at risk of displacement from this community. And so since we had that extra time to work on it, we've been working with the city attorney's office.
 We were able to reference similar policies that have been successfully implemented around the country in New York, Massachusetts, California. So we now know that it is legally possible to create a preference based on a geography, so people who have previously or currently live in that geography.
 So we will work with community members as well as the attorney's office so we can craft the mechanics of the policy that will really, truly impact the people that we're trying to serve while meeting legal criteria. Economic opportunity, you've heard a lot about that. We certainly have as well. Maxine Fitzpatrick has been reminding me for years and years that housing development is economic development.
 Andrew Colas speaks very eloquently and persuasively over the years about how vital it is that the economic benefits that will accrue to this work stay in the community. So as part of our strategy, we will continue to partner with PBC to identify those community-based businesses that can be commercial tenants in the ground floor of these developments and others to come.
 We'll increase our MWESB, Minority Women-Owned and Emerging Small Business, subcontracting goals, expand them to include professional services and focus on our minority contracting.
 and will work with PDC and community-based organizations to assist some long-term property owners who are interested in developing their land or offering housing. It was something that we actually heard quite a bit during the forums from people who said, I have land, I'd like to help, I don't really know how, I don't trust.
 It's frankly not something that we as a big government bureau are great at. We work on bigger scale things. So we're going to take a little time and work with some folks in the community who can be good at it to help us figure out how to help these smaller property owners do what they want to do with their land for the benefit of their community. So next steps.
 PHB is also including two decision packages in the budget that I understand is due on Monday that are responsive to the needs that you've heard about today.
 So one would extend these successful programs that keep homeowners in their homes to the balance of the urban renewal area or to the balance of the study area. Right now, of course, TIF can only be spent within the URA. Our study area is larger. And keeping people who are still there in their homes is a huge priority. A second decision package would extend the strategy of land banking to
 combat displacement and gentrifying neighborhoods citywide, including in north and northeast Portland. And again, we've heard very persuasive arguments about land banking. TIF is a somewhat imperfect tool for that. General fund, we have already talked to, and you'll see when you get our budget, banks and foundations that are willing to match a general fund commitment for land banking in areas experiencing gentrification at least one-to-one.
 Next, we were often asked in a variety of forums about where the citywide place is, where strategies are being discussed to, on a citywide basis, mitigate involuntary displacement. The Portland Plan actually does a really good job of outlining the need and some of the next steps for some of these strategies. So we're asking you to ask Portland Housing Bureau, the Office of Equity and Human Rights,
 and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to convene our sister bureaus and work on strategies to recommend to you that would be citywide strategies to mitigate displacement. I know a lot of your bureaus are already working on things like an equity lens for capital investment, and so really just bringing those efforts together. And finally, no matter how good these recommendations are, their impact will depend on how they're implemented. Thank you.
 So we've been working with Commissioner Saltzman and the mayor, and you've heard about this oversight committee, this issue of accountability back to the community. We are well aware that this is just a plan at this point, no matter how well-intentioned and how we implement it makes all the difference in the world. And the people that, frankly, we feel like we owe most explanation to are out in the community.
 And so Bishop Holt has agreed to help us organize this committee. We will report to them annually, as will anybody funded under this initiative. And then they will report, we'll report to them more than annually. They will report to you annually about how we're all doing and what they've seen. And so with that transition, I will turn it back to Bishop Holt. Thank you.
 I will wrap it up by saying thanks to all of the presenters. Extremely clear in the articulation. I think we all are very clear on the need. It's now how do we handle it on the back end. And our goal, our commitment, our desire is to see that what has happened historically is not repeated.
 This isn't much, but it is a significant step. So thank you. Thank you for beginning the process. And with the opportunity to leverage relationships, other resources and networks, I think something significant can happen. The goal of putting the group together will be to pull some of the best minds and thinkers, some of which you've heard, voices I'll be talking to about being a part of this group, part of this council, to do our part to help people.
 this relationship come to pass. We want to see something great happen. So thank you. Thank you for this opportunity. Thank you both. Questions? Tracy, could I ask you two questions? You can ask as many as you like. Andrew Colas talked about a benefit of home ownership, which is wealth creation. And yet one of the concerns we have
 that's been identified as being people priced out of their homes, an affordability problem. So there are some models that we use, like land trusts and other things, which maintain permanent affordability in home ownership but work against a little bit this idea of wealth creation because you're limited in how much you can make in order to maintain an affordable unit. I know this is a big question, but how do you reconcile those two things?
 in inner Northeast. The desire to have homes that are affordable and accessible, and also the desire for someone to achieve the American dream of a home and potentially growing
 wealth through that home? Yeah. Well, fortunately, we don't have to just rely on what comes out of our own brains. We've got many really able partners who understand that both of those can be co-equal goals. They're obviously, you can't have everything. So it's about striking that balance. So, you know, for instance, I think the land trust has a lot of
 folks would tell you that in their model and because of the funds they can leverage, as can the other folks who do homeownership in the community, that while some of that equity stays in the home to keep it affordable for the next family, because the family is paying less during the course of their homeownership, they have the ability to accumulate wealth not only through the appreciation of the home,
 the structure, but also through lower payments in an ongoing basis. They're not paying mortgage insurance. The mortgage payment is less. There's other models out there, but there certainly isn't a perfect solution.
 But, you know, it's our job to set the outcome out there and certified smart people behind me to tell us how they can meet it. Well, it's also, I think, the community's role to figure out the mix of that because they are different values. The second question I want to ask you has to do with the right of return.
 The Federal Fair Housing Act, which for people that follow that law closely, is now the Supreme Court has taken a case and is poised apparently to gut it and to say that disparate impact cases would no longer be actionable, which would be just in the pantheon of civil rights decisions, one of the all-time worst. But there's some rumors of that effect.
 The fair housing laws say that you have to take race out of the equation when you're deciding to rent to someone. So in an instance like this where disproportionately race is at the heart of a displacement story –
 How does a right of return work where race can't be explicitly a part of the criteria for exercising that right? Right. So we've spent, thanks to the city attorney's office, and I think Linda Law has been working with us on this. She may be here as well. So what we've learned, you're right, we cannot call out any protected class.
 but we can call out a geography. This is a geography that has historically been the heart of our African-American community, and so folks who lived in that geography are not exclusively African-American, but certainly African.
 have historically been in large numbers. But it's about the geography. And that's why we can, and there's certainly nuances in how it gets rolled out that we have to be careful with and thoughtful about. But because if it's about the geography and not a protected class, and
 at least for the moment, doesn't disparately impact a protected class, which this would not as long as the geography is this geography, then we're okay. And do you have a sense of the – in terms of the new units that you hope to bring online through these investments, put aside the leveraging. We've heard folks say let's leverage and do more. But for these investments, do you have a sense of the number of units that would be eligible for this right of return?
 I don't know if there's a proportionality to the preference. We would say that all of the developments that are funded under this proposal will be subject to a preference policy. All the new construction? Right. And whether it can be every single unit, that's a nuance I think we still have to figure out. Okay. Thank you. I'd like to follow up on those questions.
 Let's hope that this strategy is successful, that we are able to use geography to help folks stay in the neighborhood and bring folks back who are displaced, and to help folks fix up their homes so that they don't get foreclosed upon or whatever. What's to stop the same thing happening again in 10 years when people come along and offer way more for the home in fair market? Right.
 maybe people would want to pay for their college career or something. You know, it is following up on Commissioner Fisher's line of questioning, home ownership is the key to wealth. And if it becomes so expensive, which it already has in some ways, to live in north and northeast Portland –
 People may choose to sell out, move to a less expensive area of town. They're still homeowners, so they're helping, but then we're still potentially adding to the gentrification of northeast Portland. Right. So I think there's a couple different ways to answer that. I mean, I think an important key that I hear in your question is one of choice. Yes.
 And when we talk about this, we talk a lot about involuntary displacement, which could be about a variety of different things, predatory lending. We heard a lot about reverse mortgages that people took, not having access just to the basic information about whether or not that was a good choice for them.
 If somebody chooses to sell their home and use that equity in their life the way they see fit, that's great, wonderful for them. But they're not then going to be choosing the person they sell to based on geography, right?
 Yeah, if it's their personal residence, that is true. So that's something that I'm concerned about. I'm also wondering about the home repair loans or grants that then the home is in good shape. Again, somebody else swoops in and says, that looks like a lovely home. And they're not necessarily going to fit with the folks that we're particularly trying to help.
 Was the discussion of that? So the loans have a 15-year term. So it's not a program designed to help somebody flip their home. So if they start...
 a proportional repayment on year 11 and then it's forgiven in year 15, if they sell before then, then they owe the money back so that we can recycle it into the next home. You know, can we permanently stem displacement and people wanting to leave? That may be more ambitious than I can commit to.
 Is there something like that with the home purchasing assistance also? Yeah, and I think that's the question that Commissioner Fish was referring to. There's a bunch of different mechanisms in homeownership that help retain permanent affordability or recycle the money. And there's different mechanisms depending. And continue to help folks at the targeted demographics to be the ones who buy the home. Right. Yeah. And how are you going to get the word out to people who've already been displaced that,
 they're able to come back. Yeah, so that's a great question. It's actually a question that we specifically asked people in the forums. And I don't know, Bishop, you want to refer to that? I think that may have been one of the questions in your group that you facilitated. Certainly, I would say that what we have learned overwhelmingly in this process is it's about who we work with and what their connections in the community are and not what we think is the right way to communicate with people.
 One of the things we're trying to do is make sure that the information that's being talked about is being disseminated through community groups, churches, organizations where people are meeting those who've been displaced, impacted, where they're getting the current information and opportunity to access. It's one of the goals is to make sure that the information is getting to the people who can benefit from it and who should be benefiting from it.
 I would also just want to give another shout out to PALF. They put a tremendous amount of energy in their community conversations in trying to locate and reach out to people that have been displaced. And as we have, we actually, when we did the forums,
 mailed 72,000 postcards, and some of those covered all of the zip codes in the study area, but they also covered zip codes that census data and other information that we got where we think people had predominantly been moving to. I'm sure we didn't capture them all, but there's some geeky data ways to help out with that as well.
 And then my final question relates to Dr. Bethel's testimony and that of Palf in terms of needing to leverage more money.
 The program that I know of thinking of that leverages the most money is the East Portland Action Plan, where for $279,000 a year there's a huge investment by the community of organizing their own committees, of working on different action areas, $100,000 in grants that they decide who gets the grants and they do the projects and such. Was there any discussion of having a North Northeast Portland Action Plan that could –
 the great work that you've done in involving the community and is there a way to empower community members who've come in rather than having these be completely government programs where it's the majority of the administrative work is done by either Home Forward or the Housing Bureau? Is there a way or was there any discussion of
 more community empowerment. Yeah, lots. And I would take any of your suggestions and these Portland plans because I know they've been experts. Yeah, I mean, a lot of the conversation was how do these benefits accrue to the community? So one thing that...
 government and others have been guilty of in the past is asking our community partners to help us do outreach for free. And frankly, that's not really fair. And it's not within the means of some of the smaller organizations that are truly connected to the community. So I think in terms of sort of who does the work.
 Yes, we would love to figure out a way through the oversight committee and through the partnerships we've developed and the ones that will develop tomorrow for them to do some of the work directly. And we anticipate that if we ask them to do that, we need to pay them to do that.
 I would also make reference to and confess not having a deep knowledge of, but have learned from our partners about the people's plan, which I think is more along the lines of that comprehensive nature that you were referring to. And I know is coming much more close to fruition. So I would defer to their expertise a bit and how we can mesh. I think that's kind of an open question is how do we mesh?
 How do we continue to make those connections? You know, so there's the Housing Bureau and PDC, and, you know, there's all this other work that's happening, and for us to be doing it in silos and in isolation would be a real fail. I appreciate that those answers...
 20 million dollars is not enough to do everything that needs to be done 20 million dollars is a lot of money and so i'm wondering if a portion of it might be dedicated to hiring having the community hire or the city hire a community advocate like we have in east portland action plan which and then maybe some small grants or something whether the community themselves would decide how they want to use that it's just they've been able to do
 in East Portland, the East Portland In Motion Plan, which then leveraged a lot of state transportation dollars and other metro funding and such. It's more of a community organizing empowerment mechanism. And I would encourage you to look at, is there anywhere in any of these allocations that you could have a further discussion with the community about perhaps we don't put
 all of it into these grants for loans. Perhaps a small portion of one of those buckets could get allocated for exactly what you just talked about, Tracy, that.
 not expecting people to do community organizing or outreach for free, and in fact, having a dedicated person whose job it is to focus on the interstate urban renewal area, the North and Northeast Portland area, and then to do lots of good work in the community, which, you know, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement looks after the contracts and such in the East Portland Action Plan, but most of the work is done in the community by the community for the community. Yeah. And
 Yeah, and you know certainly that's how we work is most of our money, you know, the $100 million in our budget every year goes directly to the community. We don't do most of the work directly. TIFF is tough to spend on staff unless it's directly connected to a project, but I think your call for creativity is heard, and we will take those as marching orders. Thank you. Tracy, when we talk about leverage –
 We've heard that from several people testifying. We're really talking about CDBG, home, other sources of funding that can be leveraged. And so that's part of a larger conversation because $20 million is a piece, but every year we have these allocations. And that's a citywide conversation because we have policies in place that decide where that money goes. So that's probably the next big –
 part of this discussion is how we get additional leverage by targeting these other discretionary resources, but that's where the real money is. I mean, obviously, in the allocation we get through entitlement or through discretion. We might also be talking about private philanthropy, which is where there's also some real money that we haven't leveraged enough of in this instance. Yeah, although I would say, Mayor...
 Tracy Manning has done an extraordinary job with leverage generally. I mean, the preservation strategy that she oversaw, our public investment was a very small amount and the overall leverage of private equity, philanthropy, all these other things was a huge amount. So
 If anyone knows how to find an extra dollar somewhere, it's Tracy. But the question about matching it with other federal funds is going to be a big question. I hear a number of people saying they want to leverage. I want to go back to the rental housing for a second. Mm-hmm.
 So the community has been clear, and you've been clear, that the rental housing will be targeted to families at 60% medium family income or below. Correct, yes. So it will be what we call the 30% set-aside guidelines. Yeah, 60% at the most. 60% at the most. So this is where there's a lot of need, and we've heard repeatedly that, and these are the families priced out of the market right now in the most acute way. Dr. Bethel, you know, in his testimony said, raised again this concern about how we allocate the money.
 I think the NOFA process that you have refined and developed has been pretty good. And since you have to rank people, you're never the most popular person on the day. You have to tell people they didn't make the cut. But I'm just interested. Are you thinking about making changes to the NOFA process as part of this process?
 And if so, how do you, are those things you're looking at system-wide or just for the target area? Yeah. Yeah, I think we are, we haven't defined particular changes. I think we have heard very clearly, as Reverend Docter referenced, that, you know, and Andrew referenced it.
 keeping the benefit of these dollars multiplying, leveraging in the community is really important. And so making sure that those processes, and I saw my team taking notes
 when Reverend Dr. Bethel was speaking, making sure, you know, who selects and relationships matter and really prioritizing in this process that depth of experience with this community as a priority. We are, you know, blessed with a lot of development talent and capacity in this community and firms that can do the work. And so...
 Asking as part of that, as you really well outlined, accountable and transparent process, how those community connections will help them develop this project, I think, is something that folks have lifted up as a recommendation to us that makes good sense. So, for example, you might decide that in your new scoring system, extra points if you choose a prime contractor that is minority owned? Sure. That would be an example, yes. Okay.
 I think the Colas Construction Company will be the first prime construction company to have a substantial piece of work on MLK. And so that is one way that we move the dial. And we've had some success with subcontracting, but with the contractors, maybe not as much as you would like. Yeah, I believe Dawson Park was an excellent example. Yeah.
 Excellent presentation, excellent discussion. We should move on, I think. Actually, Mr. Rueck, could I ask one more? Just a couple questions. One is, do we know what percentage of people who have been displaced were homeowners and how many were renters? I don't think we know that. You can award no. No, I'm getting a lot of head shaking. No, I don't think we know that.
 I'll see what we can get. Okay. Because my uninformed assumption has been that given, in part, our weird property tax system, even when values go up, property taxes don't drive people out of their homes. So although there are all the predatory lending, et cetera, I kind of assume that more forced relocations were renters rather than owners. But it would be interesting to have any statistics. The other question, and this will probably come up later, because I imagine some of these folks are here and we'll hear from them later, but as you know, we got a letter from –
 a large number of respected organizations and individuals really strongly endorsing the land banking strategy. They didn't put a dollar amount, as I see in the letter, on how much of that $20 million they think should be dedicated to that. But I'm just curious as to whether you've had conversations with them about whether $3 million is an appropriate amount.
 I have. And yeah, I also found that a very compelling letter. I know a lot of those folks as well. And there's others I'm looking forward to working with. Yeah, so I have had conversations with several, certainly not everybody who is a signatory to that letter. And they had everywhere from sort of declining to give me a number.
 to very different answers about that number. Some people who signed the letter have seen our recommendation and are okay with it. I think some people, completely full disclosure, some people are not. They wanted to see more. Okay.
 We do have the decision package, the general fund ask, which I can use that money for leverage. And I find that a lot better source, but I completely respect the
 that sentiment and regardless really look forward to taking them up on their invitation to working together too I really I really believe and dr. Bates has provided us with some studies that demonstrate that there is a really a really intriguing long-term play there about efforts to mitigate displacement
 Thank you. Great. And I want to just say this in regard to your question about displacement. Displacement wasn't simply driven by home pricing or taxes. It's also when you begin closing African-American-owned businesses.
 And so when economics are hit and those who own those businesses no longer have them and pricing is changing, then they can't access that. So what we're talking about is not just a housing issue. We're also talking about economic development. But since this is specifically around housing, that's.
 you know, what we've got to focus at at this moment. There are other elements that we must talk about and think about. Yeah, and that's why I mentioned PDC earlier, is that we've got to synergize what we're doing here on the housing side with PDC. Even though the two agencies are separate, actually we're creating a working group between the two bureaus to make sure that we know how to get mixed-use projects delivered, even if there's different pots of money being blended in order to make the project happen. Because what the community wants is both
 opportunity for business growth and housing. And frankly, I don't think we have any excuses as a city to only meet one of those objectives, particularly on property that we own. Agreed. Agreed. Thank you so much for your leadership on this, Bishop Hall. Great. Well, thank you both. And we'll move on to public testimony. We have 11 people signed up. Okay. The first three, please come on up, are Alyssa Eisenstein Kruger, Tony Jones, and Steve Messineth. Come on up.
 Ms. Krueger, I think you're on first. You're close enough, I think. Close enough, okay. My name is Alyssa Eisenstein Krueger. I am a real estate broker with Living Room Realty, and I'm also a partner broker with the Portland Housing Center. I submitted a proposal for increasing homeownership opportunities for people of color in northeast Portland, and I wanted to share that.
 I would like to see $3 million of the $20 million allocated to be used for $35,000 silent loans
 which is basically a loan that somebody receives but they don't have to make payments on it, to assist moderate-income first-time homebuyers with historic ties to the community in purchasing a home in inner north and northeast Portland. The loans can be used to help with the down payment, closing costs, and needed repairs. And if the home is sold within five years of the purchase, a pro rata share of the loan must be repaid by the homeowner. And Portland Housing Center would be the administrator of the loans. Thank you.
 Priority for these loans should be given to buyers who can demonstrate three of the following criteria. One is resided eight out of the last 25 years in inner northeast Portland. Those eight years do not have to be consecutive. Attended either Roosevelt, Jefferson or Adams High School.
 They could have the other option is completing, they've completed the getting your house in order class taught at the Portland Housing Center. They are affiliated with or have family affiliations with either a faith-based institution or community-based organization in the URA.
 and that they make no more than 130% MFI. And additionally, buyers must have asset caps before and after purchase, and that includes liquid and non-liquid funds. And the buyers may receive no additional gift funds for the down payment assistance, and the sales price should be capped.
 With the $20 million affordable housing initiative in north-northeast Portland earmarked for helping prevent additional displacement of longtime residents and address a long history of institutional racism in the interstate corridor urban renewal area, now is the time to set aside money to be used solely for the purpose of increasing homeownership, particularly in the area of housing.
 particularly among African-American families with moderate incomes, between 81% to 120% MFI. Rents are rising at astounding rates, and oftentimes a mortgage payment will be less than what a family pays for rent. Plus, a mortgage payment provides tax benefits that renting does not. Many of the community spoke in the community forum summary that I read
 spoke to the fact that there is no assistance for folks making over 80% of MFI. And I also work at Living Room. We did a survey of our – we have 52 brokers. 26 of our brokers answered the survey. It was how many first-time homebuyers had we worked with over the last year? The answer was 148. How many of those use gift funds to buy their home, which is how most
 first-time homebuyers, not most, but a lot are able to buy in Northeast Portland. The answer was 62, which is 40%. Fifty-nine of those 62 were white. The average gift was $42,000, and the average home purchase was $305,000. So I have much more, but I submitted it. Oh, thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners.
 Council members, my name is Tony Jones. I'm the Executive Director of Metropolitan Contractor Improvement Partnership. Our mission is to build a capacity of minority and disadvantaged contractors that face disparity in utilization of contractors in our city and our region. How we do that is we have a plan center that provides information about contracting opportunities. We provide workshops, and we also do one-on-one coaching with those businesses. We work with about 45 contractors a year, and –
 diversity across the board african-american hispanic american native american asian and women we support the north northeast investment strategy to guide the 20 million dollars over five years to serve those historically impacted by displacement i just have a few comments i want to add i know that a lot of comments have already been shared but i fully support we fully support the oversight
 committee. We encourage them to lead with reviewing best practices that can be used to serve the people that have been impacted by displacement, and the monitoring is extremely important. I want to encourage the Portland Housing Bureau to also make sure that their staff is trained so as they are working with developers
 contractors that may want to utilize these dollars, that they understand the real intent of these dollars is it's just not another buck to build another piece of housing.
 And one of the things that I think is really important with this oversight committee combined with the council is frankly having some sanctioning power. Really it is important to make sure if you're going to set these goals, they need to be met. And if they're not met, consequences need to be had. And the goal really is to take a positive approach to make sure that these things happen. But if they're not happening, we need to stop and see that we're not meeting the goal and address the problem.
 what the challenge is to meet the goals that are set out. The other thing I want to encourage is that the Housing Bureau consider, with these dollars, to increase
 The utilization goal is somewhere in between 30 to as high as 50 percent. I know that there are some projects, particularly that are of the scale and in the location of north-northeast Portland that have been done recently, that have been able to achieve those utilization goals. I know PCRI, in their recent homeowner renovation project, they've achieved those goals as well as innovative housing on their Erickson Fritz renovation are achieving those type of goals.
 We also want to talk about specific MBE targets because we think if you're targeting African-Americans, you've got to talk about that you're targeting minorities and not emerging small businesses.
 And as Andrew talked about, there are MBEs that are capable of doing the work. One of the things that is a best practice is when an organization like ourselves or other organizations work in collaboration with the Bureau and the contractor to help bring other emerging contractors to these opportunities to do the work. So these are some suggestions and recommendations of how to move forward and achieve equity. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. May I ask, Commissioners, thank you for your careful work on this issue and ongoing commitment to helping Portland become a city where everyone has a decent and affordable place to live.
 which is in fact the mission of the organization I represent. I'm Steve Messonetti. I'm the director of Habitat for Humanity here in Portland. Habitat, between 1990 and 2002, built 110 houses in this north-northeast focus area that the study focused on. And those 110 houses went to families who on average earned about 40% of the median income. Over 80% of those were minority households.
 And I'm proud to share that most of those families are still in those homes. In fact, as I was walking out the door at 1 o'clock today, Alice Green walked into my office, and she was there. I recognized her. She bought her home about 20 years ago from Habitat, and she was there to make her final mortgage payment. And I asked her what her plans were, and she said she's never planning to leave. She loves her home, and she plans to stay. Homeownership is the most effective anti-displacement tool. And I'm here to share that.
 homeownership can be a solution to break the equity imbalance in our city and even very low-income households um for very low-income households this is possible and we need to continue to find a way to create more opportunities for households of color to buy homes it is time to end this racial disparity between those who own property and therefore have the decision making and power that comes with that and those who don't
 especially now that our city is made up of over 50% people of color, young people of color in our schools. I've been the Habitat Director for about 10 years now, and in those 10 years, our city has seen a 65% increase in house costs, which put us in the top 10 in the country of the highest increase in house prices.
 Homeownership is becoming more and more out of reach, which makes it even more important for us to act now as it becomes more and more difficult to close the minority homeownership gap. I applaud this proposal and recommend it, especially the commitment of 25% of these funds to help people buy homes, as the typical annual city budget on housing allocates about 3% for this purpose.
 And the great thing about funding homeownership is that it not only helps the family that's being served with those funds, but it moves a family out of a rental unit that is freed up. Typically, in our case, it's a rental unit that's subsidized, that there's a long waiting list to get into. So you're really serving two homes for every one that you support through homeownership. I encourage you to support this proposal, but also to consider funding homeownership as other opportunities arise. Thank you. Thanks for the work your organization does. Thank you.
 Thank all three of you very much. Okay, the next, please. Our Diane Lynn, Ruth Adkins, and Lightning. Good afternoon. Welcome. Diane. Good afternoon, Mayor, members of City Council. It's great to be here with you today. I'm going to jump right in. I'm Diane Lynn. I'm Executive Director of Proud Ground. We're formerly Portland's community land trust organization established by the City of Portland 15 years ago.
 And I've also been involved with Steve Messonetti and others to help facilitate what we call the Partners for Affordable Home Ownership. So we're all working together to talk about this question of leverage and how we really get the biggest bang for the buck with the community. I want to start by thanking Commissioner Saltzman, his staff, your staff, Mayor, the members of the staff of the Bureau, and the community leaders you've heard from today who have been incredibly eloquent in explaining the critical importance of this issue going forward.
 The proposed investment in homeownership, as Steve just referenced, from the resources promised to the community and together with the housing resources from the URA, the set-aside, is an extraordinary move in the right direction. Commitment to the rental units is also helpful, and together, as Steve mentioned, there's real hope for support of a continuum of housing that's more holistic.
 We look forward to working with you, the city, to implement these measures if passed and want to continue to discuss the highest and best targeted use of these critical and precious public resources.
 We are very hopeful that, in fact, we can focus more on the permanently affordable component, as I think Commissioner Fish referenced, as did Commissioner Fritz, that really we can, in fact, achieve families that will build more wealth, save money along the way, as Tracy mentioned, and also save that asset for the next family down the line, whether it's 5, 10, 15, 20, or 50 years down the line. So these –
 Neighborhoods can stay economically diverse going forward, and we can really commit those public resources to that long-term leverage. Elements of this proposal, from funding the homebuyer assistance to land acquisition and new development,
 keeping people in their homes also very important obviously here to support this proposal but i want to take just a minute to share with you a letter from one of the homeowners an african-american single mom who i'm going to paraphrase uh thanks to the time we have here today but she walked into the portland housing bureau sorry housing center in 08 and was scared to death that she had no chance of homeownership in a million years
 She left there and came back three years later. Long story short, as of November 2014, she now lives in a three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath home purchased through Proud Ground, a home where her monthly mortgage is less than the rent on her one-bedroom, one-bath apartment where there was no electrical outlet in her bathroom and mold growing around the place.
 I wish she could be here with you today because she's – is that it in terms of timing? Just wanted to share with you that I wish you could hear her voice about what the dream of homeownership means to her, her family, her grandchildren. And she would tell you that if she was here, you would see her tears and her trembling voice to explain the importance of homeownership to her and her family. And the cycle of poverty that's broken in her case.
 We, I think we're on the right track with this and I look very much forward to answering your questions about the role of the community land trust in the conversation. Great, thank you. Diane, it's very nice to have you back in town. Thank you, Steve.
 a good afternoon mayor and commissioners for the record my name is ruth adkins i'm with oregon opportunity network and we're a statewide association of affordable housing and community development non-profits including 19 member organizations here in the portland area proud ground and habitat among them so oregon on just wanted to chime in to add our strong support and thanks for this investment strategy we really appreciate the community outreach that went into developing the strategy and the city's efforts
 to address the impacts of displacement and systemic racism
 We're really pleased to see the variety of approaches in this plan, including the range of homeownership strategies, land banking, as well as the multifamily development. It's really important, as Diane mentioned, to have that entire continuum. Like everyone else, we want to thank the Commissioner, the Mayor, Tracy and her staff, and the entire community for all the good work that went into this plan to invest in the desperately needed affordable housing and homeowner support in North and Northeast.
 As everyone has said, as so much damage has already been done, this still is a really crucial opportunity to help mitigate the devastating impacts of displacement, and we share the urgency in getting the investment into the community as soon as possible.
 As always, we urge the city to work closely with community partners as you move into the details of implementation. It's vital to stay in touch and be ready to make adjustments as you go, as needed. Our members are mission-driven nonprofits working in the community, and we all want to see the best and most effective use of this new investment in housing opportunity.
 And then finally, just to step back to the larger picture citywide, we believe and we hope you do as well that the city's affordable housing portfolio is an important public asset and part of our public infrastructure. We recognize that unlike our parks and roads, the PHB portfolio is not wholly owned by the city, but the portfolio does represent a significant public investment in and a vital commitment to our collective goal of ensuring that all Portlanders –
 of all income levels have a place to call home. So as we move into budget season, just wanted to thank you for your past and urge your continued support for budget investments and policy in support of housing opportunity. Thanks so much. Thank you. Ruth, I also want to just thank you. In the fall, you took a crack at looking at how to extend our discount program to low-income renters as the Water Bureau's discount program.
 And that just fired up again yesterday. Right. And the groundwork which you laid is informing this new process of how can we get those discounts to more people, but particularly to people who live in apartment buildings that are low income, but for the fact they don't have a separate meter and don't get a bill, would be eligible for the discount program. Right.
 We hope to get that right, but we thank you for the groundwork that you laid for that discussion. Well, thanks for your leadership. We really appreciate it. Questions for these two experts while we've got them? More questions for you later? I mean, the leverage question is one that we'll keep throwing.
 back up in here i have one question for diane more we steve's been on the council a couple years you know we have our good days and our bad days what was he like when he worked for you don't get me started okay but i'm very glad to be home yeah take the fifth thank you thank you okay next please are lori benoit john mulvey and barry joe stoll come on up welcome back yes thank you laurie benoit
 Diane Lynn is actually a friend of mine from grade school. We lived less than 30 seconds from each other here in Portland, inner Portland. I lived in Buckman, and she did as well. And we also lived, or I also lived in North Portland. And we lived in North Portland.
 And in all these years, I've seen a big change in Portland on this side, Portland downtown, all the way east side. And what I've seen is I've seen a remarkably increase in the amount of people that are homeless. For the nation, there's more than 33 percent emergency housing population.
 In Portland, there's less than 10%, and I believe that that's the correct amount. We need to do something to help the homeless population. We have all kinds of needs. Housing is a big one, but I would hope that something would be set from this $20 million for this particular population. I...
 In the last year, and Diane Lynn also, her family over the years has also had homeless people with them. I also, my own home, my homes have had homeless people. Over the last year, I've had five, five people that are homeless. Yeah.
 They have nowhere, no money, nowhere to go. And so, you know, I keep seeing this over and over again. We need to address this and help these people with this issue. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your personal commitment as well. Yes.
 Good afternoon, John. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and members of the council. My name is John Mulvey. I came to Portland 22 years ago, and at that point it was a real affordable city. It was easy to get around. It had an amazing egalitarian mix of incomes in many of the neighborhoods.
 It was just a wonderful place, and that's why I stayed. One of my first jobs was with a prominent local real estate development company. And in that job, I worked on developing projects, condominium projects in the Pearl, as well as master planning for the South Waterfront project, which we then called North McAdam.
 Back then, there was a lot of talk in Portland about livability and compact growth, alternative transportation, walkable neighborhoods. I'm sure you all remember that. Fast forward to today, these things are hallmarks of what Portland's all about for some people.
 Increasingly, these things aren't available to everyone. We're in very real danger of becoming a city with an inner enclave of wealthy people and an outer layer where low-income people live. And it would be a tragedy to allow that to happen. This is a real critical question for, I think, today's leaders in Portland.
 Was all the talk about livability 10 and 15 years ago, was that a marketing pitch for million-dollar condos? Or was it something more meaningful than that that would be extended to everybody in the community? The city's really done a terrible job in the intervening time of making that livability agenda meaningful for people at all income levels.
 So I'd ask the council really to recommit to making Portland livable and affordable for everyone. That doesn't just mean adopting the plan that's in front of you today, although I very much support it, and I hope you will too. It also means taking meaningful steps to address the skyrocketing costs of housing in the private rental market, which is where the vast majority of low-income Portlanders get their housing.
 That means supporting an aggressive inclusionary zoning policy. It means meaningful protection for renters in condo conversions. And finally, it means joining nearly every progressive city in this country and instituting a real rent control ordinance.
 portland's really at a critical juncture right now and i hope you will fight for the city that i know we all love so much because it's really at a tipping point where it could go one direction or the other so thank you thank you thanks you're still welcome council my name is barry joe stowe
 This month, both Mayor Hales and Chair Kifori cringed when I again raised the issue of PCRI's vacant affordable housing five-apartment complex at 4066 Northeast Grand Avenue. Unfortunately, body language isn't enough to change this situation and the organized crime I've been exposed to and have exposed.
 On a recent trip to the Multnomah County Courthouse, I saw Multnomah County Sheriff's Civil Unit Deputy Hughes, who testified on July 13, 2007. I'd warned him in October 2006, PCRI was going to again destroy my goods, which PCRI had done by then in October 2006, in the amount of $4,775 in musical instruments and tools. I told Deputy Hughes PCRI got away with it.
 This whole matter exemplifies government corruption and PCRI's continuing abuses. Among the documents I've shared as PDF files is a certified copy of the entire case file scanned by Portland City Council Clerk.
 Carla, over here, in 2010, which includes Dr. Grimm's diagnosis of my having severe pain and severe nausea and Judge Weisberg's October 2006 order stating that contempt of court proceedings could be reopened if PCRI failed to promptly act in good faith to compensate me for the goods removed and destroyed improperly, which PCRI had its insurance provider issue a check for $4,775 in 2010,
 Hardly either good faith or prompt. It was also insurance fraud on the part of PCRI. I'm not one to accept my experience in the current vacant status of the entire complex named Kifori Court as being what PCRI claims through its motto, meeting the affordable housing needs of the community. I don't believe the community accepts it either. Continuing, here's an email I sent to Ms. Manning. It's Portland Housing Bureau and PCRI Partnership.
 That's to Ms. Manning, Ms. Callahan, and the Community Alliance's tenants. Since everyone knows about this issue already, I'm making it clear everyone knows the Portland Housing Bureau is partnering with the corrupt nonprofit PCRI. The attached materials serve to exemplify why we have people sleeping in doorways in Portland while affordable housing is vacant.
 PCRI destroyed over $20,000 of my goods in two episodes in 2006 as I was appealing a so-called 30-day no-cause eviction. I came home from work and found I'd been locked out of the apartment by PCRI in violation of a state-pending appeal, as determined by the Oregon Court of Appeals. After PCRI took about a week to destroy my goods in March 2006, PCRI did it again in October 2006."
 I see I'm running out of time, so I'll cut to the chase. On October 30th, 2014, Nicole Prey, an employee of the neighboring Providence Elder Place in Irvington Village, told me that during the three years she has worked there, the five apartment complex at 4066 Northeast Grand Avenue has never housed a tenant.
 By my calculation, PCRI has failed to collect well over $75,000 in rent for that five apartment complex at 4066 NE Grand at a time folks can't find housing and their Section 8 vouchers expire. We had Crystal Olinsky here this morning say she's got a Section 8 voucher, she can't get into housing. You're partnering with PCRI. We heard Maxine Fitzpatrick's name mentioned twice at least today. These people are absolutely corrupt.
 Chief of Police, are you still over there? Go get them, Tiger. Thank you, Mr. Stahl. All right, next three, please. Mayor, we do celebrate the First Amendment in this body. We do. But when people come forth and make reckless charges that impugn the integrity of people that we partner with, I think we have to call that out.
 an asterisk and decorum. And if someone makes a claim that some... No, you're finished, sir. If someone makes a claim of illegal... You are finished. You're finished. If someone makes... You're finished. If someone makes a claim that someone is engaged in illegal behavior, then they should be required to present that evidence to either you or the police chief... Right, there's a process for that. ...and to document it. Right. Go do that. Okay, go do that. All right, let's call the next three. The last two who signed up were Crystal Elinsky and Sarah Long. And...
 One more arrival. We have somebody else who wanted to speak as well. I think Mr. Johnson wants to speak. Go ahead. You're up next while they're coming up. Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Charles Johnson. And I think the issue has been adequately discussed, and we're all looking forward to stronger action to assure that people who traditionally have strong ties to these neighborhoods –
 are able to maintain and increase home ownership there. But I was recently distressed with the elected government officials' response to the last citizen as...
 Many of us know this issue of this particular property has been addressed by Mr. Stahl before, and we've never heard actual accountability. We've heard you try and silence people, but we never hear real answers from you. So if you don't have anything to tell us about why the property is empty or how it's not empty or all the other wonderful things PCRI is doing, then just stay shut up, please. Thanks. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 okay city council members it is an honor to sit before you today my name is sarah long and i live in elliott the historically black neighborhood where people of color and families of color are disproportionately impacted by the massive loss of affordable housing i am part of the unpaid all-volunteer grassroots group united neighborhoods for reform our concern is the destruction of sound livable and affordable housing to be replaced with a single house that is two to three times as much in price in price as the original
 Normal people attempting to buy a home cannot compete with developers who often buy before the house was ever listed or outbid regular families looking to buy and pay cash. Generally speaking, if there is room for two houses after demolition, there was room for two houses before, whether next to the existing house or behind it while sharing the driveway as an easement.
 We do know the reason that the existing house is removed, though. The new houses are both, if there are two of them, hundreds of thousands of dollars more expensive than the original homes were. Those original homes have now been lost forever, the vast majority of which have been dumped into a landfill. A much better way would be to find a means to stem the tide of needless demolitions of affordable housing in our inner neighborhoods.
 Just here in Oregon, the cities of Ashland and Corvallis have found a way to stop the destruction of affordable houses, and we can follow their lead. We have an under-discussed means in place to vastly increase our affordable rental housing, and that is accessory dwelling units, or ADUs. We are already charging no system development fees until July 2016 for ADUs. That lowers the total cost around 10%.
 Promoting ADUs would help lower income homeowners pay their mortgages, keep them from losing their homes, and massively increase density in those inner neighborhoods that are most afflicted by destruction of affordable housing. We could effectively nearly double our density in areas with single family homes. We have other green and progressive cities such as Berkeley to look to as an example of how great the promotion of ADUs could turn out to be. And I guess that's all. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
 Good afternoon. My name is Barbara Kerr, and I also work with United Neighborhoods for Reform, but I also lived in the Humboldt neighborhood for many years and started a business there. And my concern is, as I drive down Williams or MLK, I just want to cry because it's gone, and the community's gone. And...
 I feel like the problem is that we are just physically removing it. And even with the $20 million going in and talking about building new buildings, you are removing the sense of community. Maintaining the community's connection with their history by not destroying their architectural fabric. When you remove the architectural fabric, the homes...
 The generations of families and neighbors grew up in, the businesses that they frequented and worked in, you remove the story that supports their sense of community and that's what provides stability. Changing the fabric by building new, removing the sense that things can last, removing the sense that a community can last. It has been there and it will be there. Is different than, oh gee, it's all new now.
 Supporting people in repairing their homes and finding ways to boost their financial stability with ADUs and other alternate ways of housing can provide a win-win. You won't lose the community. You will allow people to stay, and you will allow them to maintain their dignity in that that's their community, not something that somebody came in and handed them some money to build. Okay.
 To me, it's just one more... I mean, sometimes I feel like I've lived too long. It's one more...
 government program that came into Albina and said, look, this is what we want to do. And you're working with the members of the community. I think that's fantastic. But please don't forget that those buildings, for as material as they are, represent their history. And I've seen the African-American community meet some incredible challenges in those buildings, and I hate for them to lose that reminder. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Others that are signed up to speak? That's all who's signed up. Anyone else would like to speak on this? Any questions for staff? Mayor, I move the report. Is there a second? Second. Any more discussion? Then a roll call to accept the report, please.
 Fritz? Well, Mayor and Commissioner Saltzman, congratulations on having brought this report with such a high degree of support voice from the community. Thank you to the community members who took time out of your busy schedules to be here today and for all of the work that you and the Housing Bureau staff have done to bring something good out of the controversy from last year. Thanks especially to the Portland African American Leadership Forum, both the current director and the previous leaders.
 who have taken ownership of helping working with the city to help find solutions. So certainly we're not there yet. But the fact that we've had this constructive, focused discussion on accepting that our previous policies have not had the outcomes that were desired, and how do we change that?
 has been hugely helpful. So thank you very much for that and for this work. With the support of the community, I'm glad to vote aye. Fish. Thank you, Mayor, for your leadership on this. Thank you, Dan and the Housing Bureau, for the process you set up and this report and this presentation. And Bishop Holt, who reminded me that last time I met him was at the funeral of a police officer, said,
 or an event, excuse me, of a great activist in our community who worked with gang-affected youth, Rob Ingram. Thank you, sir, for your leadership. We're lucky to have you in this work. And I'm looking at the page in the PowerPoint where you began about a backward glance and a forward look. My experience has been we've spent more time on the backward glance than the forward look, and we have to do the backward glance because that's our history.
 but we're paralyzed if we don't have the forward look, if we don't act. And you've given us a path to action. And I hope it's successful because I think if it's successful, we can make the case for more investments. So thank you, sir, and thanks to a great team. And, Dan, this is work that you care deeply about. Even when you weren't the housing commissioner, you managed to build housing in inner northeast because you were so passionate. And your value system and your record is well established. So thank you. Bye. Saltzman.
 Well, I'd like to thank Mayor Hills for his commitment to addressing displacement and for backing up that commitment with some tangible resources to bring more affordable housing to north and northeast Portland.
 I want to thank all of our panelists today for taking time out of their days to come here and share their ideas about the solutions we're proposing and also advocating for additional solutions and for being willing to assist us in developing policies to help us to begin to turn the tide on this table.
 I want to thank all the members of our community who attended the community meetings that were held by the Housing Bureau. And I most certainly want to thank the Portland Housing Bureau staff who worked tirelessly to pull off these community forums and that were very successful and very well attended. So I want to thank each and every one of them, not only for the work they've done, but for the future work they will do in making these strategies come to life.
 Special thanks to Tracy Manning, Bishop Stephen Holt, Carl Dinkelspiel, Leslie Goodloe, Andrea Matthiessen, Javier Mena, Nate McCoy, Martha Calhoun, all with the Housing Bureau. And with my office, special thanks to Shannon Callahan and Brendan Finn for all their tireless work as well. Pleased to vote aye. No fake. No fake.
 I too would like to thank Mayor Hales and Commissioner Saltzman and Palf and all the other organizations engaged in this spirit of discussion and thank Tracy Manning. Earlier today, Commissioner Britt said that we have huge deficits in four major areas in the city in transportation and emergency preparedness, in parks maintenance and in
 and this morning we took a small step towards potentially in the future addressing some of the deficits in transportation and parks and emergency preparedness it's wonderful to see this kind of investment in housing and this kind of thoughtful discussion of how to spend the money one thing I just wanted to note is we met with some legislators this morning
 And we've among them Speaker Kotak and the first subject that she brought up was inclusionary zoning. And I really hope that we will have that as a tool after this legislative session and that that can be used to prevent further gentrification and displacement. So let's keep our eyes on that as well as what we can do here at home.
 Well, I want to talk about what we're doing and then also how we're doing it. I mean, what we're doing is really a piece of what must be a larger, more comprehensive strategy about righting some of those wrongs of the past and creating the community that we want.
 But there's a way we do things in Portland, and I think today's hearing and the process that led up to this decision today really illustrates that. And one is we really invite the community in to make policy. Yes, the five of us have to try to set a vision for the city, and we have to try to align our values as we understand them from the community into the work that we do. But there was a very robust community process in this case, and that was very important, and I'll get back to that.
 Then secondly, we align our investments to that vision.
 And this is exactly what we're doing here. We find the means, public, private, nonprofit, and align them. And then we use partnerships to get things done and to expand our efforts. So policy that's visionary but informed by the community, investments that are aligned with that policy, and then partnerships to make it happen. I think that's a formula that we've shown works in Portland for lots of things, and we're trying to make it work here.
 Both Commissioner Saltzman and I had the opportunity along with Jillian Detweiler and my staff and the other folks that have been mentioned both from Dan's office and from the Bureau to attend those community meetings.
 A couple of things that struck me about those discussions. One, there were a lot of people in the room that were passionate about this issue but weren't necessarily insiders to these discussions, and I don't mean that with any disrespect to all of us who are insiders, but I thought that was very healthy, that there were a whole bunch of people in the room who had been personally affected by these issues and who wanted something done. And the question that they had for me and for Bishop Holt and for Tracy was, is this real?
 If I show up and tell you what's happened in my life and ask you to make a strategy that will make a difference, is there any chance that what I'm saying here will make a difference? Yes.
 And I know you felt the imperative of that, just like I did. And I think we can stay today that we are delivering on that promise, that this package has really been shaped by a very legitimate process in which hundreds of Portlanders who aren't,
 insiders got to have their say about what we do. And I know there are a lot of people here on this dais that want to see that in lots of different formats, and I saw it here. And so I want to commend Bishop Holt and Tracy and all the others who invited people in and then actually heard from them. And for me that just reinforces the mandate that we really make this work. So thank you all for a job well done so far.
 Thank you all very much. We'll take a momentary recess and then take up our last item today. Thanks, John. Hey, we're back in business.
 Thank you for your patience. Council will come back to order, and we'll have the last item of the day read, which is 122, please call it. Item 122, Office of Equity and Human Rights, Report on Citywide Employee Discussion of Institutional Racism and Police Community Relations in the Aftermath of Ferguson.
 I won't make for a long introduction because it's been a long day and there's important reporting and discussion to come, but there are a number of ways in which I think Portland as a community has distinguished itself in its response to traumatic incidents in our country and how we've addressed those as a community. Not that we all sit in a circle and sing in three-part harmony, but because there are
 vociferous opinions and concerns and even protests but i just want to say i think this presentation that we're going to hear here this afternoon is one more sign of health as a community and how we're taking on difficult issues and i appreciate the two men who are before us to lead this off so with that dante and chief welcome thank you sir mr mayor commissioners um
 I truly appreciate the opportunity to come and present a little bit about what's been going on or what the office was able to facilitate. And I'm truly pleased that the chief is here with me. I invited the chief, and he was great.
 very immediately receptive to coming. You know, the conversations that we had and that you'll see and hear from obviously centered around police-community relations. And so the idea that, you know, I would be here presenting some suggestions or recommendations without –
 The opportunity for the police chief to be here and comment and offer thoughts I thought would be disingenuous. And so I'm really pleased that he readily accepted the invitation to be here. So just on three separate dates, December 3, 10, and January 7, a total of about 200 city employees came together to discuss the aftermath of the Ferguson grand jury decision.
 The topics of discussion centered around institutional and systemic racism, implicit bias, community police relations, police training, and the feeling by people of color of disempowerment and fear, as well as how those issues were created and fostered, the tinderbox that exploded in the days following Ferguson. And then subsequent to Ferguson and the death of Michael Brown came other deaths in other cities. There were high-profile deaths of black men or teenagers at the hands of the police.
 The Office of Equity and Human Rights felt it was important to provide a space for the voices to be heard and frustrations to be expressed. Conversations were happening at the water cooler, in the hallways, in units, in cubes, and just really felt the need to provide a place for those voices to be heard. And by and large, the people who attended were not out protesting anywhere. They were your employees who felt the need to be able to speak freely
 And just to be able to be present in the conversation. As I said, the meetings and the discussions were attended by a wide spectrum of city employees of diverse backgrounds and races. There were also police officers who were in attendance at each of the conversations. Much respect to them, with their numbers increasing every time.
 The discussion began with thoughts of Ferguson and racism globally and turned to discussions about Portland and how Portland can improve police accountability and its own community relations.
 What I'd like to do first is there's a short, short video that Jeff Selby from my staff put together that I really think sets the tone in the context of this. And you may have seen it, and if you have, I beg your indulgence, because I really think it's important just to go on the record that this really set the tone for the conversation. So it's about four minutes long, and it's not all silent. Thank you.
 Our goal today is really to allow people to just talk about this from an institutional perspective. The goal isn't to sit here and debate whether
 somebody did right, somebody did wrong as an individual. Because we didn't want this to be about, you know, just purely beat up on police day because police are part of a larger system and it's not just about, you know, one cop and one kid but it's bigger than that and if we're going to talk about this as a movement and not just a moment in time, it's bigger than those two individuals in any one police department. It's what has created the
 the systems and the institutions themselves that create people's lack of trust or fear or whatever it is that's creating
 the passion that you're seeing now. And then you had this topic, Ferguson, which is so big. And I thought it was great that the city was kind of walking right into it, knowing that it's hitting a lot of people in different ways. And let's just kind of take it on. It's not just about Ferguson. This keeps happening. It's not the first time. It's not the first time in the past year. It is about the fact that there is a structure in place that allows it to happen.
 and to allow indictments to not happen. One of the questions I asked was, how many of you have had a conversation about Ferguson in the last couple of weeks? Everybody raised their hand. But then how many of you have had an interracial conversation about Ferguson in the last couple of weeks? And about 15 people out of maybe 70 people in the room raised their hand, and I would say 10 of those were black folks. And so clearly we're not talking to each other. And that's another example of what needs to happen is we need to be able to talk to each other so we can better understand
 the impacts being felt by folks who don't look like us. It's on both sides of the aisle. I spoke from the perspective of, and I think to, the white audience in the room about our role in stepping up and facing history and being willing to take off our blinders, which we have the luxury to choose to do, but that asking folks that it's really time
 to lean into spaces that are maybe uncomfortable for us. And some of the issues with Ferguson is that, yes, there's over 60% black, but the problem is they don't have the power because they haven't been in the institution to gain power in order to change the rules and regulations that are in place.
 My commitment is that I would capture this, I will compile it, and I will ensure that it's submitted to and read and heard by each of the city council and by the mayor's office. I just think that's important for them to know the impact that this is having on the city.
 on employees every day. There was a police officer there and I was glad to see, I mean this wasn't mandatory, so it was great to see someone representing law enforcement there. I'm going to try to understand. There's a lot of people wearing this uniform that want to make a change, that are trying hard to make a change.
 We're not Ferguson and we're not perfect, but we're trying to move in the right direction. And I really appreciate everybody talking and speaking from the heart today. Thank you. And so I would suggest to begin to have these conversations. The continuing trainings that this office does, I think creates a baseline of understanding about some of the issues of the day based on history and historical perspectives and historical aspects to institutionalized racism.
 and do your own work. Do your own work. It's not always up to somebody else to give you the answer. This was the first one, and so then we hosted two more after this one. So what I wanted to do, as soon as I can figure out... Are the other two posted online too? No, we didn't video other. This was kind of a compilation of those, yes. Thank you, sir. And so what I said I would do is compile what I heard.
 And they tended to be in categories. And initially it was questions about what is it that's causing distrust? What is it that's creating the racial divide? And so it really broke down into themes. And inequity and bias, policing in the criminal justice system, historical and cultural injustices, and then denial and fear, essentially by the power structure. Breaking those down into some of the specific examples that people offered. And let me also say this.
 These were city employees
 many who don't have much interaction specifically with the police bureau or the criminal justice system. And so these were their perceptions, and I am in some sense channeling them. What's here and what you'll see are not examples or suggestions or recommendations coming from my office at all. I committed to honestly presenting what I heard essentially unfiltered.
 And so that's what you'll be seeing through these slides. So speaking of inequity and bias, the concern was or the commentary was that Portland is not a representative democracy in terms of the leadership not being reflective of the population.
 Can city council fix that? I don't know. But it's just a concern that ran through the conversation. And the reason my office exists in some sense is because the concern that the system in place continues to foster institutional racism just through policies, practices, and procedures. In regard to policing and concerns, that there's a continuing disconnect between the police and community, and that the police are not considered a part of or feel a part of the communities that they police.
 concerns about police training being insufficient or inadequate, and that words and images are powerful. And language that is often used is often offensive and dehumanizing, and just the better need to understand how we say impacts a large number of people. In regard to the historical and cultural, essentially we don't often address our history. It certainly is
 As the office does our training, our equity training, it's telling how many people do not understand or know the history of the country and certainly don't know the history of the state of Oregon and or the city of Portland historically and the injustices and discrimination that existed legally and otherwise.
 The media does what it does in the way that it does it, which is also often slanted or does not address systemic issues. It focuses on one individual aspect of racism or discrimination but doesn't look at it. It's not systemically aware. And then generally lack of cultural integration continues to create our inability to hear each other and interact with each other in a way that doesn't create defensiveness or other things like that.
 The denial and fear, the concern was that there's often an inherent fear of distrust of African-Americans per se, just because we are there, African-American automatically creates an inherent fear and distrust. So conversation about implicit bias and concern about that. And just in general, the denial that there is, in fact, a continuing racial problem in the country.
 It's a difficult conversation to talk about and it's easy to find every other reason why something is happening. But the denial of the fact that there is a racial problem is a continuing difficulty. So I didn't want this or we didn't want this just to be a venting session, but what could we talk about in terms of solutions? And as I said, the majority of the people who were there either
 don't have a lot of interaction with police or don't really understand the criminal justice system. So the recommendations, some of them were recommendations of things that I know the Police Bureau is already doing, has done, or it just cannot implement. And so...
 Most of those didn't really make it to this slide. I will be offering those to you, but I wanted to really offer the suggestions that I thought were specific and something that counsel could address. So the recommendation specific to police about officer training, that bias training is important, that everybody, everybody, police and everybody, must accept and own their own bias and recognize that we have it.
 and have the courage to create those conversations to talk specifically about fear and distrust on the part of both the community and the police, because it's not just a one-sided issue. And then continuing education for officers on bias, de-escalation techniques, and interpersonal skills, so it's not just a one-time in-service session once a year or every other year, however those come, but an ongoing basis for these conversations. Culture and policy change recommendations. Yeah.
 And obviously the DOJ settlement is highly engaged in this process, but changing policies about engagement and expectations of those interactions. And then internal zero tolerance policies. So officers are visibly held accountable for behavior that is unacceptable. I think it's often that an officer may be disciplined or some type of sanction may occur, but it does not become acceptable.
 known, therefore the assumption is nothing really happened. And so how do we, certainly understanding personnel issues, how do we make it a better, make, create more transparency in the fact that someone is in fact disciplined for behavior that's unacceptable. Could you talk a little bit more about that because you're a bureau director
 You know, there's a number of personnel issues that if it was somebody in a bureau other than the police bureau, it might be considered inappropriate to make that transparent that the person had done something wrong and had been disciplined for it. I think, and I'm sure the chief can speak to this as well, but there are, I think, ways internally where someone can be,
 removed from a particular position, transferred to telephone reporting unit in terms of where they are, what the investigation is, so that it's felt and seen that there has been some ramification to doing something inappropriate wrong. And I think there are ways that it can be done that does not have to specifically describe and tell what the discipline was, but there are things that have
 can be visibly seen that tell that story. Culture and policy change recommendations or thoughts from the employees was, you know, any bureau, this is the city. I mean, turning the city is a big ship in talking about culture change. But how do we create an environment where peer reporting does not lead to ostracizing when you try to do that? Yeah.
 conduct psychological exams more often instead of only upon hiring or after a police-involved shooting in order to root out possible changes in officers' psyches after several years on the job and the hard work and hard interactions that they have to go through.
 State Representative Lou Frederick talked about that in our legislative breakfast this morning, that he may introduce legislation to require that. So great minds think alike. Okay. Thank you. And then...
 Community and police relations. And certainly the chief has made it top priority to really focus on that. So much respect to the chief in that regard. So obviously some of these occurred prior to the chief even coming into his position. So speaking about community engagement, just meeting communities face-to-face regularly, not only after an incident or an event, but engage in true community policing, no definition provided. Okay.
 And then create requirements for incentives for police to live in the communities that they serve. It's my understanding that this recommendation used to be in place, which was Poland used to have a home buying incentive for officers who wanted to live in the city of Portland in particular communities. And so is that an opportunity that exists to create something again similar to that? And other ideas in terms of
 using the Ranger program or the Fire Bureau, and create relationships in schools through other grassroots efforts to attract officers of color. And I know many officers individually do that. I don't know that there's a strategy or structure specifically, systemically within the Bureau that would create those relationships with schools or through the Ranger program to use that as a pipeline for officers.
 Engage neighborhood structures, organizations, or groups more in the community policing. Diversifying the police bureau, and I know that's always been a huge issue and has been a great amount of success in that regard the last couple of years. Question about criminal background investigations and criminal background checks, the policies. And I know this has changed some, so it's not quite as strict as this.
 in terms of somebody's example was if my cousin sold drugs years ago, it can prevent me from being hired by the city for public safety jobs. And I know now that the investigators and the personnel department, personnel bureau are really looking independently on each of those cases. So this is not an automatic disqualifier as it maybe used to be.
 so anyway so then we need to publicize that right because there's obviously still employees who believe that's still the case right and I think overall commissioners and I think I've said this I know I've said it to the previous chief is that the police don't tell their story well and many things that are being done well
 don't get translated into the community's hearing. And so how do we tell that story better? How do we help them so that folks can have a better understanding of the good works that are happening? If you go to the awards or the promotional aspects of the ceremonies, you see the good works that happen.
 buying tires for somebody living out of their car. I mean, it's amazing things that happen. The stories don't get told as broadly as I think they could. Can I ask you a question about that? Because it goes back to something earlier in the PowerPoint about the views that people you talk to about the media. My guess is that if this chief had a great story to tell, the biggest challenge he would have is finding someone to put it above the fold on the front page. Mm-hmm.
 And I think we get in the habit of saying, you know, we collectively don't do a good job telling our story. But I'm going to offer a slightly provocative twist on that, which is how reflective of our community are the decision makers who decide what goes in the newspapers, the radio and the TV? And you're the head of the Office of Equity.
 So you would be aware, for example, of distinguished African Americans or Latino leaders in senior management positions of our newspapers, our radio, our TV, who are people with community roots who have an interest in telling stories that reflect their values? Or perhaps people you pick up the phone when you get agitated about something in a newspaper because you want to talk to someone who may be culturally competent or has some history and you want to have that conversation? I don't know.
 I've been looking at mastheads lately. I've been looking at websites. It seems to me somewhat hidden. It's not hidden. It's not there. So I get that this chief is, you could probably say in this environment, he's responsible for content and delivery. But why are we as a community accepting of that?
 that there aren't people with a broad range of experiences who are making decisions about what's newsworthy and what isn't, what's important about what he's doing or not. And I've always been struck by the fact that I don't know why that whole sector gets a pass. I welcome the spotlight on us. I mean, we are elected officials. But we have very little control over the filters that deliver the stories about what law enforcement or other things are doing.
 That's a great point. I wish I had an answer. We have tried to solicit media engagement with many of the things that we've done, and I'm sure I know Chief has as well. But good work isn't always sexy, and it doesn't always make it above the fold. So what do we do with
 You have more of a bully pulpit with the editors than I do. So I don't know how. I still know if Joe is sending me a signal over here about freedom of the press. I support freedom of the press. I'm talking about something else. I'm talking about some of the concerns that you're raising, this PowerPoint, applied to institutions in our community that have equal standing to the people here or the people at the table.
 that somehow get a pass in this discussion? And how do we make it a broader discussion? That's not your job description. I get it. But I'd be curious to talk to you offline about who do you call to talk about, you know, a story you think may be skewed or insensitive or misses a narrative. And what's the experience of that person that you're able to share and relate to? Right. No, I will get on your calendar. I would love that conversation because I don't have a great answer, but I think it's a conversation we need to have.
 So thank you. Kind of finishing up, again, in terms of diversifying, going back again to the Park Rangers program, create that pipeline. And also there was a comment, because there were a couple of Park Rangers who were there in attendance, and they suggested that the police could greatly benefit learning some of the Rangers' non-weapon-carrying tactics of addressing difficult situations. And then there were just a few suggestions that I thought –
 related to all city employees that council could also comment on. An extension of a program to aggressively diversify the entire workforce. Every bureau has an affirmative action plan, but they're typically not evaluated or reported on. They get done, they get handed in, they go on a shelf, and then they come out again next year. So what do we do with those? How do we report on those? Then hold managers and bureaus accountable for outcomes in hiring.
 as well as outcomes in outreach, certainly outreach, in order to hire more broadly? And then how do we engage and put performance measures in place for those folks engaged and involved in hiring? And then suggesting that cultural awareness in the workplace should be evaluated. Bureaus should conduct climate surveys to understand the impact of race at work. Some bureaus are, in fact, doing that. Some bureaus have, in fact, done that.
 and certainly the office, as my office is working now, each bureau will complete its own strategic equity, racial equity plan to be completed this year. So in some sense each bureau will be engaged in that, but this is a little bit more of a request for something more in depth, specifically culture and climate of the individual bureaus. So that kind of concludes the suggestions and recommendations as well as some of the
 concerns expressed. And as I said, there were about 200 people over the time that came, but there were, I think, a lot more people having that conversation and didn't know how to engage in it and didn't know who to engage in it with. And so this was really about trying to create that space for the conversation. And it was only expected that there would be one of these meetings,
 We had three because they asked for more, and we could continue to do this because there's that much need for some type of conversation and communication and ability to just be in a space where we can talk about things that we can't usually talk about comfortably. So, again, my goal was to present to you some of the thoughts and concerns and feelings and suggestions from your employees. And I hope...
 some of these maybe resonated with you and create a continuing conversation when we go off of camera. So at this point, I would just like to ask the chief for his thoughts and comments. And he's seen this, and I know he has his own thoughts and feelings on this, and he's doing good work and just getting started for all the good work he's going to continue to do. So I look forward to working with him some more. So, Chief. Thank you, sir.
 I want to thank Director James for his initiative and his thoughtfulness around hosting these three sessions around the Ferguson event. It really gave a place for city employees to have their thoughts, their pain, their concerns heard. I think all too frequently opportunities to have those conversations are ignored, and it's really time to lean into the difficult conversations and not shy away from them because they can be hard. This is a transformative time for the country and for my profession.
 The events and conversation following Ferguson are a clear reminder that our country is still struggling with how race impacts all of our major institutions, such as education, employment, health care, housing, and all parts of the criminal justice system, to include the police. It's my belief that government needs to get this right above all, and the police profession needs to be at that front line of government getting it right first due to our tremendous responsibility and authority that we have.
 Where am I taking the Police Bureau to address this? My focus for the Police Bureau is to build trusting relationships in all parts of the community, not just some parts of the community, not just most parts of the community, and have them work together on community priorities together to build safer and healthier neighborhoods. Another priority for me is to diversify the Bureau and diversify the leadership of the Police Bureau, as well as to improve our knowledge and our action around equity.
 I'm fully committed to the Bureau achieving all points in the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement. I've hired an Equity and Diversity Program Manager who will work directly for me and have the responsibility and the authority to go anywhere in the Police Bureau and advise me on changes in policy, practice, and training that I need to make to ensure that we are inclusive and equitable. This kind of position is unheard of in a police department, but so critical.
 our person starts next week. I'm also hiring an analyst who will be entirely dedicated to looking at all of our stops data. This analyst will have the background to understand some of the nuances behind that data, such as criminal justice inequities and implicit bias, and then together with that equity and diversity program manager, break that information down, share it as we come together as a community to discuss it.
 A diverse, well-trained, and educated workforce working together on community priorities is our path to continue to build trust in our community, as well as meeting the public safety needs at each part of our community needs. Know that the Police Bureau has hundreds of good, caring members who have dedicated their lives to community service, and I'm very proud of them. Every week they risk themselves while saving lives and keeping people safe.
 I'm honored to be the chief of police of an organization that is filled with such people who do this great work every day, and they're committed to providing exceptional public service. And I'm confident in the path that we have charted, excited about the future, and ask that all of you be alongside us, working with us, and helping us to make a difference. Thank you. Thank you both. Questions? Mm-hmm.
 Good work. Thank you. I don't know if it's appropriate to ask if you'll accept the report. I know a couple of people have wanted to sign up. I think there's probably some folks that would like to speak, and then we'll do that. You bet. So anyone with a chance to comment on this report, you're welcome. Chief, Director James, thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone like to comment on this? I have nine people who signed up. The first three are please come on up are Mark Pomeroy, Joe Walsh, and Crystal Alinsky. Come on up. Let's go ahead and go with Kelly Jones-Weir.
 Kelly may not be here either. Mary Ng. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, I don't take this opportunity for granted. Thank you very kindly. I'm here to ask. Just put your name in the record. I'm sorry. Mark Pomeroy is my name.
 I'm here to ask the Portland Police Bureau and the applicable agencies to establish good, effective policies surrounding the use of deadly force.
 To solve this problem at hand, maybe we insist that the first three bullets in an officer's pistol are rubberized. Maybe this is a bad idea, but it's a compromise to disarming a truly effective community policing agency. If the police bureau insists on its cowboy culture, training and education for the officer should include the highest standards of this cowboy culture. For example, when I was young,
 It was murder one to shoot my little brother in the back with a squirt gun. I ask that the policies be changed subject to the following test. Please think on this, for I think that the ramifications go quite deep. As long as it is possible to commit suicide by cop,
 We still have work to do. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Ng, welcome. Mary? Hi, my name is Mary Ng. It's nice to see you all again. A few points I want to hit are Jason Sary, James Jahar Perez, and...
 The OPB interview with the chief in which he discussed the utility of the white supremacist on the force. And then I want to point out to you that Don't Shoot PDX has made it into the Daily Mail, the UK newspaper, which is, to me, it really needs to happen there for England. My black friends in England said that the slaves were deported after they built the beautiful architecture and they were chased down the streets of Manchester being called the N-word. And that they couldn't have a black...
 They had to have a white male barrister. And so I think in some ways the fact that Portland is taking an international leadership role on issues of racism is something we can all be proud of and continue to push towards. Very unfortunately, Senator Wyden's event in Beaverton was secured by a Portland officer who had killed James J. Harp Perez, the African American here in Portland. And I wanted to draw attention to the larger issue of
 when we face undisciplined officers and a failure of proceedings towards unjust killings with a racial nature, and then we just sort of dump that officer over in another jurisdiction, we are perpetuating the problem and just sort of...
 displacing it slightly. And I tried to get some accountability from Wyden on how we can guarantee that we have a killer cop free town hall in the future. And as the mayor or city council, I would suggest you perhaps could offer Senator Wyden a promise that his events will never be secured by an officer involved in killing an African American. Because I think it sends a strong message of
 Jim Crow. I slipped the memory card to Fox News and then Fox News of course did their drastic terrible spin about don't shoot PDX but I felt like Andy Warhol said all publicity is good publicity and it was worth the risk and then it got into the Oregon Gonian and they called the the activist classless once again with Montel Williams jumping into the fray. The issue with describing the utility of the white supremacist I think the city deserves an apology and
 I understand you're dancing around the- Mary? Yes? Just for my edification, you said a police chief talked about the utility of the white supremacist- OPB. Who you're referring to? Our new chief.
 O'Day, who I like him. And just for those of us who didn't hear the interview... Kruger. It was regarding a character called Kruger, who evidently wears swastikas on mountaintops when he worships Nazi leaders. What did Chief O'Day allegedly say? He will... If you'll allow me a little bit of extra time. He...
 described the utility of the officer, I was able to ask your wonderful spokesperson later on about what was meant and do we all stand by that. And evidently Kruger works in drugs and vice and vice is no longer applicable to that department because that's now in a human trafficking area.
 praising of the officer's work to me is, to me, it just cuts too close to the bone. It gouges us. It makes us feel uncomfortable and unsafe. And whether or not you agree with it from a freedom of speech or freedom of thought perspective, I think, think of it as more of a public relations nightmare. The Stormfront neo-Nazi website is promoting Portland's
 wonderful opportunities for neo-Nazis in policing, to me is really disturbing. And we need to be aware that we're in an internet age, that these scandals aren't going away, and that we owe a duty of respect to the people who have fought for the civil rights movement, and that it's not enough to go to a white man diversity retreat. We must renounce our white skin privilege.
 which the Black Panthers said at an event my brother put on in Los Angeles. And I was really impacted by that. It's not enough to say you care. We really need to renounce the privileges, do away with the at-large system, and get some representative government here at City Council, some black people in leadership. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Walsh? My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 I would like to congratulate Dante and also the chief of police. The report itself I read, and I saw the video a number of times, and it's impressive. It's good stuff. Unfortunately, I saw it in 1971. Same stuff, same video, except it was not as easy as this time. But we used the same words.
 We said, we have to have accountability. We have to have police training. These were seminars in 1971 when we sat around and we tried to figure out what's wrong with our police department in San Diego, California. 1971, just before I was released from the Navy. We have moved one inch in what, 40 years? Yes.
 We're going to have this 40 years from now, or are we going to do something? What we have here, folks, is four white people sitting up there making decisions. That should concern you. We have one woman out of five. That should concern you. We do not have equity here. We have racism.
 Racism! You had 200 of your employees gathered together who never have any dealings with the police, or they'd be fired, to tell you what it's like to deal with the police. 200 out of 9,000, if my math is right, 2%. That's what you got. 2%. And you make these decisions on it. That's why we can't move.
 Because you do these things. And to answer your question, Mr. Fish, it is the freedom of the press. We don't mess with the press. If you don't like what they write, call them up. Commissioner Fish here. Knock it off. Look, no matter what I said makes no difference. We have to do something different. And this is not it. This is not it. It's not equity. It's racism.
 All of us have to look in the mirror in the morning and say, where am I in this whole crazy need? Including activists, including politicians, and including people that are on the street. Thank you. Okay, next. The next three are Charles Johnson, Dan Handelman, and Stephen Entwistle. Mr. Johnson, I think you're first. Good morning, Commissioners. Definitely not morning. Oh, yes. No, not my usual time.
 Good late afternoon, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And I was glad to see that OEHR and this conversation was facilitated. And I think that we can be a little bit self-satisfied that we have hopefully been proceeding better than other jurisdictions, Ferguson, Staten Island, and the whole of New York on this issue. But, of course, we won't really know.
 unless we go a long period without having anyone, but especially people of color, killed or injured by the police. And I think that the conversation might have been even more interesting if particularly you, Mayor Hales, as police commissioner, worked with the chief to have the facts more in our face about the time span. You know, in some workplaces,
 You walk on the job and there's a sign that says certain number of days without injury. And I may move to pressure you to work with the Portland police to have Pete Simpson keep it right up in front of our face how many days the city has gone without having a situation where citizens had to litigate against the police department.
 how many days we've gone since a citizen was injured or killed by police, and also how many days we've gone that officers have been able to keep themselves safe or not been targeted or injured by violent suspects. I think sometimes we're caught up in a national drama where we're facing the real serious challenges of racism, but we're not addressing the factual issues. So I hope that...
 Chief O'Day and yourself and the other staff there will work to have the information out there. So then when we have success, we can look at it and not gloat at it, but see how we can broaden that success to make it stronger and better and how important to be the community we would like it to be. And I'm sure we're going to hear some more specific facts as my testimony yields to Mr. Handelman. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. I, too, was very glad to learn that these conversations were happening and that the end result was published and reported here publicly. I'm disappointed in the turnout this afternoon. I think more people should have heard this, and I'm hoping that there will be a continuation of this discussion. And I hope that the city employees can feel comfortable talking with members of the general community as well as police officers.
 because I think that a lot could be learned from that. I think it's interesting that the chief mentioned the racial profiling statistics that came out shortly after these discussions. I wonder if the discussion would have been any different had people seen that those numbers aren't really moving, that we're at 12.8% of the traffic stops are still African Americans in 2013 when –
 We've been at that number more or less on or off for the entire 2001 to 2013 period. So we haven't really moved those numbers despite all these discussions. In terms of the good news, unfortunately Nick Fish isn't here to hear this, but, you know,
 One of the early things we learned when we were working on police accountability as an issue was the similarities between police violence and domestic violence, where people will say, oh, I know him. He'll never do anything like that. And people say that about the police until it happens to them or somebody they know. And so sometimes it comes off as ignoring the violence that we know the police are doing on the community when we put out these happy stories. So I just want to make sure that people bear that in mind, that there's –
 There's an element of post-traumatic stress out there by people who've been victims of police misconduct and violence when they see any stories about the police. This morning, you had an item on your agenda about the office space for the COCL, and discussion came up here about the...
 DOJ agreement. As a side note, our group's name was mentioned in the paperwork for that item, as people that might testify, but we weren't reached out to by your office, Mayor Hales. I don't know why our name would be mentioned if nobody asked if we knew about the agenda item or were willing to testify.
 But, you know, I need to take the opportunity, as always, to mention that this appeal is still sitting there in the Ninth Circuit and that this paragraph here that, Mayor Hales, you held up the last time we talked about this, specifically talks about that the judge does not have the authority to order the annual hearings. And no matter what your spokesperson says to me or your staff says to me, I know how to read and I know that's what it says.
 Some of the good things in this report include the discussion about the park rangers not having weapons and to be able to teach the police how to maybe patrol without weapons. Very often these discussions, like the discussion we had about the crowd control, there's not enough focus on the police violence, but it looks like the city employees weren't afraid to bring up those issues. And they talked about psychological testing after shootings, but I think there should be more focus on how to reduce the use of violence.
 And in terms of releasing the names of the officers who have been disciplined, there is exemption in state law for when it's in the public interest to release names of employees. I'm not sure why the city doesn't just take advantage of that and say this is in the public interest. But the police review board report that came out a couple weeks ago is that.
 A humorous almost example of redacting information where the genders of people were blocked out. And we played bad libs with that report, and we sent out our analysis of that to you yesterday. I hope you had time to read it. Thank you. Hi, counsel. My name is Stephen Etwistle. I represent Healing Man Sanctuary, Individuals for Justice, and 100 Million Friends.
 It's a shame I couldn't give my other three minutes to Dan Handelman here because he had a lot of good information. It's also a real shame that Nick Fish and Dan Saltzman, our commissioners, aren't here on this very important issue. I think that tells a lot.
 Our country started in racism, started here in this country in 1492 and has not left. All the infrastructure of America that is loved so much was built on racism. Everything, everything you see in front of you, the clothes that you wear, the chairs that you're sitting on, the table that you're at.
 was built on racism. And racism has not left here. Okay, it is still here. Portland is a racist town. I'll say that again. Portland is a racist town. It always has been. I've lived here for 55 years, I know. Okay, I've seen it. And why do I know I'm a white person? Well, I just happen to have four black children and six black grandchildren. Okay, I've seen a lot. Okay. Um, also, uh,
 Inside and outside. We're on the outside right now. On the inside of the system. The jails. Where anything goes for these folks. Why are we hiring racism as law enforcement? That does us no good. Do I have to prove it? You don't believe it. You look like you don't believe it. Well, it's true. We're going to have a meeting tomorrow in the county. We're going to expose a lot of this.
 Okay, because there's a lot of issues with county jails, county jail system, the whole thing. It all needs to be abolished as we know it. Abolished, not reformed. You cannot reform this. Capitalism equals racism. Okay, you guys are capitalists. Okay, it's like Noam Chomsky said. Okay, let's take a big picture. Let's focus it down into one little, one little, small little, and let's have a lively discussion on this. Small, tiny little point. Okay, that's what we're doing here.
 Anyway, we got a wealth disparity here. Billionaires not paying their taxes. You wonder why we have a housing problem. Big corporations so corrupt, reform is out of the question. Abolishment of the prison system is absolutely necessary. Politically motivated racism. New Jim Crow laws is alive and well in Portland and so is white privilege.
 Okay. Good cops need to blow the whistle on the racist cops. They should not be afraid to. They should not be afraid for their jobs to be able to explain. And you shouldn't be afraid for your job to expose racism yourself, all of you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? The last person who signed up is Paul Stewart. Come on up.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, City Council. So I'm Paul Stewart, Portland Housing Bureau. I'm also a member of the Citywide Equity Committee. First I wanted to thank you for your contributions to allowing the conversation to happen that we had over the last couple of months led by OEHR. Appreciate that and while it might not represent necessarily a palpable change, I think it represents something and it's worth pointing out.
 So I guess what I wanted to offer here today was that, well, I wanted to point out, I didn't think it was interesting that this hearing came after the Portland Housing Bureau's North Northeast report. That was interesting, kind of that connection between Ferguson and Portland. It's a lot of the same themes we're talking about here. What I wanted to do today was just humbly challenge the city council to challenge your workforce.
 I think we can do a better job of bringing you all brilliant ideas, strong analyses. I think you can challenge your directors, senior management, middle management, staff, to do a better job of seeing the equity angles, the racial equity angles that exist in all of our work.
 and to do a better job of normalizing that conversation at the Bureau level so that we can ultimately be better partners with the community and accomplish the ends that we really need to get to. So I think I'll leave it at that. Thank you for participating. I think you're officially the last person testifying. You're also in the video. Thank you.
 Yes, I am. And what do you do for the Housing Bureau? Financial analyst. So I should be back trying to balance our requested budget, but I felt compelled to be here today. Thank you. We appreciate you doing this. Thank you for taking the time. Thanks very much. Okay. I believe we have heard the list, and I'm looking forward to the motion. Motion to adopt the report. Before you just – a second. Could we have Director James back? Yes. Director James, I want to pepper you with a question or two.
 Well, first, thank you for bringing this report, for hanging in there while our previous report ran over an hour. And the four of us who are here are very much appreciative of having had this opportunity for discussion for people to come. So good work. What are the next steps? Well, the next steps are, I think, a couple. One, some version of this conversation will continue for city employees. I think, yeah, Paul –
 Paul expressed it well in terms of the overall feeling of what was in the room each time was that employees desire for their seniors, their management, their electeds to challenge the Bureau to do better.
 and create expectations of directors and managers to do better. I think that clearly was the overall context from most of these conversations, certainly as it related to the Police Bureau, but specifically broadly as it relates to equity to do that and to challenge your staff to do better. And then the office is going to be bringing –
 You know, we're doing varieties of things related to equity, budget equity tools, strategic roadmap for the bureaus, other things through the budget office and across. But we'll be coming with really a set of overall umbrella equity goals that each of you would be able to hold your bureaus accountable to. And really that's.
 Hopefully what we can then get to so that there's some very concrete specifics where you would be able to say to your directors, how are you helping us achieve this equity goal in the city of Portland? And it should be a very concrete answer or not. And that strategy will come within the next few months? Yes, ma'am.
 And ideally, this would be a consistent standard we work into our annual letters of expectation with the measurements around performance linked to success in those areas, as well as the other things that we identify as priorities for our bureau directors. Correct. That's about as tangible as you can get. Trying to do something. Other questions? Yes. Anything else for Dante before we vote?
 Director James, I just wanted to say that I really appreciate the fact that this conversation took place, appreciated seeing the suggestions. I wish that we were having this conversation earlier in the day, because, to be honest, after an early morning meeting, I don't think I'm sufficiently engaged.
 And I just made a note to myself to email you next Friday, which is the day I think I'll have some time to ask you to send again the list of employee suggestions because I want to have a chance to look at it. Okay, great. Thank you, sir. And a good point. Let's schedule that follow-up presentation by time 30 at the Turton in the morning. Yes. It would be a mercy to Dante as well as others. Great. Any other comments before we take a vote? Then a roll call, please.
 Well, thank you to the 200 employees who dared to participate, including the officer that we saw in uniform. That must have been somewhat challenging to show up and to be real.
 And so I very much appreciate. I liked what Paul Stewart said, don't underestimate your employees to come up with brilliant suggestions. And time and time again, our employees do come up with wonderful suggestions and we need to hear them. And then we need to challenge our directors and our managers and all of our employees to do better. I am seeing throughout the city a growing awareness that we are not the city government that we need to be. And we are willing to change.
 I went to the Angela Davis lecture at Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Lecture at Portland State University last week. She was one of my heroes growing up in England and seeing the work that she was doing. So I was pretty thrilled to be there. She said, some people think that it's up to black folks to change the system, and that is wrong.
 So to the charge that we're five white folk or four white folk sitting up here right now and one woman, yes, that is true. And historically, there have been two people of color on the city council. I'm the seventh woman ever to serve.
 I'm an immigrant, so we do not reflect the community as a whole, and it is still our responsibility to make our community better. It is actually us, we, the majority culture, who have the power to make the changes, and it shouldn't be up to only folks, people of color, to do that advocacy to be partners. We need to work together, and I'm very pleased with the work of the Office of Equity and Human Rights
 in fostering those conversations and having these really courageous conversations throughout the city. It's
 very important work and it's informing our work for the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement, which we now have this wonderful community oversight advisory board and a team of compliance officers who are going to be working with us on police specifically. I'm hoping that there will be some overlap with other bureaus to look at the issues of institutional racism and what we need to do about them in parks, what do we need to do about them in development services, what do I need to do about them in my office.
 So thank you very much for this important work. I. Fish? Dante, I've launched a process, a national search for a new director at the Bureau of Environmental Services. And one of the things that we have put in place is some focus groups at the front end to ask people what kind of leader are we looking for and what are the qualities we're looking for. And then we'll have some process at the end where the finalists are exposed to a diverse group of people.
 We've asked employees to participate in the front end piece, to say, what kind of leader are we looking for? What are some of the qualities? And I haven't been at the helm of this bureau for that long. So one of the things I want to do is engage the employees in identifying, you know, what are our strengths or weaknesses, and then how does that inform the decision for the next leader? This idea of engaging our employees more dynamically and the challenge from our friend from the Housing Bureau I think is very well taken.
 In our work, sometimes it's figuring out the right way to do that. And probably we need to be spending more time listening to our employees telling us what's the right way to do that. So I appreciate very much this dialogue. And look, there are always going to be critics who say you haven't done enough or you've done too little or this isn't going to solve the problem overnight or whatever. I actually think we have to get out of the habit of just reacting to all that nonsense. Yes.
 I think we should take what comes before us and engage it seriously and say, what has happened, what can we learn from it? And as you're constantly telling us, how can we incorporate what we've learned and how we lead? Because we have a huge platform to lead in this effort. We hire people, our own staffs. We hire bureau leaders. We review the hiring within the bureaus. It's a big deal. So I appreciate this. And who did the video, by the way? Jeff Selby from my office.
 That was quite a video. He's excellent. I want to borrow that camera sometime. Thank you for your work, and I appreciated the discussion. I thought it was very constructive. Hi. Novick? Yeah. Thanks to the 200 employees who participated. Thanks to you, Chief O'Day, for this presentation. Thanks to Jeff for the video. And I think we've all made it clear that we want to follow up on this discussion. And I will send you that email next Friday. All right.
 CHAIRPERSON WONG. Well, I appreciated these comments and this presentation, this discussion, and the employees who participated, a number of whom are here. Thank you for being those kinds of colleagues to each other, and there's more of that good work to do. And Amanda, I really appreciated your comments about the Office of Equity. As I was listening to this presentation, I was believing and hoping that you felt likewise,
 one of the reasons why having an Office of Equity and Human Rights is a good idea. And this was really a great example of what we can do with a great leader in this position, in the person of Director James, and the cooperation of other people in the city's leadership and workforce to change the organization. So the combination of this presentation with you and the chief, I think, is a powerful indication
 of why we're doing this and why it matters. So thank you. Well done. Aye. And we are recessed until tomorrow, at which point we will have a less than one-minute hearing because we're referring it over to the following month. Thank you. That's no doubt good news to the people here. What was that?