Are you ready, Carla? Yes. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the January 27th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning and welcome. We have three people signed up for council communications. We'll take those first in a moment, followed by some time certain items, and then the rest of our calendar. I've had a couple of requests to pull things from the consent agenda to the regular agenda, namely the
 Item 84 and item 86. I think that's it. Anything else that anyone wants to pull to the regular agenda? Okay.
 Okay. So that's where that stands. Welcome, everyone. We'll have public testimony on the items that are on our regular calendar both today and this afternoon. We usually allow three minutes for testimony. Seeing the small group here this morning, there shouldn't be any trouble doing that. If you're here for the first time and want to speak, you need to only give your name. You don't have to give your address. Let our council clerk know that you'd like to speak on an item, and we'll accommodate you. We always maintain the rules of decorum here, so if you're
 you agree with someone and want to give some indication of your support feel free to give a thumbs up or a wave of the hand if you disagree a plate hand gesture to the negative is okay but we ask that we not applaud or make demonstrations in the council chamber so everybody can be heard we make exceptions for our students when they show up and visiting dignitaries so if you're one of those you might get some applause this morning and with that we'll turn to item number 74
 Request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address counsel regarding solar cells from plastic water bottles. Wilkins, not here. Okay, let's move on to 75. Request of Sarah Hobbs to address counsel regarding Portland Police. Good morning. Welcome. Welcome.
 I live at 2140 Northwest Kearney Avenue. On the morning of November 6th, the police shot and killed a suicidal man by the name of Michael Johnson in a hospital parking lot directly across the street from where I live.
 On November 9th, I came to your office, Mayor Hales, a traumatized citizen, filing a request to speak to you about my concerns about what happened. I was told that somebody would contact me. Here it is, the 27th of January. I am still waiting for that phone call.
 I asked that your co-worker, no, I wanted to show the picture. I asked that your co-worker show you the picture I took of what I walked directly into when I exited my apartment building. Had I not lived on that block, the police would not have let me on that block.
 that it's just a small example of what I had to walk through for six hours.
 My question is, at this point, now that the district attorney has taken testimony and released findings, why is there still the silence? Why was I never given the courtesy of a phone call from your office, even if just to say, we note your concerns, but we cannot discuss this until...
 The investigation is finalized. You cannot expect that a citizen is going to know police policy, and you sure cannot expect that a traumatized citizen is going to know policy.
 So I ask you as police commissioner, can I go down this time and find one of those concern request a meeting forms and expect that you will speak to me? I'm sorry that happened. And Rachel Wiggins from my staff is sitting right behind Carla, so she'll make sure that we get in touch with you. When...
 City Hall, when are you as a police commissioner, when is the police department going to say something? It's been total silence. It makes me wonder what its policy. Is there something you're afraid of? Why have I had to go to such a struggle just to get somebody to tell me anything?
 Well, we'll get you a better explanation than you've gotten, and I'm sorry that you haven't. Could you give me a little heads up right now? That's the only answer to my question. I can't give you much of an explanation here other than that the district attorney actually ruled that that was suicide. I understand what the ruling was. I have read the DA death investigation report.
 I've got a grip on it. My question, though, is why the ongoing silence on the part of the city and the police department? Well, we'll get you a better explanation of that. Okay, thank you. Thank you.
 okay item 76 please request of Trina Sutton to address counsel regarding sweeps and cleanups she called and has rescheduled okay all right we'll hit her back another time all right it is not yet time for time certain so let's address the consent calendar any other items to remove from the consent calendar then let's take a vote please on the balance of the consent agenda
 Fish. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. Let's go ahead and... You want to go ahead and address the polled items? Are the people here that need to be for those, Commissioner Fritz, or do you want to wait? I can address, because I had a conversation, 86. Maybe we could do that. I'm not sure if park staff are here for 84 just yet. Okay. Well, let's go ahead and take 86 and...
 If you'd read that item, please, Carla. 86, appoint members to the Private for Hire Transportation Advisory Committee for terms to expire January 31, 2019. Okay, Commissioner Fretz, do you have some concerns? Thank you, Mayor. I pulled this item for three main reasons. One, to let folks know that Commissioner Novick and Transportation are establishing this advisory committee, which replaces the previous Private for Hire Transportation Board.
 And I think that's a good thing, and sometimes the good things get buried on consent. Second, I'm a little concerned about the nominees, the demographics of the nominees, and in particular that there doesn't seem to be much representation from immigrant taxi drivers or indeed from taxi drivers in particular. Well, there's one representation from one of the cabs, but it doesn't have a very robust representation.
 from particularly our many immigrant
 drivers. And then thirdly, I'm very concerned that all of the appointment terms are set to expire January 31st of 2019. The code does say that the term should be three-year terms. However, having the entire board turnover at one time doesn't seem like a very good model. And so I had some discussions with Commissioner Novik, and I know he wants to address these issues. Can I also jump in here for a sec? Because we also pulled this
 And as we explained to Steve's office, with the demise of the prior board,
 and the launching of the new one, we thought this would actually benefit from having a brief presentation on this and what the Bureau was planning. Plus, this was an issue that the Council cared a lot about, the composition, the role. So when I saw it on consent, we contacted Steve's office and said, you know, this is something we care about, so we would appreciate a very brief Council presentation, and that's
 so i joined with commissioner fritz and my my hope was we would have someone here or at some appropriate time just do a skinny presentation on how we got here we may need to wait a bit are you do you have the
 Okay, well then let's wait a bit on this item as well so that the proper PBOT staff can be here in addition to Commissioner Novick and his staff, but we'll make sure that happens. Sorry about that. I was prepared to discuss Commissioner Fritz's concerns, but I actually hadn't been made aware that Commissioner Fisch had requested a presentation, so I apologize for that. Okay. All right. I think we can accommodate that a little later. Let's go ahead and move to regular agenda item 87. Okay.
 87, apply for and accept a grant in the amount of $12,000 and appropriate $9,000 for fiscal year 2015-16 from the Oregon Department of Transportation Traffic Safety Division fiscal year 2016 Speed Enforcement Grant Program for sworn personnel overtime reimbursement. I don't believe we have a presentation on this unless there are any questions from the council. It's a fairly routine...
 provision of funds to fund extra traffic safety enforcement. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote, please. Thank you.
 Just to highlight this, there are specific locations for the speed enforcement, and I'm going to read them so that everybody is extra careful to drive more slowly on all of those streets. They are 82nd Avenue, 122nd Avenue, Southeast Powell, Southeast Division, Southeast Foster, Northeast Marine Drive, Northeast Lombard, Burnside, Sandy, Beaverton Hillsdale Highway, Southwest Barbara, and Southeast McLaughlin.
 And unfortunately, we don't know too well how often we have crashes on these streets. And so let's all be very aware of, especially where we know there's a history of crashes, to drive more carefully. Also, Commissioner Stoltzman isn't here yet, but I know he'll be glad to know that the police will also be looking out for cell phone use while driving. And so thank you very much for bringing this grant to us. Aye. Aye.
 No, but I Just want to amend Commissioner Fritz's statement in a way I think she'll approve of and that is yes, the traffic division will be in those locations But they'll also be in a lot of other locations So don't take your chances on all those other intersections hang up and drive legally everywhere. I Okay item 88
 authorized settlement between Oregon AFSCME Local 189 and the City of Portland through its Portland Police Bureau regarding employment claims. Okay, I think the City Attorney is here if anyone has any questions, but any council questions on this item? Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then please let's take a vote. It's a roll call on an emergency ordinance. Fritz. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, it is 945. Let's please move to item 77. Accept the City of Portland Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2015.
 Mr. Rust and his team are here. I trust everyone has read this document cover to cover. It's extensive and important. So with that, I'll turn this over to our Chief Financial Officer, Ken Rust, and his partners. Welcome. Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of the City Council. For the record, my name is Ken Rust. I'm the City's Chief Financial Officer and Director of the Bureau of Financial Services. Joining me this morning on my left,
 is City Controller Michelle Kirby, and on my right is my assistant Vicki Rice. She has the most important job. She's going to man the computer and run the PowerPoint presentation for me. Today we'll be presenting to you the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, or CAFR, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015. We will also be discussing with you key findings from the CAFR document, along with additional information regarding the city's long-term fiscal health. At this time, I'd like to turn the presentation over to Michelle.
 Morning. Morning. The production of the CAFR document is a significant undertaking for the city, and it involves many individuals around the city, and that includes virtually all city bureaus, our auditor's office, and the independent auditors, Moss Adams.
 The group that spends the most significant amount of time and has the responsibility for the CAFR production is the Central Accounting Division. And there's a core team of accountants in that division who spend many, many hours getting this document to be the quality that it is. Several of them are in attendance today. And if you don't mind, I'd like to just have them stand up and be recognized for a moment.
 Good morning. Thank you very much. We'll suspend the rules and thank our staff. Thank you very much.
 So this year's CAFR was completed by December 1st. This is very significant in that it's the earliest it's been produced since 2006. Previously, it's been up to 180 days or pushing towards December 31st. This is also notable due to a large GASB implementation this year that you'll be hearing more about.
 So over the past few years, there's been an increasing demand for more timely reporting by the investment community. So under the leadership of our CFO, we've created an escalated schedule over the next few years to push back the finalization date. So for the current year, 2016, we have a goal of December 15th, and then the following year,
 November 15th, excuse me. And then the following year would be November 1st or 120 days. And so while the earlier timing isn't mandated at this time, we feel that we're positioning ourselves to be ready and proactive for when this does occur. Okay.
 So the CAFR document basically tells the citizens where we've been financially at a certain point in time, and that is our fiscal year end, June 30th. These statements are prepared on the generally accepted accounting principles as issued by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, or GASB. So there's many rules and regulations we need to follow when we are preparing the document, and
 And then it's subject to external audit by our auditors, Moss Adams. And they offer an opinion that the statements are free of material misstatement. And so the good news is that the auditors gave a clean opinion, also called unmodified opinion, which is a clean opinion. And that's the best possible statement.
 And they will talk more after us about the results of the audit, but it is good news. Also good news is that fund balances continue to grow, and in fact, the general fund balance increased by $9 million over the prior year.
 And each year the city submits the CAF for document to the GFOA for review in their program, which is Excellence in Financial Reporting. And the city did receive the Award for Excellence in Financial Reporting for the 35th consecutive year. And this really demonstrates the professionalism and excellence that the city maintains in providing financial information.
 There is some not-so-good news, and that is that on a full accrual gap basis, the governmental activities net position has declined, and in fact it is now at a negative $1.2 billion.
 And this primarily is due to the implementation of that GASB I mentioned a few minutes ago, which is GASB 68, and it's the pension reporting standard that was implemented this past year. And so Ken is going to talk more about that, and so I'm going to turn it over to Ken now. Thank you.
 Thanks, Michelle. The next slide in our presentation gets into this net position question. It's something we've talked with you about the last couple years and thought it would be good to refresh ourselves what's going on here. And just as a reminder, the financial net position represents the city's assets minus its liabilities. So the chart I have here tries to break down what increases and what decreases our net position.
 So, factors that can decrease net position and by that where expenses exceed revenues on a generally accepted accounting principles basis are things like increases in our pension liabilities. So, if we have an increase in our PERS liability or FPR liability, that can decrease our net position. When we issue bonds but we don't have an asset that offsets those bonds, that can decrease net position.
 Another item that affects us is where we have depreciation, which is a non-cash expense. If that exceeds the new investment in our capital infrastructure, that can lead to a decline in our net position. Conversely, there are items that can increase our net position. So, for example, when we receive grant funds for capital projects, we get money in, we build an asset, the asset's on our balance sheet, our net position goes up.
 If we fund capital improvements from our current cash flow as opposed to borrowing, that can have a benefit of increasing our net position. And finally, if we have surplus revenues that we retain as a reserve or we use those monies to pay down liabilities, that can also increase our net position. So those are some of the factors that are both pluses and minuses for us. Ken, if you don't mind, let me stop you and get you to elaborate, or maybe you were going to anyway, on some of those issues because I think –
 when we take these reports, the council and the city staff are very well aware of some of the particulars that drive these bottom line numbers, but I think there are people in the community, including even some in the news media, that don't necessarily understand the drivers of this. And let me make sure I've got this right in terms of restating it.
 and that is on in terms of the city's purrs liability we are on a pay-as-we-go basis that is we budget each year for the city's contributions to purrs so so although that burden is rising because the cost of purrs is rising
 It is fully funded each year by appropriations of the council and the budget process. I think that's true. I think what you're referencing, Mayor, is the FPD&R. I want to talk about FPD&R as well. But in terms of PERS, it's a check we write each year to the state to pay for our PERS obligations. And it's pay as we go.
 And FPD&R, as I understand it, the change in the GASB rules
 treats our FPD and our liability as less fully funded than we consider it to be. And that is we know that we have a tax levy that is authorized to pay for that pension liability for FPD and our Tier 1 retirees. We know there's a curve in which that total amount of money is going to be paid.
 total burden rises to a certain point and then falls because that's a closed group of retirees. And our current projections are we will not hit the ceiling of the levy amount that we're allowed to collect from the taxpayers in order to pay that pension liability. So one could, in lay terms, as I usually do, describe that pension liability as funded.
 It is not unfunded. In the usual understanding of that term around the country, when people look at cities with big unfunded pension liabilities, they're talking about cities that actually have no plan or mechanism by which to pay those liabilities, where we do. Is that a correct, non-Gaspey restatement of where we stand? No.
 That's a pretty good summary, Mayor, and I'm going to get into a lot of those details in my presentation. Okay. Good. Hopefully, to you and the audience and others that are watching this, it will become a little
 how there's differences between gap accounting and then some of the key underpinnings of our financial system that we pay attention to and what that means for us. Good, good, because it's been a source of considerable jubilation on the FPDNR board to see our forecast fall below that ceiling over the last couple of years. And, you know, Sam Hutchison and the folks there deserve credit for good management, and the economy deserves credit for lifting us high enough that we don't have that problem. Okay.
 I'm going to show you a little bit of the trend that we've been seeing in this net position figure. And the chart in front of you has three lines on it. The blue line represents what's called governmental activities, which is predominantly our general fund-related programs and transportation. The orange line represents our business activities, and those are largely water and environmental services. And the green line is simply the summation of both of those lines. And what you'll note
 is that the trend overall is negative and it's really influenced entirely by the trend line in governmental activities. And the downward trend over the years has been a reflection of more of the liability associated predominantly with FPD&R coming onto our balance sheet. You'll notice the big decline this year is the full implementation of what's called GASB 68, which requires us to put
 to put all of that liability onto our balance sheet. So last year when I spoke to you, our governmental activities net position was about $212 million. Now it's negative $1.2 billion. That's virtually all the result of implementing this new GASB standard. So that's been the trend that we've been observing, we've been discussing with you, and have been describing what's going on with that.
 and what's really causing that and mayor you've mentioned that some of some of those things already a big part of it is the treatment of pension liabilities so we're required under gasby and gap accounting to place all that liability onto our balance sheet that currently is about 2.9 billion dollars for fpdnr however we receive a value of zero dollars
 for the future property tax revenues that we'll be receiving that are dedicated and can only be used to pay the FP&R liability. So on the one hand, we've recognized all the liability. On the other hand, we put a zero value on that future revenue stream. A portion of the bonds that we have issued that the liability sits on are our balance sheet.
 also don't reflect the fact that we give that money away. So, for example, we have $500 million of short- and long-term debt that we issue and give those proceeds to PDC. That's how tax increment financing works. That's how the Constitution requires us to issue bonds and give proceeds to the redevelopment agency. Liability is not on our balance sheet. Assets are somewhere else. So that creates this...
 decline in net position. We've also, over the years, we have a couple other deals where we've given money to other governments. So, for example, when we did the Convention Center financing back in 2001, we gave $100 million of bond proceeds to Metro to build the expansion of the Convention Center. In exchange, we get revenues, but the liabilities aren't a balance sheet, no offsetting asset. And we're currently funding for Multnomah County a portion of the reconstruction of the Selwood Bridge. That liability also sits on our balance sheet.
 Another piece of the puzzle is depreciation. I mentioned that earlier. Depreciation is a non-cash expense associated with the wearing out of our assets over time using an accounting life and a matching concept. Last year, our depreciation for governmental activities totaled about $187 million. We invested about $134 million, so we had a shortfall.
 All of that shortfall is a result of what's going on inside of PBOT. PBOT had $161 million of depreciation expense. They only put about $51 million of new capital into the ground. They were negative $110 million. And what's really interesting about PBOT is that let's say, for example, that we wanted to make that even. We wanted to...
 reduce that shortfall of $110 million. And so we've invested $110 million, and we filled potholes, and we put new street services on, and maybe we built a couple new roads. If we don't spend it on the right kind of thing, it won't balance. So, for example, if we build a new road, add a new lane mile, add something that we can capitalize on our books and records, that would count against $110 million.
 being able to bring us closer to depreciation and investment. If we simply do things like fill a pothole, repave a street, and don't do enough work on it to rebuild it, that's maintenance, doesn't count. So there's a nature of the way we measure things also affects this net position issue.
 So all those things –
 Unfortunately, from a strictly accounting point of view, it could lead you to coming up with the wrong answer. And that's why it's important to understand really what's going on here and what we should be doing. And let me just make sure we all understand what GASB 68 is and why it applies to us. So you've explained this anomaly where we have a pay-as-you-go system where we're now required to book the liability, but not any of the future revenue stream
 cover that liability under our charter. What is the purpose of GASB 68? What's the vice they're trying to cure by having us put this in the books in this manner? I'll give you my opinion, Michelle, and Moss Adams at auditor when Jim Lanzarote may have some other views. Well, we have the senator that actually proposed legislation. No, kidding. So what's – because there's obviously some –
 principle underlying this, even though it produces an anomaly for us? I think the largest concern is that there's been a sense that for municipal governments like Portland, that there hasn't been an accurate characterization and capturing of liabilities like pension liabilities and having that liability be appropriately reflected on our financial statements. For years-
 Those things would show up as a footnote if you're underfunded. And then we've been, over time, bringing more of those liabilities onto the balance sheet. And I think a lot of concerns that there have been across the country were investors making decisions about particular communities' bonds and things like that. They're not seeing the whole picture of the –
 kinds of things that could impair their financial condition over time. And so there's a sense that more of that needs to be brought onto the balance sheet and made it comport more with what's happening in the corporate world. But the thing, I guess, that's unique in this circumstance is that since our pension plan is not, you know, the typical plan that's
 funded and then from those resources we pay out benefits, it's secured against the assets of the city and it's a pay-as-you-go. This idea of funded or unfunded doesn't quite apply to our pension. That's correct. So in any event, we weren't keeping some unfunded liability off the books because that's not how we structure our pension. It's a pay-as-you-go secured against the assets of the city and subject to
 an increase in a revenue stream that the charter and the people of Portland have agreed to. MR. In fact, we are by charter not allowed to fund benefits when they're earned. We are not allowed to have assets greater than $750,000. So we're doing all the things that we're required to do under charter, but we are anomalous in the sense of the way accounting views the nature of that liability and the character of the asset that we have as a receivable. And I'm going to show you a little bit about what that means
 Because what I've done is restated net position from a gap basis to something that's not gap. You can call it Ken accounting or you can call it some other kind of accounting. But what it tries to do is tease out those things that are unique positives to us from a financial position point of view and to give a more, I think, full view of the financial condition of the city at this point in time. So, for example –
 The three things I've done to adjust net position to give you that different view includes putting the value of the tax receivable we have for F&E back onto our balance sheet. So basically, we net out that $2.9 billion liability with the present value of our future receivable, which is greater than $2.9 billion. Voila, that falls off the balance sheet.
 We have the bonds that we've issued for urban renewal and PDC, for example. We know in talking with PDC that about 25% of the $500 million has come back to the city in some form as an asset. So if I reduce that and recognize the fact that when we create urban renewal districts, we receive tax revenues that we otherwise would not have received and could not spend for any other purpose, that liability vanishes as well.
 And also then looking at the Convention Center transaction, that's backed by an intergovernmental agreement with Metro and Multnomah County. We receive tax revenues from them to pay debt service on the bonds. We've always paid debt service on those bonds. We basically have a receivable that exists for the life of those bonds. So that liability doesn't create any impairment to us as well. So when I make adjustments like that, what you see is that the trend, the blue line in governmental activities, is slightly down but mostly flat.
 Business activities continues to grow because we're making regular investments in the infrastructure, and our overall net position is on a slight increasing point of view. And that's really the view that the rating agencies and investors look at. So you just anticipated the two questions I wanted to ask you. Let's go back to GASB for a second. Sure.
 If we had a fully funded pension and it was structured differently by law, then the asset and the liability would match up and it would have no impact on our net asset condition. Because that's a pay-as-you-go, we're by definition not going to have something to compensate for the liability. Does GASB have a philosophical problem with the way we structure our pension, or is that just the consequence of how it's administered? No.
 I would say it's just a consequence of how it's administered. The standard is broad. It applies to pensions that typically work a certain way. We're an anomaly, and the rule doesn't have exceptions for anomalies like Portland. So we struggle with that. But there's nothing that we know of in Gatsby that says our way of funding a pension is somehow out of step with prudent accounting principles.
 Well, it's not how you would structure a traditional pension plan. I mean, there is a strong sense that as you earn pension benefits, you should fund those pension benefits. And that makes more sense both in terms of staying current with that obligation and also making sure that the people who are benefiting from those services are paying for those services. We don't have that system, but we have –
 And I think if you didn't have a dedicated tax levy, you could argue that you're pushing that liability further and further into the future. But we have the dedicated tax levy. And I guess the second question that you were about to get to is we covet our credit ratings, which is for obvious reasons because it allows us to borrow money at favorable rates.
 and we have very high credit ratings in the city. It allows us to borrow money dirt cheap, and it's one of the reasons we've been able to do a lot of long-term capital projects at a very favorable cost. Does this adjustment have an impact in how the rating agencies view our financial health?
 No, because in fact, that's the adjustment that they're making. They recognize that, particularly with the FD&R liability, that it's an anomaly. They've looked at it for many years. Before, there was a GASB 68. You know, the city's had a AAA bond rating since about 1976. This is not a new phenomena, and they're very comfortable with the way in which we fund this, and also the integrity of that tax. Because really, the...
 The key is, is that tax levy sufficient to pay all obligations when due? That gets tested regularly. And, in fact, I'm going to talk a little bit about that. If anything, that's on an improving trend because of the underlying nature upon which that tax levy is based. So, in my opinion, it's well understood by the investor community the nature of how we pay for this pension liability, and that really isn't a problem or an issue in terms of our ratings.
 So I'd like to talk about what is – because we're kind of getting into that. What does this mean and what should we do? You know, the issues we have around GAAP accounting isn't that it's wrong. It's that there are things that we have undertaken from a financial point of view and the unique parts of the city of Portland that don't get reflected under GAAP accounting. And so adjusting things like that, I think, give you a more realistic view of our current condition and
 And if you don't do that, you really end up with a situation where you could focus on the wrong thing. So, for example, if you didn't tease out some of this and think, oh, my goodness, we have an FPD&R problem, maybe we should be doing something and putting more general fund money to pay FPD&R, you could reach that conclusion. When, in fact, FPD&R is really not a problem. What's a problem is we should be investing more in infrastructure, and we've had that discussion last year about what we do with that. So I think by restating the information, if you will, you can get to what we should be doing.
 And that's really one of the problems that we have is the CAFR provides us a lot of information, but it's a point-in-time piece in terms of what it's telling us, and it may not be telling us the right things that we should be worrying about going forward. And I want to talk a little bit about what those things are as well, because one of the things I've been tasked with is what should we be worrying about? What are those things coming at us beyond this point in time with the CAFR that we should be looking at? So over the course of the last year,
 been investigating that with my staff and have put together what I call this little snapshot about things that are That we should be worried about and I broke it into three categories our long-term Liabilities our infrastructure and employee costs and I've I've given you know My view of what I think those things look like on a current status basis And also what they might look like in the future and some comments about trends so for example I
 PERS liability, I view it a negative status. I think it's going to stay that way. Why? We just received in November an update from PERS on our actuarial status, and it reflects the overturning of the Moro decision. So our unfunded liability with PERS has increased from $40 million to $365 million.
 Furthermore, we know that PERS has to earn at least 7.5% to stay even. In fact, it's probably greater than that. Well, what happened in 2015? They earned 1.88%, almost 6 percentage points below their target number. What does that mean to the city? That's going to be another $9 million ongoing coming to us. The $365 million, to unwind that, is about $30 million. So we have $39 million more costs coming our way. FPD&R?
 We've talked a lot about that levy. I have it in green status. Why? Because it is sufficient to pay our obligations when due. The real market value increases means that the capacity of that tax levy is increasing as well. So I feel very comfortable. I'm more comfortable with the FPR than with PERS. Another piece of our long-term liability is what deals with other post-employment benefits. This is a requirement to look at the cost of providing a subsidy to retirees under our health care plan until they reach –
 Medicare eligibility at age 65. We looked at that in 2008 when we were first required to report that under GASB 45. We said we think we should not do anything. We should continue the pay-as-you-go that we're using with that. We looked at it again last year. That liability is really unchanged, and our recommendation is the same. Watch it, but don't do anything different. Infrastructure. Over the next five years, we probably have at least a billion dollars of infrastructure needs coming our way.
 A lot of that is in water and environmental services, and I have confidence that their funding model of rates and borrowings will be sufficient. My only concern there is that rates are high and capacity is more stressed than it otherwise would be. But we have a funding plan, and that funding plan has worked quite well. So, Ken, I had a spirited discussion with Fred about this because, to me, this is more green than yellow, and I want to just put something in context.
 Just this past week there was a national survey that was released of trends in our public utilities. And the thing that jumped out at me was the enormous benefit that has accrued to us by taking care of some regulatory costs ahead of the curve. I'm particularly, of course, talking about the CSO requirements, the combined sewer overflow.
 We did a very expensive big pipe project, but we did it in the past, and cities like Atlanta and other cities are catching up and having to do it at a time when it's going to be a lot more expensive. One of the things that struck me was the comparison of the impact on rates on a family of four in three sample cities, and they looked at actually four sample cities, Seattle, San Francisco, Atlanta, and Portland.
 And we don't necessarily think of those as sister cities, but at least Seattle and Atlanta are comparable in population. And what was just astonishing to me, a family of four in those cities, those other three cities, would pay two or three times more monthly for the combined water, sewer, stormwater services. That doesn't mean that we're not charging, you know, that our rates are not a burden for our customers, but...
 But it does say that nationally we're blessed and that we've taken on some costs, and therefore our trend line is pretty good. And as you know, the trend line at the Bureau of Environmental Services is quite good, and that's why this year they're down around 3.4 to 3.6 in terms of proposed rate increase. So given that we have a structural –
 advantage in that we can cover these costs going forward, given that we enjoy very high credit ratings and given that compared to other cities, we're a relative bargain. I still think we're more green than yellow, but I understand that yellow is because of your inherent caution as CFO. And I also couldn't figure out a way, Commissioner, to split the bubble into green and yellow. So I...
 I am cautious, but I agree with you that we've gone – if we had not accomplished the things that you referenced, it would be a much different picture for us. Thank you.
 And I do think that the plans that we're on means that we're going to be able to sustain those systems. But I do know that we would like to have capacity for the unknowns, and that's a bit of a caution there. Contrasting that with transportation, it's no surprise that we're not spending enough money now, and going forward that trend doesn't look like it's going to get a lot better very quickly. So I'm very concerned about our ability to fund all of our transportation needs.
 I have another category, which is things like parks and public safety. I just want to tell you that I was so alarmed by these red circles for transportation that I realize it's really short notice, but I propose that we send the voters transportation funding mechanism this afternoon. Thank you.
 And we didn't plan it that way, but it looks like it's working out very nicely. It is everything. The other category really is parks or civic assets like these kinds of buildings, the Portland building, technology, public safety, and even housing. And we're making a lot of progress on that, and we're spending a lot of making many investments in that area. But those needs are growing, and I'm concerned about our ability to fund that with the methods that we typically use, which are geo bonds and the general fund, et cetera.
 Another category that I have in here is what I call legacy liabilities, and that's dealing with the cost of remediating the city's portion of the cost associated with Portland Harbor. We have a Columbia River levees project that may have costs coming back to us. I have it in red status mostly because I don't know how big that is, but it could be a big number, and we don't know how we're going to pay for it yet. We don't know who's responsible inside our city organization, so that makes me concerned. And then finally on employee costs,
 We're really at a position where those employee costs are beginning to grow faster than the rate of growth in our revenues. We have recent bargaining agreement changes that are increasing our employee costs. The PERS-related expense, for example, approximately $39 million ongoing new costs coming our way
 Forty percent of that's general fund. That's $16 million ongoing. Now, the CBO has some of that built into the forecast. Not all of it's built into the forecast. PERS collars things, and it will attenuate when we see it. But if you're going to wonder why we don't have any money for infrastructure investment each year, even if revenues are growing, it's because of things like PERS. So speaking of revenue, how's our revenue picture? Okay.
 Over the last couple of years in particular, we've had extremely strong general fund revenue growth. Almost couldn't be any stronger, and we should see some continued benefits from that, particularly with unwinding some of the compression that affects our property tax revenues,
 Business license tax and transient lodging tax are at all-time highs. We may see some limited upside, but frankly, at this stage of the economic cycle, it's probably more of a likelihood that we'll see them flatten or fall if we run into a recession. Our utility license fees are kind of flat, which really represents people ditching landlines and us losing revenue associated with those companies that provide landline services on the telecom side.
 And I know we've had a lot of discussions about future urban renewal tax increment revenues coming back to the city and other governments, but really that's really 10 years away or longer. So those are really revenues over the horizon, not going to help us in the short run. So what's our outlook for new revenues? I do think that our strategy of going to the voters periodically for voter-approved GO bonds to fund parks improvements or public safety improvements is a good strategy and one that we will be successful with.
 Our ability to have a new funding program for transportation remains to be seen. I'm optimistic that this afternoon is a step in that direction, but I have a question about whether we'll be successful at that.
 And I think we're going to have to consider some of the other revenue ideas that have been considered in the past. For example, we've discussed about imposing a utility license fee on cell phone users, much like we impose on landline users. One, to increase our revenues, but also to make it fair between the users of telecom services. Why should those who have a landline pay and those who don't not pay? Okay.
 And finally, the easiest source of money for us, new revenue, is simply to have people pay what's already owed to us. We know we don't collect all the business license taxes. We know we have liens outstanding that we do. We haven't chosen to foreclose on for policy reasons. We have a large number of uncollected parking revenues. If we spent more effort collecting the low-hanging fruit, in fact, the fruit that's on the ground, that would help close this gap as well.
 On the uncollected parking citations, I just want to note that we've been working with P-BOT has been trying to figure out mechanisms to improve collections. We're having lengthy conversations with the court system, which is deeply involved in that. I'm hoping in the next few months we're going to have some proposals that will help address that backlog. Good news. Thank you.
 Bottom line for the city, it's a math problem. Our expenses, operating capital, are simply growing faster than revenues. It's a systemic problem. It's going to take a systemic solution, and we know what that means. It means cutting our costs. It means cutting our services, increasing our revenues, or some combination of the above. If we don't take action, what we're going to be in a situation, I believe, is this chronic budget shortfalls and reduction. This year is a really good instructive lesson.
 Revenues are growing and we're asking bureaus to cut budgets. Why because we would like to add a
 and devote more resources to housing. Nothing wrong with that, but when we add more programs and we have cost push from these other things, our revenues, even when they're growing, aren't growing enough, and that means we're limited in our ability to make more investments in infrastructure. It puts pressure on our reserve levels and the kinds of things that, if we're not careful with how we approach that, we will be in this situation every year. We'll default to the easy, thin-the-soup kind of budget that we have.
 cutting across the board so we get to the point where no one likes what we're serving because it's not a very tasty meal any longer and what i'm mostly concerned about is avoiding things that create a financial impairment for us going forward now
 We've had many challenges financially over the years, and we've rose to those challenges. And so we're at a point now where, depending on what we do in terms of policy and practice, it will affect whether or not we maintain the integrity that we currently enjoy or not. But that's the challenge that lies ahead of us. So I'd just like to summarize where we started with the CAFR. The good news is that the CAFR for the fiscal year ending 2015 meets all of our required accounting standards. We have a lot of money.
 We have an unmodified or clean opinion from our external auditors. No audit deficiencies noted by our auditors as well. Our current financial position is strong. Michelle mentioned the fact that our general fund balances continue to grow. So that's good news as well for us. I think it's important that we do make adjustments to the GAAP presentation of net position because it tells us a better picture and story about where we're at financially. And frankly, it's the story that investors and the bond rating community uses at assessing our financial health.
 The CAFR is simply a financial snapshot at a point in time, and we know that we have future challenges that will affect our city's fiscal health. I'm confident that by working together we can avoid those problems that we see other governments falling into and be able to maintain our ability to deliver the services without future financial impairment.
 And one other question that this year's excellent presentation sort of begs is, are there any changes that you're likely to propose in how we do planning in light of this data?
 You know, currently we think in terms of a five-year horizon. The Independent Budget Office provides a five-year projection. No one has a crystal ball, so we don't know, you know, when a recession is going to hit and how long it's going to be. And there's other things that we can't quite anticipate. But, for example, is a five-year lookout –
 Or are you likely to come back to us at some point and say we need a longer horizon? And are there any other potential changes in fostering this long-term look at this structural challenge? It's a good question, Commissioner. You know, going beyond five years is always complicated because the accuracy and the validity of the information becomes more challenging the longer you go out.
 I think one of the ways to think of it is rather than so much trying to get more clarity about the future, is try to set policy and practice around things that we know will affect the future. So, for example, one of the big drivers for cities like Portland is the rate of growth in personal services. Our costs are largely people costs.
 What's our policy about allowing that rate of growth to increase above inflation or above a certain benchmark number? What can we do to try to better manage that? What are the things that we're going to have to wrestle with? Because if we don't wrestle with that,
 What we're saying is that we're going to allow that big driver of cost to be whatever it is and we're going to try to make it up on the other side. I think some discussion around that could be helpful. I think some discussion around how we're going to approach funding capital infrastructure liabilities that we start looking at creating dedicated sources of funding that so it's not competing and is the thing that we don't do when we're trying to assess how we balance our budget would be helpful.
 And I think also we have to have more discipline about new programs and activities that we add. If we're going to add things, what are we not going to be able to do? And we tend to take on everything, and everything before that is also taken on. And at some point, it's going to be very difficult to carry that entire burden going forward. We don't do a very good job of asking ourselves about tradeoffs and trying to manage within that more constrained set of revenues. So, yeah.
 Don't have precise answers, but those are three areas that I think need more attention, and I think when working with Andrew in his office, could come back to you with some more structure around that. Great. Other questions for our team? Thank you very much. Thank you. So let's take testimony on this item, and then I might, before we call on the auditor for the second item, bring up the folks to deal with this discussion.
 those items on consent that we needed questions answered about so anyone want to speak on this item item number 77 okay one signed up oh come on yes my name is lightning i represent lightning watchdogs pdx i thought the presentation was really good gave a clear understanding on the pensions
 and how the accounting procedures are looking at it at this time for the benefit of the investors maybe purchasing bonds in the future. Now, one of the issues I have, again, is that on some of the legacy, per se, projects, again, such as the Columbia River Levy is what I've been speaking on for quite a long time, and I think that a lot of people are overlooking just how
 important of issue that is at this time. We're done doing patchwork on the levee. In my opinion, we need to start looking at building new, which would be toward the new infrastructure. And in my opinion, that will be one of the largest construction projects in Portland, Multnomah County. And I want to really focus on that, on the dollar amounts that would cost to rebuild that over time in different phases. Another issue I have, obviously, listening to this, is that
 on the transportation gas tax. It's my understanding a lot of that money would be used for more of the repair side on the streets. And it sounds to me like we're talking about the best thing to do would be to possibly build new streets for the infrastructure. And that's something that I questioned this time to have a clear understanding on if we pass that gas tax
 where's that money going to be applied and where's the best direction to apply that money, especially when we're looking at this type of accounting that we're seeing today. So again, just a little more clarity, I guess, on making sure that, and I've talked in the past, that any loans or grants given out to people, especially on the loans, we want to make sure those are repaid back.
 We don't want to convert those to grants if they can't make the payments. And I want to see that tightened up immediately on this in any future grants. Obviously, by this presentation, I would look at everything very close on who receives that money because it appears as though we're going to, like I say, have more expenses accruing than income, and we're going to have to start...
 looking at areas to change that immediately. And, again, I want to commend you, Mayor Hales, on creating a surplus budget. The last mayor did not do that. You did that. You will leave probably creating a surplus budget. So I commend you on your efforts on that. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good. Thank you. That was an accident. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I was curious. I didn't hear all of the report. Okay.
 because from time to time I have to use the restroom. So I miss some of it. But the part that I heard, the thought went through my head, you know, it would be very nice if we got these reports and on the top it would say, the drain on our budget is, you know, the biggest drain on our budget is. I get really nervous when bureaucrats say to me, hey, everything's okay.
 We're in compliance. We're doing a good job. We're patting each other on the back. It makes me very nervous because you just had a newspaper article blasting you on your grants. So how could everything be okay? I'm not an economist. However, I know this.
 People that are watching this, people that read about this, people that will hear about this, want to understand it, and they don't. I've attended 482 meetings, and I don't understand it, and I have a bachelor's degree.
 That gives you some sense of what you're doing. That's why you get an F in transparency, because the citizens do not understand it. When you do these reports, would you please say, look, we're having a lot of trouble with transportation, or we're having a lot of trouble with the park? Redline it. When I do a budget at home and something's coming up, I put it in red.
 I said, this is a big concern. We have a trip to California, and we have no money. We have to do something about this. Everything is okay? Everything's fine? No, it isn't. You know that, and I know that. People watching this television do not understand what's going on.
 Thank you. Joe, I think you may have been out of the room when Ken showed us a red, yellow, green chart that actually did a pretty good job. Yeah, I actually didn't see that. Yeah, that's a really good translation of where we are into those kind of more understandable terms. If you can look at that and you can see the problems right away, then I commend you on it.
 I didn't see that. We're not privileged to that kind of information. We have very limited stuff that we can look at. Yeah, he put that up on the screen so people got to see that. Yeah, I know, but it's out there. Okay, so I commend you on that. Also, once again, I don't like it when bureaucrats say everything is okay because it's not. It's an ongoing problem, and we know at least two bureaus are in trouble.
 And they're on my left, which makes me nervous. They should be on my right. Transportation and parks have admitted that they need more money. So everything is not all right. Thank you. Mayor, I move the report. Is there a second? Second. Discussion? Roll call, please. Fritz?
 Well, congratulations to our city controller, Michelle Kirby, for completing the CAFR quicker than it's been done for quite some time, and the entire team. I'm so glad that we have a group of people who understand absolutely everything and way beyond what was in the presentation, and knowing that your team has diligently looked into everything and everything.
 Made a very good attempt, I think, to explain it in ways that most of us or some of us can understand. So well done, Michelle, Ken Rust, and Fred Miller for this report. Thanks also to James Lanzarotta, our outside auditor, for his work reviewing the CAFR. It's always important to make sure that we have outside eyes on it. So it's very clear we are not in good shape. And I appreciate the very clear presentation that says that.
 We are not expecting to get a whole lot more money anytime in the foreseeable future, and we have a lot of expenditures. And the cut that we've been asked to put forward this budget season of 5% has illustrated that Portlanders really love the services that they get, and they want a lot of services. And so there isn't anything in parks, for example, that can be cut without somebody –
 First of all, a lot of people will lose their jobs. Second of all, there are services that people really love, and reducing pool hours or any of the other 19 strategies that we put forward in the parks proposal, many of them are really, really difficult. So collectively, we as a community need to decide what do we want to pay for and how do we want to pay for it.
 And then we have to say, and I'm sorry, we can't do some of the other things. And yes, we do need to, I think, stop this year doing outside grants. There are lots of other good things that need to be done in our community. And as we just saw, if it doesn't translate into an asset that's owned by the city, it counts against our net viability.
 So it's going to be a very difficult budget season. I really appreciate that presentation, which allows more folks in the community to understand why we have a problem as well as what the problems are. And I also particularly appreciate the focus on basic maintenance, and we'll continue to work on that. Thank you very much. I want to thank the controller and the CFO for an outstanding presentation. Thank you.
 What struck me is that there's no sugarcoating or pulling up punches. In fact, if you look at page 5, there's the good news and the not-so-good news. I think I understand the difference. And on page 11, you color-code the long-term challenges, and there are a lot of red dots. So I think you've been admirably transparent about the structural issues that we deal with and the challenges we face.
 It's one of the reasons that I felt so strongly, by the way, that we have an independent chief financial officer for the City of Portland. And it's precisely presentations like this that, to me, vindicate the idea of having a CFO, complementing the work of our controller. Now, I'm trying to figure out what the GASB 68 rule is really about, but I came up with a homey analogy, and it may not work, but I'm going to try it out anyway.
 uh my financial balance sheet is a little shaky partly because um i have two kids and um we borrowed a little bit against our house and um and we just had one child come through college and we're now getting her position for the future but i have a 12 year old at home and uh i'm starting to think about you know when he gets out of he's now in middle school he's going to go to high school and he's going to go to college so i'm not sure it's a perfect analogy but you
 Let's say that I was required to put on my balance sheet the expected cost of my son's education if he is fortunate enough to be admitted to a private institution, but wasn't allowed to book any of the other side of the ledger was bare in terms of how I'm going to pay for it. Well, the way I'm going to pay for it is I'm going to have to work for the rest of my life to have a revenue stream to cover those costs. It seems to me that's not fair.
 dissimilar from what we're talking about here. The difference is we have a very stable revenue source to cover our pension obligations because it's legally enshrined in the charter and the public has accepted it. We have a pay as we go. I don't have any job security. So I don't know. I'm counting on my wife continuing to be successful. But the – so
 But so I think it is important to look at both the chart you gave us at page seven, which shows the impact of booking these pension obligations without any funding, and the Ken Rusk adjustment on page nine, which shows if you take that out, because it's two different stories. But still, you have identified for us long-term structural issues that we have to grapple with. Unlike the federal government, we can't solve it by borrowing.
 So we can't just declare all these are wonderful things and then borrow billions of dollars to cover it. So we're going to have to figure out how to right-size our services. And as Commissioner Fritz pointed out, the public is very clear they want certain services. And it's also pretty clear we have a structural issue in terms of adequate revenues to meet those services. So we've got some hard work to do in thinking about the long term and the structural balance.
 But I have to say I'm heartened by the quality of the team that's guiding us. And I'm pleased that on the things that really matter outside of the structural issues, we get high marks for the way we do our budgeting, for the transparency, and the awards speak for themselves. So that's something we take great pride that our team is recognized for doing this at a very high level. And since Commissioner Fritz mentioned grants, I can't resist.
 there are good grants and bad grants and we'll have that discussion at budget time but um i don't want the good grants to get thrown out with the bad grants and the good grants in my opinion are the monies we give to partners in the non-profit world who have taken on the obligations of government and who save us a lot of money because they provide services when we fund those partners
 And we do a lot through parks and housing and other bureaus. That's called smart government. The alternative is that we would provide those services, and we can't. So we provide money to people. And the example that I think is the one that's worth celebrating, Citi owns three steam locomotives. They are part of our property.
 It's an anomaly that we own three steam locomotives, but we ought to be proud of it. And one of them was the lead locomotive on the Bicentennial train that crossed the country in 1976. And the SP4445 is a national treasure. So as long as we own these three steam locomotives, we have an obligation to provide a roof over their heads. Well, we don't have the resources to do that.
 So along came a group of public-spirited people who said, here's a deal that you can't resist. We'll raise $5 million and build a home for them. We'll operate the facility, and we'll take care of those treasured locomotives. Well, that's a pretty good deal, and we said thank you. And so we helped them find the dirt, but they did virtually everything else. Last year, in our budget process, we had $50 million of surplus. We decided to give them $150,000.
 towards the cost of building and operating and maintaining our three locomotives. And they raised $5 million and built the home and are operating it at no expense to government. I'm going to say that was a good grant. And I would have given them more, given that they took on a responsibility of government that we didn't have the resources to do. But they're good grants and bad grants, and I think we can make those distinctions. So anyway, thank you for a great presentation. I'm pleased to accept the report. Bye. Novick?
 I don't know that I can add much to what my colleagues have already said. I really appreciate Michelle and Ken giving us a very clear explanation of what our real problems are and what our real problems aren't, or what might seem to be problems under the accounting rules, but actually are less concerned than the things that I identified as real problems. So thank you very much for your very clear presentation. Hi. Hey, Josef.
 Well, as it happens, I just came back from one of the two meetings each year of the United States Conference of Mayors. And when the people that come to those conferences, mayors and city staff, they mostly roll up their sleeves and talk about problems and how are you solving that problem, how are you addressing that problem. Not much bragging is done because it's just not very polite. But if bragging were allowed, I'd have a lot to brag about.
 And if envy were able to be articulated, there would be a lot of mayors who would be jealous of Portland.
 They'd be jealous for a lot of reasons. They'd be jealous of our transit system. They'd be jealous of our quality of life. They'd be jealous of our historic preservation, of our tree canopy, of our transit mode split, of our bicycle mode split. There's a long list of things that people come to study about Portland, and they would have reason to, and they keep doing that, including other mayors. But probably most of all, they would be jealous of our balance sheet.
 They would be jealous of the fact that when you do this accounting on a regular basis, which is what Ken did, not a funny money basis, but a regular basis, where are we? There are some serious problems. We have a serious problem of transportation infrastructure that's important.
 Out of date, needs to be renovated, and no, Lightning, you're right to raise that point. It wouldn't make sense for us to build more roads with very few exceptions. It would make a lot of sense for us to take better care of the ones that we have because the dollars spent on doing that will avoid more dollars later. We all have talked about that a lot over the last couple of years. Yes, it would make a lot of sense to invest in our great city park system, again, something that other cities would be jealous of.
 but they would be especially jealous of the fact that this report is in a salacious way uninteresting. It's an extremely interesting presentation. The situation from a scandal standpoint is totally boring.
 that Portland for 40 years has had a AAA bond rating. I've been in presentations where our financial staff went to the rating agencies and made the case about why we should keep that bond rating. For example, right after Orange County went into default, I was in on that presentation, and we kept our AAA bond ratings.
 So, Ken, Michelle, you and your staff continue to do a great job, as does our budget office, of making sure that we as decision makers are able to steer Portland in a responsible way and address problems like transportation and parks funding, like utility rates, in a way that is very defensible and, again, that the rest of the country would love to have.
 Our situation and they'd love to have our balance sheet and they probably also love to have our financial staff And I hope they don't take them. Thank you very much. I Okay, let's break from this series of presentations briefly to go back to the two items that we pulled from consent because I think we have some staff standing by To give us some explanations and the first of those was item 84. I
 84 authorized the director of Portland Parks and Recreation or their designee with the power to tow vehicles parked in violation of parking restrictions within park property.
 Thank you, Mayor. This was mistakenly filed on consent. I know that I'm very concerned about when we tow cars, either from the streets or from the parks. So I wanted to make sure that the public understands what the rules are. And second of all, I wanted to publicize that we are updating this policy so that everybody is clear what's going to happen if a car is parked in the wrong place in a park. So with that, our security manager, Galena Burley, is going to make a presentation.
 Great. Well, thank you so much, Commissioner and Council Members. Very good to see you. I will start with...
 In the impact statement that was received with your packets, it talks about the purpose of our presentation today. The city code already allows the director of Portland Parks and Recreation to restrict and prohibit parking in city parks. What the code does not explicitly provide for is for us to tow vehicles when they are in violations of those restrictions.
 So with that, I just want to add that our system of parks includes over 200 facilities, multiple community centers, Portland International Raceway, and many other facilities, including those parks and park properties that we lock at night for safety and maintenance reasons. It is very rare, but at times a need arises in our system for towing authority, and we
 We are, as I mentioned earlier, asking City Council to allow us to make that authority for the director more explicit in Title 16. Currently, what we do is parks officers, since they're not authorized to request towing, we call police when a need arises, and we also get in touch with Portland Bureau of Transportation Parking Enforcement Program.
 And in consulting with both entities and getting their support, we felt that this additional authority would be needed for our team, especially because PBOT parking enforcement program hours and before many of our parks close, most of our parks are open until 12.01 in the morning.
 By having this authority, our officers will be able to order tows through existing mechanism, through the city tow desk, through PBOT, makes it very clear as far as what the logistics of the towing procedure will be. This request would only be done after we would attempt in good faith to find the driver of the vehicle and, consistent with our other work, ask for voluntary compliance. Thank you.
 We also are putting in place a matrix of enforcement functions that start with, again, asking for voluntary compliance, moving to a warning stage if necessary, and then for multiple offenses, request towing and post the vehicle to be towed. One option that we have in some of the cases, especially with sparks where we lock gates, is to do a tow relocate.
 and that's basically towing a vehicle from the area that's locked to the nearest, closest legal parking spot. There are some cases when we would have to order a tow immediately. Again, those are consistent with Title 16. Vehicles parked and blocking pedestrian pathways, as well as vehicles parked blocking fire hydrants. So that would be consistent and would be an immediate tow.
 A few things that we're also putting in place to launch this effort and really working through our ranger program specifically, rangers are responsible to lock parks and gated parks specifically throughout the city of Portland, is more outreach, working with our chronic parking violations, excuse me, in areas where we've had chronic parking violations to educate visitors about rules and regulations. Okay.
 Installing additional outreach signage, letting folks know what the implications of being in the park after posted hours or in a violation of a parking restriction will mean. Providing information to local neighborhood groups on those change in towing enforcement. If requested, we get asked sometimes to come to neighborhood meetings, go to neighborhood meetings and facilitate awareness.
 Be inconsistent with our current approach and other enforcement issues, specifically through the ranger program, gaining voluntary compliance when it's available. Thank you very much. I think that's probably enough information for the council. Obviously, you have a lot more. This is particularly a problem that Mount Tavo Council, Crest, and Pitt have mentioned, where sometimes...
 Maybe young people go to hang out after dark, and then that causes problems for neighbors. So I particularly want to thank the neighbors of those parks for helping us develop this policy. Yeah, I particularly like the element of this in which you're going to attempt to tow them to a legal parking space instead of to an impound lot because we're not interested in financially penalizing people. We're just trying to keep the parks safe and well-maintained. So I like that very much. Any questions, colleagues? Other questions for Galena and the team?
 All right. Thank you all very much. Is there anyone who wants to speak on this item? If not, then we'll take a break. Well, then come on up, please. This morning I got a phone call. What's your name on the record, Joe? Oh, Joe Walsh, representing Individuals for Justice. This morning I got a phone call, and one of our members was concerned that he had just been to the hearing officer, and he sees a lot of people that are getting arrested,
 towing and parking violations and there's no way out so when they argue that they parked in an area that they thought was legitimate and the city comes along and says you can't park there they get a ticket and it costs them a couple hundred dollars and when they go through the appeal process the hearing officer says to them but they acted within the law so you were wrong
 So you've got to pay the fine. So there's no defense. I'm asking Commissioner Fritch to think about this in the parks. What we don't want to do is hassle people that use the park and find out that all of a sudden, if they drive their car, that they get a ticket, and the ticket is expensive, especially if they're towed. All right.
 Now, I know this is the beginning at the parks. You're asking for authority to do this. I'm telling you what, in existence. And I'm suggesting also that if we went back into the history, it would probably show that it was just a little bit. It wasn't so much. Now it is. And that's the way institutions grow, Amanda, and you know that. If we institute this stuff, I think...
 You have to show that there's a major problem. When we interfere with citizens and we write tickets or we try to fine them or we embarrass them, there's got to be a really good reason for that, and not because it's going to make a buck or it's convenient or it's better to have all the cars out of the park at 6 o'clock in the evening or whatever.
 you understand what i'm trying to say i'm trying to say slow down a little look what's happening with the other parking and then come back to the parks and say are we walking into quicksand on this or are we just doing something that's very mild and we got some safeguards that's what we're asking thank you just to clarify we're not proposing to give people tickets we're proposing to tow them to a legal parking spot yeah yes good morning
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And we live in an age of metrics. Unfortunately, not the metric system. We just supposedly are measuring things and trying to assess performance and results. So I hope there'll be some further development of performance metrics, particularly around the area of people whose cars are not moving because of financial distress. So that
 We live in a very car-oriented economy, even though we try harder here in Portland than in other cities to make public transit practical. Some people work very far from where they live. Their family stability is car-dependent. So I hope that...
 The best work of the rangers will continue with this program so that in addition to having the towing objectives accomplished, they'll be empowered to connect people with resources if they're on the brink. We know that in the court system, at times, costs and fees have to be waived for low-wealth and low-income people, and I think it would be appropriate for the council to do that.
 have a provision for that. Some people say, oh, but they have a car. That's an object of wealth. But we don't want to sabotage their one object of wealth and put them in a situation where their employment might be jeopardized. Thank you. Thank you very much. I would just add just one thing. I know I'm in violation, but I don't drive anymore. So I don't have a horse in this race.
 I just can't because of the medications. So I've been driven for 10 years. So my concern is really an altruistic concern. And it's just a caution. You know, when you do these kinds of stuff, just slow down a little bit. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, anyone else? Then let's take a vote, please, on this item. Okay.
 Thank you very much for the presentation. We'll be happy to clarify any additional questions anybody might have. So thanks to Galina Burley and Warren Jimenez at Parks, Tim Crail and Pooja Blatt on my staff, Dave Benson and Jody Walsh.
 Yates at PBOT, the Bureau of Transportation, Dave Galladay and Randy Teague at Police, and the staff at the Piddock Mansion in particular, Robbie Sherwin and community members who have been very impacted by loud partying in the park after hours, which is one of the reasons that this came about. Thank you. Aye. Yes. Novick Hales. Aye. Okay, thank you. Let's take item 86, get the questions answered about that.
 86, appoint members to the Private for Hire Transportation Advisory Committee for terms to expire January 31, 2019. Okay. Commissioner Novick? Colleagues, we have Dave Benson and Mark Williams here to talk about the outreach that PBOT did in soliciting applications for this committee, and Ken McGare here to answer any legal questions.
 Good morning, Council and Mayor. My name is Dave Benson. I'm the Parking Services Group Manager at PVOT. When Council revised the regulations and the code regarding private fire in December of last year, we went about with a sense of urgency to solicit names to...
 our 19-member advisory committee. And here with me today is Mark Williams, and he's going to talk to you a little bit about that process that we went through. Good morning. I'm Mark Williams. I'm the program manager for the Private Fire Transportation. So on December 31st,
 We pulled every available address that we had in our arsenal to make sure that we were able to contact everyone. We invited 1,800 people to apply for the Private Fire Transportation Advisory Committee. 125 of those e-mails came back, probably older addresses that we hadn't updated, and we received roughly about 50 phone calls with questions. January 12th, we followed up with another reminder e-mail.
 Again, to the 1,800 people we originally invited, we did receive a few more phone calls regarding questions. And again, the 125 emails didn't find a way, and they bounced back. Total, we probably only received roughly about 60 applications total. Some of those applications were individuals applying for more than one position with the advisory committee.
 I have a couple of questions if I could. First is there are 17 committee members that you're proposing, and by my count about 15 are industry representatives or people that have a specific stake in the industry, and two are sort of community members. How did you arrive at that mix, and is that the right mix? Yes.
 I believe that we arrived there with some input from the task force. As we move forward, there was a lot of discussions during the task force meetings that we do want to have an advisory committee to help address some of the issues that continue to evolve. And I think it was some recommendations from the task force is where we ended up with the committee seats. And the slots, Commissioner, are established in code, the 19 slots. So a transportation network company.
 a citizen slot. So to your question about the industry being heavily represented, that is part of the code. Part of the code? Yeah. Will there be dedicated staff for this committee? No.
 Yes. How will that work? I will personally be a member on the committee as a non-voting, I would say, advisory committee member, and my role is to make sure that they are well informed of some of the issues that we're having and to be a resource of information when they have questions. So this has been a recurring issue with committees we establish in terms of having adequate support.
 When we established the new citizen-led oversight body for our utilities, we gave them two dedicated staff people. And we're giving this particular committee has a heavy load. I mean, we're asking them to do a lot. I guess what I'd want to know after six months from the committee is, do they need a dedicated full-time staff person, or is it sufficient to have ad hoc staff because –
 I don't want this committee to feel under-supported. And you've got a lot on your plate, obviously. So perhaps in six months, could we hear from the committee as to whether they believe they're getting the staff support they need to be successful? Absolutely, Commissioner. That's a good question to ask, and we will ask that question. And the third thing I just want to observe, I deeply appreciate that Commissioner Novick is moving forward
 to fill these positions and fulfill a commitment he made to
 re-establish the Private for Hire Transportation Advisory Committee. One thing that caused me a little heartburn during our debate about TNCs was the previous Private for Hire Committee became somewhat invisible during our deliberations. They were replaced by another committee that didn't really have much in the way of subject matter expertise, and so I felt from time to time like we were not hearing from a group of people that had some history and expertise. Now-
 There was some criticism about the composition of that committee and whether it was representative enough or diverse enough. But I just want to have a commitment here today that this committee is a substantive committee that we will be hearing from at least annually. And if there are disagreements that the committee, either a majority or minority of the committee, has about how we are implementing this new code, that will come to council. Okay. Agreed.
 So thank you. And is it your intention, finally, Mr. Williams, that there will be some kind of annual report? Yes, yes. And I would imagine that you will probably hear from the committee at least some recommendations from the committee prior to the annual report. There are a lot of immediate issues that this committee will be charged to resolve. So we're very eager to get them in place and get them addressing some of these issues. Thank you very much.
 Any other questions? Commissioner, I have a suggestion following up on Commissioner Fish's request for input from the committee in six months. Maybe that's a way to resolve the challenge of having all of the appointments end on the same date. My understanding is that seven of the 17 currently nominated for appointment have served on the Private for Hire Board before, so that might be a way to sort some folks who might be able to –
 However they want to do it. It seems like, as with Commissioner Fish's leadership in bringing together the Portland Utility Board, they're going to set their own bylaws, presumably. And it would be nice if you could come back in six months with an amended resolution
 saying that these positions expire in one year, these positions expire in two years, and these in three. Would that be acceptable to you, Commissioner? Yes, I mean, that actually requires a code change, and I agree we should have staggered terms. We just didn't think of it. So we shouldn't, so I expect that we will come back with a staggered term proposal.
 I think that if the committee were to volunteer to have their term end earlier, the code says that the terms are three years. But this initial one, usually we remember to put in the initial code that this first committee's terms will be staggered. That wasn't in the private for hire ordinance. But if the committee were to decide amongst themselves, we're going to have this our first term, and obviously they'd be eligible for another term after that.
 I think that would be a way to solve the ongoing problem. Commissioner, I also just wanted to know if you had a concern about representation of immigrant drivers. We have one taxi driver representative, just like we have one representative for other categories.
 That representative happens to be Ilyas Daroe, who is an African American, but we noticed that in his application, he observed that he's a Somali speaker who's been active as a volunteer with the Somali community. So he does have some experience with, you know, working with at least one immigrant community that has a number of drivers. Okay.
 Good. And I note that you have two vacant spots still for a shuttle driver and an executive town car driver. Of course, part of the challenge that cab drivers have right now is that they are having to work much longer hours in order to make a living, so they may not be able to volunteer to serve on the committee. But that is an opportunity should somebody be willing to help set the new rules. Yeah, and we recognize that opportunity, and we're going to be doing some targeted outreach in the next few weeks to address that very issue. Okay.
 Thank you very much. Other questions? Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? Then let's take a vote, please. Motion to accept the report. So moved. Second. Roll call, please. Britt. Thank you for the presentation and for the willingness to come back in six months with revisions. Aye. Miss. Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for following through on the commitment. Thanks for the presentation. We're asking this committee to do a lot. One of the things we learned in our discussions,
 very thorough public debate and consideration of so-called TNCs is that there are a lot of unresolved issues locally and nationally
 and they're still being fought out, questions about adequate levels of insurance, whether drivers are employees or independent contractors. I would note that in some financial filings of the leading TNCs in the nation, they recently said that their business model is predicated on folks being classified as independent contractors, and their long-term viability might change if the law disagreed with their view.
 Obviously, safety, compliance with safety regulations, compliance with our code. And frankly, I'd like to see a place where the complaints are going and being adjudicated. We have a somewhat inefficient system right now where a lot of us get tweets on a daily basis that are tantamount to complaints about noncompliance in the TNC industry. And I want to see those complaints going to the committee and to staff and us getting regular reports on whether people are following the rules.
 But I appreciate the work to bring this committee roster forward and this discussion. Aye. Novick? Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Mark and Ken and Dave, and thanks to all of the volunteer members of the committee. Aye. Niels? Aye. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's move back to our time-certain items. Item number 78, please.
 Results of financial audit of the City Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for Fiscal Year 2014-15 and related communications. Okay. Auditor Caballero and team. Morning. Morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My task today is to introduce Jim Lanzarota, a partner in the accounting firm of Moss Adams, and he's going to present the results of the most recent audit of the City's financial statements.
 And also with me to help respond to questions is the Director of Audit Services, Drummond Kahn. And annual financial audits of local governments are required by Oregon law. City managers and staff are responsible for preparing the financial statements. My office manages the contract for the audit. This arrangement provides Moss Adams an extra measure of independence from management, which should contribute to a higher level of confidence in the results for you and the public.
 Before I turn it over to Jim, I'd like to acknowledge and thank Principal Auditor Fiona Earle from my office, who is chiefly responsible for the hands-on management of the contract and the herding of the cats to get it done. And I'd also like to just take a minute to respond to a couple of questions that you had from the prior presentation earlier.
 and about the government standards. And I just wanted to point out that the reason why those standards are important to understand and to follow is because they allow for comparisons across the nation, of cities across the nation, because everybody's complying with those standards.
 And so I think that I appreciate the more nuanced presentation that you got this year about the CAFR, because I think all of that is very important information for you to consider and discuss. But when you look at the data, the way the standard, when you're following the standards,
 and not getting in the nuanced weeds, it allows you to look how you're doing against other cities. And so – And, auditor, I appreciate you saying that, but we also were told that very few cities have a pay-as-you-go system. So how is that helpful? Sure.
 Right. So what I'm, if you let me finish, I will let you know that it allows you to see big picture trends and how other cities, some cities are going up and some cities are going down. And Portland is going down. And when you're keeping company with cities we know to be troubled, like Detroit and Stockton, that should be propelling some questions about why are we going down, looking at the cities that are going up and say, what are they doing differently? And so it just allows for a bigger picture comparison. Your view is we're keeping company with Detroit? A city that's bankrupt?
 The data that we had, was that last year, where we compared cities. Your view is that we're keeping company, that Detroit's a peer city in terms of the financial health of our city? Yes, that's what the data shows.
 But my point, the point I'm making is that it allows you to ask some questions, to look at the trend lines in comparison to other cities and ask questions. So that's why the standards are important, because it allows for that kind of analysis. Is it your view that we should scrap our current pension plan and put in something else to address that problem? Because as long as our plan is a pay-as-you-go, we're going to have a liability with no asset. Right.
 Is it your view that we should go back to the voters with a different plan for how to fund it to change so that it would have a beneficial impact on our balance sheet? My view is that that's your decision. And what we're recommending is that you don't dismiss looking at the data based on accounting standards.
 and that you just use that information to ask more questions, to appreciate the context that there is something in place to bring in future revenues. And so I just wanted, when you were asking questions about the standard, I just wanted to respond to that, that that's why we do that.
 And the other thing I wanted to point out is that we often make reference to the fact that the city has a AAA bond rating. And I think it's important in context also to understand that only 12% of the city's bonds are AAA rated. And so that is also a more nuanced thing. And it's easy to fall into the conversation and take comfort in things when you need to know the more detailed picture.
 And so I just wanted to respond to those two things. And now I will turn it over to Jim Lanzarote to give you the results of the audit. Okay. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales, commissioners. Appreciate the opportunity to come and finish the audit process. Really, we're not quite done until we've had this communication with you. In fact, our audit standards require that we come before you and give you the results. And so appreciate the opportunity to do that. In prior years, we just did that with your bureau heads or department heads in a debrief meeting. And for the last several years, I think at the direction of your elected auditor, you've
 provided an opportunity for us to do this. So very much appreciate that. I was thinking earlier, I mean, Ken did such a phenomenal job, I think, of talking to you about the finances that my presentation was going to be rather boring in comparison. And actually, I think that's the way you would want it to be. So use the word salacious, I think, at one point, and nothing salacious about the report I'm about to give you. So...
 What I'd like to do is tell you about the nature of services you engaged us to do and tell you a little bit about what that entails. Obviously, you want to know the results of that. I think the cat's already out of the bag. You've heard a little bit about the results of the audit.
 But I'll give you a few more details to that. And there are some required communications in an audit, and I've met those requirements by issuing to you a written form. And I'll just hit on a couple of those points. Hopefully you've had a chance to read through that, and then maybe just a couple follow-up comments.
 So when I look at the city's audit, I kind of break it down into five components. And you have a pretty good understanding of the first. I mean, it's that audit, the independent audit of this document. I mean, are the numbers in here accurate? Does it have all of the requirements of the accounting standards? You heard the GASB, you've been mentioning GASB. You're making my heart flutter. You actually understand that body and its purpose.
 And anyway, I have to determine if you've put this together to meet all of those requirements. And not only for the city, this is the city overall, but you also engage us to do a separate report for FPD&R, so the trust fund that reports that pension information. Also for Portland Development Commission, so your component unit that does all the urban renewal projects.
 And we also do a special report for hydro, which meets a compliance requirement with an agreement you have with PG&E. So we do all those audits. So you have an understanding of the audit, independent verification of these numbers, and so forth.
 A second element, though, is that we have a requirement to look at the checks and balances that management uses to make sure that they can put this together accurately. And an obligation to tell you if there are weaknesses or problems with those checks and balances. Okay.
 A third element is a requirement to test your compliance with certain state laws. You're an Oregon municipal corporation, and in Oregon, the state says that the auditor for you, your external auditor, will look at compliance with things like your budgeting, your ability to go through the budget process and meet the requirements, and then the administration of the prior year budget. Are you doing that public purchasing process?
 insurance requirements, public deposits, how you handle your cash and investments. Those are just a few of the areas we're required to test. A fourth area, you receive a fair amount of federal awards. And with that comes a requirement for your external auditor to test for compliance, certain additional compliance requirements. So we did that.
 And then a fifth element I highlight just for you because you have a pretty dedicated and experienced accounting staff that can put this document together. So in Oregon, there's probably 1,500 or so organizations that have to file financial statements with the state
 a majority of them are unable to put this document together in-house. They have to rely on their auditor. So in our case with the city, since you're able to put it together, we just do a technical review of that to make sure that your staff does that. And we also test it for the additional requirements of an award. And I don't know if...
 if that really got highlighted, but you submit this to the Government Finance Officers Association for an award which requires that you go above and beyond the minimum requirements of GAAP and put some additional information in here. And we do a test or a review, I should say, to see if you're meeting those requirements. So that's kind of what you engaged us to do. Does that make sense so far? It certainly does. Okay, excellent. Well, let's talk about the results.
 So, the main thing you want to know, of course you already heard, on page 13 is our opinion or the start of the opinion, which is in layman's terms what we call a clean opinion. I think your controller, Michelle Kirby, said it was unmodified. That's the technical term. She's absolutely right.
 We have one additional paragraph in there that you don't always see, and it just highlights the fact that you implemented that GASB on pensions. So it still doesn't take away from the fact that it's an unmodified opinion or a clean opinion. It just highlights the fact that you had to implement that new accounting standard. So this is a point when you wish bells and whistles would go off, the balloons would fall, confetti, something, but –
 It's a lot of effort for your crew to pull this together. You ask what was formerly known as the Office of Management and Finance to pull this together, but you've got a lot of bureaus where information resides. They've got to pull all that, a lot of funds, pull that together to meet these requirements, and they do a pretty good job of that. I mentioned a requirement to look at your internal controls.
 So we did that work. We have to assess whether those are working, whether they're designed appropriately, and are they in fact working. And we're able to tell you that we found no deficiencies in your financial-related internal controls. And you have had some in the past, but this...
 is really good. So your crew, in the past when they've had some issues, have taken appropriate steps and were able to tell you that we did not identify any issues this year in that regard. Can you remind us, what's a garden variety deficiency that might pop up in an audit like this? Yeah, so gosh, there's quite a few that tend to... Of course, not applicable to us, but to another city like Detroit. Pop up, yeah.
 I'd say when it comes to internal controls, the common things that you hear about are lack of segregation of duties. That's probably the most common. So you take a function like accounting for your billings for water or environmental services. Maybe the same person is responsible for doing the billing and then collecting the cash and then recording that transaction in the general ledger. That's a common one. Okay.
 that most errors that we see in financial statements revolve around capital assets and the inability to identify when you have acquired an asset and to get it in the books and records appropriately, or vice versa or opposite side of that, when you get rid of an asset, are you removing it from the books? That's a real common type of –
 error we find. So there are controls around the communication that has to happen between the different bureaus and the accounting or department heads in accounting to get that right. And so those are examples of deficiencies where there could be a technical violation of a rule about who does what and how it's done, even if there's no finding that there's an adverse impact on the budget. Yeah. So the issue with the control, you could still get to the right answer at the
 but your procedures maybe are not adequate to identify an error timely. You know, oftentimes when the auditor comes in, we'll identify an error and management will make an appropriate correction so the financials can get to the right ending result and you can still have control deficiencies that have to be reported. So I just gave you a couple examples of deficiencies that might occur or are fairly common.
 Is that okay? Hopefully, yeah. Okay. Let's see. Now, I mentioned also the requirement to look at state laws. And again, this year, we found no violations with the seven or eight areas that were required to test. And that also strikes me because one of the most common...
 violations we find are over expenditures against your appropriated budget. And you have so many funds. You have bureaus. You have a lot of people who are involved in the process of monitoring against your budget to have no over expenditures. That's pretty amazing. I don't know if we had anyone else this year amongst our client base that could have done that.
 that can say that. Also in public purchasing, in the handling of your cash and investments, those other areas that we were required to test, again, no violations of state laws were identified. In the area of federal grants, again,
 So the city received, or I should say expended, about $36.5 million this last year of federal awards. So these are grants that come to the city of what you received. You spent $36.5 million. So we're required to test your compliance. There could be up to 14 different types of compliance requirements associated with any one of those grants, like who's eligible to receive that, what are the eligible activities or expenditures required,
 to that grant, those sorts of things. What's the reporting that you need to do to the state or other federal agencies? And again, no findings of noncompliance. So that's a phenomenal result. You've had some findings in prior years. And whatever the issues were, your staff adequately addressed those. So this year, no findings.
 What's nice about having no findings as well is that if you can manage that two years in a row, you can achieve what's called a low-risk auditee status. And the city has a low-risk auditee status. So what that does is it enables us to test fewer grant programs to meet the single audit requirements. That saves you some dollars.
 as well. So we only had to look at two major programs this year. In prior years, we've looked historically at about six, six or seven, between five and eight is the norm. So that's good news to you. Okay, required, almost done. Required communications. Again, I've issued a letter to you, but I wanted to hit on a couple things that you might be interested in.
 So I think Michelle mentioned to your controller about the timing of things, and that is a pretty phenomenal improvement on your part. There have been times when the city actually hasn't even been able to hit the December 31st deadline. We went into January. You moved it up to December 1 this year.
 I guess the other thing that strikes me about that is that you have a renew of Ken Rust here, new as CFO perhaps or with that title, but back. So a transition there and a transition with your controller. So you've got some transitions of some key players in this process, and you are still able to get this done faster. So a little bit of a renewed process to get the books closed and facilitate our audit process. And so...
 Of our client base, I think you were one of the few, if maybe the only one, that was able to issue sooner this year than last year. So this new GASB standard on pensions was a tough issue for our clients, and so was just turnover of experienced people. So you had some turnover, but you got some quality people in here that enabled you to actually beat your timeline. So a pretty good result there.
 Boards often want to know, gosh, did we find any errors in the financials that required management to make adjustments? And we did not find any errors that were significant enough that we had to ask management to make adjustments. Sometimes we find errors and they're immaterial, so we can agree to not have that corrected. And really, there were no errors of that kind ever.
 Your staff completed a project based on some control deficiencies in prior years over capital assets. I don't know if you go back a couple years. We identified that you had some properties. A lot of them were donated, perhaps, and never added to your capital asset records. And we recommended that you go through an evaluation of what you have recorded against what all the county assessors did.
 say you own. And just to give you an example, Parks and Rec went through that process. Given the volume of properties and their capacity of time, it took a while for them to finish it. But they, in this year, finally finished that project and were able to get the properties recorded. So you had a few properties that got recorded in this fiscal year that really were acquired in prior years.
 But by the end of the year now, we're fairly confident that you've captured them all. So really no audit adjustments and really no past adjustments that we're aware of at this time.
 another thing that boards want to know is gosh did we have difficulties in the process disagreements with management you know were they evasive when we ask questions were they not providing documents those kinds of things and i'm happy to tell you that none of that occurred i think your crew understand the importance of the audit process and they want to get us in and out as fast as they can i would say that we've had some spirited discussions but they've all been healthy
 uh and uh would it would be deemed appropriate in my eyes so no disagreements no particular difficulties encountered if anything it was probably a challenge for us to keep up with the pace of your staff so that we could help you meet your deadline of december 1st and i'm pleased with my team that they were able to change how we scheduled the work so that we could help you accomplish that goal
 we'll have that challenge again as you move it up another two weeks this year but again i'm confident that we'll be able to rise to the challenge on our end to help you meet that timeline
 Really, the last thing I would say is that Ken already went through an analysis of your net position. I guess I'd be happy to answer any questions from my position. I could talk a little bit more about GASB 68 when I understand the intent of it. And in that letter, I did give you kind of an idea of the big picture.
 elements that drove the decline in that position this last year, and Ken kind of went through that. Can I jump on that? Please. I'd like to get your opinion. I hope that none of the questions from the council were interpreted as being dismissive of the GASB or the rule. We're just trying to understand it. Yeah. And when we're told that it allows us to compare ourselves to other cities, and yet we have a uniquely different way of running our pension than other cities, we're trying to figure out what is the comparison that's meaningful. Right.
 So let me ask you the question. Sure. You seem to be giving us a thumbs up in terms of the audit. So that's how we manage money. That's encouraging. This is your, what, fifth, sixth, seventh? Yeah, actually longer than that. So my entire service on the council, you've been presenting. And you haven't always been as gracious, so I'm positive. There have been some dings along the way. But you're talking about money.
 how we manage money and our systems, very important. We had a presentation on the CAFR and our sort of long-term trends. I'm trying to reconcile a couple of things. So on the long-term fiscal health, FPD and R gets two greens, and the trends are going in the right direction. Okay.
 Under GASB and how it impacts what you call our net asset position, we're learning a lot today, 75% of the change in our position is attributed to a rule which requires us to book a liability for which we have no corresponding asset, even though
 that's the way our system is structured, is pay as you go. So what guidance do you have for us? Because I'm trying to figure out whether that means our pension system under the federal rules is no longer –
 appropriate for the times and has to be changed, or if we need to put a footnote on our net asset position to clarify that unlike other cities that pre-fund their pension liabilities, we don't. And so it's going to have a negative effect on our balance sheet. Wow. Loaded question. I'm on the hot seat. I can feel it.
 The electricity is growing. Let me try to make maybe three points that might help answer your question. The first thing that I want to make clear is that the audit and the audit opinion is really about the accuracy of this document. Have you met all the bells and whistles? You can be on a, you can be, I hate to use the term Detroit, but you could be a Detroit and still get a clean opinion on the financials if it is put together correctly.
 So, first of all, the audit is designed toward whether you're doing your books and records accurate, you're meeting the accounting standards. It does not address efficiency, effectiveness, are your financial policies sound, and so forth. So, to make that distinction. The second thing would probably be that GASB 680, I think the comments were made pretty effectively before there, the intent is transparency.
 The issue is that when it comes to payroll, you don't get into trouble too much. An employee works a month.
 You can them a paycheck. At the end of that month, you're square. You've paid for the benefit of that service. But you have other benefits that you offer. You incur the cost, but you don't pay for that right away. A typical employee might be here for 15 years, and it's still another 20 years before they get a payout under that benefit that you've offered them. The accounting standard is trying to...
 to put together when the cost is incurred. Who cares when the check is cut? Your employee worked this year. They earned another set of benefits under the pension plan. So we need to recognize that cost this year and then measure it against the revenues that you brought in to determine if you're covering that cost. So the accounting standard is really trying to improve comparability amongst employees
 governments that have pensions to make sure that all the cost is being recognized right now, no matter when you fund it. The other thing is, is that
 it ought to be easier for a reader to understand if you have funded your pension system. And Ken mentioned it pretty well. I mean, obviously, if you maybe could have gone back when PD&R was first begun, when you offered that benefit, you identified the property taxes, if you would have gone back knowing what we know today, you probably would have asked the voters to allow you to fund it
 closer to when the cost was incurred. So that would be a second point. The third point, which I think, Ken, has you on an excellent path to understand is you may be where you are today, but what you really want to do is look forward.
 Can you provide services? Do you have the cash flow? Do you have the check when the time comes to cut it? Do you have the resources to cover that check? That's where your focus ought to be. So you have this dedicated property tax. Provide that it comes in as necessary, you'll always have the cash to cut that check, right?
 And so as long as you're getting the help from Ken and his team to understand if you have the cash when the checks have to be cut and you can plan in advance for that, then I think you'll be fine. I guess one of the challenges in how we talk about this publicly is,
 And thanks to Commissioner Saltzman, the mayor, and others, over time, there have been some reforms of FPD and R, which have put it on more solid footing. I'm seeing drum and nod for the record. And so it's a closed system, and we've been trying to make it more sustainable. And I think we all agree we've made strides.
 Through an accounting rule, we have to show a liability with no corresponding asset, even though the flow of money to pay for the out-year costs is secure by law through a property tax mechanism. It's just a different way in which, you know, a long time ago, the citizens of Portland set this thing up. But it's not like overnight our –
 our balance sheet became toxic. It's just that we don't have a corresponding asset to book with the liability. Isn't that right? Yeah. And what I would say, a couple other points, too, is –
 it's you've made the comment a couple times so i think it's worthy to point out that you did make a change the council made a change back in 2006 if i remember and it is a closed plan so no new fire and police employees are going into that they're going into oregon pers and you are funding that on an actuarial basis which tries to measure a better approximation of the cost that's incurred each year you're actually funding that right now so
 your issue with FPD&R is all the folks that were hired prior to 2006 and making sure that we have sufficient cash flow to fund the checks when they retire. And so you have solved the issue.
 now, so you're funding all the folks hired after 2006 on a more sound basis, so it's the risk of those hired prior to 2006. The thing that you've asked of management and they're doing is they periodically go out and get a projection of the property taxes, and I think they go out 40 years, if I remember right. It's a 40-year evaluation, and they run the risk. What's the risk? Okay.
 that your assessed value and the property taxes that come in will be insufficient to meet the obligation. And that's a phenomenal tool to you. So I think that's – I don't think it's done every year, but it's probably every –
 every two years and i think you're on the heels of getting one or you just got one or so you have one recent one the i don't know the recent results the one prior to that i think there was less than a five percent chance or a five percent of all the possible scenarios that you looked at where you would run short sometime in the future
 So to me, doing that type of analysis will help you understand if FPDNR is a problem. And the other thing I like about it, you're going out 40 years. If you see the risk, or maybe the risk jumps higher than 5%, 10%, whatever, if it becomes a greater risk,
 that some scenario could result where you'd be short, and you can see that in advance, you could start building a reserve fund. You could take steps now to maybe cover that risk. That's the caution flag. Correct. That's the caution flag different than...
 we're headed to armageddon that's just that's a risk factor and you're right the the plan the fund does do that assessment looking out for you grumman what do you want to add well there's another big piece here which is the declining assets so we've been talking a lot about fpdr city has two big pension obligations in the future fpdr and pers we also have declining assets
 pipes, et cetera, as those decline, those impact this net asset number two. Another concern is that- MR. Is that already part of the 25 percent? Are you talking-so 75 percent of the current change given the GASB rule is attributed to FPD and R. MR. Right. MR. Are you within the 25 percent, or are you forecasting future changes? MR. We can even do better. We can look back before the new GASB rule came into effect.
 So in other words, if we look back to 2006, the city had net assets of about $1.3 billion. Today, with GASB 68 recognized, we're in the hole about $1.2 billion, meaning we went from $1.3 above the line
 to 1.2 below the line and the 1.2 below the line is exclusively attributed to a changing in how we book fpdnr a big piece of it 100 because it's 1.264 million is fpdnr so we would be in the green not the black if it wasn't for gasby and how we report that that amount well but the year before that rule went into effect in other words excluding the fpdr gasby recognition our net assets had declined up until 2013.
 down to about $350 million, meaning that even without that new recognition of the future pension problem or pension obligation, we went from $1.2, $1.3 billion to $300 million from pensions as part of it, but assets as well as the city's costs exceeding the revenues that it brought in. So it's not just GASB and it's not just pensions. It reflects kind of the accretion of all these other decisions around pensions
 revenues versus costs, as well as the asset decline. So that's why you look at it as a trend over a period of time, not necessarily the particular snapshot of a year. Exactly. Because GASME does, unfortunately, distorts our books a little bit because the way we fund our pension is different.
 But you're looking at a trend line. Correct. And we would agree our report from last June on these trends, we call it Portland's Fiscal Sustainability and Financial Condition, we would agree with virtually all of Ken's comments about the long-term concerns and risks. In fact, we published a similar page in this report that talked about that. So there's really no debate over the core issues of how do we manage costs versus expenses.
 How do we – not necessarily how do we financially treat pensions, but how do we manage them, as Jim and Ken talked about. But that's our concern. And there's generally good news. We have generally on a strong footing. Tax revenue looks terrific. But costs still continue to exceed – I'm sorry, yeah, the costs exceed the revenues that we're bringing in. You know, you serve, I think, as the head of the national – some national body, so you get to talk to peers in other cities. Are we –
 Where do we stack up? Well, this is one of our concerns. When we compare our net assets to six comparable cities, and we can, of course, discuss whether these are the exact correct six cities, but six that we've compared to in the past, our net position is declining. Those six cities have a fairly flat net position. The difference is not very big.
 But the difference essentially is that their expenses are essentially the same as their costs. Our expenses are, I'm sorry, our revenues. Our revenues are just a little bit less than our expenses.
 And it's part of that accretion that leads to that difference to go from the $1.2 billion to the $3 billion. Can you generalize as to whether the biggest factor in this difference is personal service contracts versus prepaying for, you know, how we pay for capital improvements?
 they're all different in our report we talk about how other cities break down their expenses um but i think it's multiple factors and part of it is just how do we manage those revenues and costs to be just a little bit closer to be more like the six other comparable cities thank you okay are
 Other questions, other points that you want to? Well, just the other, just again, showing some appreciation. I think Mayor Hales commissioned a study some time ago about looking at the structure of OMF, and I don't know if the question of whether to have a CFO or not was directly related to that, but clearly that was on the tertiary of that. And what's...
 We got asked some questions in that regard about our viewpoint on that. And when the possible job description of the CFO, there was a lot about, hey, helping us with the long-term sustainability initiatives. And, gosh, that's just – you got an example today, I think, of the benefits. So I'm very appreciative of the study that –
 Mayor Hales commissioned, and it appears to me you've implemented a lot of the recommendations, and I think you're seeing the benefit of that because that's the type of analysis, and getting on the front end of it. I mean, really, pensions, how you account for them, all of that is noise. What you want to do is make sure you've got the cash to do what you want to do when you need the cash. That's what we're worried about, and the
 the net position is a trend. I mean, it's informative to the extent that your policies enable that trend to continue. If your policies identify the issue and when cash flow becomes a problem and you can get ahead of it,
 then you're fine, and that's the type of thing that I just witnessed today, that you're getting that type of reporting, and I have every confidence that you're going to continue to get that kind of reporting. And I think the additional challenge is taking, Ken, I think, came up with three points or three ideas that would influence you in your budget. The additional challenge is really getting down even more detailed about what does that mean and how you act differently, and as long as you guys get there in enough,
 you're going to be fine. But this is a great start to that process. That's good to hear. That's great. Thank you, Jim. Thank you. Any other questions for our auditor or our outside auditor as well? Well, thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Excellent presentation. Anyone want to speak on this item? One? Okay. A couple. Come on up, please. Go ahead, Lightning. I think you'll be first.
 My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the biggest concerns I've had on this issue is that, in my opinion, I think the City of Portland is doing too much land banking. And why I say that is that I think we have a lot of properties out there that has been stated that, number one, have been donated, have not been transferred to the city. Number two, we've had numerous properties donated
 that have said idle for many, many years and have done nothing but run up deferred maintenance. And there's a tremendous amount of cost to that, to have these properties sitting empty, running up deferred maintenance. And what I've always wanted to see, and I know we're talking to the accountants here and the auditors, is that I want to see a real detailed list of the capital assets of the City of Portland
 And when I say that is I want to know when they were purchased, how much they were purchased for, what their current value is now, and have a clear understanding on what the city owns. And that pertains to everything from the brownfields to when we call certain properties surplus and decide to sell these properties. I want to have a clear understanding on what the current capital assets are. And the reason being is that when we say that we need cash,
 to provide more services if we have a tremendous amount of real estate which we do the city controls then let's not be land bankers and let's convert that into cash and begin to to provide more services with this funding because we need to have a clear understanding on why we're holding on to some of these capital assets plain and simple if we're holding on to them for say 10 plus years and we've done nothing with that property
 We need to have a clear understanding why we're doing that because, again, we're not receiving tax revenue off that, which, of course, has been stated that's very important on the pensions. We're not doing anything to add more value to these properties, but we're holding on to them. And I want to have a closer audit on all real estate that is controlled by the city of Portland, and I want to have understanding how long we've owned it.
 what the intent to do with this property is, and if not, possibly put it up for sale, convert it into cash, and to start buying down some of this debt. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good morning. Still, almost. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I hope that in your future informal conversations with people who participate in the city budget process,
 that you'll take into consideration what Mr. Lightning just mentioned about deferred maintenance and expenses that are coming into our heads so that we can have a more vibrant conversation, including the auditor and our citizens, about where have we cut corners or saved because of financial contingency and how are we going to keep the city robust and address these issues in a number of ways, far beyond just the concerns for street fees and gas taxes. Thank you.
 With this particular report, the audit report runs over 400-some pages, and I just think that we'd be in a better position if you and Auditor Hall Caballero have public forum time where people engage with this. In the past, there was a people's budget program, many people who participate in the city's project, and now,
 As Commissioner Fish raised, there are metrics and charts. I think, I don't know if Auditor Hall Caballero's staff specifically abstained from bringing us some PowerPoints so we could have scary charts that make us look like Detroit. But I think that there may be a place for that level of engagement. Thanks, y'all. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, is there a motion to accept the report? I'll move. Second. Discussion? Vote, please. Yes.
 Thanks again to Jim Lanzarote and Moss Adams for the report. And thank you for all of the city staff as you're going through it. It's not just the Office of Management Finance. It's all the bureaus who are helping to report. So I specifically want to thank Kia Selle and Jeff Schaefer in Parks. Kia is the asset manager. I really appreciate her. We're getting everything documented. Michael Kirsten and Amy Archer in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. And then I'm sorry.
 sure that Christine Moody and Procurement Services and Andrew Scott in the City Budget Office must have had something to do with gathering the data and making sure that we're doing things correctly. It's really good to have a Chief Financial Officer who's in charge of looking over this. And finally, thank you so much to Auditor Mary Hale-Caballero for a very clear report and for looking at the data and telling it like it is. Bye.
 Yes. Thanks, Jim and team. And so this is the seventh or eighth that I've had the privilege of hearing. And to be told we have a clean opinion and then to go through all the subcategories and tell us that we're in good standing is really heartening. And I know, having served at parks and housing organizations,
 before that to have no deficiencies and to have all the money tracked from all the different accounts is a huge undertaking. So I would congratulate city staff for being diligent in managing public dollars, but I also thank you, Jim, for the professionalism you bring to this and the perspective. And I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? I hereby incorporate my colleague's previous remarks. Aye. Aye.
 this huge positive news that I do not expect to see on the front page of any newspaper well done all right thank you very much okay let's move on to item 79 please presentation from know your city on their civic equity engagement managers program welcome Cameron Whitten and his colleagues one
 one sentence summary I see here in my materials that I think sums up my understanding but our understandings could be improved of that know your city in the civic equity engagement managers program provide engaging non-traditional means of dialogue through a multicultural lens providing people from diverse backgrounds the opportunity to become civically engaged and have a greater connection to the surrounding community what a great idea welcome
 Thank you, Mayor Hales. And thank you, city commissioners, for allowing me to be here today. It's an honor. My name is Cameron Witten. I serve as executive director of Know Your City. In fact, I believe we were here last year also testifying on the Jade Journal program. I appreciate your support of that. It's my understanding that you did visit the students that we worked with, the fifth grade class at Harrison Park last year.
 And it's reflective, the J Journal, of our mission, what drives us around civic artistic empowerment in this community, and what drives us here to be here today and really find this critical opportunity to invest in all of our students and make sure that in our pedagogy, in our schools,
 actually reflects their stories, reflects their histories, and empowers them to be the best students they can be. We've seen this enshrined in the Portland plan, and we see this enshrined within our mutual goals to make this a city of opportunity. And so with our research, which we have done in part with the business capstone department at Portland State University, we have found that
 the least that the city of Portland can do is to partner with culturally responsive organizations such as Know Your City and others we have here talking today to make sure that we have that engagement that is necessary to make sure that we provide these opportunities to our students, that we actually work with teachers and schools to create new curriculum around the history of Oregon that is diverse and reflective and inclusive, and we actually create training modules and programs that allows teachers to bring this through classrooms.
 So we have a lot of speakers here today, so I'm cutting my time short, but I will be speaking near the end. And first I want to introduce Todd Struble. Before you do that, Mayor, I've got a bunch of staff people teed up to do presentations. This is scheduled for 15 minutes. Can we do a time check? Well, yeah, I would like us to go to maybe 1230 and then break.
 I mean, for what we have remaining on the calendar today? Well, we're not going to get to any of the utility stuff by 12. How much time are we budgeting for this? I'll say 20 minutes. Yeah. I think we can probably do this in 20 minutes. So we'll get to a little after the hour at that point, and then we should. Do you want us to be ready to go with the BES items? I would think that would, since those are the next ones, yes, please. All right.
 All right. Excuse me, Cameron. We're juggling people's lunch hours and work schedules. So thank you. Cameron Walsh- Okay. Bill, introduce themselves. Todd Struble Good morning. Thank you, Commissioners. My name is Todd Struble, and I'm here with the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon. I'd like to echo Cameron's in thanking you for your support and of our work out in East Portland in the Jake District NPI. But today I'm here to talk about APANO's education priorities.
 The Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon is a social justice grassroots organization, and part of our mission is to support education justice. And Know Your City's role and work is directly aligned with APANO's education priorities right now. For instance, there is an ethnic studies campaign to win those types of classes in Portland public schools.
 And that is actually one of APANO's highest priorities. It's given the most capacity and support, and thus we want to support Know Your City's work as well as that that's directly aligned. And I also wanted to point out that that ethnic studies campaign was self-selected by an ally, which is the API Leaders for Liberation of Youth group. That's APANO's youth group.
 they identified that as a topic and campaign that they wanted to work on that they felt would best support their needs. And we look at that as really crucial to advancing those ideas of equity in education. And we believe that supports some of the priorities and opportunities for all. So I would just like to say thank you again for the opportunity to speak, and please support our story's request. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mike. Put your name on the record, please. Good morning. I'm Mike Rosen, and I'm a member of the Portland School Board, and I'm also the director of the Ecoliteracy Collaborative, which provides culturally specific curriculum development for sustainability. I'm here today to support the New York City funding proposal, which is really to improve the quality and quantity of culturally specific curriculum
 K-5 Oregon history education in Portland area schools. And so one thing I wanted to, I wanted to acknowledge two things. I want to give a shout out to the Ally students. They came to the school board last night to talk about their project.
 They're a great bunch of students, and I think what's... why it's important to acknowledge them is the movement in this state to provide culturally relevant curriculum is not coming from the state leaders. It's coming from the people that want it, and in this case, it's the students, and that's a good thing, and that's, you know, one of the reasons why we need to, as leaders, support it. But in any event,
 I also want to thank Know Your City. They have done extraordinary work to date. They clearly love this city, and they're really dedicated to connecting citizens to this city's history, including what I would say are some of the unsavory elements. And they've done this in really unique ways. They've done this through art, and they've done this by just putting their feet on the ground and providing free tours for people and showing them...
 the history of the city. I want to relate one thing. A couple weeks ago, and Commissioner Fish participated in this too, I was invited to be a teacher for the day at Lent K-8.
 school. And what's one of the unique things about Lent is it's one of the most diverse schools that we have in Portland Public Schools, and it was a fifth grade class. And when I told them that my lesson was going to be on civics, they clearly were not impressed. And so then I thought, well, I'll give them a little background about myself and tell them what motivates me. And one of the
 that I brought was Comics for Change. And so this is one of the things that New York City has worked on. And it's important because it really represents the power of their approach. And so what I showed the kids was this comic book collection
 that they created. And what's incredible about this is it shows, tells the story of heroes, advocates in our community. So whether you're white, you're homeless, you're LGBTQ, whether you're Muslim or you're black, whether you're an Asian Pacific Islander, it tells these stories. And these kids were like, wow.
 And then I felt like, you know, really I should just talk about these and not what I wanted to talk about. But I'm a bureaucrat, so I talked about what I wanted to talk about. And but what I asked them to do is I asked them to break up into small groups and identify three priorities for the school board and then come back together and as a large group of 25 students.
 identify three priorities. And one other thing, that classroom
 was the spectrum that's represented in these educational tools. So anyway, they came back with four things because they're Portlanders, and even though we asked for three things, they gave us four. And they asked for more P.E. time. They asked for more art programs, but like meaningful art programs. They asked for a pool program.
 in their school, and they asked for these comics to be put in their library. And why I think that's important is it shows that, you know, your city gets it and does it. I mean, you can walk into a fifth grade class and show them curriculum that reflects their culture. That's a big deal.
 So this is why I'm recommending further investment. The challenge that we have all throughout the state and the country is our minority population of students is the majority. The demographics have changed dramatically and continue to change. Communities of color, immigrants, different cultures, different races. Unfortunately...
 We have a disproportionate lower attendance rate, lower achievement rate, and a higher dropout rate among that population. But we also know what the remedy is, or part of the remedy is, and that's culturally relevant curriculum. In all disciplines, and I want to emphasize all disciplines, students need to see the contributions and the value of their culture.
 And this is what we're looking at nationally. This is what we're talking about at the state level and the local level. We have no less than two bills out of the state legislature asking for this, but we don't have any funding support for this.
 That said, I'm happy to say that Portland Public Schools and the Portland Association of Teachers has already made a significant investment in Know Your City, and that's to do something really important. That's to identify where we are or have developed culturally relevant curriculum and then identify where the gaps are. So it's not about reinventing the wheel. It's about identifying what we have and where we can build on it
 And so that's why I'm here to ask you to support building and leveraging this investment with the project that Cameron and Know Your City is proposing. And I'm proud to support it and advocate for it. And I just want you to know that we're starting our budget process in Portland Public Schools, and I will be advocating for our share to fund this. So thank you.
 Thank you. Two quick questions. For the school board, what is the state of the Portland Public Schools budget for the upcoming year? Are you looking at cuts? No, we're not. I think it's certainly, to put it in city terms, we're at current service level and we have the opportunity to make some adds. And one of the priorities that I've identified and other school board members have identified is investment in culturally relevant curriculum. And again, acknowledging what Ally wants to do.
 I would certainly encourage you to look at a greater share of the funding because we are in a 5% cut budget. It's going to be very difficult for the city to put money into outside school, additional school support. Understood. I would say, though, that the ask is relatively small in terms of the budget decisions. That's my park's budget advisory committee. We have three public school districts that are entirely within the city. How come there's no ask from David Douglas and Park Rose?
 I think a big part of that is the size that we're looking at. And I think also the fact is that we've been talking a lot with institutions that have already made this a very large priority. And I think the reason why we were talking about this, the city of Portland right now, is that we put...
 within the five-year action plan of the Portland plan, that there would be investment, there would be support for these objectives. And so we are advocating now that this is a really opportune time for us to leverage that and to actually have this available by the beginning of 2017. That would be in line with our timeline, and it would allow us to continue to expand this into every school district. And we see this as an opportunity to leverage
 leverage that support in the coming years from the state. And we've been talking a lot with Markeisha Smith from the Department of Equity there. And I think everybody is watching for this opportune time to see how Portland can lead on civic equity. Great. Thank you all. And you have other presenters here? Yes, Catherine Quaid and Brett Bigum. Please, come on up. Good morning. Hi.
 I guess I'll go. My name is Catherine Quaid. I'm a citizen of the Confederated Tribes of Umatilla and grew up in the Warm Springs community. And I first just want to thank all the indigenous peoples, Chinook and Kalapuya, who used to live here and let us convene on their stolen land today.
 I want to quickly discuss the Our Stories Matter campaign and why it's important to me and want us kind of all to reflect first on what we've learned about Native Americans in high school. You know, maybe we had a paragraph here about Wounded Knee or there about the Trail of Tears or kind of the struggles that we continue to survive through in the United States. And this is if we learned anything at all.
 And what we do not learn is about the contemporary American Indian cultures, issues, policies surrounding us in the present and in the past, and how our history has been skewed by the pen of colonizers, favoring those of European descent while shutting out everyone else. And this is what we teach our high school students
 who come from more diverse backgrounds than ever, all throughout Portland and Oregon. As part of my thesis at Lewis and Clark College, I conducted research at two high schools in Oregon with over 30% American Indian enrollment. This research and other supporting information has been submitted with this testimony via Cameron, and I found that culturally inclusive curriculum, the student-teacher relationship, and the relationship between the school and Native communities
 were the most important factors to achieving academic success for American Indian students.
 And while conducting my research, I made sure that I was able to connect with the communities I worked with. I used existing relationships to inform what I would research, as well as connect me with folks to interview. And without those connections and relationships, I would not have been able to provide information that is relevant or connected to those I was working with and for. And when doing research for creating a Portland Public Schools curriculum, I believe community engagement will be of vital importance to the Indigenous communities.
 We all have to work together to create something of value because education is a human right and every single person and student deserves to be successful in our high school. Providing students with a truly inclusive and culturally responsive education will give them something that can never be taken away from them. So I'll pass it on to Brett. That was my little spiel. Brett Redfearns, Jr.: Welcome. It's always nice to have a Teacher of the Year in the room, so welcome. Brett Redfearns, Jr.: Thank you very much. It's nice to see you again.
 My name is Brett Bigum. I'm the 2014 Oregon State Teacher of the Year and the 2015 Oregon Education Association Teacher of Excellence. I'm currently an NEA Global Fellow and I'm working with the Teacher of the Year organization to globalize the discussion about education. I'm creating curriculum on a national level to bring cultural choices into classrooms.
 As part of my award, we were able to go to the Smithsonian and be treated as teacher ambassadors to the Smithsonian. And we were given an opportunity to be taken on a tour of the museum, whatever area we wanted, with the curator of that museum. And I chose a show that was on called Bollywood. And I had no idea what I was going into, but as I did, it was a show.
 a large building, part of the building wing that had been set up with all of this East Indian history of the United States. And I was standing in the room looking at this giant wall-sized mural photograph of gentlemen in turbans create, building a railroad. And when the curator started talking to me about it, I didn't know that that was Oregon and that East Indians had built a good portion of the railway lines that we use here in Oregon.
 And I'm standing 3,000 miles away from Portland looking at this picture thinking, why don't I know this? And why isn't this part of what we're teaching in our own state? And why is it being taught to people so far away from us? So I'm on the board of Oregon Safe Schools as well. And one of the things that we know is that the three main areas of bullying come from race, sexuality, and disability. If you get bullied, it's probably for one of those three reasons.
 And today I'm here because I believe there's no curriculum in the Portland area that's embracing all of those. And what we need to do if we want to stop bullying is that we need to show more race in our education. We need to discuss sexuality and say that those people have value. And we need to fund people with disabilities and show that they're heroes in the community as well and learn from them.
 As my time as a special education teacher, I can tell you now that I have met young people who are on a journey that will be tougher than anything you and I ever face in our lives. And those are heroes to me. So I'm here today to first off let Cameron know that Oregon Safe Schools is also behind this program. And that as a teacher...
 We as a city need to get this curriculum into the hands of our teachers. We need to make it easily available, and we need to start teaching about race, sexuality, and disability if we want to stop bullying. Thank you so much. Quick question. Of course. In terms of who's responsible for developing curriculum,
 Which part of this falls within the MESD charter, and which part of this falls within the requirement of the school district, and which part of this is a state requirement? I resigned from MESD, so I'm no longer there. Okay.
 What I see this as, since we're talking about cultural education, that I believe it's a citywide. I believe that what Portland creates, the state can use. I just mean in terms of our education establishment, who has the primary responsibility in terms of the value system that you're trying to –
 in terms of implementing a different kind of curriculum? So the state currently has a core curriculum standard for social studies where between third and fifth grade we teach Oregon studies. The issue there is that that's what it says. It does not say that it has to actually talk about all people in Oregon. The state did pass a law in 2013, Senate Bill 739, which urged the Department of Education to change that so it was actually inclusive of people of,
 looking at race, but, you know, looking at race specifically, including those histories, those narratives in the history. But that was still not a mandate. It still was not a change to Oregon Studies standards. So even though it's been expressed, there has not been an actual responsibility put on anybody to actually make it culturally responsive. And so we are asking to actually recognize
 show that investment, that culturally responsive education is actually a priority and not just something that we encourage, not something that, and it's also something that we actually put, you know, administratively into that work. So we are still, you know, working with the Department of Education, I think,
 It's a challenge for them because they are, you know, really a regulatory organization right now, and you can't mandate something that doesn't already exist at that level. And this is an opportunity for us to make this statewide and we can invest it, pilot it here, and move it in the next couple of years to a statewide opportunity. It's been my experience that the history of Oregon often starts with the Oregon Trail and it ends with the Oregon Trail.
 And there's a couple million years of history before the Oregon Trail, and there's a couple million stories about people from different cultures since the Oregon Trail. So there just needs to be a broadening, and we need to start including some of those people that have made big advances for our state and our city. Well said. Thank you very much.
 Cameron, do you have other colleagues here? Yeah, so we did have Renee Mitchell and a couple of high schoolers from Roosevelt. But as Commissioner Fish said, people do have to have lunch. But we do have Kate McPherson, who also teaches at Roosevelt, who will be speaking briefly about Renee and the students that we had here earlier. Great. Welcome. Thank you.
 And I will be very brief, I promise. I'm a sorry substitute for the students because they speak very loudly about the value of being involved with a history that reflects them. My work at Roosevelt includes our Freedom Fighter Project, which is one of the projects through which our students have the fortune to interview people in our community who have been fighters for justice. And they really reflect that.
 the stories of people who both have been impacted by our local history, but also who have shaped it. Your students presented at the Oregon Historical Society. In fact, I want to invite all of you to come on the 17th of February when we have all of our freshmen this year. Two hundred and fifty of them have interviewed over thirty seven freedom fighters. And we want to have the opportunity for them to honor their stories and their history.
 And I think what I want to do is just echo what I've seen of our students who also reflect that diversity that we've talked about is growing. That when they have a chance to learn about people who come from the Hmong community, who come from different countries who represent and reflect their own lives, they really connect to those stories and realize that these are people that emanate who they can become and how they want to get involved in their communities. And they themselves take a stand around issues of social justice. Thank you.
 What I also want to echo is that we want to be an ally with Know Your City. Our kids have been collecting stories for now four years, and
 And we feel that we could contribute to the effort and the possibility for high school students to be allies in this work. So we really see that we want to be a partner, and we really want to underscore, many of our kids have said they really wish they'd heard about many of these stories when they were younger, and they would have been a lot more interested in history. So my message is just simply we want to be an ally to this work. And I know every year involved with the Freedom Fighter Project, I learn more about
 about my own community and it makes me more connected to the events even the places the things that I didn't know about before become much more a place that I feel I can belong and understand so just want to underscore the importance of what we're doing I wish the kids were here to say it but just the timing wasn't good but come the 17th you'll get invites and I hope some of you could even come and speak to the students to kind of underscore Steve has been there for
 for the last several years, and we have really appreciated his words. Thank you. Thank you very much. That's all who we have to speak. If you have any questions, happy to answer that, but I do know your time is precious. Cameron, what's your budget ask? Our budget ask is $35,000. And I'm going to give you something free. Okay. Heck of a deal. Oh, yeah. Great. Great.
 Some of the stories that our kit did capture. Super. Thank you very much. Cameron, thank you so much. Thank you. Appreciate this. Anyone else want to speak on this presentation? Thank you so much. Then let's take a vote please to accept this report. Johnson wants to speak. Oh, sorry. Good morning or afternoon, whichever we're working.
 I guess you're only at the report acceptance stage, but I hope that this will soon find its way into definitive funding. Some people were concerned when there was, I think, I can't remember the exact term, the Black Male Leadership Initiative, which was, I think, some people hoped it would have been able to be funded at more than $100,000. And I think that this is a great broadening of that general principle, engaging with, bringing other people of diverse backgrounds, or as some people prefer to say,
 bring us inclusion of more people. And I hope that for this, I would accept turning off a fountain. I don't think fountains turned off is going to work that well for homeless housing, but I hope that you'll be able to fund this program. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Motion to adopt a report? So moved. So moved. Second. Second. And roll call, please. Ritz. Thank you for the presentation. Thank you for your service on the school board. Bye. Fish. Hi. Hi.
 Thank you. Aye. Novick. Thank you for the presentation. I do encourage everybody to visit the Freedom Fighter event on the 17th. Aye. Nails. More ways we can get collaboration between those that care about the diversity of the city and students better. So we appreciate what you're up to here. Thank you so much. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, I would recommend we power forward into the rest of the regular agenda, see how far we get by 1230 and take a break. So we're ready to go, Mayor. Okay. 89. You want those together or one at a time? We'll do them one at a time. Okay, 89, please.
 Authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding process pursuant to ORS Chapter 279C and City Code Chapter 5.34 for construction of certain Green Street facilities funded by Percent for Green Program. All right. Thank you, Mayor. Ivy Dunlap is here from BES. Carla is going to pass out an amendment as a technical fix, which I'll ask council to adopt. Here's the setup. Okay.
 Since 2007, the Percent for Green program has provided funding for voluntary stormwater management additions to both public and private projects. Council approved an ordinance in 2010 exempting projects funded by the Percent for Green process from the competitive bidding process. Council authorized that exemption for a five-year period, and this ordinance would reauthorize that exemption.
 Ivy Dunlap with Environmental Services manages the Perfect Percent for Green program and is here now to walk us through this item. And why don't you begin by just telling us what the amendment is. We'll put the amendment before the council. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Before you do the presentation, just tell us about the amendment.
 Oh, yes. So, the amendment, we found a technical,
 difficulty or change in the findings for the exemption from competitive bidding. And so we just made an adjustment to primarily the way that they were lettered. The council caught a technical problem with the findings, doesn't change the substance, and I would move the amendment as an amendment. Okay. Second? Second.
 Since the amendment doesn't show underlined strikeout, could you just tell me where the changes were made? Good. Do you want me to bring the legal team in? I want to know what it is. It's different. Sure. I'll have Lisa join me. She helped me make the changes. Hi. Lisa Gramp, City Attorney's Office. By the way, I want to second Commissioner Fritz's point. I know that we're doing this
 We have to have this voted on today. I know we caught this at the 11th hour. To the extent we can do this as a red line amendment, it's always preferable. But go ahead. OK, sure. So the additional finder's basically the two ultimate findings that you make
 in terms of no diminished competition and substantial cost savings, are exactly the same. Actually, the substance is exactly the same. There was a change in the statute in 2014 that enumerated a number of additional underlying findings that support those two ultimate findings. And so the previous version you received had those additional findings as A through H. The statutory change...
 Now it's like A through N. So there's additional findings that we incorporated into this document. So what are the additional findings that are in the amended version, just numerically, and what page? So, for example, there are a couple about L and M are about – or L –
 And K and L are about the building and if it will be occupied or not. And this construction doesn't involve any building, so that one doesn't apply. You've added two findings but noted that it's not applicable. Right. I... That is about market conditions, and that is...
 also addressed earlier in the findings about requiring a 10% match for using this ordinance. Technical complexity, there's no difference. It doesn't apply to this ordinance.
 Right. Yeah. So it's really a technical change. It's a technical change to make it clear that all of the required criteria that are supposed to be considered were, in fact, considered and laid out in the way that the statute requires them to be laid out. Right. Except – I'm sorry. It just looks like there's another paragraph about how many persons are available to bid, which I don't see. In the original. Correct. The construction budget and the projected operating cost, is that new? No.
 No, the information is the same. It's recaptioned in the, you know, the statute sort of recasts that information, but the substance of what we provided earlier is the same. Okay. Another question is before we ever go ahead and make the presentation. Okay. I can't possibly. What you'll have with the presentation. Okay. I will start with giving you a little bit of background about the Percent for Green program. That the program has...
 The program was established in 2007 with the City Council Green Street Resolution. And so the Green Street Resolution established the Percent for Green program. To date, 37 projects have been awarded funding through the program. And this will all come around and make more sense about why I'm talking about the program in general. Okay.
 And the program requires that any city of Portland project that does construction within the right-of-way but does not trigger the Stormwater Management Manual pays 1% of its construction budget into the Percent for Green Fund. So...
 I'll get into this a little bit more, but it's primarily BES, water, and PBOT that are doing work in the right of way that don't trigger the stormwater management manual. The objectives of the program include stormwater system benefits, so improving our stormwater system, leveraging funding and leveraging partnerships, innovation in projects.
 education and high visibility projects, and diversity and minority women-owned and emerging small business employment. So these are program objectives. Not every project that we fund meets all of these objectives, but the more they meet the higher it ranks and the more likely we are to fund the project. Thank you.
 The requirements for the program are that the awarded project manages stormwater within the right-of-way, that the project go above and beyond the stormwater management manual requirements,
 so that we're not funding something that's otherwise required, or that the project adds stormwater management in the right of way to a project that doesn't require it.
 So, for example, the picture that I'm showing is on Gleason and the 100th near reach development. And they weren't required to do any stormwater management on Gleason, but we were able to add the stormwater project to the project and capture that additional benefit.
 So this shows the program funding, and this is from the whole life of the project. We really got it up and running in 2008. You can see, as I mentioned, most of the money comes from BES Water and PBOT. Those are all the blue pieces of pie.
 And then we also receive some funds from off-site management fees, which is, and that's the green piece of pie. Most of that money comes from TriMet or the streetcar, and that's just a different accounting method, but also money that is paid in. And we mix it in with this pot of percent for green money because it fits into that scope.
 stormwater mitigation fund, if you will. So the total money coming in since the program started is just over $4 million. Okay.
 The program recipients, so this is money going out, projects that we've awarded funding to. You can see about half the money goes to private-initiated or community-initiated projects, and I'll give a couple examples of those coming up. Also, BES, PBOT, and PDC are the other recipients of program funds.
 And so far, the total money going out or awarded is about $3.5 million. This shows the geographical distribution of the projects throughout the city. The yellow are completed projects. The blue are projects that are under construction, or in design. And the green are the most recent applications that have come in. So I'm going to spend a little bit more time on this slide. This shows the per capita spending of the program. And...
 by Neighborhood Coalition. So you can see Central Northeast Neighborhoods has received the most money per capita. And I just wanted to point out that one reason that number is so high for that Neighborhood Coalition is the largest award we have made is to Verde to help them with their construction
 stormwater on the road from Killingsworth up to Cully Park. So that's the biggest reward we've made, and that's the reason that number is so big for that neighborhood. Also, the southwest neighborhoods have high per capita spending, and the reason that number is bigger is –
 Because the Fano-Tryon Watershed Groups within Bureau of Environmental Services were the first watershed groups to do sub-watershed planning and identify early action projects. So they were able to take advantage of this funding and implement new projects.
 many water quality early action projects primarily within Multnomah Village but within their watershed so that's one reason that number is so high I keep a whole bunch of spreadsheets and statistics on the program and how we've spent the money here are a few numbers I'm
 For you on the system benefits, over 4 million gallons of stormwater is removed annually from the combined system because of the projects we have funded through Percent for Green.
 Also, more than 8 million gallons of water is treated annually before it's discharged into the MS4 system. And the MS4 system is the separated stormwater system, so where water is going directly to a stream or river. Also, I'll point out that the average contribution to a project is about $90,000.
 And then you can see the range between $12,000 and $450,000. And then the average cost per square foot of impervious surface managed is just under $7 a square foot.
 One thing that we talk about with this program and that we think is a great benefit is that we can leverage multiple benefits of green infrastructure and we really leverage the
 look for opportunities to leverage the multiple benefits. So here's just a list of the number of projects that have been able to leverage these other benefits. I'll mention that the design and policy innovation
 so the design innovation includes things as simple as different soil mixes or different depths of soil mix and these are generally pretty small projects and a good opportunity to try out new designs or new technologies and the policy innovation includes things like working with veriday on an alternative street design for their approach to collie park
 Or mixing private and public stormwater, so taking stormwater from the right-of-way and actually putting it onto private property for management. That's another policy innovation that we've been working on.
 so now i'm going to switch to the ordinance that was a little background about what about the program and why i am asking for this ordinance i did have a previous five-year exemption that ran from 2010 to 2015.
 There were 11 contracts that used this ordinance to enter into the contracts, and I've listed just a few examples. The Junkie Delta Center, we worked with Reed College. REACH was the project out on 100th and Gleason Center.
 And so those are the types of projects that we fund with this. I'll also mention that not all of the Percent for Green projects use this contracting mechanism. Some of them are built under CIP projects. Some are built by Bureau of Maintenance. So this is just one of the methodologies for implementing the projects.
 This ordinance that we're discussing here today is a five-year exemption from competitive bidding. It's virtually identical to the last ordinance that we had in place. It is not to exceed $1 million over the five-year time. It requires a 10% match from the applicants involved.
 And just an example of two upcoming contracts that would use this exemption is a contract with Verde to continue their access road work to Colley Park and a contract with Catholic Charities to have stormwater improvements around their St. Francis apartment building, which is in the central east side. It includes some pedestrian improvements as well.
 Two other points I wanted to make about the program. I do outreach to the neighborhood coalitions for working with them to come up with projects that might be appropriate for this program. Okay.
 And then there is a review committee made up of a representative from PBOT, Water, PDC, Planning and Sustainability, and then a community member that review all the project applications that we receive twice a year. And then they make a recommendation that then goes to the Director of Environmental Services, and the director then has the final sort of
 approval for the projects. So that's just a little bit more about the process, and I am happy to answer any questions. Mayor, Ivy can answer any questions on the substance, and we will be handing out shortly a redline version of the amendment. In fact, counsel is here. If you could give it to Carla. There he is.
 We'll hand that out. Counsel, can you come back to the front desk, the dais, in case there are questions relating to either the amendment or the program? Let me see if I understand, based on the new information here.
 What you're asking, the program has a competitive process to decide which green streets are going to get done. And that's got the committee including a community representative. Yes. And then the exemption from competitive bidding is because those projects are going to be using their own contractors and we're not involved in the selection. That's correct.
 I'm glad I understood it correctly. Yes, that's right. Oh, go ahead. I'm finding that changes were based on council's review of the documents before you, that they were deficient, and there are certain findings we have to have, even findings that say they're not applicable. So no substantive changes, but it now technically conforms with the state law requirements for an exemption. And then the entire report is the findings, because previously you had subparagraphs that said that –
 the conclusion at the bottom was the finding, but in fact, everything under each is the finding. Okay, that's good. So I think I understand what we're doing now. I appreciate that quick question. I want to thank my colleague for the questions she's now raising, because whenever possible, we will provide a redline version. It is just easier, particularly when we're talking about legal matters and findings. Thank you.
 So then my only question is about the competitive process. It's heavily weighted towards internal review rather than community review, and if there are more projects than money available, it would seem more appropriate to have a more robust community input in that committee. Because usually we have a competitive bid for the contract, and so we get to know what the –
 you know, minority women's small business participation in each contract, you know, what are the community benefits, if any. None of that happens now. Instead, there's just one community member who's essentially approving this alternative contracting method. Right. I think when the – this doesn't exactly answer your question, but I'll give you a little background. Okay.
 Why don't you start by answering the question? Okay. Well, yes, there is only one community representative in the group. Let me jump to the quick. The matter before us is an exemption from competitive bidding, and we're on a clock. Commissioner Fritz, to the extent you have a set of concerns about more robust community engagement,
 where the money is allocated, how we can improve that process, I would welcome your input on that. And I would simply say that we have a narrow issue before us today. Perhaps we could then sit down with you and ONI and review this matter. If it requires a code change, we would come back to counsel. If it just requires a discretionary change in how we do it, if we can improve it, we'd be happy to consider that.
 Thank you. I'd certainly be happy to take you up on the second part of it. The matter before us today is the five-year exemption from competitive bidding for all of these projects. So I'm happy to move forward on it today. There was just a robust discussion at the Pioneer Courthouse Square board meeting yesterday about alternative contracting methods, what's the oversight, how do we make sure that – and the findings say this is how we know we're not picking just our friends. It's just – I'm not sure.
 There is a lot of concern about how the public's money is spent, and particularly in a program like this. So, yes, I think your solution is a nice one. I'm not prejudging anything, but there might be an ONI representative or something to make sure. I appreciate that we do, that Ivy noted that substantial outreach
 to neighborhood associations. I think the fact that so much money is going into Outer East and the Central Northeast shows that actually the community perspective is as funded by either nonprofits or the city is well represented. If we can improve it, we want to do so. Thank you. Sounds like a solution. Other questions, issues to raise with staff? This is an emergency. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, then let's take a roll call vote, please. It's an emergency ordinance. We didn't vote on the motion yet. Oh, sorry. Oh, sorry. Motion on the amendments, please, first. Yeah. So it's been moved, and Commissioner Fritz, I think, seconded the amendments. Okay. Roll call on the amendments, please. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. And now on the ordinance as amended. Okay.
 Thank you for the good explanation. Thank you for providing in short order the red line versions and the commitment from the commissioner in charge that we'll discuss the community engagement portion of the upfront selection of which green streets get done. It's a great program. Thank you for doing it. Thank you, Ivy, for your passion and your stewardship of this program. It's a wonderful program, and the money –
 It goes to important purposes, and that one slide you showed about the stormwater we're taking out of the combined sewer overflow system, as Dan can say more eloquently than I can, we built a system that was designed not to have to be expanded.
 The way we actually meet the future challenges is we make sure stormwater doesn't go into that system, which is why we invest in green infrastructure, and this is one of those tools. The alternative long-term is to build another CSO, and we're not inclined to spend a few billion dollars to do that, so it makes sense. So thank you for your good work, and if you could touch base with Commissioner Fritz's office on your way out, and let's get something scheduled, and then we'll move forward. Bye.
 Thank you for the presentation. It's a great program. Happy to support it. Aye. Niels. Same here. Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. It is the morning has come afternoon. I would recommend we move. We'll move quickly, Mayor. This is a quick one. The rest of them are almost all votes. If you'll indulge us, we can get through 93 quickly. Okay. 93? No, 90. I'm sorry. 90. We can get through 90 through 93. Yeah.
 90, authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Fano Basin Pressure Line System Upgrade, Project Number E10599, for an estimated cost of $1,173,000. Good afternoon. We welcome Scott Gibson. This ordinance would authorize a contract to correct problems with access structures in the Fano Basin Pressure Sewer
 The contractor would remove faulty access structures and replace them to improve reliability of the system. Scott, welcome. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. City Council, I'd actually like to turn over our Chief of Engineering, Bill Ryan, to make some opening comments. Thank you. I just wanted to point out before Scott got into the really cool engineering photographs and drawings that it's not often that we end up having to repair a pressure line after just five years in operation.
 When originally planned, this pressure line was supposed to be built coincident with the Southwest 86th Avenue pump station. We got held up in land use on the pump station and proceeded with construction of the pressure lines. Part of the pump station construction was going to be what is called a surge tank, which is essentially an air bubble that protects the pressure line from surges and helps it to have a long life.
 We put the pressure lines in service, as I said, and at the same time we started an emergency project to build a temporary surge tank to protect that pump station or that pressure line. In 18 months we had that in service. It was important for us to get it in service because over that time period we would have spent over $5 million in charges to our neighboring agency, Clean Water Services,
 to treat the sewage that we would have had to let flow if we didn't put the lines in service. So we put the lines in service. Now we have to do some minor repairs to make sure that anything that we did during that time frame will not compromise that 50-year life of the pressure line as we've designed it.
 I think I'll run through a presentation, then we'll entertain any follow-on questions. Extra credit if you can do it in five minutes. Got it. So here's a vicinity map. It's in the southwest of Portland near Old Market Pub. And...
 The 7,000-foot-long garden home section of the Faba pressure line system consists of two parallel 30-inch welded steel pressure lines. They're designated A, the south line, and B, the north line. They are subjected to a unique pressure pumping application that has higher pressures than typical sewage pump stations. The line was completed in 2010, as Bill mentioned, and the A line was placed into service while we planned and permitted and constructed the Southwest 86th Avenue pump station.
 Original construction included the installation of 24-inch diameter access risers at 500-foot intervals on both the A and B line. They were used for future inspection of the lines with intended purpose. Leaks occurred at two locations on the A line as a result of cracks that developed in and around the welds connecting the access risers to the main line. This is because the surge tanks were not in service. Thank you.
 Subsequent investigations and analysis concluded that unanticipated stress concentrations at the welds are the likely cause of the cracks. We have two pictures here on the left-hand side. You can slightly make out the crack in the joint at the welded pipe. And on the right-hand side is a 3D model of stresses within the riser sections. The blue is indicating the highest stress locations, which is exactly where we found the cracks.
 Operations of the Fano pressure line was suspended until we could get the interim surge tank in place, and we put the service back in line in 2013 after that work was complete. In August of 2013, the B line was put in place, which is the line that was not used earlier, and it's been in service since. This project will include the following elements, removing the 18 remaining access risers from both the A and the B line,
 They'll be replaced with a straight pipe steel spool section, which does not have the stress concentrations identified in the analysis, nor the location where the failures occurred. And we're also upgrading the existing pressure monitoring system at 69th and Railroad so we can maintain and monitor the actual pressure seen in the line over the duration of its operation. So you'll see the location of the access risers scattered along the pipeline length.
 If you have any questions, I can talk about the individual ones. And once again, we're here to ask permission for a contract to construct this project. The schedules are shown. Work is intended to be complete around December 2016. Our construction cost estimate is $1.173 million. Our confidence in that estimate is high. I have a breakdown of the total project cost, which shows that the project is going to cost $1.64 million, including all soft costs for the engineering and other activities.
 The confidence in the estimate is high, even though lately we've been getting high bids. Actually, we got some low bids recently, Mayor. A low bid. In your absence, I shouldn't say in your absence. Did I go out of town? The bids dropped? I'll go out of town tomorrow. It had nothing to do with your absence, but in your absence, we actually came in below on a couple of projects. Okay, I'm going out of town again. That's it. Thank you. Okay, questions? So why didn't we remove the eight? Why didn't we just do all this in one project? Okay.
 We are removing them all in this one project. Why didn't we do it in the previous project? So when the line was originally constructed, it was constructed assuming that the search tank system was going to be in place, in which case the failures wouldn't have occurred. But then we've done multiple fixes to it since, and this seems like another one of those. So this is our first fix to the line constructed to the current line.
 And it's a comprehensive fix to remove all of the manways because we did see failures at stresses. Even those that the calculations show shouldn't fail, we're removing those as well because we want to make sure we solve this and have a system that will move forward. So you think this one is it? I think this one is it. All right. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Okay, anyone want to speak on this item? Okay.
 You can't really mean it. It passes the second reading, and we'll move on to some other second reading items here. 91, please. Contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Tabor Sewer Rehabilitation Project, Phase 1, number E10712, for $6 million. Roll call, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. And 92? Aye.
 92, authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Bybee Glenwood culvert replacement project, number E10480, for $2,228,000. Roll call. Prince. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 93. Aye.
 Authorize the use of the competitive procurement method to enter into a contract with Wolf Water Resources, Inc., in the amount of $459,445 for the Sandy River Engineered Log Jam Project. Mayor, while the Water Bureau is deeply committed to streamlining the delivery of services today, we asked for your support to create a log jam on the Sandy River, and we have already received an objection from...
 certain four-legged creatures and their association would like to have the work instead of edward campbell is here to walk us through this
 I'm Edward Campbell sitting in for Mike Sturr, Water Bureau Administrator today. In the interest of time, I went ahead and asked Carla not to bring up the slides. I think I'll just try to do a quick summary and then address some questions that have come up, and if there are other questions, we can answer them. Steve Kuchist, our Environmental Compliance Manager, who's also the major architect of our Habitat Conservation Plan and is the person –
 task within the Bureau for implementing the Habitat Conservation Plan is here as well to answer questions. So with the Council's permission, we'll forgo our presentation and just try to summarize.
 So the Habitat Conservation Plan approved by Council in 2008, 49 separate measures to restore habitat in the Bull Run River and in surrounding areas. A key component of our Habitat Conservation Plan, or HCP, is our ability, the city's ability, to make investments outside of the Bull Run watershed in the surrounding Sandy River Basin.
 So the project that we have before you today is actually engineering design services that would service two of those 49 measures. There are two log jams that we would be installing just off of the main stem Sandy, outside of the watershed and on the main stem Sandy River.
 And we went through an alternative procurement process by which we were able to take advantage of work that Metro did to go through a competitive process and actually qualify a firm to do the work. And we are able to contract using their competitive process.
 The result of that, and I know there's been a question about MWESB participation in this particular contract, what we ended up with is a prime contractor who is an MWESB, and three of the five subcontractors are also MWESB consultants. So the resulting MWESB utilization on this is 55%.
 And so hopefully that helps address some of the questions that came up in advance of the item. So I'll cut it off there. That's sort of the basics. If there are questions about the details of the project, we've got the right folks here in the room, but I wanted to get that information out about the procurement process at the beginning.
 okay do you use real logs and engineered log jams i will let steve i'm just curious is it real wood or is it yes it's real wood yes excuse me steve kutch is the environmental compliance manager of the water bureau we use real logs and very big ones and quite a few of them there could be easily 700 logs with root wads anywhere from 30 to 70 feet long
 at play to build these structures and we'll maybe bringing them in via a helicopter which is exciting to watch This may have an impact on your weekend travel plans, but I've been assured it's just an inlet that's impacted and not Not the main body of the river. Okay. All right any other questions for the team? This is not a Emergency item so we won't be putting on it today. Any other questions? Speak on this item
 If not, I'll pass it to second reading. Thank you both. Timing note that it's a good thing we got that clean audit before we approved the deliberate construction of log jams with public expenditure. All right. A little more work remaining here. Let's move on, please, to 94. That's a roll call vote. Authorize the city attorney to appeal the declaratory judgment and permanent injunction in Joseph Walsh v. Brian Inga et al.
 I guess we do need to hear from the city attorney before we vote, or do we have any questions for him? Well, yeah, I think when we last left off, we'd asked Terry to convene a group, talk about a potential ordinance around exclusions, and also to make a decision about whether to appeal this decision.
 So I have circulated a draft of proposed a discussion draft of proposed code amendments to the council offices We have not at this point Convened a group. I'm waiting for somebody to do that. Actually. I thought the council offices were going to do that But I think it's been done the works underway. Okay, and so we're that's in progress and well Harry help me understand something I thought that was potentially in lieu of the appeal. Well there there are
 A couple of different... Before you make it too complicated. So it's a yes or a no, I would be satisfied. We were, I suppose, optimistically hoping we could get something done in time to obviate the need for the appeal, but...
 Obviously, we haven't done that. So you can either proceed with the appeal while we try to finish this work with the potential that we will then dismiss it or resolve it through the process of negotiating code amendments. Let me cut to the chase. I've looked at the draft. I believe it's possible to write code that meets the council's expectation that we'll be able to manage conduct here in City Hall and also to maintain safety.
 and that we don't need to appeal this case in order to get to those objectives. Mayor Hales, does the, and I haven't seen the proposed code, does it distinguish between expressive and non-expressive conduct? Yes. Not very well. It basically will distinguish between conduct in this room and conduct in city offices. From my point of view, it's going to be very important to make that distinction. Yeah. Annoying speech.
 is one thing. It's tied to disruption. Disruptive speech that also involves threats or other things. Another thing, one is protected, expressive, one is not. And I hope we make a clear distinction. I believe we're doing that. If you have concerns about the wording, share those with us. Your office has the...
 the draft my understanding is that commissioner saltzman wants to vote on this that's that's right because our time is expired so maybe we could just make our comments as we vote all right thank you very much so let's take a vote please
 There is a big difference between disruptive behavior and threatening behavior, and any code we write needs to qualify those two things. There is also a difference between yelling in council chambers at public hearings and yelling at city staff as they try to do their work.
 code we write needs to differentiate between those two. I would actually say there's something to be said for not yelling at me in the grocery stores. I'm trying to buy milk at 11 o'clock at night, but that's not covered by our city ordinance. So... Neither. Neither.
 I understand the concerns that are driving the appeal. Freedom of speech is one of the highest constitutional rights, particularly when addressing our elected officials. And it is often inconvenient and can be ugly. And any limitations should be used to justice. So I respectfully vote no. I can't support the appeal, but I want to make a couple of comments as well. First, and this is directed to the mayor and to Fred Miller and others, there are some
 current and serious safety issues in this building, which employees in my office and other offices do not feel are being addressed satisfactorily. And that's not for a discussion at this body. But we want everyone to feel safe when they come to work. And when I hear from young women working in offices, when I hear from employees in other offices that there are safety issues, I take that very seriously. That's one of our primary obligations. And so I'm
 I want us to revisit that question of having a place that's welcoming and accessible to the people we serve, but also allows people who work in this building to feel safe. And I respectfully would argue it's out of whack. I went back and looked at the testimony when we had the first hearing on this, and I'm going to quote someone who actually testified in the record. He said as follows, quote, I am a very nonviolent person.
 Mouthy, obnoxious, pushy. I take those because that's what activists do. We don't look for making friends. He went on to say, I'm not an advocate. I'm not a diplomat. I throw rocks. That was Mr. Walsh in his testimony before us. And here's where I draw the line. People that come before us, I believe, have a First Amendment constitutional right to be mouthy, obnoxious, and pushy.
 Whether we agree or disagree with their speech, in our system, we celebrate all kinds of speech. People do not have the right to throw rocks. And I know he meant that metaphorically, but throwing rocks or anything that crosses a line into non-expressive, threatening behavior cannot be tolerated. And I want to work with you, Mayor, and our colleagues to craft rules that treat those two things very differently.
 because I believe that we have to have a zero-tolerance policy for anything that goes into the non-expressive threatening behavior, I think we need to have a more elastic and, frankly, a broader view under the First Amendment of speech that is just expressive and might otherwise be mouthy, obnoxious, or pushy. So on that basis, I can't support the appeal. No. Saltzman? No.
 Well, it's all well and good to have lofty discussions and wrap ourselves in First Amendment discussions, but that's not what this is about. This is not about Mr. Walsh, as I said a couple weeks ago. This is about protecting city employees and protecting ourselves from people who are violent, threatening, or intimidating.
 It happens. I'm very encouraged that we're going to work on an ordinance, but I'm also very wary that these things tend to veer off path, and I can ask three months from now, whatever happened to that ordinance we were talking about?
 So while I'm encouraged by the discussion, I'm encouraged by a seeming consensus around an ordinance, I'm not willing to put all my stock in that. And I believe the appeal, as was recommended by our council, that we should pursue a parallel track of an appeal and an ordinance at the same time. So this is really about protecting ourselves and the people who work in this building. And I don't think...
 They take lightly to wrapping ourselves in academic, lofty discussions about First Amendment. So I think we should appeal this because this ruling limits our ability to exclude anybody who is violent, threatening, or aggressive with respect to us or people in the building. We can only exclude them for the day. So you can leave a backpack in the chambers with a timing device, and we can say, hey, you shouldn't have done that. We'll see you tomorrow.
 that's not right it's not safe it doesn't protect the people who work in this building so i vote in favor of the appeal aye no no
 I want to return to what I said two weeks ago and assure the council that it's my intention to ask city attorney's office and our staffs to move quickly to develop proposed ordinance language that is not months from now that we'll be talking about this. Take that point seriously. That addresses both the need to manage the public dialogue in this chamber in an adult
 and to maintain that adult environment, except when we have children here, and then to also make sure that the legitimate safety issues that have been raised are addressed. I think we can do that by ordinance. We don't have to do that by going to court. That's my intention, and we will be back shortly with those proposals. No. Okay, item 95, second meeting. Okay.
 Vacate Northeast Sandy Boulevard bound by Northeast Couch Street, East Burnside Street, Northeast 12th Avenue, and Northeast 14th Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Second reading. We'll call. So the only transportation use that's available for this particular stretch of right-of-way is accessed by crossing private property. And so there really is no public transportation use for this piece of right-of-way. And I'm glad to support the vacation. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. And we have one more item, which is a four-fifths, item 95-1. Authorize an agreement with Portland Shuzhou Sister City Association to transfer one Benson bubbler to Shuzhou, China. Okay. Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Saltzman have some comments, I think? Well, Mayor, just some background. You and I are the co-sponsors. The Benson bubbler is in honor of the 15-year anniversary of the Lansu Chinese Garden.
 The bubbler will be featured in the Jiangsu Horticultural Exhibition in April. The event draws in the millions of visitors to Suzhou, and there will be a commemoration at the exposition in China for the bubbler. The grant agreement outlines the city's expectation for the sister city in transferring the Benson bubbler. It is being shipped off in mid-February to ensure that the delivery and installation are complete in time for the horticultural exposition.
 This matter was previously addressed in last year's budget. It was funded through a general fund request. No ratepayer funds were used. And the Office of Government Relations was allocated a sum of $10,000 to offset the Water Bureau's costs associated with the Benson Bubba. Thank you. We have Kathy Chin here and Hector Miramontes. Welcome, President of our Sister City Association.
 Thank you so much. Thank you. Good afternoon now, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm here today to introduce the item that has already been introduced.
 Just some background on the ordinance and the grant agreement before you. In May of 2015, the Portland-Suzhou Sister City Association requested the Benson Bubbler in recognition of the 15-year anniversary of the Lansu Chinese Garden, which is a friendship project between Portland and Suzhou that is today one of our city's great cultural treasures.
 Lanzhou Chinese Garden is one of the most authentic Chinese gardens outside of China, providing residents and visitors alike with an opportunity to experience a landscape garden style which has evolved over 3,000 years. So the Benson Bubbler was chosen because it is an enduring legacy of our city, and I would like to now hand it over to the immediate past president, Kathy Chin, of Lanzhou.
 Welcome. Yeah, good afternoon, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. So I'm Kathy Chin, the immediate past person of the Portland-Soujou Sister City Association. In August of 2015, I was honored to attend the gathering of the founders of both the Portland-Soujou Sister City Association and the Lansu Chinese Garden. Mayor Bud Kark and former Commissioner Mai Lambert and others came together at the Lansu Chinese Garden to look back on 30 years
 and worship their original efforts. This gentleman formed the original group that met in Suzhou in August 1985 and started and grew both organizations over the years. So since the founding of our association, the sister city relationship has brought economic benefits to Portland and our region.
 As we speak, Portland schools are hosting approximately 150 students and teachers from Suzhou as part of their yearly educational exchanges to bring Suzhou students to our city to learn first-hand about Portland life and American society in general. Last summer, we assisted in making arrangements for PDC Executive Director Patrick Quintin's
 and his delegation to visit Suzhou were presented to explore economic development opportunities, including promoting PDC's Rebuild Green Cities efforts. The Benson Bubbler Water Fountain will serve as a special symbol of goodwill from the people of Portland to the people of Suzhou.
 The City of Suzhou Foreign Affairs Office has informed our organization of the opportunity to showcase the Benson bubbler in the April 2016 Horticulture Expo in Suzhou. This is a regional event expected to draw millions of Chinese tourists.
 as well as some international tours to Suzhou. So this will be a good opportunity for us. So with the approval of the council, our organization agreed to obey the grant agreement and will manage our shipping arrangements and other logistic considerations to transfer this Benson bubbler to the city of Suzhou.
 Great. Thank you very much. Questions? So does the city of Suzhou plan to have it plumbed so that it will in fact be bubbling? Yes, actually they are talking about looking at the fountain and then have some engineer to come up with some purifying of the water and install it so that people can drink it.
 So, yeah, it is getting there. Which we don't need with our precious bull run water. We don't have to worry about that. Isn't that interesting? We don't have to purify anything when we run them here. But you've got to think about that in places. And then secondly –
 Is there going to be some kind of plaque with it that will explain what it is? Yes, we will make sure that will happen. We're hoping there will be some kind of public dedication ceremony that will go with it. We just still have to get it over there, and then we talk about how to, you know, survey the UN and the gifting. So maybe not on the plaque, but I think it's really interesting, the history of the bubblers being to provide water so that people didn't have to drink beer. Right.
 I think that should be conveyed and also encouraging people to come here and drink our beer now. Right, right, right, right. I agree totally. I'd just like to add that the city of Suzhou has signed a memorandum of understanding, communicating their commitment to commemorate and install it and work on some way to provide a plaque for it. So we're working on that. I think Commissioner Fritz was channeling Sapporo sister city relationship. I think she mentioned beer, but all right.
 Shipping Portland beer to Susho now. No, I'm saying that we should be encouraging tourism back to here, saying that. Yes, we will. We'll drink our pure water and our great beer. Fun project. Thank you both very much. I assume no one else wants to speak on this item. And because it's a four-fifths, is it an emergency? It is an emergency ordinance. It is an emergency. All right. Let's take a vote, please. Ritz. Well, thank you, Mayor, for leading this. Just so that folks know at home, we don't have very many of these left.
 So it's not like we can give one to every city. And once you pass the baton to your next mayor, be sure not to tell them that they should be very choicy. Choose their gifts carefully. And thank you very much for taking care of this one. It's a great partnership. Aye. Thank you.
 mr fritz i i had heard that an unidentified person was doing an inventory at our warehouse of these these uh bubblers i didn't realize it was you but you're right we do have just a few and and they are precious we love this sister city relationship and i personally my family loves the lansu chinese garden and i feel so blessed that we live in a in a city that has one of the great chinese gardens in the world
 And thank you for your good stewardship. And this was something the mayor wanted to do. The Water Bureau is very proud to partner in this. And I also am pleased that we were able to fund it through the general fund and not ratepayer dollars. I think that's a clean line. But it doesn't in any way diminish the enthusiasm that the Water Bureau has for being a full partner in this. Aye. Saltzman? Well, this is a great appropriate gesture to mark the 15th year of our garden. And thanks to the people of the city of Sousou. Aye. Thank you.
 it's such a great relationship and so Kathy you and the other volunteers who keep it going thank you and the garden is a treasure and we we owe sujo a lot so it's nice to be able to say thank you this way hi thank you very much give the council brief lunch break recess till 2 o'clock all right good afternoon everyone welcome to the January 27th afternoon meeting the Portland City Council would you please call the roll
 Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome, everyone. We have a single item on the council calendar this afternoon. We'll get to it in a moment. If you're here to speak...
 Make sure our council clerk has you on a list because we'd like to make sure we know how many people are going to speak. I think I'm going to be able to allow the usual three minutes instead of having to cut it down to two given that we don't have 200 people here to talk. If you're here to speak on the item, you need only give us your name. You don't need to give us your address. If you're representing an organization, you need to let us know that, please. It's required under our code. Thank you.
 If you agree with someone who's speaking and you're sitting in the audience and you'd like to indicate your support, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. If you disagree, a polite hand gesture to the negative is also okay, but we ask that other than for students or for visiting dignitaries, we don't do applause or vocal demonstrations in the chamber. That way everyone feels free to express their opinion and to not have it be interrupted.
 That's it in terms of ground rules. With that, would you please read the item?
 Item 96, refer a measure to city voters for the May 17, 2016 election authorizing the creation of a program dedicated to street repair and traffic safety through a temporary 10 cents per gallon tax on motor vehicle fuels in Portland for vehicles not subject to weight mile tax and create City Code 17.105. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, citizens, this moment has been a long time coming. The city has known since at least 1987 that we were underinvesting in our streets. And every year that we have waited, the problem gets worse because the longer you take to fix a street, the more expensive it is to fix it.
 We've also known that there are big parts of the city, particularly in outer east and some parts of southwest Portland, but other places too, where it's dangerous for kids to walk or bike to school or for seniors to walk to bus stops or for anybody to bike, walk, get to transit as safely as they should. Right.
 What we're proposing here is to ask the voters to approve a four-year, 10-cent-per-gallon temporary gas tax in order to start addressing those two issues. We know from talking to a lot of individual Portlanders and from public opinion surveys that Portlanders care about both things. Portlanders want the streets repaired. They also want those safety issues addressed.
 This proposal would allocate somewhat more than half, to be precise, about 56 percent of the revenue over these four years, which we expect to be $16 million a year, to paving projects, and 44 percent to those safety projects, many of which have been talked about and desired by neighborhoods for years and years. The biggest chunk of the safety project money will be spent on Safe Rounds to School projects,
 filling in sidewalk gaps, addressing dangerous intersections, making it easier for children to walk and bike to school. The project list can be found on our website. You can see how we're planning to spend the money. The safety projects are pretty much locked in stone. We might add a few if we have cost underruns. We might have to cut back on some if we have cost overruns.
 The street repair projects are not quite as cast in stone because we go out and reevaluate the pavement every once in a while, and we might decide to shift some of that money around. But the percentage that goes to street repair as opposed to the safety projects will remain the same. There will be a citizen oversight committee that will review our spending as we go along over these four years. There's a couple other topics I want to touch on before turning to some amendments that we have and then turning it over to staff and our invited testimony.
 One is, some people ask, you have a $400 million general fund budget paid for by property taxes and other sources. Why can't you fix your street funding problems with that? And what it's important for people to know is that the general fund budget goes overwhelmingly to police, fire, parks, and housing.
 Similar to other cities. That's why cities and counties around us, Washington County, Lake Oswego, Tigard, and Oregon City, have over the past 20 years adopted local transportation funding mechanisms because they understood that the state and federal gas tax wasn't giving them enough money to address their streets, and they couldn't find the money they needed in their general fund either.
 So last year, this council, in fact, did dedicate more general fund adjusted for inflation to transportation than any council since 1985 because we had significant one-time funds, but we can't count on that every year. Another thing I wanted to mention is that you'll notice that this proposal exempts
 heavy trucks that pay the weight mile tax from this tax. That is not because we don't expect the heavy trucks to pay their fair share. I'm determined to make sure that they pay their fair share. The question is, how can we ensure that actually happens? How do we do it smart? Our concern was that there's one truck stop in Portland, the Jubitz truck stop,
 These heavy trucks travel long distances. They don't have to stop in Portland. So after discussing with the freight committee, we were concerned that if we attached the diesel tax to those long-haul trucks, they would simply skip Portland, wouldn't fill up here. We might put that truck stop out of business for no particularly good reason. So we were struggling with what to do about that. And then an old friend of mine named Brian Bowe, who used to work in this industry, suggested that we explore the possibility of something called a load feed.
 which is where we would assess a tax on diesel as it comes out of the big tanks on the Willamette River, which serve the whole region, which happen to be located in Portland. That struck us as a very interesting thing worth pursuing. We've asked the freight committee to assemble a subcommittee of folks to look at that option and other options for ensuring that freight pays its fair share. So stay tuned on what we do about ensuring that freight pays its fair share. It will happen. We're just exploring the mechanism.
 With that, I want to turn to some amendments that we want to put on the table.
 One of the first one is one I worked with Commissioner Fritz on. As my colleagues will remember, we've had a long discussion about the share of revenues from this tax, so we'll go to street repair and traffic safety. And this amendment clarifies that the ratio of 56 percent street repair, 44 percent traffic safety projects will remain the same regardless of whether our revenue estimates change. We will adjust our spending to reflect that ratio.
 The second amendment is a clarification about how certain tax refunds will operate that implement our version of the state exemptions for certain vehicles such as school buses. The third amendment amends the explanatory statement to address that 56 percent, 44 percent split and reiterate that that will be the split.
 The Fourth Amendment is a very simple one. On page 8 of the project list, a footnote was unintentionally omitted. This footnote has now been added back. It explains that the Neighborhood Greenway funding amounts assume that PBOT will also receive additional grant funds for some of the projects. And the Fifth Amendment relates to the Oversight Committee. It's a result of conversations with Commissioner Fritz, who suggested that,
 Committee appointments will be made by the commissioner in charge, but each commissioner will select at least one member of the committee. And we outlined which member would be chosen based on the Bureau and other responsibilities of individual commissioners. So those are the amendments I propose, and I move the amendments so that we can put them on the table for discussion during testimony. Okay. Thank you.
 Further discussion of the package of amendments that Commissioner Novick described that are actually in a memorandum from Mark Lear at PBOT, which if anyone needs a copy, they can get one from Carla. Further discussion, roll call to put the amendments before us for consideration as well as the measure itself. Thank you.
 Just to be clear, I don't exactly like the 56% repair to 44% safety ratio. I would have preferred it to be more like 50-50. It was the result of a long series of discussions in the course of the transportation funding discussions last year, and so I appreciate having it very clearly stated. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Nails? Aye. Okay, thank you. Any other amendments to put on the table before we start with the presentation? Okay. I'd now like to ask for Leotreet, Mark Lear, and Steve Townsend to give the PBOT presentation. Come on up, please. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you, Commissioner, for your introduction. And as you and the rest of the council are aware, we have been working for years to try to develop a proposal to address funding our street repair and safety investments in the city of Portland. So I'm really pleased today to be talking to you about our latest proposal that represents really a lot of hard work from neighbors and businesses and the many Portlanders who believe that we can and should do better.
 So this is the culmination of a two-year process that shows there's growing support to begin to address our longstanding maintenance and safety needs with this $0.10 temporary vehicle fuel tax. And the proposal that you have in front of you today refers that $0.10 tax to the ballot on May 2016.
 This proposal raises approximately $16 million a year or $64 million over the next four years, and again is a temporary measure. We have a list of specific projects for street repairs that will reduce costly rebuilds in the future and a list of projects that will reduce injuries and fatalities. These projects are also going to make our streets safer for seniors to get to transit and for kids to get to school.
 And we're going to make many of these improvements all across the great city of Portland. Also, to ensure program accountability and the ability to address changes that may occur as we implement the program, we're proposing a very diverse citizen oversight committee. So one of the hardest parts of my job over the last couple of years has been watching the immediate human, financial, and economic costs of further delaying increased investments in our transportation infrastructure.
 Sadly, last year marked another year in which traffic fatalities exceeded homicides in our city, a fact that highlights our traffic safety epidemic. Further, it is also unacceptable that our poorest and most diverse neighborhoods have fatality rates that are twice as high as wealthy parts of our city.
 Survey work that we completed in our recent funding conversation shows that Portlanders also want better maintained streets. 77% support additional revenue to repair our streets. 86% support additional revenue to make it safer for seniors to get to transit and for our students to safely travel to school.
 And while it's great news for us, for our state, for our city, that Congress finally passed a five-year federal transportation bill, the level of funding that comes to cities through that bill for street maintenance and safety is well below what we need. And our federal and state partners would most certainly agree that local solutions need to be a part of the fix.
 Last year, Portland City Club put together a research committee that was going to research the idea to end the funding gridlock. After extensive analysis, as you know because the City Club presented to you as well, they recommended that Portland follow the lead of 24 other Oregon cities and immediately pursue a city gas tax. With that, I would like to turn the presentation over to Steve Townsend, our chief engineer, who is going to share some details about the maintenance proposal. Thank you.
 So the project list funded by this proposal will make a significant difference to the city. Oh, I mean Steve Townsend, I'm the chief engineer for transportation, sorry. The primary driver for our street repair program is to eliminate future costly rebuilds. The dollar spent on preventive maintenance today saves multiple dollars that are wasted on future expensive repairs or rebuilds. Over the last few years, Portland has developed a refined strategy for maximizing our limited resources.
 The street repair proposal builds on these strategies by focusing on our busiest streets that serve freight and transit. Not only is the maintenance of these streets critical to our neighborhoods and businesses, but they deteriorate the fastest due to the volume and weight of the vehicles. This project list allocates $35.8 million over four years to street repair. About 90% of this revenue is allocated to pavement maintenance.
 Paving projects trigger federal requirements to bring ADA ramps up to standard. When those ramps are replaced in a paving project, it is the optimum time to address critical operational and maintenance issues, including signals, streetlights, and signage. Because of that, we have set aside $3 million, about 10%, so that these items can be done as part of the paving projects. In addition to the 29 miles of busy street paving, we have set aside $8 million to do spot base repairs at locations throughout the city.
 Base repairs are done where the street is badly cracked and slumping and has created safety issues for the traveling public. Performing these spot repairs keeps these areas from growing and becoming more expensive and eliminates the hazard. Our proposal for the street repair uses Portland's pavement management system, Street Saver, which is an industry standard, to ensure that we are selecting street segments that would benefit the most from street repair.
 this tool allows us to prioritize maintenance improvements on our streets of city-wide significance the following are a few examples of street repair projects that are included in our project list one of them being southeast 82nd i'm sorry southeast foster from 82nd to 90th this project is within the limits of the foster safety improvements and it will leverage those improvements as part of the project another one is one you guys are familiar with is southwest jefferson southwest nato from jefferson to harrison
 This project leverages $1 million from ODOT and addresses access to both the Hawthorne Bridge and I-5. And you may recall it was actually on the list for general fund and was approved, but with the Multnomah County's improvements on the Morrison Bridge, we pushed it out and reallocated that funding. And this project would be coordinated with the county's work on the Morrison Bridge to eliminate those traffic impacts.
 This proposed funding will improve, will provide one more tool in our toolbox to help minimize the long-term maintenance costs of our streets, which are used by all. Now, Mark Lear, PBOT's Resource Development Manager, will share details about the safety portion of this proposal.
 Mark Clear, Portland Bureau of Transportation. The second major objective of this proposal is to do a better job of taking care of Portlanders. By this, we mean saving lives and reducing serious injuries, our Vision Zero goals, and providing safe access to walking and biking in transit citywide.
 with a focus on our poorest, diversest neighborhoods with the most broken transportation system. One of the things that makes me most proud of the proposal that we have in front of you today and I think speaks to the improving public outreach we have around our projects is the level of endorsement that we've gotten from groups like East Portland activists who are working on the proposal and the Transportation Justice Alliance as well. I think it speaks a lot to that growing power we have as a city to really identify the best projects.
 The other thing that we're doing, the allocation under this proposal would be $28.2 million towards safety. This additional funding will allow the city to make significant improvements in high crash corridors, around schools, and on our busiest and most used streets.
 this next slide gives you an indication of some of that public involvement that i was talking about we've developed five programs working with the communities and neighborhoods over the last few years to really identify our most needed safety improvements and this slide highlights those and just let me give you a couple examples of some of the work that we're doing so for example our high crash corridor program will probably provide improvements on 122nd avenue northe sandy
 82nd Avenue. Our pedestrian network program will allow us to develop sidewalks in East Portland, Northeast 148th, Southeast 112th, Northeast 102nd, as well as Southwest Capital Highway.
 Our Safe Routes to School program has done this amazing job. It's definitely recognized as one of the strongest programs in the country of working with parents and kids and identifying safety improvements around schools. And this effort will allow us to continue to move that forward effort and build those projects. In addition to that...
 We've identified critical safety improvements in neighborhoods that will improve safety for bicyclists and pedestrians, all modes. With our Neighborhood Greenway Program, we're identifying two of the highest priority neighborhood greenways in East Portland. Those will be funded under this proposal, as well as additional protection for cyclists in our central city.
 I'll now turn it back over to Director Tree. Thank you. So we also, in this proposal, want to ensure efficiency and accountability. So the proposal includes a very specific list of street repair and safety projects that will be delivered over the four-year program. And as Mark mentioned, this list of projects is based on extensive public outreach and was reviewed with Portlanders over the last year.
 we have also developed a diverse oversight committee to oversee the effort the oversight committee will monitor revenues and expenditures and program project implementation including recommending any required changes to the project list they will also monitor utilization of minority owned women owned and emerging emerging small businesses utilized and provide an annual report to the city council director treat on this can you take can we
 Can we go one slide back? On this question of recommendations for adjustments to the project list, recommendations to whom?
 So it would come to the Oversight Committee. Say, for example, if we go out and bid a street rebuild project and it comes in over budget, we would have to go back to the Oversight Committee to determine whether we want to allocate money from another project to do a more expensive rebuild or take that project off the list and come up with a new one altogether. So the Oversight Committee would then make a recommendation to you, and are you then empowered to make that decision? That's a good question. Can you –
 Help me on that one, Commissioner. That's what I was assuming, actually, but maybe we should ask him to hear if that's I think if the ordinance and the measure is silent on that question, then I believe it would normally fall under your authority, Commissioner, and the Bureau's authority to reallocate project funds. My interest here is making sure that we're very clear in terms of voter intent so that if
 in those instances where there has to be some fine-tuning, that we're clear about who has the authority to recommend and who has the authority to act. Great. Thank you. And also, I guess Commissioner Fritz's amendment deals with part of that in that if we do have to do any of those reallocations, we do have to stay within the percentage split.
 And the code does say that there's an annual report to council. So I would assume that it would be going through the usual director in charge and commissioner, make those kinds of VR decisions, but then there's the report. Yeah, and maybe just to add one thing, as 19 years ago, I was hired by the city to build the capital budget. We would still be bringing our capital budget with these projects in front of council, and council would be approving those. That's part of how you would see that happen as well. Does that satisfy your question? OK, thank you.
 So in closing, I just want to thank all the neighbors and businesses that have helped us to develop the proposal over the last two years. And I really believe the proposal that's before you today is a true testament to the smarts.
 hard work and commitment from Portlanders to address this issue. And very specifically, I need to thank my Bureau staff who has worked tirelessly for many years prior to my coming here on this issue. I think this is our fourth time at VAT. Second for me, they are just an amazing staff, and I hear from everyone who has helped on this effort of how professional and hardworking my staff is, and I'm deeply appreciative of
 and i'm also appreciative to our modal advisory committees the freight advisory committee our bicycle advisory committee and our pedestrian advisory committee each of them was briefed numerous times and all three of them have provided letters of support for this proposal so i think it's a very strong proposal in front of you today and thank you very much for your time thank you other questions for director treat and her staff
 Thank you very much. And then, Commissioner, do you have some invited testimony? We do. I'd like to ask Fiona Yao Liu of Oregon Walks, Michael Teta representing the Community Cycling Center and the Transportation and, I'm sorry, the Community Cycling Center, and Marion Haynes with the Portland Business Alliance. Good afternoon. Welcome.
 good afternoon mayor Hales and commissioners and thank you for the opportunity to speak my name is Fiona Yao Liu and I serve on the board of Oregon walks our state's pedestrian advocacy organization we are here today to support the efforts to fund safety improvements on our streets here in Portland
 We are also here because we stand firm in the shared concerns of the Transportation Justice Alliance that the gas tax is a regressive source of new funding and is not the end solution to the funding and equity concerns with our current transportation system and budget.
 However, this project list that has been put forth today by Commissioner Novick steers NIDA dollars towards the areas of the city that need it the most. Earlier this month, a woman in a mobility device was hit on Southeast 156th and Division. The third pedestrian killed at this intersection in less than four years. This should never happen.
 No family should have to lose a loved one, much less two more families lose their loved ones at the same exact spot before change is made. It has been made all too clear that families in East Portland see the burden of this lack of investment in any other part of our city, and pedestrians in Portland are killed at an alarming high rate compared to the rest of the country.
 In 2014, over 50% of Portland's traffic deaths were people walking, compared to the national average of about 14%. It is undeniably clear that people need to be prioritized, and our investments have to be targeted in areas of the city where people are the most likely to walk and use transit, and must do so on some of our most dangerous roads.
 The city has stated a goal to reach zero deaths on our roads, and we are excited to continue working on the Vision Zero action plan that will set out the path to reach this goal and reach it by 2025. We have committed to solidifying Portland as a Vision Zero city since 2013, and to get there requires undoing the drastic disparities that currently exist here.
 We urgently need funding to eliminate traffic fatalities. We must prioritize funding projects that will serve our city's goals and help the most vulnerable. We firmly reiterate our support for more progressive funding options, and we encourage you to move this proposal to the ballot for voters to decide. Thank you. Afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 Thanks for the opportunity today. My name is Michael Tette, and I'm here on behalf of the Transportation Justice Alliance. I wanted to commend the efforts of the Bureau of Transportation and the Office of Commissioner Novick to prioritize investments in under-resourced parts of our city and offer our conditional support for this effort. I want to place an emphasis on the conditional nature of that support because we all –
 know and we all feel that we have much further to go if we're going to see an equitable distribution of what makes this city a great place to walk, bike, roll, and catch a bus. We all know that something must be done to improve our streets. We also have a major concern with the increasing economic burdens faced by those who are already impacted by our failure to invest in their safety.
 With the number of traffic fatalities exceeding the number of homicides in our city, it's clear that our group is desperate to address what is an academic of traffic fatalities.
 We remain convinced that safe streets for all Portlanders should be a top priority, and a majority of residents want to see more money dedicated to seeing this happen, especially where conditions are the worst and individuals are the most at risk. This funding proposal with the current project list intact is a start, but we need to look forward to the partnership that we have with the city and the Bureau of Transportation to a future where the benefits and burdens of our transportation network are more equitably distributed.
 The regressive nature of the mechanism adds to a long list of regressive transportation fees and taxes and fails to protect our lowest income households from higher transportation costs, much less divide the revenue burden more fairly between residents and businesses.
 Thankfully, the projects listed in the proposal steer revenue to the areas of the city that have for too long been neglected and are unsafe. However, these projects alone do not solve the existing structural challenges in either the way the Bureau of Transportation allocates existing funds or determines overall transportation policies. Thank you.
 Due to the regressive nature of the temporary tax on gas, our support for this effort is conditioned on the City and PPOT's commitment to identify and pursue less regressive future funding sources, to more equitably distribute existing resources, and an ongoing commitment to increase transportation investments in our most dangerous and diverse neighborhoods.
 If we're going to have a world-class transportation system that serves all Portlanders, we need the continued partnership of the Bureau of Transportation paired with new funding mechanisms to meaningfully reform the way investments are made for our most vulnerable road users. Over the next four years, we expect to work with the city and the Bureau of Transportation on this.
 on progressive funding that continues increases in ongoing transportation funding to ensure we can begin to address the growing backlog of safety and maintenance projects.
 An investment analysis that will allow us to analyze the budget to provide clarity around the history, distribution, type, and current condition of investments made in our transportation network. And increased citizen engagement with a full review and restructuring of all current advisory and decision-making bodies to ensure the Portland Bureau of Transportation prioritizes its diversity, equity, and inclusion goals.
 We really hope that we can have the City of Portland's transportation system be something that we're extremely proud of, not something that we're increasingly embarrassed of, and we look forward to your partnership in that. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hills, council members. My name is Marion Haynes, and I represent the Portland Business Alliance. The Alliance represents...
 Over 1,800 small and large businesses from throughout the region. As you know, the Alliance has consistently supported a well-maintained and safe transportation system, and we have acknowledged that additional revenue may be warranted to address the longstanding backlog of deferred maintenance, the cost of which will only grow exponentially over time.
 A voter-approved gas tax with a sunset date meets many of the principles that we had identified at the start of the street fee discussion in 2014. It's user-based. It has very low administrative overhead. We appreciate the voter approval that the gas tax requires. It's user-friendly.
 And the gas tax couldn't be diverted to other uses because it's limited by the Oregon Constitution, the Highway Trust Fund. So we know that it's going to go for its intended purpose of fixing both the maintenance issues and the safety issues on the streets.
 I wanted to thank Commissioner Novick and echo Director Treat's comments that the staff has been really phenomenal on this over a long long time. We appreciate the outreach to our members. We've had a couple of
 meetings with the commissioner. He invited us to participate in a meeting with Michael and some others to better understand both the different perspectives that we bring. We had been focused on maintenance, and we continue to be, but understand that there are pressing safety needs on the streets that need to be addressed, and so that was very helpful.
 Our support is also conditioned a little bit by a few factors. One is that, and I expect this to be the case, but we want to make sure that these dollars are additive to what is currently spent on maintenance and that funds that are currently being spent on maintenance don't get diverted to other purposes. We need more, a lot more. This is a start, but it doesn't solve the problem.
 To that point, we think ultimately there ought to be some additional ongoing city resources, and we very much appreciate the work that was done during the last budget cycle with the one-time funds and think that's a very smart decision to dedicate a portion of those to infrastructure improvements. But we think there ought to be more of that, especially at a time when we're asking voters to pay more.
 We would not like to see additional taxes and fees on this same user group during the four-year period, recognizing that there may be others out there that aren't contributing at this point, and we don't have a position yet on the new idea, but are open to exploring ways to make sure that everybody is contributing to this shared responsibility. Thank you.
 And finally, we want to make sure that vehicle road capacity is not impacted as a part of this. We really think the focus needs to be on those critical safety improvements and on just that maintenance backlog to try to begin to get ahead of this problem, which has been decades in the making. So, yeah.
 We look forward to the ongoing dialogue on this issue, appreciate the committee that's going to be created in order to have some oversight on this.
 and look forward to hopefully working through a few of these issues and being able to give our full support. Thank you. Can I ask a question, Mary? Michael, one thing about conditional support that's interesting is the conditions that you're putting down are to occur after this is either adopted or rejected by the voters. So on the theory that we're going to have to meet some of those conditions in the future,
 I'm just curious, since we've been at this for a couple years and we've had a lot of ideas put on the table, what constitutes progressive funding options that you want us to consider in the future? Wonderful. Thank you for the question, Commissioner Fish.
 I think that there are a number of different funding options that we could consider short of tax on gasoline that would provide more progressive and significantly less progressive options.
 without kind of a fallen victim and to jump into some of those solutions. I'd really look forward to an opportunity to work with you and your office, as well as the rest of the folks at the Portland Bureau of Transportation, to determine what is going to be the most likely and or most potentially impactful funding mechanism to get this done. As was mentioned earlier, we have a long list,
 a long way to go if we're going to be able to meet the challenges of an increasing backlog of maintenance and significant safety improvements, and we're going to need to look at absolutely every option that's available if we're going to be able to see the kind of transportation that we need to have in this city. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Okay, let's hear your next group, please. Thank you.
 I'd now like to ask Corky Collier of the Columbia Corridor Association, the most alliterative man in Portland, to join us. You're going to start engaging in name calls at this stage. I didn't say illiterate. You said alliterative. Corky will have as much time as you need to respond to this defamation. Ken Marks, longtime East Portland transportation advocate, and Chow Fun Mendy and two daughters. Talk about safe routes to school.
 Thank you. I am Corky Collier of the Columbia Corridor Association. This is really about simple dollars and common sense. When we allow our streets to deteriorate badly, it ends up costing us ten times more to repair them. Commissioner Novick likes to use the tooth decay analogy and –
 Since he's sitting right here, I can't get away by stealing it from him. So I'll use the car wash analogy. If you don't wash your car, the grime starts to build up on it. Pretty soon moss is growing on it. The rubber seals deteriorate. The paint comes off. Forget what it looks like. Your value, your investment is gone. The value of your investment is much, much less. So spending a few bucks every month to wash the car is going to maintain that investment. And that's really what we're talking about with our streets. It's not about spending money. It's about saving money.
 We're not talking about gilded streets. We are talking about the right amount of maintenance at the right place and the right time. PBOT knows how to do this. They only lack the funding. My back of the envelope calculations show that I spend about $8.50 a day on my 2002 Toyota. That's for insurance, repair, gasoline, everything. My wife spends about $25 a day because she has the newer Mazda.
 We both spend about 53 cents a day on the gas tax, 53 cents a day for our streets, sidewalks, bike lanes, bridges, 53 cents a day for all the infrastructure that that $25 a day car is driving on. The average for an Oregonian is about $18.89 a day, and they spend about 50 cents a day, too, on the gas tax. It makes sense that maybe we bump that up just a little bit.
 Ninety-seven years ago, Oregon became the first state to create a gas tax, a nickel a gallon. Now, if we'd maintained, adjusted for inflation over all that time, that gas tax would now be about 70 cents a gallon. Instead, it's 30 cents a gallon. Now, we have a lot more extensive road system than we did in 1919, but we're only spending half as much to maintain it.
 If we could get away with it, that would be something to be proud of, but we haven't been getting away with it. It's deteriorating, and it's going to cost us a lot more in the future. So please, push forward with the gas tax measure on the ballot. But as you do so, I ask you to embrace two big concerns. One, the city council needs to remain committed to fixing our maintenance deficit. The gas tax, this is just the beginning. This is a drop in the bucket for how much we are going to have to come up with in the future.
 So we need you to stick to your pledge to commit half of the bump to infrastructure. We need you to go back to the 1988 pledge to spend 28% of the utility license fee to transportation. It means being fiscally responsible in the face of the next overwhelming political issue of the day. The other big concern is equity. A few years ago, a gas tax was an obvious good solution. But that was before the arts tax, the library bond, the school bond, a number of new expenses that have weighed more heavily on the poor.
 Commissioner Novick is well aware of this inequity. I think all of you are well aware of this inequity. It's going to take your constant vigilance to continually support efforts that will offset yet another regressive expense. So please, move forward with the gas tax and keep in mind that, well, this is just the beginning of the struggle. Thank you, Corky. Just wanted to note for the record, I appreciate your support, but as you know,
 The city council back in 1988, long before any of us served there, was putting utility franchise fee revenues into transportation. Then in 1990, the voters of the state of Oregon passed the Measure 5. The Oregonian at the time opined that this would lead to the passage of a sales tax and that that's how we would fund infrastructure in the future in Oregon. We're still waiting. Oops. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Kem Marks, and as Commissioner Novick said, I'm an advocate for safety issues regarding East Portland. I'm on the East Portland Land Use and Transportation Committee and East Portland Action Plan.
 I represent both for the Outer PAL Safety Project and for the PAL Division Project. However, today I speak on behalf of myself and not representing those organizations. I support this tax, even though I am opposed generally to regressive taxes. In fact, when the street fee was being discussed, I sat in this exact same chair and opposed that plan.
 However, I find that this is the most viable option that we have at this moment. I also support the idea of looking for more progressive ways of funding the projects and
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your amendment for ensuring that the 44-56 split is part of the ordinance. I really appreciate that. And if it had changed and gone different, I would have been opposed to this project.
 East Portland has been asking, demanding projects like the 122nd improvements, the 4M projects, and many, many more projects for a very long time. At least those two projects are on this list going forward.
 The 122nd projects will allow TriMet to improve to frequent service, which is the only route, north-south route, in East Portland that even gets close to the Columbia Corridor, where Corky is one of the lead people. These are very important projects to East Portland, and they will be very beneficial to East Portland.
 I'd like to relay, though, what happened today while I walked my daughter to school. I live on 130th. There are no sidewalks on 130th. We have to share the street with cars that frequently go 10, 15 miles above the speed limit. While walking my daughter to school today, she tripped in a pothole. She asked me where potholes come from.
 I gave her a technical answer about weather and cars and weight and all of that. What I didn't tell her was that there has been a serious neglect to deal with the issue of transportation in this city for a way too long period. I really am hoping that you will all put this forth to the voters so that we can try to address those problems.
 and maybe head in the right direction, a direction that we have for way too long been stagnant in and been in inertia. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. I'd like to begin by thanking the city council members and Mayor Charlie Hayes for letting me speak out in support of the gas tax proposal and thank you.
 Safe Routes to school for reaching out to their network of parent volunteers. I'm present here today to express my support for alternative means to provide funding for protecting the fabric and livability of our city. My name is Chau and these are my daughters, Lena and Nea, and they are both students at Hayhurst Elementary. I'm a resident of Southwest Portland and every member of our family uses biking.
 as transportation to school or work. My husband commutes nine miles to northeast Portland, and I have a seventh grader that bikes two miles to Robert Gray Middle School, located north of Beaverton Hillsdale Highway in the Hillsdale neighborhood, and my two eight-year-old daughters pedal bush thirst out legs about one and a half miles round trip to Hayhurst and home.
 For all good reasons, we encourage biking to stay active, to get fresh air, to respect our environment, to avoid traffic, and the best perk, to get front row parking. Biking is a value and an integral part of our daily lives and this is only possible because of the bike lanes and safe routes on our commute. However, these must be maintained, repaired, and improved so that the safer routes are accessible to all residents.
 Each of our bike commutes have an inherent risk. I would like to point out my son's commute could be safer if additional funding better protected him from cars on Beaverton Hillsdale Highway. And where my girls bike, they could have visible signage and lights to cross Southwest 45th and Illinois Street, a busy intersection during peak drop-off and pickup times.
 Southwest schools, including Hayhurst Elementary, Robert Gray Middle School, were not built to house so many students and handle the mental car scene today. The public streets around those schools are unsafe when congested with so many cars. I'm going to go a little to add that I speak for most, I don't speak for Southwest Portland, and I speak on behalf of Safe Routes to School. They've been very supportive of the programs that we have.
 But I don't speak for the majority of the people in Southwest. There are not enough people that use the streets because there are no sidewalks and there are few bike lanes. Funding safe routes to school programs and enhancement initiatives around schools and maintaining or repairing roads are necessary to ensure a healthy future for our city.
 Educating early the benefits of active commuting helps to improve overall wellness of our population. If the city could provide safer roads and better means to bike than drive, more bikes would be seen on the road. For Southwest Portland, I envision electric assist bikes weaving up and down the hills, but the reality is we need more bike lanes. To keep this briefing closing, the gas tax proposal will open a dialogue and conversation about what really matters to our city and what values we want to sustain and nurture.
 Thank you for listening. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 That's the end of our invited testimony. I just want to reflect for a moment on some of the testimony we've heard. I really look forward to working with Michael and the rest of the Transportation Justice Alliance on ensuring that we do allocate our resources in a way that's consistent with the diversity, equity, inclusion, and Vision Zero goals. I look forward to working with them in the future to identify more progressive funding sources for transportation. I will note that
 the gas tax actually is less regressive than the street fee we proposed over a year ago. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the typical person in the top 20% of income spends about four times as much on gasoline as a typical person in the bottom 20% of income. So it's still not directly proportional income, but it is less regressive than an option we were considering 14 months ago.
 And I also really appreciated the Portland Business Alliance urging us to not reduce the amount of existing funding that we are addressing to transportation. I realize that these are tough budget times and there are other demands, but I hope that we will fulfill our historic amendments and comply with our resolution, which says that any one-time funding, at least half of it, has to go to transportation and other infrastructure.
 Thank you very much. We want to move to the sign-up sheet, but want to extend an invitation to parents with small children or people with disabilities to come up first. We've already heard from one family here, and those girls did a great job, but we don't want to test our luck. So if there are people here with young children or who need to get home to them, feel free to exercise the prerogative to come up first. And likewise, if there are folks here with disabilities that would like to come up first, we'll take them at the outset. And if not, we'll move to the sign-up sheet.
 We have a total of 26 signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Terry Parker, Andy Shaw, and Chris Smith. And they'll be followed by Chris Finney-Dunn, Leah Benson, and Hal Hagenhorn. Good afternoon. Terry, I think you're first. Okay. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. Terry Parker, Northeast Portland. Thank you.
 I obviously have my own hat on today, but I also believe I speak for a number of broad range of community members who feel the same way I do and I've had discussions with.
 With nearly half of the proposed gas tax revenue going to non-maintenance projects and with over $800 million of proposed infrastructure to accommodate bicycles in Portland's TSP that often are referred to and masqueraded as safety improvements, any increased capacity for motorists is virtually nonexistent and even being reduced with road diets. Bicycle infrastructure is not an entitlement program.
 There is also an enormous mass transit project list that will require an immense amount of taxpayer subsidies for operations, even though car trips are expected to increase by 49 percent over the next 20 years, regardless of how much mass transit service is added. Not only do TriMet's buses do the heaviest damage to Portland streets, but public transit on average uses more energy per passenger mile as measured in BTUs and creates more emissions per passenger mile as measured in CO2 than driving a fuel-efficient car.
 Transit riders, on average, are subsidized, taxpayer subsidized, at more than 60 cents per passenger mile. It is unjust to pile more taxes onto motorists rather than equitably and proportionately distributing some of the burden of payment to the users of the alternative modes.
 without a tax on transit fares and bicycle-paid user fees to pay for supersized bike lane space and their huge I-want list such as barricading off Clinton Street for a bicycle freeway, a standalone increase in the gas tax is both tax discrimination and biased social engineering.
 Furthermore, the City Club concept of charging higher registration fees related to the weight of a car or light truck is an attack on the middle-class households that need to have a family-sized car or cargo capacity vehicles. Instead of continuing to unjustly profile an extort Portland motorist, the City Council needs to start providing more than just lip service equity. This includes proportionally adding motor-specific representatives to all of PBOT's advisory and oversight committees.
 stacking the deck with alternative mode users to advise how the dollars are spent, and not including the primary financial providers that pay for the majority of TSP projects
 is yet another outright form of motorist-directed discrimination. The public process is clearly broken. Is this hearing just window dressing for a decision already made? When one user mode is taxed and the special interest modes are not, trust in government becomes lost. Taxes are rarely temporary. This gas tax increase measure needs to be opposed if it is not coupled with a tax or fees on transit riders and freeloading adult bicyclists. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, thank you. My name is Andy Shaw. Nearly one year ago, the City Club of Portland convened an all-volunteer committee to examine the city's street safety and maintenance funding crisis. I was a member of that committee last year. Our report, published last September, made three primary recommendations. First of all, that after decades of underfunding, many of Portland's roads, sidewalks, bike
 had fallen into disrepair, adding up to an incredibly expensive and still increasing maintenance backlog. Deferring maintenance today increases the cost of repair exponentially, as you've heard already. It forces future city councils to choose between crumbling roads and vital services like affordable housing and public safety.
 Secondly, while roads in Portland have gotten safer over the past two decades, these benefits have not accrued across the city, as you also have heard earlier. And the majority of fatalities have occurred east of 82nd, something that the committee found to be something we need to address now. Third, a local gas tax is the preferred method to raise the funds necessary to address all of these challenges.
 A gas tax is cost-effective. It can be raised through existing collection mechanisms already in place for state gas taxes and local gas taxes. A gas tax is fair. The more people use roads, the more they pay. A gas tax is equitable. On average, high-income householders drive more than low-income householders. A gas tax is comprehensive. Non-Portland residents who fill their tanks in Portland also are then paying to help drive on the streets that they benefit from.
 And finally, a gas tax has the added value of creating an incentive for more people to get around by walking, biking, transit, ride-sharing, leading to less congestion, less pollution, and fewer crashes.
 In order to fund the life-saving road improvements and cost-saving maintenance that we need, the City Club of Portland urges you to unanimously pass this ordinance and refer a $0.10 local gas tax to the May 2016 ballot. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Chris Smith. I am a member of the Planning and Sustainability Commission. However, I am speaking here as an individual informed by my service in that commission.
 I will admit that during the debate on the City Club report, I was in the minority arguing for a progressive utility fee as a better option to do this. But I am not a sore loser, and I am here to, without conditions, urge you to pass this measure today. We've been at this for a long time. I personally am an alumnus of the 2008 committee.
 Safe, Sound, and Green Streets Committee, which helped prompt a small increase in state gas tax, but we quickly saw that absorbed by lost purchasing power and largely by the Selwood Bridge Commission.
 contribution that Portland made, we still have a tremendous need. And to connect some of the policy dots, the Portland plan, our strategic plan, recognizes that we cannot achieve our citywide strategies without new transportation revenue. And right now, you're in the midst of considering the comp plan. That includes a TSP project list that is built on the idea of a constrained
 transportation project list as the things we think we can pay for. The assumptions that go into what we think we pay for include this revenue and more that it is expected that you will adopt. So if we're not able to do this, you have to start trimming that list because it won't be real. So I urge you to adopt this, I think, primarily for my role as a multimodal transportation advocate. We need our street network to be both maintained and to be safe, and this is an important step forward, and I urge you to adopt it.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Chris Finney-Dunn, Leah Benson, and Hav Hogadorn, and they'll be followed by Rebecca Hamilton, Jen Kavansky, and Ophelia Miracle. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Christy Finney-Dunn. I am here on behalf of Oregon and Southwest Washington Families for Safe Streets.
 Our group advocates for safer streets for all road users, whether in a vehicle, on a bike, or walking. The cost to join our group is extraordinarily expensive. The loss of life or serious injury to our loved ones on local streets. My son, Dustin, was killed in a bike lane on Division in 2011. Kim's son, Joe, was struck down in a marked crosswalk on Division.
 Cindy's husband, Marcos, died after a driver plowed into his vehicle at an intersection, and Christina's daughter, Mona, was seriously injured crossing a street near her school. I'm sure everyone here can agree that the price we have paid is more than anyone should have to bear. That is why we feel it is imperative that measures be taken to improve safety on our streets as quickly as possible. We cannot stress enough the urgency we feel on this matter.
 Our hearts, already broken by the loss and injury of our own loved ones, are shattered anew when we hear of another road tragedy and another family suffering the unimaginable. We truly believe that this devastation is not inevitable and it is not acceptable. That's why we urge you to put this gas tax for safer roads and the repair of streets before the voters. We feel everyone deserves to feel safe, to be safe, and to be comfortable on our local roads, whatever our mode of transportation.
 We don't want any more people to qualify for our Families for Safe Streets group. If we must contribute financially to make that happen, we personally are glad to do so, and we hope that others will join us in helping to make more level streets for current and future generations. We feel it is the responsibility of all people to work together for the common good. You passed a resolution toward Vision Zero, and you must continue in that endeavor.
 We expect that you will keep this commitment in mind and do what you must to make it happen. And for my own self, I want to say thank you for that, and thank you for the opportunity that I personally have to be engaged in that process. We don't want any more Dustin's, Joe's, Marco's, and Mona's on our roads. Thank you. Thank you for your advocacy. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Leah Benson. I'm here as a small business owner. I own a bike shop in northeast Portland called Gladys Bikes. And I took time out of my day managing the shop because I strongly believe this gas tax is an important investment in the economic vitality and livability of the city of Portland. You can ask just about any entrepreneur and they'll tell you that learning to manage the books and make thoughtful investments is a key skill in preparing for long-term success. The same applies here.
 And for over 30 years, the city of Portland has been unable to secure the necessary funding to keep up with the natural deterioration of our streets. The lack of repairs has big implications to my business and our community. Let me tell you, Portland is a pretty great city to own a bike shop in. We're known for great riding, exciting infrastructure, and safer streets. And as a result, we've got a whole lot of bike riders and lovers here.
 That said, we cannot continue to rest on our laurels and ignore the fact that many of our roads are in dire need of upkeep. The continued success of the bike economy here is a complicated web, to be sure. But having good roads to ride on is undeniably crucial to that success. If someone does not feel safe riding on our streets, she sure isn't going to walk into our shop stores to buy a bike, much less ride it. It's time to implement a sustainable plan for the maintenance of our streets.
 That said, my support for this gas tax hinges on the City of Portland's commitment to partnering with the Transportation Justice Alliance to ensure that project development addresses equity concerns. It's critical that our investments in sidewalks, crosswalks, and safe routes to school programs help empower all citizens to share in the livable communities we cherish as Portlanders.
 So I ask you to please vote yes today to allow us Portlanders to make this investment in our city. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. Hi, my name is Howe Hagedorn. I'm here as a mom and a citizen of Portland. I am a mother of three kids ages 6, 10, and 12. I believe that the city is desperately in need of investing money to make our streets safer for everyone.
 As a mother that sometimes drives, sometimes rides transit, but mostly bikes with my kids, we are confronted every day with the challenges and obstacles to safer streets. Two of my kids and I commute from North Portland to downtown every day to go to school and work. My oldest takes TriMet or bikes part of the way for his five-mile commute to Da Vinci Middle School.
 Biking with my kids allows me to have many conversations with them about what they see and what they experience. And here are some of their experiences. My six-year-old feels mostly safe biking to school, but the ride home is a different story. When we start heading up north interstate near Kaiser, he yells, sidewalk. He wants me to be sure. He wants...
 to make sure I know that he wants to ride on the sidewalk because he feels much more comfortable being separated from the big trucks. He feels scared riding alongside big trucks speeding up the hill. When the city added wider buffered bike lanes on North Williams, I was curious about what my 10-year-old thought, since we often ride at home from school to basketball practice or his baseball games. And he really likes, you know...
 He really likes the new bike lanes, and he feels much safer because the bike lanes were wider, and he didn't have to play leapfrog with the buses. And his experience is coming from a kid that has been hit by a car in our neighborhood. So wider bike lanes are even good for 10-year-olds.
 So my 12-year-old in the last year has found a new sense of independence gained from a monthly TriMet pass and shouldering the responsibility of getting himself to and from school. He's very comfortable taking transit but prefers to bike when he can because it is faster. He's the one I worry about the most.
 because he wants to bike everywhere. And as a concerned mother, I know not all streets are equally safe. So here's a story just yesterday. He wanted to ride his bike to one of his after-school activities in northwest Portland with his friend. I compromised by asking them to meet up with me on the edge of downtown and we would ride our bikes together the last 0.7 miles. Why? Because he was in the middle of rush hour. There are no good bike facilities. It was dark and I felt it was unsafe.
 So he was running a couple of minutes late. So you know how 12-year-olds are. I got a text from him, and it read, we are at the post office, but we are going to ride to practice on our own. Where are you? You is all in caps for extra emphasis. And this is the reality I'm confronted daily. Please make our streets safe for my kids and for other kids in Portland. If you make our streets safe for kids, the streets will be safer for everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 I'm going to go with Mr. Joe Walsh and Rebecca Hamilton and Janet Kavansky. Sorry about that. And they'll be followed by Ophelia Miracle, Amy Subak, and Steve Gutman. Okay, Mr. Walsh, you're next. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. It's a very awkward position for us to be in.
 Because we agree with you, the streets have to be fixed. We need the safety on our streets. I live on 74th and Division. So I'm very close to 82nd and often take the max. So I'm above 82nd a lot. So all of the representations to you that the southeast has to be fixed. So I'm safe. Nobody can argue that.
 One of my concerns is that when the City Club presented their report to you, they claimed that we were in $205 million in the hole in the Department of Transportation. And nobody seems to say what happened. Who's responsible for that?
 That's our concern. We don't want you just to move on and do a 10-cent-a-gallon tax. There's four other taxes coming. I think if you want to learn the trust of the people, whatever taxes you're thinking about, and these are parking taxes, I understand, and other taxes that will fill in the gap because $67 million is not going to do it, and we all know that. Don't only be honest.
 Just for a change. Try it. You may like it. Say to the people of Portland, this is what we need. When I want something, that's what I say to Patty because she handles the finances. I don't ask for $10 if I need $15. I ask for $20. And then I negotiate down to $15. That's the unionism with me. Do the same thing. Be honest with the people. This is not the final tax.
 this is one you have to bring this up to put it on about because that's the law if you're going to do a gas tax you have to put it on about there's four others that you don't so tell the people that if it's 205 million commission and over tell the people that if it's more than that and some people seem to say it is
 Be honest with them. Because if you lose the credibility, you're going to lose this vote. And we've been screwing around with this now for two years. We have street taxes. We have fees. Please fix the streets and do it honestly. Don't say, what's the best way to do it? What would they believe? Just be honest. Ask for the $20. Negotiate down to $15. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, members of City Council. My name is Rebecca Hamilton, and I am here today representing the City of Portland's Pedestrian Advisory Committee. And we would like to express our strong support for the temporary 10 cent per gallon gas tax and its use to fund the City of Portland Street Repair and Safety Improvement Program.
 the pac is a group of appointed representatives from all over the city we bring the interests of the portland commission on disabilities the east portland action plan and dozen other neighborhood associations and community groups throughout the table throughout the city many of us have been a part of this committee for years and over the years we have been we have become uncomfortably familiar with where the lack of consistent funding has left us
 We have worked with PBOT on budget committees, on prioritization exercises, where we are asked to select a small handful of critical safety projects for funding out of a list of over more than 100, and on grant applications where we compete with other cities for a shot at funding our most basic infrastructure needs. We see how very few sources of funding there are for pedestrian projects and how small those few sources are.
 And on behalf of the people that we represent, who deserve to walk to school on a sidewalk or cross the street without taking their life in their hands, we are not happy about it. That is why the PAC strongly supports funding the Street Repair and Safety Improvement Program through the proposed gas tax. This program would provide some of the only dedicated, reliable funding that we have for pedestrian projects that would literally help save lives. Our city has made a commitment to Vision Zero.
 But if we don't back that commitment with funding to pay for the safe routes to school connections or better crossings on our high street corridors, high crash corridors, then we're making an empty promise to the people of this city. We can't kick this can down the street again, hoping that Salem will step in to solve our problems for us. It is time we stop looking to dead-end sources to fund our immediate infrastructure needs.
 The PAC supports the city in taking ownership of our transportation future through a local gas tax, as proposed, so that we can build the safe network that our citizens deserve. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, members of the City Commission. My name is Garrett Krancky. I'm the Advocacy Director with the Bicycle Transportation Alliance, and our mission is to create healthy, sustainable communities by making bicycling safe, convenient, and accessible. We've been focused on that mission for over 25 years. Today, I'm here to ask you to vote yes on the proposal in front of you to refer a temporary gas tax to Portland voters to help fix our streets. Thank you.
 We are convinced that safe streets for all Portlanders should be a top priority, and that a majority of residents want to see more money dedicated to making this happen. This is especially true where conditions are worst and individuals are most at risk. We also need to balance out our interests with the reality that flat taxes, by definition, are not progressive. And in this proposal, many of the safety projects are in neighborhoods that need the investment most.
 which can help ease the burden of increased transportation costs. I want to thank Commissioner Novick for his statement here today about a continued commitment to looking for more progressive funding sources for future transportation needs. We look forward to partnering with the city and the Transportation Justice Alliance in that deeper focus on equity.
 Some of the highlights from this proposal in BTA's perspective include the investments in our commitment to Vision Zero, that vision of achieving zero serious injuries and fatalities on our streets, which is utmost important to us. Over $8 million for safe routes to school, $6 million for new sidewalks, $4 million for safety improvements on our highest crash corridors, $3.2 million for new protected bike lanes, and $2%.
 and $2.4 million for neighborhood greenways. These are fantastic priorities, and we hope to see them fully funded through this measure. And in addition to my role at the Bicycle Transportation Alliance, I've been serving as a volunteer on the Bureau of Transportation's Budget Advisory Committee for over the last six years. And I'll just take this opportunity to remind folks of some of the deep and systemic cuts that that agency has taken within the last five years
 Those were hard conversations around how we find $16 million worth of ongoing budget cuts in one year and $5 million worth of ongoing budget cuts in the next. We have not yet seen those cuts restored. And so we're thrilled to see that this temporary gas tax is moving forward for a vote of the general electorate. And we hope to see it made permanent and expanded in the future. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. Thank you, Bill.
 next our Ophelia miracle Amy Sue Buck and Steve Gutmann and they'll be followed by Kerry Schloss Lashour Chris Rall and Joe Rowe welcome hi my name is Ophelia miracle I am 15 years old and I go to Grant High School I grew up in Portland and I've been using trim it to get around town since I was 15 oh I'm so sorry it's in thousand fifth grade
 I am not old enough to drive, so it makes it a little difficult to get around town. And my mom just had another baby, so I have a little brother. So it's hard for her to drop everything to take me places. So when I need to get to school, want to visit a friend, or go to the movie theaters, I count on the city of Portland to keep the roads safe enough for me to walk to the bus stop, ride my bike,
 or to get to Grant High School. This allows me to get exercise, develop my own independence, and get where I need to go without waiting for my mom to drive me across town. That's why I'm here asking you to let the City of Portland vote yes on the gas tax
 to help students like me get across town. I can't wait for the safer streets, including students in Southwest worried about the new PPS boundary changes and the students in East Portland who have to cross busy streets with speeding cars without sidewalks. We desperately need the gas tax to raise the $8 million that will directly improve all Portland public schools districts. From Grant to David Douglas, please vote yes today to make it easier for students like me to get to school.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you for taking time off to come in today. Yeah, appreciate it. I want to say I actually live across the street from Grant.
 and you make us proud for being here so nicely done yeah thank you welcome good afternoon um my name is amy subak and i am a co-founder of vision zero usa and as co-founder of vision zero usa i'm elated that this measure allocates funds to implement vision zero on the ground in portland um in the most dangerous and dangerous and high crash corridors
 And as a mother of two young children in northeast Portland, I support this ballot measure because I know that kids are healthier and better able to learn when they get to walk or bike to school safely. The funding for Safe Routes to Schools will make all of Portland's children and vulnerable citizens much safer. Crossing the street to go to school or a play date or the grocery store should not be a matter of life or death. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both.
 The next three are Carrie Schlossenhauer, Chris Rall, and Joe Rowe, and they'll be followed by Scott Kocher, Matthew Mesetic, and Paul Romaine. Good afternoon. Hi, how are you? Good. Go ahead. Thanks. Mayor Hales and remaining commissioners, thanks for having me here today. My name is Carrie Schlossenhauer, and I represent the Safe Routes to School National Partnership here in the Pacific Northwest. Thank you.
 I'm also a mom to two young boys who unfortunately could not be here today. One of them is napping and the other one's in kindergarten. But they did want me to let you know the only thing they love more than pointing out potholes and cracks in our streets is watching the paving and construction equipment that comes to fix our streets.
 I would like to thank Commissioner Novick and the Portland Bureau of Transportation for their work to identify, highlight, and begin to prioritize investments needed in our transportation system, especially in historically invested parts of the city. As with nearly every other city in the country, unfortunately, Portland has significant disparities in the geographic allocation of safe infrastructure for getting around. People who walk in the city's poorer neighborhoods are
 are three times more likely to be killed in traffic compared to those in the wealthier parts of the city. This simply cannot continue to be our MO, especially in a city that has adopted a Vision Zero strategy. So we support and are pleased to see essential safety projects in diverse, low-income communities where the needs are greatest with this proposal.
 As you've heard from others, Portland has an exemplary program of education and encouragement programs that promote safe routes to schools. It's arguably one of the best in the nation. Many of Portland's schools sit on or near busy and unsafe streets that put our children at risk on a daily basis, regardless of that. So safety is an essential priority, and we're very pleased to see this be part of the proposal.
 It allocates $8 million for Safe Routes to School improvements, approximately $500,000 for each high school cluster, which will fund projects that have been identified and asked for for years. These safety projects will positively affect students at more than 35 elementary, middle, and high schools in David Douglas, Park Rose, Reynolds, Centennial, and Portland Public School districts.
 These improvements will include school crossings, paths and missing connections, sidewalks, traffic calming, bicycle route connections for youth in all corners of our city. They need these safe routes to get to and from school and in their community. They're already using these routes and they need them to be safer. I just want to close by saying thank you for...
 Looking at this proposal, just to make sure that you consider our kids as our future, they need these safe routes to get around. And I hope to see this go unanimously to the voters. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Mayor Hales, commissioners, thanks for the opportunity to speak with you. My name is Chris Rall. I am the Pacific Northwest Field Organizer with Transportation for America. Transportation for America is an alliance of elected business and civic leaders from communities across the country united to ensure that states and the federal government step up to invest in smart, homegrown, locally driven transportation solutions because these are the investments that hold the key to our future economic prosperity.
 However, Congress passed a transportation bill that locks us into five more years of mediocre federal funding, and the state of Oregon failed to pass a transportation package in 2015 to address road, bridge, maintenance, and other transportation challenges.
 When the roof of your house is leaking, you don't wait for someone else to come and fix it for you. Streets are like houses in that preventative maintenance protects the investment and saves taxpayer money. Maintaining a road in good condition over time costs less than half the cost of making major repairs after letting that same road deteriorate to poor condition. Our children and grandchildren have a better shot at prospering in this city
 if we leave them safe streets and good repair rather than unsafe streets and a heavy burden of deferred maintenance. The user fee proposal under discussion today could help the City of Portland get a handle on its street maintenance challenges and address safety issues. Other cities are moving to fund transportation with local funding. For example, the City of Seattle recently passed a $930 million measure to fix streets and bridges, improve safety, and invest in transportation options.
 Portland's relatively modest proposal deserves strong consideration, and we look forward to supporting the discussion with information and ideas from our national network of leaders and experts. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Next three are Scott Kocher, Matthew Mesetic, and Paul Romaine, and they'll be followed by Ruth Ann Bennett, Craig Rogers, and Mr. Lightning. Good afternoon and welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Matthew Mesetic, and I own and operate Red Castle Games in southeast Portland.
 So Red Castle is located on Foster Road, which as you know is a currently designated high crash corridor by the city. I experience this on my daily commute with aggressive driving, tailgating, and speeding, and I see how it affects our community. I also experienced firsthand this past year the crash aspect of a high crash corridor, when in April a drunk speeding driver smashed into my business during business hours. Amazingly no one was hurt or killed.
 Foster Road, as it's designed now, promotes this behavior because it's made just to move vehicles as quickly as possible and it doesn't pay attention to community needs at all. Foster Road has been addressed, however, with the Foster Streetscape and we're very lucky for that. However, many other high crash corridors, this hasn't been addressed and with passage of this tax, it could be and it could help save lives. I also support this tax as a business owner.
 Because my employees rely on transit, they rely on biking, they rely on cars to get to my store. My customers also rely on these features, and all my product arrives by FedEx and UPS. Everything uses the transportation system.
 The first time street funding was discussed that I was part of was back in 2014, but I quickly learned that back in 2007, back in 2001, it's been an ongoing debate for years. And I implore you, be the first council in decades that takes a step to start finding a solution to this funding crisis. This tax may not fill the hole, but it will stop us from digging it any deeper for the next four years.
 And investing in our streets now just makes good business sense. I had an issue with the sidewalk in front of my store where it sunk a little and created a puddle, and I ignored it. And it keeps sinking to the point where my customers would call it a moat. And my diehard customers would hop it no problem. But the normal customers walking by that might stop and otherwise, you could see them look at the large puddle, hesitate. They didn't want to get their shoes wet, and they kept going.
 And the fact is, convenience is king. And if people can get around easily, whether it's on a sidewalk or on a street, that will help promote business. I could have early on, I found out, mud jacked the sidewalk to level it and paid a few hundred dollars. But instead, I let it get worse and ended up paying thousands to jackhammer the sidewalk and replace it, which I'm sure many business owners are familiar with.
 Let's not kick the can down a pothole-riddled street for future citizens, future business owners, and future city leaders. Let's take charge of our streets, and I'm asking you, help save our streets. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Hales, members of the commission, I'm Paul Romain. I'm an attorney in Portland, and I'm representing the Oregon Fuels Association. I sort of feel like a possum on I-5 during rush hour right now, but that's okay. I'm used to that. Okay.
 A couple of things. First of all, this is how a local gas tax works. It's imposed at the wholesale level, basically. It's not a sales tax at the retail level, which means that whoever buys the gas to distribute in the city of Portland is paying extra. And so what that does, they sell it to the people who are in the city, and then those people end up selling it to those who come to the station. Right.
 The problem with it is that your cost of doing business in the city have now risen. So if you're in a central area of the city where people don't have choices, then you're probably okay. People are stuck paying the extra 10 cents or whatever you pass on. But if you're on the periphery, you have to make a decision, which is do I eat the tax? Do I pass on some of it? Because you're competing against people outside of the boundary who aren't paying the tax. That's why we like...
 state gas taxes. We don't like local gas taxes. So that may explain a little bit of why we're here. Rather than go into why this is a bad idea, which I've said a few times, I just wanted a couple of practical considerations. One of them is the measure itself that you're sending to the voter is the ordinance. It's your Exhibit A to this resolution.
 Now, that's the only thing that really can be covered in a ballot title, not your wish list of projects, which, frankly, is just a wish list. So your ballot title...
 really needs to be revised, and it will be challenged if it's not revised. All the project lists do not belong in there. They're not in the ordinance, and anybody in the audience who thinks that those projects are sacrosanct is just wrong. You can change that at any time. That's number one. Number two is your explanatory statement, again, for the same reasons, is flawed. It needs to state what's in the ordinance. Your explanatory statement basically is a...
 a statement in favor of the measure, which is allowed in a ballot voters pamphlet, but under a different category. So if you're going to have a ballot title and an explanatory statement, at least make them legitimate and fair so the people who are voting on this understand that, yes, they're going to be paying 10 cents more, whoever is doing business in the city, but the
 All those projects are, yes, that's something you pass now, but just like what you did, your predecessors did with the utility fee, it can be changed without a vote of the people. So we would ask that you correct the ballot title and the explanatory statement. Thank you. Mr. Romain, can I ask you a couple questions? You can ask me as many as you want. What's the cost of a gallon of gas at the retail pump today versus two years ago?
 Just in rough terms. I have absolutely no idea. I don't pay attention. All I know is I fill it up for less than $2 a gallon, where I used to be able to fill it for $4 a gallon. That's about my experience. It feels like it's about half. I'm paying half. And it fluctuates. That was a function of the Saudis. It still is today. The Saudis basically trying to take out Iran, take out Russia, take out the U.S. oil production, take out Venezuela and the Canadians, which they've been actually quite successful in doing.
 But that may change. The point I just want to make is now that I'm using my daughter's car because she's in another country and I'm filling it up, I've been struck that I'm paying about half what we did a couple years ago. So just from your point of view, if there were a time to impose a gas tax, is it a better time when you're paying much less at the tax? Sure.
 Mr. Mayor, you don't have to do that here. I don't have to do that here? No, actually. Much less formal than the legislature. Okay. Hopefully more productive, too. Yeah. Thank you.
 That's an understatement. Commissioner Fish, it's from a political standpoint, sure, price is low, and that's why a lot of fuel issues now are going to come back to bite people in the butt about two years from now, three years from now, whenever the price of oil goes up, because we know it's going up. So this is a four-year temporary tax. So if the folks that you represent don't like this approach –
 What approach would you support? Commissioner, we have – And I say that because the people that you're – the folks that you represent fill the tanks of people who drive on our roads, and the roads are falling apart. So they have a very immediate interest in our roads.
 for a number of reasons, to have the roads maintained at a higher level. If this failed, where would you link arms? On what proposal would you link arms with us to get additional revenue? Well, Commissioner, we have tried. We tried during the last session to get a statewide gas tax. We were unsuccessful. Something called the low-carbon fuel standard kind of got in the way.
 It's still in the way and probably will stay in the way until you know some realization comes of how much cost that is adding to a Gallon of gas, but basically we're looking for statewide solutions That would come down to the city from our standpoint the statewide solution works a local solution doesn't we can go up a lot with a local with the state gas tax and
 tax. We just have a hard time with a local gas tax. Now, local gas taxes within our organization are, whether we oppose them or are in favor of them, are determined by those dealers and jobbers who work in the particular area. So
 commissioner novak novik is ready to pounce on me about why we didn't oppose the troutdale uh tax but that was you'll have the full amount of time to pounce on you i just want to get i want to understand because we basically look to what occurs in a particular jurisdiction and whether those people want to be in favor of it opposed to it whatever they want okay and my my final question is and i probably should ask commissioner novick because he's sort of an expert
 If after today or whenever we act on this, you continue to disagree with the ballot title or the explanatory statement, your option is to go to court and have a circuit court judge decide the question? Yes, that's the option that's provided by statute and by your ordinance, own ordinance or code. So if we end up agreeing to disagree on either of those, you still can go to court and have a neutral decide that question? Yes.
 Yes, we can, and we will. I'm just saying that if you want, we can – a lot of times that's worked out ahead of time. You can sit down and say this is how it really should be, and we'd be happy to sit down and talk with you. We know you're going to pass this thing. We assume you're going to pass it. What we're saying is if you're going to pass it, at least be fair about what you're sending out to the voter. The last question is, you know, it's not every day that we have a panel that has –
 the diversity of views that have come in before us to support this. So the Portland Business Alliance sitting next to the BTA, sitting next to this and that. So there is – Commissioner Novick has done an admirable job building a broad coalition.
 Other than the Oregon Fuel Association that you so ably represent, are there any other industry groups that, to your knowledge, that oppose this proposal? Yes, there are quite a few. Actually, we've had meetings at our office. We're not at liberty to disclose, but frankly, the idea of a load fee has brought a whole bunch of people out of the woodwork, thinking that that may come down the line. There are also people who just don't like the gas tax. There will be a very broad coalition opposing this.
 at the ballot in May. I can guarantee you that. I'm not at liberty to say which ones, frankly, because we were waiting to see what exactly the proposal would be. Thank you. So a couple of your members in my neighborhood are about a half a mile apart. They're different ownerships on the same neighborhood, Main Street, and at any given time the price of gas at those two stations is roughly 10% to 15% different.
 Local decision everybody decides so what's the level of gas tax that would come out in the wash in a marketplace that? Whereas Commissioner fish has already noted the price has fallen Precipitously and where there's already at least as much variation from block to block around the city What's the level of local gas tax that would fall below the pain threshold if if ten cents isn't yet? Is it zero or is it some other number? I
 Mr. Mayor, we have not discussed that. I can't really tell you. All I know is that different stations have different reasons for what they charge. Some may take in a lot more volume and base it on make less per gallon, sell more. Others may say, I'm going to make a little more per gallon. Some actually have attendants who have full benefit packages. Those are probably the most expensive packages.
 stations in the city. There's a few around. There are very few, if any, stations that are actually owned by the major oil companies. That used to be a big issue with us, but they're not owned by the major oil companies. That's why you know that there's not a lot of profit in retail oil right now. Unless you have a hole in the ground, there's not a lot of profit. If we were to do what Clackamas County is poised to do, and that is adopt a local vehicle registration fee, would you support that?
 I personally would love it if Clackamas County adopted a local fee. Okay, thank you. Other questions? Thanks very much. Okay, others? Next three are Ruth Ann Bennett, Craig Rogers, and Mr. Lightning, and they will be followed by Vivian Satterfield, Charles Johnson, and Soren Impey. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Ruth Ann Bennett. Thank you for this opportunity to speak to you.
 On behalf of PTE Local 17, Copia Chapter, and as a Portland resident, I'm asking you to give the people of Portland the chance to vote for better roads. We need streets to go to work, go to school, and to do so many other things. Kids and seniors need to be able to cross the street on the way to school or the bus stop. They need a safe place to wait for the bus.
 We all need streets to buy food, access health care, and receive emergency services. Food and other necessities need to be delivered to our neighborhoods. Our roads last far longer when we repave them and repair the cracks. This costs far less than waiting until the cracks turn into potholes, or worse yet, the street is destroyed and has to be rebuilt.
 Postponing street maintenance reminds me of the car owner who delays oil changes for so long that it's necessary to replace the engine or the car. Small road repairs now will save us money because we'll avoid huge repairs later. People who drive on the streets would pay the gas tax to preserve the streets. This is an efficient funding method that is widely accepted.
 I'm glad that there will be an oversight committee to make sure that this new funding will be used to improve our roads. The people of Portland deserve the opportunity to vote for better streets. Thank you. Thank you. Afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Craig Rogers. And I'd first like to say that the cornerstone of this plan should be transparent and accountable. All too often, when there's been a report made,
 on something here at City Hall, involving the city. Just as an example, this recent release from the auditor's office, it says limited oversight. And this is more common than not. We can have oversight in the words, but whether the action is done is something else. So as I said, transparent and accountable are a priority. It should be a cornerstone. And I'd like to compliment you on having a hard sunset today.
 Little do we know what we can learn in four years that we can apply four years from now to make it better. So about a year ago in May, the Oregonian held a symposium called Road Threats and Revenue. I attended. Matt Garrett sat right in front of me. First things he said was, I don't know why people want to use something and not pay for it. Hey, I'm there. And what I'm amazed at is that a large bus or truck,
 Does the damage on the roads equivalent to 10,000 passenger cars? I'm just amazed by that. I actually think the number's phony, but I've been told by people that know that's the truth. So you're looking for other sources of revenue, such as studded tires that are charged at the point of sale and other various fees and so forth. And if those aren't followed through,
 And I really encourage you to follow through on these other things. It reminds me of a joke I once saw on the back page of the Wall Street Journal. One picture, and it was a devil down there at the gates of hell. And here was a whole line, a gentleman with suits, business people, politicians. And he's got his checklist while they're walking in. And all it has him saying underneath, he says, yeah, he says, woulda, shoulda, coulda. We get a lot of those down here. Yeah.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Commissioner Novick, you wanted that street fee passed through. Let's do a council vote. Pretty aggressive. What's interesting this time around, I think that your approach is going to get something done. And in my opinion, you've looked at what's going on in the market with prices dropping dramatically, fuel costs dropping.
 People have a little bit more disposable income. People understand we need the roads repaired and safety number one focus. And you're proposing $0.10. I think it's very reasonable. In my opinion, I would have gone up as high as $0.20, possibly $0.15. 10% I think is a great number to get approved. One of the things that I like to see is that from my position, like I say, is that
 We need to understand that we're going to have to put something into place pretty soon. And we can all sit there and say we have the great plan already in the future what we're going to do. Well, we've done that for the last 10, 15 years. So let's stop talking about it and saying you have the great plans out there because they haven't materialized. You have a $0.10 per gas tax. It's not overaggressive.
 It's not what we need to really materialize everything we want to do, but it's a beginning. And that's the key here. It's a beginning to look at, and you've also placed a sunset clause in on this. Again, you're being very reasonable this time around. And it does affect you as a commissioner, and I think you'll get this approved just by the way you're doing this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Do you have any others, Carla? The last three who signed up are Vivian Satterfield, Charles Johnson, and Soren Impey. Okay, come on up, please. Good afternoon. Go ahead, Vivian. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners.
 My name is Vivian Satterfield. I'm the deputy director at OPWL Environmental Justice, Oregon. And, you know, we're going through a lot of big changes at OPWL right now. We just hired our new executive director, who has started his second week. And so I'm just sort of bridging the gap in between some conversations that were had previously by OPWL's predecessor, or his predecessor rather, who is heavily invested in the street fee conversation. As you know, OPWL Environmental Justice, Oregon represents low-income communities and communities of color.
 And, you know, we were heavily invested in the Street Fee conversation, and my understanding is that we were excited by the progressive revenue option that was on the table at that time. This current proposal, I believe, is a modest piece of the overall pie, I think.
 It isn't as progressive in the revenue or in the investment as we'd like, although there's some conceptual support for projects such as the Lens Green Ring and the Safe Routes to School engagement that we are very excited by. It's good to see that in there. We'll be likely very excited to engage with you all in the conversation to continue to look at that project list and refine that for the folks that we serve.
 You know, as we have been organizing in Portland for the last decade, the population that we serve has continued to shift due to forces of gentrification and displacement. So increasingly, we are organizing in East Portland in communities that currently lack a lot of the infrastructure that other areas of Portland lack.
 currently enjoy. And until we have tools such as inclusionary zoning to ensure that we have a better mix of access for all sorts of folks in the city of Portland, you know, projects and proposals like this are really critical for us to take a lens at and to see how we can
 How we can also inform and engage our constituents to get their support on them. We primarily are known for organizing transit-dependent people, folks who do not drive, but we also do organize plenty of low-income folks who have to rely on junk cars, quite frankly, because our transportation system isn't getting to them well.
 it isn't getting them where they need to go. So that's a certain piece of this current proposal that is still troubling. You know, we have no ability to currently spend this money towards transit operations. Therefore, for example, TriMet is still currently footing the bill for streetcar operations. And I understand that's to the tune of about $7 million.
 I was engaged in Bus Riders Unite's campaign for a fair transfer, which was a proposal to extend the transfer time on TriMet so that we could deliver better access to folks who were living increasingly in farther areas of the city. And just for context, you know, for the bus drivers, we had a lot of questions about, you know, what are the benefits of bus drivers uniting?
 For $7 million in transportation funds with TriMet, we could fully restore the frequent service network of both bus and rail with that money. So overall, I'm looking forward to continuing to engage with this council in a discussion and with the Transportation Justice Alliance to find how we can deliver better projects to the folks who really need them, who use our roads. Thanks. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. It's always a privilege to testify after the best wonks from Opal, and I appreciate especially their work with Bus Riders Unite. At times, I've told you that I'm Charles Johnson, and I'm here testifying on behalf of Oregonians for food and shelter and compassionate wisdom. But today, I'm just bringing you three words from our most philanthropic billionaire. Just do it. Bring this to the voters. Thank you.
 I can't guarantee you that Phil Knight's behind it, but hey, he's putting a billion dollars into cancer. If we come up with it, he probably wants us to see if I have better roads to get up to OHSU. So we're not going to have a perfect solution. The roads aren't going to get better if we have a fancy study group and another city club report. You know, it's pretty hard to oppose putting anything on the ballot, even if you're an attorney for the fuel companies and letting the people decide for themselves. So...
 vote to refer to create the ballot measure, but also create channels so that OPAL, other economic justice organizations can engage and make sure that those people who use four times as much gas as other people, the higher income people, we find fair, equitable taxation against them also. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Okay. Any further questions from council members for staff before we take a vote on the resolution? I just have a clarifying question, and that's the ordinance is really specific, directing the specific ballot measure language and voter's pamphlet statement and other parts of the proposal rather than something substantially similar. Okay.
 What's the process if there is kind of an appeal and it's found that we need to make a change in the title or any of the other pieces of it? We work closely with the city attorney's office on the ballot title. There is, of course, a process for challenging anything. Ken will explain what it is. I think Mr. Romain adequately addressed that by saying that there would be a court challenge. The court would look at the text in the context of the appeal.
 the ballot title and the ordinance together. We feel strongly that the text in the ordinance matches and conforms to the ballot title and the explanatory statement. And, you know, in light of the fact that there may be a challenge, I don't want to go into too much detail, but... No, it's just a suppose whoever gets to decide says, no, actually, you have to change it.
 How does that happen? Is there time for it to come back to council before the May ballot? Well, they can, as I understand it, and Lindley Reese is more the expert on this area, but they can remove certain words from the explanatory statement or the ballot title. They can amend it. We can negotiate the change to the explanatory or the ballot title before that as well. And the council doesn't have to approve any of those things? No.
 I don't want to speak out of school, but I don't believe so. I just want to make sure that we have whatever language you need in the ordinance, because it specifically says put these words in. Yes, I believe we do. Okay, thank you. Any other questions for Ken? Thank you very much. Okay, I believe it's time for the council to take a vote, please. Would you call the roll? Fritz?
 Well, I'm honored to be voting first on this and very glad to see PBOT, the Portland Bureau of Transportation, building on the success of the Fix Our Parks bond measure and going for a Fix Our Streets measure. And indeed, the Parks Bond measure was Help Fix Our Parks. And this really is Help Fix Our Streets. This is not going to take care of all of it.
 As some people may recall from 2014, we had a discussion of how to take care of all of it, and it didn't go so well. And it didn't go nearly as well as this one. So I really commend the way this has been done as well as what's being put forward. I'm going to quote Corky Collier from the very beginning of this hearing. PBOT knows how to do this. They simply lack the funding.
 So thank you very much to Director Treat and all of your staff for putting this together. Again, having led the Parks Bond process, I know how much work the staff and the director do. And then we as commissioners support your work and help bring it to council and then take it to the community. Commissioner Novick and I already started that process last night at the Arts Forum.
 forum and were asked the question which clearly had the desired answer will you put more funding into the arts and why didn't you put money into the arts and we said because we put it into street maintenance and we need to do that and I was told afterwards that many of the participants, many of the audience members came up to me and said yes I support the arts and I know you do and we need to fix our streets
 So it's really something that I believe that this builds on the 2014 process because that helps a lot more people understand that, yes, we really do have a problem.
 And the fact that we have a hearing that looks like it's going to get done in less than two hours shows that now we have some consensus that this is one of the ways that we're going to help fix our streets. It will raise about $16 million annually, and we need $119 million annually. So it is very much only a piece of the puzzle.
 solution, and I agree that this council bears the responsibility to help find some other solutions before the end of the year. So I will work with the Mayor, Commissioner Novick, and my colleagues on that. It's always similar to the equity discussions that we have had. We as individuals didn't
 caused this problem. It's been going on for many decades. We are responsible for helping to fix it, and I am very glad to be part of this effort. One
 i want to just quickly address the issue of drivers at the edges of portland i live at the corner between tiger lake as we go and happily in the city of portland so for many years i have had the choice of whether i'm going to shop at the tiger fred meyer or at the berlin game fred meyer i switched when montloma county had its business income tax because i knew that those taxes were going to help schools in portland
 even though the Burlingame Fred Meyer is much smaller than the Tigard Fred Meyer. Similarly, when we in the council banned plastic bags, I kept going to ours,
 Portland store because they are using paper bags and have been for since we passed the ordinance. I know that they started paying paid sickle time to their employees before the rest of the state is going to. So we as Portlanders understand that there's a privilege to living in Portland. There are some responsibilities. We do have choices and it just so happens if you shop at our wonderful Fred Myers with its...
 United Food and Commercial Workers union members, you earn points for every dollar you spend and you get to take it off at the gas station. So my kids and I diligently saved up our points this January and filled up a car that has the biggest gas tank and it cost less than a dollar a gallon because we were able to get a dollar off. The question of is now the right time to do it when
 or is another time when prices are high the better time to do it? I think the answer is both. Now, you know, the difference between $2 and $2.10, it's low anyway, so that's good. If it was $4, the difference between $4 and $4.10 is not that much either. And, you know, I think that's a good question.
 Taxes in Europe on fuel are four times what our taxes are. So the other issue is that Tigard, Milwaukee, and Woodburn all already have local gas taxes. They're less than ours. So ours will be the highest in the state, I believe, as a local measure, and that's
 appropriate because we're the biggest city in the state and we have the most miles to fix and we certainly have a lot of safety projects that need to be done as soon as possible. So thank you for your work, Commissioner Novick. Thank you for leading this wonderful effort. I want to start by thanking Commissioner Novick and Director Treat for their hard work in making this day possible.
 Steve has a tradition at moments like this of citing to a favorite song, a lyric, and I'm going to beat him to the punch. Because I think that the song that best captures this moment is one that Lennon and McCartney collaborated on. It's called The Long and Winding Road. And it has been a long and winding road, and there have been some bumps along the way. But you never gave up.
 And you were committed to finding a mechanism to raise new money for safety in streets and to do it in a collaborative way. And you've accomplished that goal, and I want to compliment you for that. In fact, I was thinking about the year that you and Leah have had, and you probably have your own list of the top highlights.
 But I think in the last year it's pretty darn impressive that we adopted Vision Zero and made a commitment. I think the bike share announcement with Nike as a full partner and an incredibly innovative way of launching that program is a milestone. And today we've achieved something that probably some people thought couldn't happen, which is you found a path forward to finding a short-term dedicated revenue for our streets. And I compliment you for that.
 Commissioner Fritz quoted from Corky Collier, so I'm going to quote from Mr. Kransky, who in his testimony said this is a good start, and that's what it is. It's a good start. We have a lot more work to do. But I really want to thank the leaders who have brought us to this moment. I want to thank the community partners who have stepped up to support us. And following this action, the hard part begins because we have to pass this thing.
 And I'm going to make the first pledge. I will not drive outside of Multnomah County to fill my tank when this passes. And that's partly for practical reasons, because I'm pretty sure it cost me a hell of a lot more to do that than to just fill up at my neighborhood gas station. So thank you for the leadership that brought us this moment. Bye. Councilman?
 Well, I look forward to supporting this measure today and at the polls in May. So thank you for crafting this and having such broad-based support. And it does seem like it's the most expeditious path to getting more resources into our transportation, maintenance, and safety system right away. No, thank you.
 I'd like to start by thanking the members of the Bicycle and Pedestrian Advocacy Group, such as Safe Routes to School and the Bicycle Transportation Alliance, the Community Cycling Center and Oregon Walks, and the members of the Portland Business Alliance for
 who had different ideas of how to raise money and how to spend it. I want to thank them for talking to each other and thinking through this and coming to a place where they're all supportive, even though it might not be exactly what any of them wants. I was really encouraged by how those discussions went. I want to thank...
 Ken McGare of the City Attorney's Office, and Thomas Lanham of the Revenue Bureau, and the PBOT team, Mark Lear, Leah Treat, Steve Townsend, Shoshana Cohen, Ken Lee, Dylan Rivera since he's here. And Dylan, I want to thank you for helping put together that appeal to Santa that launched this in December of 2013. We have explored every option.
 Let's see, who am I leaving out? Oh yeah, leaving out my staff.
 More than half my staff has worked on this. Tamora Ender, Andrea Valderrama, Chris Warder, and Katie Shriver, thank you all very much. And Commissioner Fish, of course you were right. I have to have some musical reference. And because we lost both David Bowie and Glenn Frey in the past couple of weeks, I figured that I had to do whatever I could to make sure we had a tribute to them. If I did not vote fourth, if I had been voting first, then I would have quoted David Bowie, and I would have said that...
 You know, this council is proving today, has a chance to prove today that we are more courageous in terms of transportation funding than any council has been in 30 years. So to quote David Bowie, we can be heroes just for one day.
 But since Voting Fourth and the Siding Boards have already been cast, I will quote the song that was co-written by Glenn Frey and Jackson Brown, Take It Easy, and say, we may lose, we may win, but we'll never be here again. Aye. Fails. It's nice that we can count on that, Steve. Thank you. Well, we are arrived at a good place on this issue after a long and winding road and after a lot of work. And...
 We're in a place where we can now do the right and sensible thing, and that's what this proposal is. You know, we have heard during the denial and debate portions of this discussion over the last couple of years a lot of objections.
 for why we shouldn't do something. And it's notable that today we're only down to one, and it's the most ludicrous. But we've heard all kinds of things. We've heard that it's not a real problem, that we can wait and it's not that big a deal. Well, that's been well documented. The size of the problem and the fact that it is growing inexorably and exponentially is now clear to most people.
 This is a big deal. We need to do something. And, you know, a lot of us, me included, you know, we can perhaps be forgiven for not getting around to doing something until it's really forced on us. But this is forced on us unless we just want to really stick our head in the sand. So that that objection is pretty much, I think, gone. That's why we're not hearing it now.
 One, another is that the city's not well managed and that, you know, there's just a lot of waste, fraud, and abuse. And actually, a number of us were here this morning when we had the most boring, spectacular presentation that we get every year, which was our comprehensive annual financial report and our independent city auditor and our independent private sector auditor all come say the same thing, which is,
 Everything in this city is properly managed. Every T has been dotted across, every I has been dotted. And they had no issues to report in the manage of a $3.5 billion enterprise. Not many cities can say that. So I guess the objection that we just don't know what we're doing around here financially, that's pretty hard to sustain. Another is that we're just spending all that general fund money on other things. We haven't heard that today, which is refreshing.
 And that's actually also pretty well understood now, as I think Commissioner Fritz pointed out earlier. Ninety percent of our general fund goes to police, fire, and parks. And, oh, by the way, I get the budget office to produce this little spreadsheet for me every year as I go into the budget process. And it's interesting to note and not well reported. I ask them, how many employees do we have?
 Because our biggest cost, whether it's the police bureau, you know, sure they buy police cars and uniforms, but most of the cost is people. Sure the fire bureau buys trucks and hoses, but most of their cost is people. And sure we buy grass seeds and paint and swimming pool chemicals, but most of the cost of the parks bureau is people. And in 2008, 2009, the city of Portland had 6,035 employees. All bureaus totaled up. Today, the bigger population...
 Big challenges. We have 5,834 employees, 201 less. So I guess we're not taking all that general fund money and blowing it on lots of new programs and functions because we're continuing to provide those basic services with less people than we did eight years ago.
 Another objection, of course, is that Congress will do it. Well, they did pass a five-year transportation reauthorization bill. Good. We've been wanting them to do that for about ten years. And it's positive that they did that, but they didn't increase the gas tax, and they haven't increased it since 1993. Okay.
 So that one doesn't hold much water. The legislature will do it. Well, Commissioner Novick and I were told at the beginning of the last legislative session, please stop talking about local things because we're going to do this in 2015. They didn't, and now we've heard that they're not going to do it in 2016 either, regrettably. I hope they do a lot of other good things. In fact, we're going to be talking to them tomorrow morning about all the good things that they can do.
 So we're down to the most ludicrous argument, which is that it's a problem for the collectors of the tax, because that's all the gas stations are. The oil companies and the gas stations collect this tax from all of us, and then they remit it. And as I mentioned, I don't believe anyone will spend a dollar –
 to drive the extra miles to go to a different gas station to avoid paying the sacks, with gas prices being what they are over the next four years. So this is the right and sensible thing. We're here because we need to do something, because it is our problem. We're here because, Commissioner Novick, your leadership has been steadfast on this, and I appreciate that so much.
 We're here because these are our streets, and this is a basic service. I ran for this office because I wanted to make sure the city was doing a good job of funding and managing its basic services, and this is one of them, and this is really important that we all do this. And we're here because the victims of traffic violence are our neighbors and our kids. And one of the...
 problems of being the police commissioner is that when bad news happens i get it early because this thing goes off and if it's a gang violence incident it's in the middle of the night but usually if it's traffic violence it's during the day because that's when people are going to work and going to school and um and i don't go to every incident but i've been to too many
 And I still remember going to Southeast 136 and watching a police officer with tears in his eyes pick Morgan Cook's little coat up off the street where she'd been killed. And no police officer, no family, no mayor should have to go to that kind of incident. And that's why Vision Zero matters. And that's why we have a transportation director and a commissioner in the city.
 that believe that that's the right and sensible thing too, and just as doable as this is, which is to pay our bills. Thank you all for great work. I look forward to the voters of the city of Portland doing the right and sensible thing as well. Aye. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned until tomorrow. We're recessed until tomorrow.