Good morning to everybody. We're going to start the City Council meeting. Carla, would you please call the roll? Fritz. Yes. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Wheeler. Fish. Here. The mayor is at, I think, a National League of Mayors conference. Commissioner Udaly is delayed in transit. She'll be joining us shortly. And therefore, as the president of the council, it's my honor to kick things off. I understand we have...
 Some special guests from Catlin Gable. Did I get that right? And who can be a spokesperson just to tell us who's here? Is there one student you'd like to go to in the back? Why don't you just tell us who you are and what class you are? So we are a three-year school. Why don't you come to the mic for a second? Come to the mic for a second and just tell us.
 We don't often have so many distinguished guests, so we want to welcome you. We are a group of students from Catlin Gable who are juniors and seniors. We're looking at how the city works. We're specifically focusing on the Green Loop and the plan to build a...
 a public transportation route and how it will affect the city and whether we think that it would be beneficial to us as a community or if we think that the negative side would outweigh the positive effects. Well, that's terrific. Let's give them a round of applause. Students engaged in democracy. So, welcome. Before we get started today, I need to read the following statement. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern.
 In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the Council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. Now, to make sure the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also ensure that decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly address any subject they wish to, and we have five people who signed up for today. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, anyone can sign up for public testimony on the first readings of resolutions and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 We ask you to state your name for the record, but we don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that, and if you're here representing an organization, please disclose that as well. Individuals will have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the annoying yellow light goes off, and when your time is done, the red light goes off.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimonies or interrupting during council deliberations, will not and cannot be allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I will issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass.
 If folks would like to show their support on an item before council, please do so with a thumbs up or a thumbs down, and not by applauding or verbally expressing yourself. Let's see. Thank you, and let's get started with council communications. Carla? I also understand we have students from the University of Oregon. It's an embarrassment of riches today. Where are you?
 Okay, and let's greet our friends at the University of Oregon. They are Catlin Gable, University of Oregon. We should probably put a call into the Portland State and Oregon State University just for some balance, but welcome, everybody. Carla, would you please call communication number 63? Request of Les Blaze to address council regarding what council is not hearing from park staff.
 Mr. Blaze? I understand he may not be able to be here today. Well, if he comes a little later, if he's delayed, we'll put him on. But let's go to Council item, Communication Item 64. Request of Catherine Thomas, M.D., to address Council regarding existing safety issues and environmental hazards in Forest Park. Catherine? Catherine Thompson. Thompson. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you.
 My name is Catherine Thompson. I'm a retired pediatrician, and I'm here to talk to you about serious safety issues that plague Forest Park and our other natural areas. I'm one of the authors of the Make Forest Park Safe Again petition that you've all received, and I appreciate the opportunity. I've had to talk to a few of you in your offices about this, and I hope I'll have a chance to talk to the rest of you as well.
 From our petition, I learned that unlawful cyclists have hit seven hikers, run dozens off the trail, and have verbally intimidated hikers. According to a ranger, there's not a trail in the park that is not used by bikers. And my first slide shows the pictures of people that I've seen of the cyclists I've seen on Wildwood I've encountered. Thank you.
 And one thing that I think is making things worse is the sense of entitlement mountain bikers feel, which has been fueled by language. Bikers portray themselves as a minority with needs and that they're being persecuted.
 And this is a misappropriation of the language of equity. When we speak of equity, minority refers to disadvantaged and legally protected minorities, not a simple numerical minority. And needs refers to the genuine needs of people who are disabled, not just desires. This attitude is captured by the words of Justin Manville, who takes nighttime tours of bicyclists on Wildwood Trail. He says, I am the Rosa Parks of mountain biking.
 And we've seen some things that occur because of this attitude. In the right lower hand corner of the slide is a man who hit a woman with his bike. She was standing on a hiking trail in Marshall Park, and when he yelled, Princess, get out of my way, and she didn't move, he hit her. There's actually a police record of this case. And now I'd like to show you some pictures while I quote some of the statements coming from the planning bureau in the parks department. Whoops. Whoops.
 So what we're hearing is there are no soft, narrow trails for bikes to ride in Forest Park. So this slide and the next show what used to be fire lanes 1, 3, 5, and 10. And I think you can see that there are some soft, narrow trails for bikers. Scientific studies have proven that biking causes no more damage than hiking, and bikers are the best stewards. And so here's some... I'm going the wrong way.
 So this is the 2006 Forest Park single track cycling pilot project. So this is supposed to show how well narrow cycling trails are going to work in Forest Park. This is fire lanes, and I'm bringing this up because they're also an issue around safety. The fire lanes aren't being maintained. This is fire lane one, and it's not accessible by fire trucks. It's dangerous for hikers, and it's also a problem in terms of sedimentation of water.
 And finally, this is a group called Hike It Baby. It's a national group. And I'm putting this photo up here to let you know that hiking is actually the most popular and the fastest growing use of trails in our country. 90% of the trail users in Forest Park are hikers, and 10% to 20% of them are children. Thank you.
 So pedestrians are not being protected in our natural areas, and that needs to be a primary focus for the council to fund, to budget, and plan to implement some of those regulations that are there to protect. Dr. Thompson, could I ask you to send my office a copy of your PowerPoint? Yes. Thank you. I'll make sure it goes to all my colleagues. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 Carla, would you please read council communication item number 65? Request of George Milne to address council regarding single track biking and fire lane deterioration in Forest Park. Mr. Milne, welcome to city council. Thank you.
 My main concern today, my name is George Milne. I'm past president of the Trails Club of Oregon, currently the president of the Federation of Western Outdoor Clubs. Both those organizations had a very big part in establishing Forest Park. My concern is fire. Our lodge, our club has a lodge up in the gorge, and we almost lost it to a fire last fall. We lost...
 Two main buildings and three arterial buildings, but our main lodge, which is built of stone, survived the fire. Part of the frustration for the firefighters was access. That fire got out of control because they couldn't get to it fast enough to put it out. When you're a mile up a hiking trail, you can't get much equipment up there to fight it. The fire lanes here in Forest Park concern me because
 If a fire started in Forest Park and was able to build up to the ferocity that we had in the gorge, we're going to lose everything. Plus the homeowners up above it are going to lose everything.
 In discussions with the fire department, they claim there's areas of Forest Park they cannot access on fire lanes. So my request to you is to do a good analysis with the fire department to see what can be done to get their equipment in there. Because I can guarantee you next summer we're going to see probably the same dry conditions we had this year. And Forest Park, with all its low brush, is real susceptible to having a fire. Okay.
 I'm also concerned about the wear and tear on the fire lanes as well as other trails by bike riders. But I'll tell you what, I'm going to come back later when you get down to that subject, and we'll talk to that again. So my energy today is aimed at fire protection in Forest Park, and I thank you for the time.
 Thank you, sir. Mr. President. Commissioner Fritz. Mr. Long, you'll be happy to know that Portland Parks and Recreation and the Fire Bureau jointly have a budget request in for a study of that very topic. So I hope you'll participate in the budget process to advocate for that. I'd love to. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Carla, would you please read Council Item 66? Request of Barbara Dugan to address Council regarding Forest Park. Ms. Dugan, welcome. Thank you. So I'm...
 I'm a retired Portland Public School teacher. I'm a native of Portland and a mountain bike owner. In my younger days, I used to do a lot of mountain biking, so I'm not anti-mountain biking, but I'm here to speak about... I have four main points that I briefly want to cover. One is pedestrian safety in the park. One is how decisions and funding are being made about the park. One is implementation of the...
 Forest Park Management Plan. And finally, I want to talk about ecological impacts of bikes. So if someone is not nimble enough to jump out of the way, so we're talking about seniors, children, people that are hearing impaired, blind people, then they're in danger of being injured by bikes. I used to hike a lot in Forest Park.
 I've been run off the trail two times one time I fell down a 15 foot incline and seriously injured myself and I feel that the bikers were very disrespectful swearing at me because I was in the way and I know that
 Many of my friends don't hike there anymore. I know people with young children that don't hike there anymore due to the safety issue. And I think the city is setting themselves up for lawsuits because there is – the signage is removed, I'm assuming by bikers, that prevent –
 biking on certain trails. So this is on trails. These injuries and so forth have been on trails that were supposedly off limits to bicyclists. And I also know that the rangers are not issuing citations for that. The second issue I want to talk about, and I have a handout for you. Naturally, I'm a retired teacher. That I made it really short for you. So...
 I have a link about an Oregon trails report. It's about a study over all the state about how trails are used. Four percent of trails in Oregon are used by single-track cyclists. So that leaves over 90 percent that are other things. Snowshoeing doesn't really happen in Forest Park, but...
 So I think because only 4% are bikers, it's fair that 4% of trails be used for bikers and 95% of trails be for the majority users, which is...
 hikers, walkers, and runners. The next thing I want to talk about is ADA access. The management plan talked about doing that in 1995. And from what I can see, very little has been done. The 200-foot McClay Park thing is kind of like a token thing.
 And I also want to talk about erosion. Gabriel Park, I talked to a manager over there in 2016, and 20 years ago there was a serious erosion problem. And there still isn't a – so last year when I talked to them, there was still –
 It still hadn't fully recovered. And so... Ms. Dugan, why don't you take 15 seconds to wrap up, and we will read your testimony if you submit it. Okay. Oh, the last thing I just want to say is my understanding is Gateway Green was developed for mountain bikers, and a lot of money poured into that so that other parks wouldn't have this damage by bikers. And I'd like to see the...
 City Council protect Forest Park because it really is a unique jewel in the nation. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Carla, would you please read item number 67? Request of Candy Putterbaugh to address council regarding Forest Park. Ms. Putterbaugh, welcome. Thank you. My name is Candy Putterbaugh.
 It's hard for me to have a one-track mind about single-track cycling because I've come from a family of cyclists, hikers, and runners. As a runner, I have no bone to pick with single-track cyclists, nor does my family, but we just can't see it on the narrow trails in Forest Park.
 I don't doubt that Singletrack is adventuresome, fun, and exhilarating. There are plenty of places where it would fit. Forest Park is just not one of them. Singletrack poses dangers to hikers and joggers, seniors, kids, dogs, the blind and disabled, and can result in trampled plants, rutted trails, and wildlife fleeing from the whir of wheels.
 Maybe Forest Park is looked at by some as a fuddy-duddy, an outdated grand dame in need of a facelift and a whoopee factor. Most of its users don't look at it that way. A recent study showed that 90% of users are pedestrians and only 9% are cyclists, and just 6% of respondents want more bike trails.
 And many users are seniors 65 and older, including myself. Census numbers show our state is aging faster than the nation. PSU's Population Research Center said that age group is just going to keep growing over the next 15 years, and they are heading out onto Oregon's hiking trails in increasing numbers.
 If I knew that a bike would come careening around a corner, I wouldn't hike or run that trail, and I wouldn't take my grandkids or dog. We simply can't take trails away from walkers or hikers of any age.
 According to the International Mountain Biking Association's rules of the trail, wet, quote, wet and muddy trails are more vulnerable to damage than dry ones, end quote. That doesn't speak well for Portland's trails. A Singletrack.com article on easing mountain biking's environmental impact stated, quote, the issue isn't whether or not mountain biking degrades a trail or impacts the environment in some harmful way, but to what extent it does and how much control you have over it, end quote.
 And a singletrack.com podcast on bikers' pet peeves noted that riding hard on wet clay is terrible for a trail and that a single rider and ride can completely destroy a trail. There are many well-meaning and well-mannered singletrack cyclists, but nothing is 100%. Not every car on the road has a good driver. There are accidents. That's why we have police. But Forest Park has only one faux enforcer, meaning that ranger can't even write citations. That's it.
 Fort Collins in Colorado has 12 rangers for their natural areas. Boulder has 15 for 150 miles of trails. Forest Park has only one ranger for 80 miles of trails. It's a hot-button issue that makes tempers flare. In 2013, a psychiatrist was sentenced to 30 days in jail for stringing shoulder-level nylon rope across trails near Ashland to injure mountain bikers.
 While in Colorado, plywood boards riddled with protruding nails were found. Once we start down that single-track trail in Forest Park, there's no turning back. Let's leave its narrow trails untouched by tire tracks for those who search out pristine wilderness in the city. That's what its brilliant founders foresaw in their crystal ball. And make no mistake, this is Portland's crystal. And we must take care of it so that it will remain beautiful and unbroken. Thank you very much. Sure.
 So since we have a lot of special guests today, let me just preview what we're going to do next. We have three time certens that are scheduled, which are heard before the regular agenda. But before we take up time certens, we adopt what's called our consent agenda, where we have items that are generally considered non-controversial.
 And it is the right of any citizen to pull a consent item, in which case it will be heard later. So, Carla, have any items on the consent agenda been pulled? Yes, we have four items that have been pulled. Items 71, 73, 74, and 75. So let's take a vote, Carla, on the rest of the consent agenda, and those items will be heard at the conclusion of the regular agenda. Fritz. Fritz.
 Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fish? Aye. And we have one other housekeeping matter. Colleagues, last week we had a first hearing on item 41, which was titled Clarify Stormwater Billing Methodology.
 That item will be referred back to my office without objection so we can collect additional public comment before we come back with a future recommendation to council. Without objection, that will be returned to my office. Carla, would you please read our first-time certain council item number 68? Accept the Centers and Corridors Parking Management Toolkit as a technical reference and direct reference
 Bureau of Transportation staff to seek community input to establish a new park area parking permit. Commissioner Salson. Thank you, Council President. We are considering two initiatives that will help us to better manage the supply of parking in both our commercial areas and our neighborhoods. The first is a toolkit of parking strategies, programs, and policies
 that we can use to maintain a good balance between the supply and demand for public parking spaces. The second initiative will provide the Portland Bureau of Transportation, or PBOT, with the authority to proceed with two pilots to test new area parking programs in Portland neighborhoods. With good parking management, we can help facilitate a high quality for healthy business districts and neighborhoods,
 And I want to now turn it over to our Transportation Bureau Director, Leah Treat, and Mauricio LeClerc, for an overview of this important policy initiative. Great. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Good morning, Commissioners Fritz and Udailey. Today we are taking another step in updating our parking policies and tools to better serve the needs of our growing city. The toolkit that's before you today provides a set of best practices for managing parking and for managing our curb space.
 Parking plays a key role in the economic vitality of our city, and it also contributes to the quality of life in our neighborhoods. And our goal is to effectively manage the supply and demand. And when we do this, we make it easy and convenient for customers to visit our businesses and for residents to find parking in their communities. The toolkit that's before you today helps us achieve these goals by providing guidance on a comprehensive set of issues from signage and time stays to permitting.
 We are requesting authority to develop two new parking permit pilot areas. These pilots are in direct response to what we've heard from communities across the city. And as Commissioner Saltzman mentioned, PBOT receives numerous requests from neighborhoods and businesses to take a more proactive approach to manage parking in their communities.
 So with these pilots, we can test the most effective ways to meet the parking needs in the city. And both of the pilots are going to be modeled on what we've done in northwest Portland in Zone M.
 We developed the Northwest Parking Program through extensive consultation and collaboration with community stakeholders, and we're going to take the same approach in the Tulu pilot neighborhoods. So before you today is one part of a comprehensive process to bring Portland's parking strategy up to industry standards and help us manage our growth. Thank you.
 We started this process in 2014 in conjunction with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and we have spoken to thousands of Portlanders and have held dozens of community briefings and open houses. And the input that we heard through those processes helped to shape the toolkit we're presenting today.
 And in addition, in the coming months, we're going to be returning to you with additional results of the process, including an update and report on the Northwest parking pilot, the proposed citywide parking strategy, and our proposed off-street policy. With that, I'm now going to turn it over to Mauricio to provide the detailed overview of the toolkit. Good morning.
 Yeah, so before you use a resolution, basically to accept the parking, centers and corridor parking management toolkit as a technical reference document. This is the document. It's available online. And also to direct, as Leah mentioned, PIVA to seek community input to establish a new area parking permit pilot in an area that doesn't currently have such a program. So the presentation outline, a brief PowerPoint, will cover first about the toolkit and then the area parking permit program and the next steps. Thank you.
 So as mentioned, we had a committee that worked on this, a large committee that worked on this representative of people from all over the city and businesses and residents.
 We worked on it through 2014 and 2015. We arrived at a unanimous recommendation in December. We had dozens of meetings in open houses. We held a parking symposium two years ago. We had a work session with council, and we met several times with the Planning and Sustainability Commission on these topics. Thanks.
 If you recall, while we were here in 2013, the council introduced minimal parking requirements for multi-dwelling units. That was in response to the growth and the complaints from neighborhoods that, you know, they were being overwhelmed by spillover parking effects.
 That ordinance included a directive to PIVA to revise the area parking permit program. So we followed up with a grant to all of that, and we got awarded that grant to actually initiate that process. That process ended up with the parking toolkit and some recommendations about area parking permit program. In 2014-15, we met with the committee and we –
 worked on the recommendations that are before you. And in 2016, if you recall, as part of the comprehensive plan amendment and the zoning code amendment, we amended the code again to basically effectively eliminate minimum parking requirements in the area of good transit service by excluding units with affordable housing. So again, we're back to we remove parking minimum, but we still have to do work to manage our on-street parking.
 So basically, also as part of the comprehensive plan, we adopted new policies on parking that tells us that, among other things, we need to better manage off-street parking, on-street parking, make sure that they both work together, that we are very careful about the management of the curb zone, which is an important asset, and we've done that as part of this plan.
 So basically what are we expecting, why is this so important? Because we are a growing city, actually a fastly growing city, and more growth is coming as part of the comprehensive plan. We expect 260,000 new residents and 140,000 new jobs.
 And most of the growth, 70% or more, will take place in these centers and corridors, you know, the areas that you see in the map with circles or lines. So it is very important, you know, that's where we want to concentrate our growth and make sure that we manage the space within those areas very carefully.
 So what is basically the problem? So when you translate this map on the ground, what happens? Well, when it comes to parking, basically parking supply gets tighter as commercial districts redevelop, which is what we want. We want them to thrive. And that leads to high demand for limited parking spaces on the street. That leads to parking demand spills over the adjacent areas, often other zones,
 residential zone, single family residential zone. Main street customers often can find parking or find it very hard to find parking to go to those businesses that we want to support. So basically we determined that new tools and strategies were needed to guide parking management over time as these areas change and evolve. So we developed a toolkit
 It has maybe each of these shelves that we're calling. It has dozens of strategies, so it's not my intent to go through them, but just basically to provide a framework of reference to see how we see the shelf. And in the toolkit being used, basically there are seven steps involved.
 and we want to use them pretty much sequentially. So before, you know, number seven would be in this case create a new parking supply. Well, for that to work, we should be working hard to make sure that we tap into shelf one, two, three, four, five, six so that we manage the system efficiently. Some of these tools don't work unless we...
 tackle something from the previous shelf. So shelf one is user information. I'll provide an example of each of these. Shelf two is transportation demand management. Shelf three, manage existing parking supply. Shelf four, enforcement. Shelf five, implement and manage an area parking permit program. Shelf six is implement and manage paid parking. And seven, create new parking supply.
 So basically, these are, you know, this is a matrix that I won't go through. But basically, on the column side, which I need to, you know, twist my head to read it. Can I just say, you guys do a great job on the PowerPoints. This is probably too much information for the public to see. So let's just remember whenever we can, bigger fonts and less information, because I think this is probably impossible for someone to read. Yeah, it was basically to highlight that,
 These seven strategies address a host of issues related to parking. So, example, limited transportation options or low turnover. So basically by seeing the dots, we can kind of go back into the toolkit and say, what is the problem that we have here and what are the tools that address certain problems? So the toolkit itself has this table and a lot more information to it. We provide it on the website. So basically to provide a little bit of a flavoring as to what's in the toolkit, you
 User information, what do we mean by that? You can see an example on the right, that the Smart Park sign that is on the west side of the Morrison Bridge coming into downtown provides, for example, consistent parking branding. Smart Park is a brand that people recognize. Also, wayfinding and signage. We can tell people where to find the parking and actually how many spaces are available. So that's one of the tools.
 Shelter two would be transportation demand management. See if we can get people to use the car less often. So some incentives could be bike share programs and bike parking. For example, in Northwest Portland, where we're doing the first pilot, we are providing options for people to not have the parking permit and instead get a transit pass or a bike share membership. Who provides that transit pass? Yeah, PBAT. Okay.
 And that's using the parking revenues? Yes. The parking revenues. Yeah. Thank you. Transportation demand management is, we already covered that. I'm sorry, just one more question about that while I'm here. Is there enough money for everybody who wants transit pass to get one?
 I do not know the answer, but we have had – it's a new program, and we've had over 100 people, mostly residents, but also some employees, and even employers opt out of their permit and take either a transit pass or bike pass. I can get back to you on that. That's another time. So on the third – The answer is yes. The answer is yes. And that's not means-tested? No, although we have – Means-tested. Why don't you just come on up? We have a – not only do we do have a –
 people who are low income pay a lower rate for things. I'm sorry to interrupt your presentation. Please go on. Okay. So, shell three, you know, better manage the on-street resources. For example, we have an example, you know, we could use value operations. You know, if you cannot find parking on the street, maybe somebody can, you know, take your car and drive it somewhere else where there is more supply. Or implement time restrictions, which is, we do on Hawthorne and other areas, you know, three hours, two hours, and so forth. And,
 Enforcement is important. It's a mechanism in which we can let the public know that rules matter and that we have the rules for a reason. So we can do that by providing citations but also issue warnings, which actually are a friendly way in which we educate people, but we also let them know that they need to follow the rules. Shield five, it's a –
 update the parking permit program, which we'll touch a little bit in about three slides, and six, paid parking, which we have in downtown and northwest, which is a higher-level shelf. We're hoping to tap into the other shelves prior to this. And finally, create new parking supply. We have here an example of car stackers, which is a more efficient way to use limited space. Can you back one picture for a second? Yes. Which one?
 You had the old version of our parking meters. Yeah, that one. You know, now that I rent in Northwest and walk to work and this is my neighborhood, I use this particular meter a lot more. And I know you know this, but when it's dark outside or raining, it is extremely difficult to operate the meter. Okay?
 Partly because it's not illuminated the way the other system is. Partly because you have to crouch, get down, you know, to bend down and read it. And then you have to align what you're doing with markers. I'll just tell you, and maybe it's because my eyes aren't so great, I find it very hard to operate that after hours. And I hope that's something we can think about in the future because I would not call it user-friendly. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you for the feedback. Also, we have Parking Kitty if you don't know, in which you can use your app to pay for parking.
 No doubt. We can provide that. But occasionally when I borrow my daughter's car, this one is very hard to have. Okay, yeah. Noted. Thank you. So that's basically how we want to use the toolkit. It's a way in which with the committee and with us, we learn about new best practices. We learn with the community that there are options out there and that they need come. They can come to businesses and areas can come to PBAT, and we'll have a broad set of tools for which to work and customize something that works for them. Okay.
 That's the first part of the resolution. The second one is about initiating a pilot for the area parking permit program. So, again, going back to the slide of what problem are we addressing, these areas are getting tighter and demand spells over other areas. Main street customers are finding it hard to park. But also the existing parking permit program that's today in the code, Title 16, does not have the tools to address the issues that we're facing today.
 And the program was created in 1981, the first one. It basically was the area just south of PSU. And it was designed to address commuter parking issues. Basically, you come from outside the area, you park, and you avoid getting to the central city, for example, having to pay the meter. So that's why most of these permit areas are surrounded the central city, surrounded the meter area. So it's basically outsiders coming in, parking all day, riding, and moving on.
 We have 18 of these. So as a result of that, we were not actually trying to limit the permits within an area because the problem was people coming from outside to it. So there's a voting process, and it's all spelled out in Title 16. So we have 18 of these. We do allow limits on business permits, but not on residential permits, for the reason that I gave. The main issue is outsiders coming in.
 The problem, we have, you know, the step to set up a permit area is about eight. We first receive a request. Then PIVOT staff goes out there and checks the situation. Is there truth to this? You know, sometimes, you know, people exaggerate the issue, but often it's true. Make sure that the program addresses, you know, the problem.
 the problem. Then we go through a public process in which we and even a ballot process people vote in and then we establish a committee that will be number five and then the committee develops a supplemental plan that is very customized to a particular area and once we get that supplemental plan we begin to issue permits and then we begin enforcement. So those are the steps
 For Northwest, which is the pilot that we do have going on, we're in a very unique area of the city. It's unlike others in the sense that it's very dense. It pretty primarily makes use of a well-established area. So it's already had parking management for a long time. And so we haven't had to go through the steps one through six. But rather, we were tasked to go back to that area and amend the supplemental plan two years ago.
 to use some of these tools that are currently not allowed. So basically, the limitations that we have today is that we want to solve not a commuter problem. So basically, limitations today is that the existing program is only for commuter, and that's the problem, not for internal growth. So how is it that we...
 As we're going to gain a lot more people, how is it that we can manage the parking supply and begin to address the issue of internal growth, not others coming in? So as a result of that, we have no tools to limit permits to residents.
 And also, we have no tools to limit the number of permits issued as a whole area. And also, we are limited to annual fee that is based on the administration, about $60 a month. You don't have the ability to provide a surcharge
 to the program. And that's what we did with Northwest. We lifted some of those restrictions and allowed them a greater flexibility to come to develop a plan that addresses their needs, which is basically the growth that happens internally to Northwest.
 So basically what they ask for today is that those tools, you know, basically that we work with the neighborhood associations and the businesses out there, and develop a public process in which we let everybody know that we are apt to select up to two pilots.
 in which we will go through the analysis. We hope to have people, neighborhoods, formally submit a request, and then we'll have a process in which we verify that there is a parking need out there and then come to council with two areas that we want to initiate a permit program, a new zone.
 Within it, that will come with an ordinance to lift some of the restrictions that prohibit us to do what we need to do, like we did in Northwest. So that's basically the ask for today. We'll come back around March or later spring with results as to what are the two pilot areas and the ordinance that will allow us to do the work. So that's basically what's spelled out in the therefore part of the resolution. Yeah.
 So we don't have the two areas? Not today. We don't know which those two areas are at this time? No. Today is – right. So today you will give us permission to start a public process, to invite a conversation, a solicitation, in which in a few months we'll have a public process with the neighborhoods and businesses, and then in a few months we'll come back to council with that answer. And then we'll – Colleagues? Yes.
 Thank you, Mr. President. A couple of quick questions, I hope, and then a more detailed one. When you were here in 2016, the proposal was to change to require a simple majority of the addresses to vote into a permanent area rather than 60%. Is that in the current proposal? At this point, because we are actually one to discover those questions, we are going to basically use the pilot to test those ideas, you know.
 We have an existing process, so we want to test that out. But it could be that modifications, revisions could come out as a result as we try different areas, and that will help us. It will tailor the plan to those areas, but also we hope to learn what works, what better. It's a 60%, it's a 50%, so that then we can learn and come back with an actual code amendment, and we'll know what worked better and what didn't work. And you work with the local committee to decide that? Okay.
 The low-income exemption, my understanding is the proposal is that if a person qualifies under the Housing Bureau's subsidy program, they would be able to buy a permit at $60 rather than...
 Again, it's something that we know we're going to pilot it. We have done that with Northwest. It's very likely that we're going to continue to do that. It was a great topic of conversation during our process and it's something that we strongly think that is going to be the case. So notice that one of the areas that might be chosen is Boise and obviously that's an area that's been very severely damaged by actions by the council in the past. So that might be a good pilot to make sure that we are,
 respecting all the needs of the neighbours who live there. It's of great concern that we come up with a programme that is fair to everybody. Yeah. You said that residential permits are not limited, but in North West they are.
 that multifamily residents are not guaranteed to get a parking permit whereas single family are. Could you address that issue, please? I'll try. I'm not the expert on this topic. But generally speaking, the committee, you gave the ordinance and they set up a committee and they had a very tough job of getting 9,000 permits down to a more manageable level. There are about...
 spaces on the road for about 4,800, I believe, spaces. So the process of taking 9,000 permits down to a more manageable level, it's a very difficult task. So the question is how do you do that? So the committee decided in an open way, many discussions, many people commenting on it, and determined a way to do it. At this point, the pilot –
 There are some restrictions on businesses, for example. I believe it's .8 of an FTE. That's as much. That's to residential. In residential,
 The larger the building, the more restrictions you have. So basically, a unit with over 30 will have more restrictions in the amount of permits that you will get versus lower buildings. And the charge has been laid before us that that's discriminatory to people who rent and or live in multifamily buildings. What's the mechanism for those people to seek redress to get this changed?
 Currently, it would be through the Stakeholder Advisory Committee. I mean, we staffed the Stakeholder Advisory Committee, and they came up with these rules, and we're simply helping them implement what they're imposing on themselves. I see. And for a single-family residence, is the occupant allowed a permit even if they have a garage and or a driveway? Yes. So that, I would suggest, would be something to put to the committee. That doesn't seem fair that perhaps a single-family residence could have three people
 parking spaces versus somebody in a multifamily has none. Right. So those are the questions that we hope these pilots will help us. As we develop something in a new area, we'll be addressing all those as well. Well, I think we are developing the Northwest Program, so I would encourage you to look into that concern and to encourage the committee to, because I think the...
 Concern that's been raised is valid. Okay. Thank you. Other questions? I have one question. There's a letter in the record dated January 23 from Venture Portland giving their conditional support to the pilot projects. They have four specific concerns about engagement and communication. Are those all acceptable to you? Yes. You're talking about the letter that came today? Yes. Yes. Good. Thank you. Carla, how many people signed up to testify? We have eight people signed up.
 All right, we have eight people. Everyone will get three minutes. Would you please call the first three? First three are Terry Parker, Sean Green, and Brad Baker. Mr. Parker, why don't you kick us off? All right.
 Good morning. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. My name is Terry Parker. I live in northeast Portland. The real issue here is the lack of parking supply. This toolkit represents the nose of the car haters under the tent. When PBOT convened the Stakeholder Advisory Committee in 2014, the committee included neighborhood and small business representation, bicyclist and pedestrian representation that generally don't utilize on-street parking were also included, motorists who comprise...
 who compromise nearly 80% of the trips in Portland area and are the primary funding stakeholders for PBOT projects.
 were unrepresented and left out. Ever since Sam Adams controlled PBOT on the City Council, and even with all the inclusionary speak at City Hall today, motorists have been unrepresented with no direct voice, proportionate or civic representation on PBOT committees. Equity is absent. 72% of households in new residential developments without parking have one or more cars. 59% of low-income people drive to work.
 Not requiring off-street parking minimums for new multi-unit residential developments has created a politically generated shortage of parking space on the streets. When that shortage is followed up by adding a fee, it reeks of unethical social engineering. Motorists already pay for the streets curb to curb with gas taxes and other related fees.
 If curb space is considered to be a pay-for-use commodity, equity requires the bicycle community to also be charged for every foot of reserved curb space taken up with bike lanes. Likewise for every bus zone and curb extension that includes a bus stop, TriMet should be contributing the same. In Chicago, the Mafia has a reputation for extorting money from small neighborhood businesses promising protection.
 A government-controlled car-hater mafia that extorts money from motorists through parking permit fees and or through tolling is no different. If the city wants to discourage car ownership, the city needs to set an example by eliminating its entire fleet of passenger vehicles and then do all the city's business by bus and bike.
 Finally, the dictatorial socialism of double-charging motors for curbspace by adding parking permit fees on top of other taxes inequitably drives up the cost of living, particularly for the middle working class and retired seniors. Along with offering at least one high-ranking official a bonus to live within the city, it also defines Portland as an elitist city that essentially caters to the affluent. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Parker. Welcome.
 My name is Sean Green. I'm here representing the Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods. I serve on the board and co-chair of the Land Use and Transportation Committee. While I'm not representing them, I'm also a business owner and member of Business for a Better Portland. I also served on the Centers and Corridors Stakeholder Advisory Group that helped develop the parking toolkit.
 I just wanted to express the support for implementation of the parking toolkit and the pilot parking permit areas. I know that multiple neighborhoods in Northeast have expressed interest in exploring parking permit areas. On November 21st of last year, we sent a letter expressing support from the coalition on approving the parking toolkit and the parking permit.
 I think that while in that letter we said that we suggested that approving the toolkit now would allow stakeholders to start working towards solutions to better manage parking. Adjustments can always be made to the program while.
 stakeholders are working through the implementation of a tool or after a tool has been implemented and there is data to inform the change. I think that speaks to Commissioner Fritz's point about the Northwest program. I think if we hold off on working on new programs, we're just going to delay the negative effects on neighborhoods to help try to better manage their parking. We know that developing and implementing a new parking area is likely to take a
 before permits are sold, likely a year or more. So NECN strongly supports you passing this. And I would also like to note that President Fish, I support your comments about the difficulty of using the meters, some of the older meters, but I would like to say that Parking Kitty will change your life. I...
 I'm open to being changed. Thank you. And finally, I would just like to say it was really great working with staff on the committee to help develop the toolkit. We're really fortunate to have such great staff and leadership at the Portland Bureau of Transportation. NECN is currently working with them on looking at high crash corridor areas in northeast Portland and looking at the Broadway corridor.
 I'd also like to note that I think Portland is very lucky to have such great volunteers within the city who are very knowledgeable about the issue. We're going to be hearing from more today. I look up to people like Tony Jordan, who might be one of the most knowledgeable people in the city on parking. We're so fortunate to have people like him. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi there. I'm Brad Baker. I'm here from the Elliott Neighborhood Association and the Land Use and Transportation Committee there. We sent you a letter asking for you to pass the parking toolkit, and we're also very interested in exploring pilots with PBOT. Our neighborhood has grown a lot, and the current toolkit makes it very difficult for us to create a parking district in our neighborhood.
 The southern part of our neighborhood has grown a lot and there's a lot of interest and so we ask that you pass this so that we can begin that process.
 And then speaking for myself for just a moment, I think this is a great first step. We need to do a better job managing parking. We have a ton of supply, but it's poorly managed, and as a result, there's more driving than we otherwise might need. So if we can effectively manage our parking, we'll make more progress on our Vision Zero goals, our climate change goals. We'll fight congestion more. So I encourage you to think progressively about parking and managing it well. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks to all of you.
 Carla, would you please call the next three? Tony Jordan, Sam Noble, and Joe Walsh. Tony, that was quite a build-up. Oh, yeah, yeah. Sorry. Hopefully I can live up to the hype. One sec. Do we have a third? He's coming. Oh, he's coming? I'm sorry. I'm having a little bit of a conjecture. Oh, Joe, take your time. I'm sorry. Is that okay? It's perfectly fine. Go ahead, Tony. Hello. My name is Tony Jordan, and
 Good morning. I was a member of the Centers and Corridors Parking Committee, and I've also been a member of three other parking committees in the last four years. I'm here to ask you to please pass this resolution. As a member of the Centers and Corridors Committee, I can testify to the thoughtfulness and hard work that went into the development of the parking toolkit and the proposed framework for permits.
 including plenty of solutions and better ideas for the problems that might be happening in Northwest. I'm to speak to Amanda Fritz's concern there, Commissioner Fritz. This policy is really needed to improve the livability and access to neighborhoods that are impacted by the growth that our city is experiencing and is expected to continue experiencing.
 This policy supports efforts in the comp plan and in the inclusionary housing policy and upcoming housing policy to build more affordable housing and to meet our climate goals. This is a foundation. Parking policy is really important to make sure that we don't have to spend a lot of money on building structured parking and to make sure that people can get by on the streets without too much traffic.
 I'm very excited to see what the professionals at PBOT and their partners in the neighborhoods, which should include beyond business and neighborhood associations, also districts,
 community members that maybe aren't involved in those structures currently. And I think that they'll come back with a good plan that you can review and approve, hopefully. So that's it. I've been waiting for this for a long time. And I hope that we can finally take a step forward on parking management. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hi, my name is Sam Noble. I'm co-chair of the Buckman Community Association. Early last year, we sent a letter to Commissioner Saltzman in charge of PBOT at the request of one of our members. The sense of the community, of the neighborhood association, was essentially that a city that is making every effort to improve its public engagement invited our members, invited stakeholders from across the city, and spent...
 good bit of public money to go through a process to develop this particular toolkit and as a neighborhood association you can imagine that there's
 a strong diversity of opinions on parking policy. And the sort of the unifying feeling sort of as an observer in the room and as the meeting facilitator was that we all collectively agreed that it really wasn't right to invite that public participation, spend the money on the sort of the development of the toolkit, and then leave it sitting on a shelf. That the right thing to do was to... Well...
 from the association's point, was to have a public process to more openly discuss the right way to move forward with parking changes that could address some very much collectively agreed upon problems with our system. Buckman is a very dense neighborhood. Many areas of the neighborhood have a very, very limited parking supply and
 and so we all recognize that there are very real problems that are not adequately addressed by the two parking zones that we currently have in our neighborhood and as this pilot now speaking kind of for myself again as this pilot proceeds to be developed and as it comes back I think that
 our neighborhood association will provide far more commentary on the pros and cons of the specific pilot developed or if you choose not to go forward with this in our neighborhood after you start running a pilot because again we want to have our say. Everyone wants to say something about parking but what we all really feel strongly about is that
 I'm really hesitant to misrepresent the view of my board without repeating myself. We want to be able to have a say about this as a concrete policy and not as kind of a list of, you know, as a set of pieces of paper on a shelf somewhere. And in order to do that, I think that we need to go forward and develop a pilot and maybe even implement it somewhere and see what happens. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Walsh.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I'd like to publicly state a rare event to compliment Commissioner Fish on his pointing out on the presentation of the small print. We brought this up a number of times, and we'll keep bringing it up, but I'm really glad you're joining us.
 So thank you very much for that. It's very annoying when you can't read or you don't have access to what people are talking about. And we have this habit of referring to things in initials. And when you do that, that really complicates things because nobody knows what you're talking about in TV land. And I think you want to include them or just shut it down. So that's a compliment directly to you, Commissioner Fish.
 We have some hesitation on this. We support the basic stage that you're at now, because it seems to us that if we understand what you're doing, you're going to take more information in and then come with a final plan and then present it and then vote on it. Today is kind of just moving it along. Am I right on that? Okay. One of the things that we're concerned about is when someone gets a ticket
 Who do they appeal to? And this city has a hearing officer, and normally that's where it would go. But the hearing officer works for the city. So I think you see where I'm going with this, all right? PR-wise, it's not a good thing to have, to make a decision that you're going to allow buildings without all street parking, which we know congests.
 the on-street parking, so you create the problem, and then you write your tickets. My concern is obviously for the disabled, how they get there in time, and stuff like that. So I'm really concerned about that. The hearing officer, because I was involved in the system about a year ago, a year ago, his decisions were 94% in favor of the city. Pretty high. Right?
 So my suggestion is that somebody look at the possibility of having an independent person look at these tickets when they're appealed. I don't care who it is. As long as people trust them, there must be somebody in this city that we all trust. All right? Amanda, I would trust you. I really would. On this issue, I would trust you. This issue. Not too many more, but this issue, I would trust you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Walsh. And we'll have staff come up and answer the question once we get through the panel. So next three, please. The last two who signed up are Star Stauffer and Mimi Gurman. Good morning. Do you want to kick us off? Welcome. Star Stauffer. Been a while. But I'm glad I came back today because I didn't know that we were going to be talking about this. And I was actually just talking about this in St. John's two days ago.
 We attended our last neighborhood association meeting where they talked about the residential infill project, which is density, density, density. And one of the things they mentioned during this presentation that was lengthy, boring, and too much jargon for the layperson to understand, one thing that stood out to me is that they're
 One way they want to solve the issue of density while also creating homes that people will want to actually live in because skinny houses are ugly and gross is removing the parking structure from those houses and having people park on the street. So Joe is right.
 If you sign off on something like that, you're creating the problem. And the issue with that is that in neighborhoods that are already being extremely heavily gentrified, and the cost of housing is skyrocketing, and the residential infill project does not contain contingencies for actual affordable housing, which Nick, you've pointed out before with certain projects of building in the city is a constant issue.
 What's going to happen to these people who already can't afford their rent? They already can't barely afford the gas to get back and forth to work or take their kids to school. And they come home and now they've got to pay all this money to park or buy a permit, which monthly permits to park in this city are costly. Very costly.
 And if they do get a ticket, there's really nobody to talk to. It doesn't go to some kind of fair court or anything like that. It's handled by the same department that wrote the ticket to begin with, which is handled by the city that created the problem to begin with. So it's like you're adding the salt to the wound for those that are being gentrified out, for those whose neighborhoods are being taken over by this density project.
 Because you're not having contingencies for the affordable housing to ensure that people are not going to be kicked out and unable to afford to live there. And then on top of that, removing the parking structures from the RIP plan, from the skinny houses, is going to force them to park on the street. It's like coercion.
 You know, do this or you're going to get a ticket. Do that, pay that ticket or we're going to boot your car. We know you can't afford it, but hey. And what happens to the people who are living on the street in their cars? Their RVs. Where are they supposed to park when these structures go up? And how is this, where in that presentation did I see anything that was friendly for people who have disabilities? How are they supposed to use these parking structures?
 I mean, as it is, we can't even get real accessible parking in this city without it being a huge fight. And somehow, though, we can talk about $300,000 for signs to decrease speeds when people really don't care about signs. I mean, the city's priorities are out of control. If you want the parking situation to be solved, you really need to rethink the way you're going about density. Thank you very much. Ms. German? Hi, my name is Mimi German, and, well, I'm Ms. Juistar. I'm glad you're back.
 Your voice has been deeply missed here in this room. So there was a slide in the PBOT presentation, and it had a whole bunch of numbers on it. And one of those, the first one was PBOT gets a request that they want parking meters. I want that number.
 I don't believe that. I'll just be out front with it. I don't believe that they get a request from, like, let's just say my neighborhood, St. John's. Somebody in St. John's says, hey, let's call PBOT and get parking meters here. I don't think that ever is going to happen. I don't think it ever did happen. And I want to know if PBOT is going to make that number one transparent so that we can see who made the request for that or did PBOT make it up.
 I think it's really important that this process is transparent. Right now, I didn't see anything about any kind of transparency so that we can see what's actually going on, other than the fact that they came in here and did a slideshow with print that was too small for everybody to see. And I see the problem with this is that
 A long time ago, this city decided that it was going to be okay for all developers building buildings to house people that were even sometimes affordable housing by themselves.
 definition, that they were allowed to build without having parking in those buildings. I was here. I've seen it happen every single time. Buildings get to go up with no parking and now, like Star was saying, now we have to pay for that. I already pay taxes. I pay a meter for where I work in Northwest. Not a meter, a parking permit for that. I don't think that
 Any of this is...
 something that the people actually want. And PBOT was making that, and the Neighborhood Association people who are here today are saying that, oh, we've had lots of discussions on this and people want this. I think if you want an honest discussion about this, you'll put some kind of flyer out. You'll notify the entire city of Portland and get people's comments on this to find out if they actually want meters in their neighborhoods. Because I'm guessing that most people don't.
 I'm guessing most people can figure out where to park and remain pissed off at the city for not creating, making the developers create their own parking in the buildings that they're building. So this is a city problem that was created by the city. And I'm tired of paying for your mistakes. You guys need to figure it out and not give this a yay vote, an aye vote, okay?
 You have options. You always have options. Vote no. Thank you very much. Dan, can we have staff come up just to answer a couple of questions? And then we'll entertain a motion. Madam Director, we have one question about who actually passes on parking tickets. Could you just give us a very brief 101? Yeah, sure. So when the ticket is issued, if there's an appeal, it's run through the state, so it goes to the circuit court. Okay.
 I see. So an independent judge decides whether the ticket is valid or not. That's correct. Okay. And do our hearing officers hear any of those appeals? No, they do not. I don't think so. And we had another...
 person who raised the question about transparency in terms of understanding if there is a request from some neighborhood, will that be made public? Will that be part of a future report to council? Yes. When we come back to council on the two pilot areas, we'll go over what the stakeholder advisory committees are recommending for implementation. That'll be a very open process with you all. And that will include whatever we've heard from the affected neighborhood? Yes, it should. Because there may not be an overlap completely on the stakeholder group is one thing, but...
 who is actually initiating the process and requesting, we'd like to know that as well. Absolutely. Colleagues? We will follow up. Hearing none. Well, I just have a clarification. So the issue about, I think in one of your slides, and Commissioner Fritz asked you a question, so people have to understand.
 affirmatively vote to form the parking band? So the one with the numbers were number steps one through eight. The first step is basically that PIVA receives a request from a neighbor association. You know, we want to initiate a permit. The lady mentioned meters. This is for permits. You know, the discussion is about permits. So then we receive those permits. That's how we have 18 of them. Okay.
 And then we basically hear their case, you know, and then we go and validate it, and we work with the community to develop the boundaries and, you know, what the program is going to look like. And then there's a voting process for the people within that area that are going to be affected. And, you know, there's –
 notification and we work with the business association and then when that voting happens, then we start a committee which has representatives from the area, from the neighbourhoods and from businesses. And then they develop the plan. So all of that is open for conversations and input throughout the process. Okay. I'll entertain, oh go ahead. I just have one question. The question was raised about people with disabilities. Would they be required to pay the permit fee as well?
 To be determined. To be determined. Yeah. I mean, it will all come through the committee that we form on who's going to be charged, what amount, and how many permits can be issued, et cetera. I think the current program, though, says that they're at least not counted in the cap. Is that correct? Everybody's guaranteed to get one. Yes. Yes. You know, we'll be leaning to something like that. Yeah. There are special rules for disabled parking, so we adopted them. You know, we improved them a lot.
 A few years ago. So as part of this discussion, we did not feel the need to actually change that. Yeah. I would, again, ask in Northwest whether that's the case even in places. And it shouldn't affect the supply too much. You know, they're not that common. Yeah. Thank you. So, colleagues, I'll entertain a motion to accept the resolution. Well, it's a resolution, so we'll just take a vote. Carla, please call the roll. Thank you.
 Fritz, thank you very much for all of your work. The last bit, be it resolved, says the City Council acknowledges the dedication and hard work by the citizen volunteers who serve on the Stakeholder Advisory Committee for the Centres and Corridors Parking Project. And I also want to compliment you on the toolkit. I found it very easy to read and understandable, and it's directed to people who might be interested. And so I think that's a very good way to do it.
 I'm comfortable voting for this because the pilots will come back to council for approval, including discussion of all the details therein. I want to flag that I will be very upset if subsidising TriMet passes or making them free is not part of any programme, because I think we do have that as a comprehensive plan policy now, that we're seeking to reduce or eliminate TriMet costs, and we want to encourage that.
 I share some of the concerns, as you know, and have for the last nine plus years about off-street parking and that we are, by not requiring enough off-street parking, we are in effect privatising the public right-of-way and having less spaces for the general public to come and go. I don't think it necessarily needs to add more cost. You know, the question was raised about the skinny houses. We haven't yet processed that. The refill project is still going through the process, but...
 A parking space in a driveway is a way to provide off-street parking with no cost. It doesn't have to be in a garage. And so I know that's only partly within your bailiwick, but it's something that I will continue to follow closely. So thank you very much for this report. Hi. Saltzman. Thank you for this report and for the work you're going to do to identify two new areas and test out some of these ideas. Hi. Udaly. Udaly.
 Thanks for the report. This is clearly a contentious issue. It has been for decades. And I'm really pleased that we're going to be seeking more community input because it's clear that a blanket solution won't work for the entire city. And we really need plans that are tailor-made to the neighborhoods. I want to put in a request, if I may, which is that it's incredibly hard to...
 figure out how to request a dedicated accessible parking spot online. And I think if I have had a hard time figuring that out, that other community members will as well. So I'd love for that to be made easier.
 Fish. Good discussion. And, by the way, I appreciate it in the PowerPoint that you actually put the resolved section of the resolution in the PowerPoint, which I think is a good practice because most people actually don't have access or are unlikely to have access to the underlying documents. So I like the fact that you put the actual language in your PowerPoint. So thank you. Aye. The resolution passes. Thank you all. Carla, would you please read time certain 1015, item number 69? Aye.
 confirm reappointment of Richard Schwartz as Commissioner of the Civil Service Board for a term to expire November 16, 2018. We'll invite Mr. Schwartz to come forward. And let's see, I think the Mayor asked me simply to highlight the fact that this is a renewal for an additional year. How long have you served so far, sir? I was appointed in November 2014.
 And, of course, we know Mr. Schwartz is the former longtime head of AFSCME, the American Federation of Teachers, Oregon. My apologies. And we appreciate your service, and I'll turn it over to staff if there's a presentation. Hi. Good morning. I'm Maureen Weber with Labor Relations, and I also serve as the Civil Service Board Administrator here.
 So on behalf of Human Resources Director Cirilda Summers-McGee, we have put forward this request to reappoint Mr. Schwartz as Civil Service Commissioner. Mr. Schwartz, would you care to say anything as part of your application? Just a few words, Mr.
 And thank you for the opportunity to continue to serve on the Portland Civil Service Commission. And during my tenure, I believe I've worked with the highest standard of fairness and impartiality while being fully respectful and faithful to the rules that set the boundaries for the commission's role and responsibility. I brought to the commission, and I would continue to bring, decades of advocacy, which developed a keen appreciation for probing,
 for facts weighing them against the rules and fairness in their application. Though generally low profile in its work, the Commission is a symbol of the widely accepted preference in labor and employment for the peaceful resolution of disputes, especially when resolution can be achieved informally with the opportunity for all sides of a contest to be heard."
 But when the Commission has had to formally resolve matters, I believe I've made my best effort to contribute to an accurate and clear account of the reasons for the Commission's conclusion or articulated carefully, reasoned insight into concurrence or dissent, hoping to help continue shaping the highest standards for the work of the Commission. I hope you'll look favorably on approving my continued service. Colleagues, any questions? Yes.
 Thank you very much for being willing to serve again. Are there term limits on the Civil Service Board? We can, sorry, commissioners may serve up to three terms. And they're four-year terms? We have renewed folks for anywhere between one year and four years. So there is no fixed term length? No. Interesting. Thank you.
 It's interesting that we picked up the paper today and we saw that the Portland Association of Teachers and the Portland Public Schools reached a tentative agreement. They did. There's something in the air. Right. Mr. Schwartz, we're fortunate to have someone of your background and interest serving on this commission, and thank you. Colleagues, I'll entertain a motion to adopt the report. So moved. Second. All right. It's been moved and seconded. Carla, would you please call the roll? Fritz. Thank you again. Thank you for being here. All right.
 Saltsman. Thank you for your service. Aye. Udaly. Thank you for your service. Aye. Fish. I didn't mean to create a little tension between AFSCME and AFT, although I know they are We're friendly. good friendly partners. Thank you, sir, for your service. I'm honored to support you. Aye. And the report is adopted. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. We're reasonably on time today. Carla, would you please read time certain item number 70?
 Declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street, sidewalk, stormwater, and sanitary sewer improvements in the Northeast 57th Avenue and Killingsworth Street Local Improvement District. Commissioner Dan Saltzman. Thank you, Council President. We have before us another local improvement district proposal. Thank you.
 and this one relates to the facilitation of affordable homeownership opportunities in the Cully neighborhood. We'll hear from our LID administrator, Andrew Abbey, in just a bit, but I first want to thank Habitat for Humanity for their engagement with neighbors and their willingness to partner with them to build comprehensive infrastructure solutions that will benefit all the property owners along the unimproved section of Northeast 57th
 The Colley Association of Neighbors has also been a great partner in this effort, and a big thank you for their advocacy of this project. And I will note that this project will, as I mentioned, help chip away at the backlog of just over four miles of unpaved streets in the Colley neighborhood, the second highest number of any of the 95 neighborhoods in the city. So I'll turn it over to Andrew Abbey. Thank you very much, Commissioner Saltzman. I'm Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator,
 I've asked Carla to pass out three things to you, just to kind of recap them. So item number one is a hard copy of the presentation that I'll go through here momentarily. Item number two is a couple of amendments to the resolution and then item number three is a letter of support.
 So with that, I'll go ahead and switch to the presentation. So as Commissioner Salzman mentioned, this project is located in the Cully neighborhood. Despite this big backlog of infrastructure deficiencies in Cully, we actually went 12 years with no new local improvement districts in the Cully neighborhood from mid-1998 through mid-2010.
 If council approves this LID today and then give final approval in March, this will be the fourth LID in slightly under five years. So we're certainly trying to make up for lost time. The percentage of unpaved streets in Cully is 9.4% of the streets in Cully are unpaved versus citywide average of 2.9%. So we need to do better on that. And then in terms of sidewalk coverage, um,
 Overall, in Cully, there's 29.2% sidewalk coverage versus 62.4% citywide. Cully is the only majority-minority population neighborhood in the city of Portland. We have a disproportionately high number of residents that rely on the need for sidewalk infrastructure.
 So to recap where we're at, we had 73.31% petition support because the resolution was filed. The amendment in front of you would add another petition to the resolution, which would bring up total support to just shy of 81%.
 One thing that is different about this LID and what we're adding to the toolkit in Cully is this is only the second local street project where we're using SDC funding. So it used to be that we could not use transportation system development charge revenue to help buy down the cost of street improvements.
 and PBOT has changed that policy and if this LID is approved it will be the second LID with SDC funding for local street improvements after 80th and Mill which we'll be voting on later today. So I've provided you there with a recap of the project funding and I've also provided you with a recap of the project cost. So I was out taking pictures last Friday so this is what 57th Avenue looks like today.
 So I was out standing in the street taking pictures. The gentleman that was driving this FedEx truck thought I looked like a suspicious character, so he pulled up and wanted a full accounting of what I was doing here in the neighborhood. When I explained to him that there was a possibility that council might approve a resolution fixing the street, a big smile came over his face and he gave me permission to take his picture. So he was very happy to hear that the street might be improved.
 This is a picture of Killingworth Street looking west from 57th Avenue. The number 72 bus line travels along Killingworth, second most heavily used bus line in the system. You can see that it's not an inviting place for pedestrians to walk. My understanding is that we have two schools within close proximity and this is not good access to transit.
 The rendition that you see there on the right is the Cully Commons that will be developed by Habitat for Humanity. So that's the conclusion of the PowerPoint presentation. What the amendment would do is it would make an adjustment to one of the property's assessments, 5305 Northeast 57th Avenue, and it would standardize the rate assessment for all the properties in the R5 zone.
 And then another request that I had from property owners is we have two garages on the east side of 57th that just very slightly encroach into the right-of-way. We do not need to have those garages removed in conjunction with this project, but they wanted some reassurance that they would not have to, in addition to paying for the LID, pay to demolish their garages and relocate them as there's no need for them to do that.
 So I would just simply request that council take a motion to approve the amendment and then we have several folks here to testify today. I'll accept an amendment. I would move the amendment.
 Second, I have a question about the 5305 property. Could you explain a little more about what's happening there? Yeah, so that was petitioned at a rate of $4 per accessible square foot, assuming a higher zoning. But that was an error on my part because the zoning was not R3, it was R5. And so it's just simply to bring that in line with the same $2.40 rate per square foot that applies to the other properties in R5. Thank you. And that will be a slight reduction in contingency.
 Carla, would you please call the roll on the amendment? Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fish? Aye. The amendment passes. Okay, Andrew? I guess the only other thing I just wanted to add is that...
 This will reduce the backlog of unpaved streets in Cully. I just did a little math this morning. It's a small incremental improvement, but we're at 4.0 miles. We'll knock it down to 3.9 miles. It's about a 2% reduction in the unpaved streets in Cully.
 It's very small progress, but we'll take any progress we can get. Thank you. Which is the neighborhood with the most unpaved streets? That would be Brentwood-Darlington. If I'm remembering correctly, their absolute length is 4.2 centerline miles. The neighborhood with the highest proportion is far southwest. And if I'm remembering correctly, they're about 13.4% of their, give or take a tenth of a percentage point in terms of unpaved streets. Thank you. Carla, any testimony? Yes. We have five people signed up.
 The first three are Shedrick J. Wilkins, Fernando Morales, and Laura Young. Okay. Everyone knows the routine. You have three minutes, and we'll focus on this resolution. Shedrick? I'm Shedrick J. Wilkins, and I was actually raised in this area, but I miscalculated. I thought this was more by PCC cascade or something.
 I agree that putting roads in that area is kind of a high transportation area. It is important to pave the roads there. On Brentwood-Darlington, my kids were raised there, and sometimes that's near Johnson Creek, I think, right? On that area, I kind of like the fact that the roads aren't paved. You can walk around, and that's more residential. But I know the area at Cully, it's where trucks come in, and it's like –
 schools, trucks, warehouses, and stuff like that. So you should implement that. And I made a mistake. Like I said, this was not the area I envisioned when I signed off to talk. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Fernando Morales, and I represent Habitat for Humanity, Port on Metro East. And we'd just like to share that we're excited to be part of the LID, and we're part of the solution on the infrastructure and the city and the parking space and the community. Thank you. Sir, let me ask you something.
 There's a Habitat community that was started under another nonprofit and then Habitat took over and has basically built it out. Are you fully covered by this LID? Are you covered at all? Are the Habitat homes off of Killingsworth part of this LID or just adjacent to the LID? We're part of this LID, I think. You're actually in the area? Yes. Okay, good. And by the way...
 My son and I visited a few homes over the holidays, and it's just beautiful what you've done there, building it out. So congratulations. It's part of the volunteers. Thank you. Welcome. Hello, folks. My name is Laura Young. I'm the chair of the Coley Association of Neighbors, and I've spent a considerable number of years advocating for LIDs and alternative creative funding to get those built in the community. To answer your question, Commissioner, the –
 The 15 new homes will be served directly by the LID. They have frontage on 57th Avenue, if that was your question. So the contribution from Habitat...
 provided the resource to make it possible to use the SDC charges to sort of buy down the cost for the other homes on the street. And so this is one of those projects where we have multiple wins. The other project you were referring to is called Helen's View, and it was a project that was partially built, went bankrupt, and then Habitat picked it up a couple of years later and built it out. So within a few blocks of 57th, you have
 a large mobile home community where there's approximately 200 children. There are another 60 children at the community transitional school a few blocks away, and there are another not quite 100 children at the Hellensview. So there are a large number of children in the area.
 that would have access to a nearby park and safe access to the schools via 57 when this is built. And so I just would like to applaud all the neighbors for having faith in this process and signing on. Thanks very much. Carla, could you call the other witnesses? The last two who signed up are Sam Walker and Joe Walsh. Mr. Walker, why don't you kick us off? Hi, good morning. Good morning.
 Thank you for your support. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for introducing this. Just a few more thank yous and then just a couple of notes. A big thanks to Habitat for Humanity. All indications are they so far have been a great neighbor, and we look forward to meeting our neighbors in the future. Great work on their behalf.
 Thanks to Andrew Abey for the deep and very meaningful public process. We've had multiple opportunities to engage, and we look forward to continued engagement in the future.
 We appreciate the city's support. The Portland Bureau of Transportation money is significant, but also worth noting that all of the families within this area are heavily impacted by the formation of this LID. And I just think that needs to be noted. For us, some tens of thousands of dollars is a lot of money. But we do appreciate the city's support in bringing that cost down and the significant habitat contribution.
 but it's still a financial burden to our family. We're doing this primarily to contribute to our neighborhood in a meaningful way, and we thought this would do that. Lastly, I just want to note Mr. Devine, who is across the unimproved road from us. Each of us, along with Habitat, have a very large portion of frontage on the unimproved road. Mr. Devine...
 has been nothing but a great neighbor to us through this process. He is the least interested, I mean, I'm speaking on his behalf, but my feeling is he's the least interested in the formation of the LID, but potentially the most impacted. And I just want to say that his patience with the families and with the city and his willingness to engage in this process has been remarkable. And I just want to say...
 Thank you to Mr. Devine for being such a great neighbor and taking this to the next step. Lastly, again, thank you for the public process. Very much look forward to continued dialogue on reducing potential impacts to property owners and specifically to Mr. Devine as we move forward. So thank you so much. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 This may be historic because this is going to be a positive presentation also. A few months ago, I questioned Commissioner Fritz about spending money on the west side and the east side. And I heard today someone throw out the figure 69 versus 29 from the west side to the east side. I don't think that's accurate, and maybe I misunderstood it.
 I'm not making a big issue out of that particular percentage. What I am making an issue out of is to congratulate you that you finally are moving a lot towards each side, and we appreciate that, and we want you to continue doing that. This is exciting stuff. Humanities is an organization I really like, and they do outstanding work, and have them as...
 a partner or on your side or supporting what you're doing is outstanding. So when you start talking about people that we really like and they stand, it's kind of like voting. You know, a lot of times you go down and you see who's in support, like 101. If you went down to see who was in support of 101, you would have said, wow, I like all these people.
 So it's encouraging. Again, individuals for justice do not trust politicians. We trust who you hang out with. So when you partner with people that we really like, we like you. Because we think the probability is that you're going to do something worthwhile. And I know we're harsh, but we like the money on the east side. Have to spend money on the west side.
 But we are the stepson. And as long as you treat us like a stepson, we will get angry. If you treat us like a son or a daughter, we will love you like parents. Thank you. Thank you very much. Any more conversation, colleagues? Okay, this is a resolution. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz.
 I was just mindful that I actually volunteered on building the habitat property at Helen's You. It was a 95-degree Saturday, and I was involved in driving six-inch nails into four-by-fours, and it was without doubt the most difficult volunteer task I have ever done. And...
 I met one of the homeowners there, the future homeowners was working alongside the family and it's obviously a great community asset that we have such a vibrant Habitat community that is now being supported by the entire neighbourhood. Thank you, Mr Walker, and thank you, Mr Devine, for exemplifying the spirit that's in the Cully neighbourhood and thank you a lot, Laura Young, with the Cully Association of Neighbours. It's, as was said, the only minority neighbourhood
 majority minority neighbourhood in Portland, it's probably the only one in Oregon as well. One other statistic that my trusty staff Michelle helped
 Hansman found for me is that the number 72 bus, which is very close to here, is the second highest ridership in Portland. And so this is just such a needed project. I'm so excited. And thank you, as usual, to Andrew Abbey. I know that the concerns of those with the garages, as well as the most impacted neighbours, will be taken care of in the design process. So thank you very much. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank Andrew Abbey for doing an outstanding job, and thank you to Habitat for Humanity for also doing an outstanding job along northeast Killingsworth there. And the Collie Association Neighbors continues to do remarkable work. So this is a great alliance, and we appreciate the neighbors coming out this morning, too, to lend their support. So thank you all. Hi. Eudalie. This is Great. Hi. Fish. Fish.
 Well, thank you, Andrew. And I thank our friends from Cully for being here to testify. You know, I was just making a little list of successes that have happened in the last couple years because of a very active and engaged community. And it includes the purchase of the sugar shack, which was an incredible eyesore to the community and an insult. The new futsal court, the investments in –
 the LID Today, the Let Us Build Cully Park, all the work done in Cully Park, Hacienda, Latino Network, all the partners. And with respect to the Habitat homes, what I think I recall was that the first couple houses in that development were built by Hosts.
 And then I think Host just stopped doing development. Habitat took over. It's an incredibly beautiful community that has been constructed. I had the honor a couple years ago of handing the keys to an immigrant family that had their first home and built their house, and we visited them on Thanksgiving Day. And there's something beautiful about the spirit of Habitat welcoming people to the community.
 and something shameful about what's going on in Washington in scaring people who come here seeking a better life. So I'm proud to support this. Aye. The resolution passes. We're now going to move to our regular agenda. Carla, would you please read Council Item No. 79? Authorize up to $250 million of new money sewer revenue bonds to finance sewer system capital improvements and authorize refunding of outstanding bonds.
 You know, I have some talking points, but I don't think they're necessary. Let's turn it over to our debt service manager. Thank you, Commissioners. Eric Johanson, city debt manager. This is a proposed non-emergency ordinance that authorizes the issuance of up to $250 million of sewer revenue bonds to fund capital costs of the city's sewer program.
 Proceeds of the bonds are expected to be spent over the next 12 to 18 months to fund those capital projects that are included in the CIP of BES. The ordinance also authorizes the refunding or refinancing of outstanding bonds. However, as I think you know, due to the prohibition on advance refundings that was included in the federal tax bill, we don't anticipate at this time that we will be doing any refinancing as part of this issue.
 The new money bonds that are authorized by the ordinance are expected to be sold in late April and closing in early May. We do want to take advantage of what continues to be a favorable market environment and come to market as soon as we can reasonably do so. So happy to answer any questions. What is the current favorable market environment in terms of debt? I think interest rates are going to be, if we were selling today, probably for 20-year bonds higher
 Less than 4%. So a little higher than they were a couple years ago. A little higher, yeah. We look at Treasury rates to see the direction of municipal rates as well, and Treasury rates are certainly moving up slowly, but moving up. And, Mr. Johanson, why do we come to Council and ask for authorization to do a big deal
 a big placement like this rather than a series of smaller placements. What's the benefit to the city of doing a $250 million placement? There's certainly benefits in terms of the issuance costs that we incur in any bond issue. We pay underwriters, we pay financial advisors, we pay bond attorneys and so forth. So to the extent that you can spread those costs over a larger issue, it makes sense to do that. Thank you.
 The time period over which we're expending these proceeds is relatively short. We try to target our borrowings to cover periods of up to 24 months. So the size of this issue at $250 million is consistent with that, and I think we'll probably spend them more in the 12- to 18-month range. Okay. Colleagues? So the new tax law –
 makes interest from municipal bonds no longer tax exempt? No, it is. Well, for most projects it is still tax exempt. What we can't do is refinance outstanding bonds more than 90 days before what we call the call date of the outstanding bonds. So many times over the last, well, since I've been debt manager, certainly we've refinanced bonds through what's known as an advanced refunding, where we sell new bonds to refinance old bonds.
 The Treasury, well, the Congress took away that option to us, one of our primary tools in managing the cost of our debt. Efforts are ongoing to try to get that reinstated. I'm not hopeful right now, but we're still working to try to get that provision included in a future act. Okay. So if the reason that we previously refinanced is to secure a lower interest rate and a better return for the taxpayers, what was Congress's rationale for hamstringing us?
 The argument that I hear most often is that when you do an advanced refunding, there's a period of time in which you have two series of bonds outstanding for the same set of projects. Treasury views that as a loss of revenue to Treasury because those bonds are tax-exempt. Frankly, the amount of the theoretical loss to Treasury is very, very small, but this was an item that they, as I understand, saw as a way to fill a gap in the tax bill. Okay.
 So it was included, and really there was no effort, or there was a big effort to have it come out of the proposed bill, but there was no receptiveness on the part of the Republicans to consider that. Okay, colleagues. Carla, has anyone signed up to testify? No one signed up. All right, this is an ordinance. First reading, it goes to a second reading. Thank you very much, sir. We have a couple of second readings coming up. Carla, would you please read Council Item Number 80? Okay.
 Authorize Portland Parks and Recreation to execute parks allocation certification agreements and accept annual grant awards from the Oregon State Marine Board for maintenance of boating facilities. Vote only. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. The ordinance passes. Carla, please read Council Item 81.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation for price agreements for urgent rehabilitation of sanitary and storm sewers project for an estimated $6 million annually. Vote only. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. Carla, please read item number 82. Aye.
 Increase contract with eBuilder, Inc. by $746,818 for additional software and license support and training for the capital project management software system. Colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services has a software system that has proven to be an effective project management system for the Bureau. Thank you.
 And it is the same system that the Bureau of Transportation has, which allows us for seamless integration in some of our planning. This amendment continues the use of this cost-saving tool and provides training for BES staff. With us today are Gail Bass, project manager. I guess Bill Ryan is not here. Okay. So, Gail, are you going to take it over? Yes. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Gail Bast. I'm a business analyst in BES, and I've been the project manager on implementing this software from eBuilder. Good morning, counsel. My name is Scott Gibson. I'm a principal engineer at BES, and I'm here representing Bill Ryan today.
 And I'd also like to recognize Alicia Gruber, who's here in the audience today. She is the PBOT Capital Project Controls Analyst, and she is the project manager for PBOT implementing this software right now in PBOT, in case you have questions for her later. So three years ago, BES entered a contract with eBuilder to acquire licenses, support, and implementation of their software.
 Today, we have hundreds of people using this software to manage all aspects of the BES Capital Improvement Program and the hundreds of projects associated with that. The initial software license and support term is expiring and needs to be extended or renewed. We also need software administrator and trainer training for new staff.
 So what we're looking for is to extend the license and support for BES through August 31st of 2022. We want eBuilder to provide training for BES staff who administer and will further configure the software and to train our trainers of end users. BES wants to continue using the software for their capital improvement program and program
 project management, and we want to actually expand its use for additional business processes that we haven't automated yet. License and support under the original contract with BES ends on February 28th.
 PBOT executed Amendment 1 that extended the term of this agreement to August 31st of 2022 and authorized PBOT to acquire licenses and implementation support services.
 This ordinance is for Amendment 2, which authorizes BES to extend the license and support through August 31st, 22, and to acquire training for BES software administrators and trainers. This is where Gail wanted me to talk a little bit about the software. It's a cloud-based web application. We use it for program management in preparation of our budget, anticipation cash flow, project management,
 construction management. It helps coordinate our documents and we communicate through it in a major way. It's also expanded to include our contractors, so our construction contractors and their staff in the field and our staff in the field use the software to share documents, to revise and approve documents, and to make payments and other activities.
 So since 2013 when we began this initiation, it's been widely adopted and well embraced both by our contracts and by ourselves, and that's why we're here asking for an extension. Scott, I have a question. Oh, keep going. Sorry. Okay.
 So the support costs and license costs that we're looking at is on this page. The first year price is for half a year. We've paid through the end of February, and we will pay initially for six months so that we are co-termed with the PBOT annual renewal starting in August. The annual increases displayed here represent 5% per year.
 And then the training that we're asking for is lecture-style training, three days on site for this fixed price. Any questions? Colleagues? Carla, has anyone signed up to testify? No one signed up on this. All right. This is a first reading of an ordinance, so it goes to a second reading next week. Thank you very much. Carla, would you please read Council Item No. 83?
 Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Southeast 80th Avenue and Southeast Mills Street Local Improvement District project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Commissioner Stoltzman. I think we have a presentation here. I'll hand it off. All right.
 Hi, good morning, Commissioners. My name is Marty Maloney with Peabody Right-of-Way. Agenda item 83 is to authorize eminent domain authority as well as to offer just compensation for needed permanent and temporary rights associated with the Southeast 80th Avenue and Southeast Mill LID project. The property rights in question are needed for completion of roadway and sidewalk facilities within the project limits.
 I would like to add that the affected property owner has been informed of the city's need for the permanent and temporary rights and was invited to attend the reading of the agenda item today. If you have any other questions, I'd be happy to answer. Colleagues?
 Carlos, anyone here to testify? No one signed up. This is an emergency ordinance. We'll take it to a vote. Please call the roll. Fritz. I see the use of eminent domain is serious. It's good to know that the property owner is in support of this. It's a great LID, and this, I believe, will give the property owner some tax benefits due to the condemnation. Aye. Saltzman. Aye.
 Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. The ordinance passes. Carla, please read council item number 84. Create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, stormwater, and sanitary sewer improvements in the Southeast 80th Avenue and Mill Street local improvement district. This is a vote only. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. The matter passes.
 Colleagues, we have a couple of matters that were pulled from consent, which we'll now hear. Items 71, 73, 74, and 75. Carla, please read Council Item Number 71. Create a nonrepresented classification of employee relations manager and establish a compensation rate for this classification. Elizabeth, welcome. Good morning, all of you.
 As Carla read, oh, my name is Elizabeth Nunes. I'm with the Bureau of Human Resources. I'm the Classification and Compensation Manager. Today we are asking to create a new classification. It's non-represented of Employee Relations Manager and establish the pay rate for it. It is going to go into pay grade 130.
 We are using a vacant other HR position to reclassify into this new classification. Okay. Okay.
 Questions, colleagues? Can you give a little more information about the restructuring in Bureau of Human Resources and why this is necessary? Our HR director is on her way over here, and she will be happy to speak to that. But I can just tell you this is really focusing on the site team structure that has support in all the bureaus. I thought that was her. Okay, well, we can take the testimony from whoever pulled it. Okay. Yeah, thank you.
 Thank you very much. Carla, who pulled this item? Mimi Gurman pulled this one. Ms. Gurman, would you care to testify? My name is Mimi Gurman, and I don't understand a few things about this. I wanted to play the timbre of the day because it matters today. I don't know if I'll be able to do this or not, and I want to share a poem, and it has to do with this. And if you give me a second...
 It'll happen. My three minutes is running anyway, so it doesn't really matter. The poem's called After. And I suggest that people don't talk about my testimony on their Facebook pages, but go ahead if you need to.
 Poems called After. God hung low on a twisted branch, a sliver moon heckled in the slant of shadow boxes. Some kid cried through the crack of an open window. I spit out a mouthful of pink pulverized pomegranate seeds, an offering to the broken bones of a long dead bird. This here, what the city does for me is the long dead bird.
 And my feeling is today we get an article that the Portland's finances get an F. We have no emergency plan.
 Somehow, we have a way to move this position from one position to another position, along with giving this position a $35,000 raise, while we have no housing emergency plan. Everything that the city council chooses to do in at least the last year and a half has been misplaced. It's...
 We have people living outside. Chloe Daly's office wants $800,000 for a PR team. This thing, which I'm still not clear on, why we need to fill this other position because it's vacant, why not just leave it vacant and leave the person where she is or he is so that they don't need the $35,000 raise? And why are we doing any of this? What are we doing?
 I wish that the other woman was here to explain this better. Because what I see is we're moving money around, we're playing games, we're playing a shell game, and we still don't even have an emergency plan for 30 days, 60, 90 weeks. We have nothing. But somehow this...
 This shift, along with giving this person over $135,000 or more for a salary, somehow is more pressing. I don't understand why that is. To me, we need to refocus. We've been asking you guys to refocus since the mayor took office last year. There's been no refocusing. There's not an emergency plan.
 For the houseless. It's been raining for days. It's going to continue raining for days. The houseless are outside, and I and Star and others have supplies for them in our cars. It's wrong. This person should not be getting a raise, doesn't need to move a position. The city certainly doesn't need any more PR. I've got to bring it to a close. Thank you for your testimony. Lighting.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superjustice Watchdog. Here's a problem I have on this issue, again, is that you are doing an annual increase of $37,294. Again, in the previous ordinance or resolution, we were talking about the effects of the tax bill on bonds and various other things. Now, from the city's position, again,
 In my opinion, since the corporation just stepped all over the Democrats and they couldn't do a thing about this tax bill, and they just kind of flailed in the background, falling on themselves, trying to figure something out. Well, here's the reality. Love him or hate him, he stepped on the Democrats with this tax bill. Love him or hate him, he took care of the corporations. Love him or hate him, he took care of the small business owners.
 Love him or hate him. A lot of people out there are getting more bonuses. As you've been reading, Apple and all these large corporations, and this refers to this, huge bonuses across the board. But my point is being this, being made here. He's not government. He may be the president and he's not your president, but he's not government. Right?
 He did a hostile takeover of the White House, went over the top of every Democrat, and he just laughed. Now he's standing there taking care of the corporations, taking care of the business owners, taking care of the people, but he didn't take care of the government employees. I'm asking for a salary moratorium to be put into place immediately. I'm asking for your salaries to be discounted and cut.
 like the tax bill did across the board. I'm asking for your bloated pensions to be downsized. And I'm asking you, why would you add a new position when the Trump administration annihilated the Democrats? And even Senator Merkley, in his delusional thinking, I might be the president someday. Guess what, Mr. Merkley? Wake up. Time to wake up, my friend.
 You're not ever going to be the President of the United States. Remember that, Senator Merkley. And watch what's happening right now. Across the board, cuts. Get ready. It's on its way. You don't have that money anymore. Corporations, the people do, and the small business owners. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Walsh. Oh!
 Good morning again. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We have a technical problem with this. It seems to us that if you bring something to the agenda and you bring something to the council to be voted on, it should be a requirement you are here. This was introduced by the mayor. He's in D.C. eating turkey. This should have been put off.
 And every item that is submitted by a member of this council, and you don't show up, should be put on. We have no way of questioning the very person that introduced the item. How unfair is that? That's why you guys keep getting F's in your transparency. The people that look at this stuff...
 see this and say, what is that? Ted Reel, he submitted this and he goes off to Washington and he doesn't even bother having the courtesy to the citizens of the city to take it off the table for next week. What is that? And we're suggesting that you seriously think about it and I'm not going to get it probably for another five years. If you submit something, show up. You're getting paid good money. Show up.
 And if you don't show up, have the courtesy to pull the item and bring it on next week so you can discuss it. That seems so reasonable to me. I know I'm not going to get it for six years. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so in...
 What exactly is this person going to be, this person's duties are going to be explaining job duties to other people who have duties within City Hall? Why are people taking jobs that they don't understand what they are? That's my first question. But I don't really know why I need to ask that question because I don't think anybody in the city really knows how to do their jobs. That's pretty clear by the mind-boggling amounts of money that are being tossed around for useless crap that the city doesn't need.
 You know, $300,000 for a speeding sign that nobody's going to pay attention to because they don't care about the ones we have now. $100,000...
 so that we can implement more security. $200,000 for turnstiles that don't do anything because if I was a little bit more athletic, I could just leap right over them. I mean, it's just nonsense. Millions of dollars here and there, hundreds of thousand dollars here and there. Chloe gets this new person to be her PR because she can't behave herself on social media and act like a professional. I mean, exactly what is happening here?
 Can we maybe, I think we should consider, I move for the city to consider opening a position to help you all learn how to pull your heads out of your damn trousers. Holy crap. Thank you. Mr. Wilkins? I'm a Democrat and I'm proud to be a Democrat. In history, ever since Franklin Delano Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson started Medicare and Medicaid, Social Security,
 Obama redid our space program. The Democrats solve problems. I'm a Democrat. Bernie Sanders is a Democrat socialist. He thinks Bernie Sanders would never hang around Republicans. There's a theory that once the Democrats solve problems, Republicans step in and get materialistic, and we all get this, and they don't even realize that problems were solved.
 by Democrats. Democrats solve problems. They listen to Bernie Sanders and Bernie Sanders is a socialist. Okay? Bernie Sanders will never hang around the Republican Party. And that's enough said. And I don't really care if Democrats make a lot of money if they think and are the best. Thank you very much. We're going to welcome Cyrilda Summers-McGee, our HR Director. We had a couple of questions that came up primarily around the
 the purpose of the position, and how it will be funded, if you could answer those as succinctly as possible. Absolutely. So the purpose of the position, right now we have three site team managers who lead the business partners who are allocated to different bureaus.
 Those three site team managers have different ideas and visions, because they're peers, of how to engage in the site teamwork. And what happens is that it lends itself to there being inconsistencies in our practices when it comes to employee relations throughout the city.
 So as I worked with the business partners to better understand how they engage in the work, what some of their challenges are in the work, and they started to express to me what their challenges were, I began to identify that because there are so many and so many divergent ideas of how to do this work, it's confusing to the team. We need one person who sets the course of what it means to be and how we engage with consistently the work of business.
 the business partner role, employee relations throughout the city of Portland. That's the origin of it. So what I've proposed is we have three site team managers. The position is going to be posted internal only. It's not for external folks, but essentially to see who's going to lead that work versus having three different leaders of the work.
 and then there will be a supervisor because we don't have managers managing managers. But basically one of the site team managers will become a super manager effectively. And then the third business, the third site team manager role has been offered up for budget cut in the 2017-18 budget cut process. So we do not feel that we need three site team managers who do the same scale
 set of work for BPs. The BPs are not changing their assignments. They will continue to function as BPs, but we'll have consistent trainings. We'll have consistent expectations set for them. We'll have consistent ways of administering the work of BPs, like investigations, et cetera. There will be consistency that will be established as a result of this change. Can I ask, what's the net cost to the Bureau of this particular ordinance?
 So you've said that you're going to be eliminating one position. You're going to reclassify this position. Do you have off the cuff what the net cost to the Bureau is? So a site team manager top salary right now is $135,000, correct?
 So that's one of the questions. If you don't know, you can send me an email. Just curious. Well, we're going to cut a six-figure position, and then the expansion of responsibilities for this new site team manager, which have elevated, increased the top of the salary by $37,294. And I don't plan to hire someone and pay them at top of scale by any stretch of the imagination. You're eliminating one position, reclassifying another position, and there will be some net cost to the Bureau.
 A net cost? A net savings. Actually, there may not be any net cost because we're reclassifying one body of work. It is vacant. There's nobody in it. So there's that money. The difference between that position and this new one at the top of the range is the $37,000. So in addition to that, Cerrolda has put up a higher level position for elimination. Okay. Okay.
 So in the budget process, we need to factor in this $37,000 as part of the proposed cut, because that's actually, by reclassifying, there's a cost to the bureaus as well. Thank you.
 That's to presume that we're going to pay someone at that level. So right now, we're basically reclassifying one of the site team manager positions. They have the ability to earn up to $37,000 more than they currently do. And that is true.
 And you mentioned that you're going to do an internal recruitment. Why not do an open recruitment? Because we have people who are in the positions that are highly skilled for the role. I believe that. We also have business partners who have ambitions to pursue an employee relations or site team manager role. I believe we have the talent right here inside the city of Portland. I don't feel that we need to make a national competitive search to find the talent required to lead that team. And what...
 So just in terms of the hierarchy within HR, obviously you're the director and you have a deputy director. At what level is this proposed position going to be? Is it right under you and the deputy director? Correct. So right now, the site team managers are currently, three of them, are currently right under the deputy director. And how many reports does the deputy director have? I mean, I'm sorry. So essentially, the deputy director position is a peer with all of the managers inside BHR.
 That's the way that it's currently configured. They all report directly to you? Yes. And how many direct reports do you have? Currently, nine. I will go down to six. Thank you. Commissioner, you're daily. Seven. Seven. Seven.
 Director McGee, could you explain what a business partner is? Because I think that title is kind of vague and confusing, possibly for the public. So a business partner is someone who works with bureaus to help them understand HR rules, policies, and procedures, best practices. Okay.
 There's someone who facilitates discussions between, when there are disagreements between employees or disagreements between an employee and a manager, they can help facilitate that dialogue to get
 to the other side of whatever the conflict is before there's a need for an investigation and things of that nature. They're also the people who participate in the investigative process. They lead the investigations for the City of Portland. So they do all of that work when it comes to personnel management and rule compliance.
 Well, I'd just like to say that I really appreciate our business partner because it is a large and complex set of laws that dictates human relations, and it's not realistic for us to have a full grasp of that. That's also why we need attorneys upstairs. And one more thing. I'm wondering if you could just speak to the challenge we have at the city of competing with –
 private industry when often our salaries are significantly less, which is part of the reason I imagine you're asking for this increase. So for the BP function or in which capacity? Just in general. Because we have some challenges across the city when it comes to filling vacancies. Yeah. So, you know, the city is a competitor with other...
 governmental entities but also with the for-profit sector and so we have to have we have to have competitive salaries and packages and work-life balance and things of that nature to make to become appealing to folks who can go and work anywhere in the in the marketplace and I don't think I don't think the city does a it isn't a it's in a bad place holistically I think there are
 particular classifications where we struggle and we're challenged to find the talent to come and work for us at our price point and given the load and the responsibilities associated with the job. But I think we're fairly competitive. Great. Thank you. Colleagues, this is an emergency ordinance. Are you comfortable proceeding today? Carla, please call the roll.
 Fritz. Well thank you Director Simmons-McGee for being here and for explaining it in terms of those afternoons, for giving my staff some information ahead of time. This is a very important discussion. I'm glad that we were able to have it in council chambers. I hope in the future that the Mayor will not put things like this on the consent agenda because I think with Commissioner Eudaly's questions
 really explaining what you do, that helps people understand what you do, why you do it, and why it deserves support. So I think you've done that to my satisfaction. Thank you. Aye. Thank you. You. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. The ordinance passes. Thank you. Colleagues, we have three additional items, all of which are grant agreements flowing from actions the council has already taken pursuant to a public process. I would suggest we take them up as a group.
 No. Without objection, items number 73, 74, and 75 will be read together.
 Seventy-three, authorize a grant agreement with APANO Communities United Fund not to exceed $33,000 to support the Asian Pacific American Communities United Against Hate Project. And seventy-four, authorize a grant agreement with the As the Spirit Moves Us not to exceed $17,085 to support the Interrupting Hate in Public Spaces Project.
 through the trainers' workshops, and 75, authorizing a grant agreement with the Center for Intercultural Organizing, doing business as Unite Oregon, not to exceed $30,000, to support the Hayen Project to educate immigrant communities on their rights and how to protect themselves against hate actions. So who would like to go first?
 I'll go first. My name is Carrie Ko. I'm the staff member with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement that runs the Portland United Against Hate Program. And we are just here to answer any questions that might come up today and to let you know that we are more than halfway through the year of this initial funding cycle and just getting this money out the door. So we're excited to be on the agenda today. Thank you. Thank you for joining us. Mr. Jama.
 Good morning, Commissioner. My name is Casey Chama. I'm the Executive Director of United Oregon. First of all, thank you so much for your collaboration and support. And I also want to say that thank you for collaboration with the ONI Office of Individual Involvement. And thank you, Commissioner Udeli, for your leadership.
 You know, United Oregon has been part of the PUA collaboration since the beginning and we've been at the table really bringing the community, impacted community together to really create a table where we can discuss land from each other and really push the community issues forward. United Oregon is
 program very much will be aligned with the city's vision of equity and inclusion and we will be supporting immigrant refugee community members to provide know your rights trainings, making sure that they come at the door if they have issues of experience of harassment and hate. We tend to also learn from other partners at the table within PUA. So that's kind of our focus and our issues and we're
 Just quickly note to share, even in our own office actually, right now we close the doors because we have quite a few incidents where our own employee was being approached by people who have different views. And in order to create a safety space for the staff members, we decided to lock our doors. So that's kind of the environment that we're dealing with at this point. But thank you very much for your support and collaboration. Ask a question? Sure.
 Yes, please. Thank you very much, Mr. Jammer, for being here and for your leadership of Portland United Against Hate right from the beginning. I'm just curious about the name of this project, HAAAN. Could you tell me why it's called that? Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. So the name HAAAN is very much from the nomad culture where I grew up, which really is a process when the nomads are forced
 feeling it, facing a drought, they send a small group of people to search for a better place for the community. And when they find that place, the entire community moves with them. So it's really a process of a renewed community, and that's really the intention of this program. That's beautiful. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, commissioners. My name is Kathy Wei, and I am the field director at APANO, the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon. And I'm just here, again, just to thank you for supporting this really important work that community-based organizations are doing to address hate,
 and discrimination, particularly in communities of color in Portland. Our office is located right off of Southeast 82nd Avenue. That has been a neighborhood that has seen a lot of demographic changes. I have personally grown up in that area and
 And recently we've seen a lot more unfortunate targeting and hate instances happening in that area that really stems from a lot of racism. And so I think through this project, we really want to bring basic education to our community members about what they can do when they are witnessing hate.
 hate crimes, and we hope to be a resource for communities in different languages. And Jay is our organizer. He's sitting over in the back there, and I definitely want him to share a couple of his insights and perspectives as well. But we are in the neighborhoods, we are in the communities, we are talking to just so many immigrant and refugee families who...
 You know, unfortunately, at this point, are really scared and terrified right now of just everything that is happening. So, again, thank you for your support for our projects, and we hope to continue this partnership. So, just to be clear, in the prior budget that adopted by the city, the 17-18 budget, the council, after an extensive public process, agreed to general fund special appropriations for a number of community-based organizations.
 That was a separate process in terms of recommendations, was then submitted through the normal budget process, incorporated in the mayor's budget, approved by this council. Today we are approving grant agreements. So the question before us is whether anyone has an objection to any of the terms of the grant agreement which executes an action the council has already taken in terms of appropriating the money. So with that, I have a question. Yeah.
 So with relates to APANO, I thought we had a pretty thorough discussion several months back about the allegations of discrimination and sexual harassment occurring in APANO. And I thought we were going to get a report about that before we disperse this money. But yet we're dispersing the money now and saying we'll see the report later. That seems backwards to me.
 That is a good question. I was not aware that there was a report required on that topic before this grant agreement came forward. Right here on page 6 of 10. APANO shall provide a report to the city from the APANO Board of Directors by the end of February that includes applicable facts found from the investigation while maintaining employee confidentiality. And the investigation relates to allegations of discrimination relating to sex,
 sexual orientation and gender identity. Yes. So actually that report is still going to happen. It's still going to be provided to city council. Well, I thought it was supposed to be provided before we grant you the funds. That's what I'm asking. That wasn't my understanding. I think we had the discussion that this is going to go out to the community to help with urgent needs, and so that's a separate issue. It was what I remember we discussed at the council hearing on this particular grant.
 So if we don't get such a report by the end of February, does anything happen to this grant as a consequence? That's a great question. I just know that things have a habit, and I'm not accusing a pawn of this, but things without a firm consequence, like a report to the council, sometimes disappear into the ether. And so if we don't see a report at the end of this month, I'm going to feel like we've been tricked. Yeah.
 You know, give us the money today, and we'll get you the report in February. But we have no sort of lever over that if we don't get the report in February. For whatever reasons, you know, attorneys may speak up, cite confidentiality reasons why the council can't see the report. There's a whole host of, you know, rabbit holes this could all go down. So I guess I'm concerned. You know, I take to heart what Commissioner Fritz said, her recollection of the meeting, but I thought there was a pretty stern, the council was being pretty stern about saying we want to see the report before we –
 Make any appropriations to apply. Commissioner Saltzman, this is an emergency item, and so each member of council is going to have to decide how they want to address that issue. I think it would be helpful to understand how you want to proceed, because we obviously can't proceed without four votes, and if you have a strong view, that will carry the day. Well, I guess my preference is to hold this grant over until the end of February, until we see the report.
 So because this is an emergency item, Commissioner Saltzman controls the vote. And my suggestion is that we set this over for next week and try to work out the language, which makes clear the sequencing, because Commissioner Saltzman, we can also review the record and make sure we have this. Colleagues without – pardon me? May I just suggest I move to remove the emergency clause. We can always put it back on again next week, but otherwise we would have to take it off next week. Okay.
 I see no harm in that. That would still delay a 30-day implementation. It might get us closer to the date of the report anyway. So are you making a motion on 73 to take the emergency clause off? Yes. Is there a second? Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fish? Aye. And without objection, Council Item 73 will be set over until next week.
 Other questions and comments regarding the other two matters? Commissioner Daly. Yeah, I mean, I'd just like to say, unfortunately, I was absent for that discussion, but it was my understanding that these grant funds were allocated.
 prior to the allegations becoming public, and it was not my understanding that we would be withholding grant funds, just that we were requiring a report. I also want to add, we went through something similar to this recently where other PUA grants were pulled,
 and community members thought that we should have had a greater discussion of them, which did happen previously, and as you mentioned, this is just kind of a formality of authorizing the grant, but we heard the public, and we decided that we would be providing a lot more information online about our grant recipients. So if anyone's interested, you can go to the main page of...
 of ONI, click on the PUA, P-U-A-H tab, and you can get a sense of what each of these organizations does and how they'll be contributing to the Portland United Against Hate effort as well as click through links to the organizations to learn more.
 Thank you very much. So, Carla, do we have people signed up for testimony? These were pulled items. I have Joe Walsh pulled 73 and 74, and Lightning pulled 75. Well, if they could both come up, we'll take their testimony. If you could hang out for a few minutes. Thank you all for testifying. Mr. Walsh, we'll let you kick us off. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 Let me be very clear on this. We like these organizations that you're going to give the money to. We have no objection to them at all. ALPO is about two blocks from where I live, and I've been to meetings at ALPO. So I know their work, and I know what they do, and they're outstanding. The other organizations are also outstanding. We are not objecting to that. What we are objecting to is your protocol.
 You don't seem to get it. You cannot take three items, put them together, and then try to get a vote on them under emergency ordinances, and then turn around and pull one and do a vote on that one to put it on next week and just vote on these two. You can't do that. Once you put all three together, you're stuck. Okay.
 If you take 73 off the table, you have to take them all off. Because what you've done is you've limited our time from nine minutes to three minutes. Each item we were allowed three minutes on, you made an arbitrary decision to combine them. That means they're one.
 You can't backtrack on that. You're stuck. You made a mistake there, Mr. Lawyer. You're stuck. I cannot stop you. That guy can, but he won't because he works for you. But you're a lawyer. You know you can't do that stuff. And I ran meetings for 15 years. And I know the rules of parliamentary procedures. You're wrong. We want clarity.
 And you guys never give us clarity. You give us an argument on the consent agenda where there is no argument. It's under the table. And every time you do that, we're going to pull the items. I've said that before. I'll say it again. As long as I can drag myself here, I will pull those items that people should come here and explain why they're going to spend the people's money and not put it underneath the table.
 And you guys, would you go back and read your charter? Please, all of you. It's not a restaurant. It isn't. It's your very foundation of your rules. Read them. You'll be surprised how many things you're doing wrong. Thank you. I just have a question for Mr. Walsh. Mr. Walsh, I have a question for you, please. Thank you.
 I'm a little slow, right? I know. Especially this week. Well, thank you for being here. I'm going to give you some more time because I have a question that's related to... I'm questioning why did you pull two of the items related to the Portland United Against Hate grants for immigrants and refugees? Why did you not pull the ones for the other two emergency ordinance grants that were part of this program? Okay.
 I might answer that because I pulled 75. I pulled 75, Commissioner Fritz. There are a number of people that attend these meetings that pull different items. We have a meeting prior to this at 9 o'clock down at the cafe. You're all invited. You can always come and sit. We will not be nasty to you. Lightning and I disagree on 99% of this stuff. But we're friends and we respect each other.
 So sometimes when we go down and meet at 9 o'clock, Lightning will say to me, Joe, would you pull this item for me? I'll say, sure, let me see what it's about, see if I know something about it. Sometimes I take a risk and don't, and you've seen the egg on my face when I do that. I cannot pull every item.
 I'm not going to walk in here and give a cop launch of every item. So how did you choose to pull these two rather than the airway science for kids or college possible? Okay, you're talking about 72 and 73. The first thing I saw was they were emergency items. And you know...
 I've been doing this for 10 years, Amanda. You and I have gone down this road a number of times. If I see that extras, I'm ready to pull it. They're exactly the same. I don't like emergency items. 72 and 76 are also emergency ordinances on grants, except they are not about communities of color and immigrants and refugees. Okay. Here's what you're doing for your TV audience. And you guys do this all the time. You blame the citizen. You didn't do enough work.
 Commissioner Udeli, you guys don't know what you're talking about. You're telling me I didn't do it good enough. I resent that. I am a citizen of the city. It is not my job to come here and teach you. It is my job to come here and criticize you as an activist. That's what I do. If I can compliment you, I do it only for my own sanity. When you do something right, I want to acknowledge that.
 But if you do something wrong as an activist, that's my job. If you don't like the way I do it, say, Joe, I don't like the way you do it, because I say that to you all the time. And it hurts me sometimes to say it, but I say it anyway. You had a great discussion here on an item that was underneath the table, that was under the emergency clause. That's not bad. That's democracy. That's a republic.
 Colleagues, Mr. Lightning has been waiting patiently to testify. I'm going to recognize Lightning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superjustice Watchdog.
 Now to Commissioner Fritz, are you implying some type of racial overtones because we picked these three opposed to the 72? Well, also, so you understand, I did ask for 72, and I disagree with drones for young children. Also, since they operate out of Hillsboro, understand, I review everything, review all the facts. Now, if you were implying that, I would expect an apology. Now, from my position...
 I absolutely agree with all these grants and think the people that came in here deserve every penny and absolutely agree with every direction they're going at this time. Now, with that being stated...
 When we're talking procedures, as Mr. Walsh brought up, that's what we were discussing here. Now, from my position, just on the Hay-In project, which I've gone over all the data, which I absolutely agree with, is that one of my positions, I guess, to this group, and I'll state this just from my position, why are the Democrats going to sell out the DACA children?
 Why are the Democrats going to sell out the 11 million illegal immigrants and aren't standing up for them also? I myself, Lightning, today am looking at the Democrats in disgrace. You think you're going to come back to the table, just negotiate on behalf of the DACA children. Guess what? Let's talk about the 11 million illegal immigrants that are currently here.
 that I think also deserve amnesty, that I think because our immigration system is so blanked up that we need to come back, then do a comprehensive immigration reform plan such as the Trump administration, love him or hate him, has stated, and you cannot blame that on the Trump administration because they weren't in effect when this immigration system has been so blanked up. That is my position today.
 Don't just take care of the DACA children. Lightning's position is take care of all 11 million. And by the way, President Trump, you want that wall? This is the deal from Lightning to you. You can have your wall. Congress will fund you 11 billion toward your wall. But that means 11 million full amnesty for all illegal immigrants. And then we come back and do a comprehensive reform. Have you heard any of the Democrats protecting that 11 million? Why not?
 Where are you now? You're just going to take care of the docket children? I don't think so. I want full amnesty for the full 11 million. And by the way, President Trump, we agree on one thing. You've created enough jobs. You're going to have a surplus of jobs. They deserve to stay here. They deserve amnesty. Back off of them. Get your wall and get these darn Democrats to fund it. Fund it, Democrats. Do not hurt the child.
 hurt the docket children and the other 11 million illegal immigrants.
 Democrats. Thank you, Mr. Lightning. So just to clarify, colleagues, item number 73 is now a non-emergency and goes to a second reading next week where the council will decide how to proceed. We have two items to vote on. Carla, would you please call the roll on item number 74? Fritz? I was proud to be also a founding supporter of Portland United Against Hate, and I appreciate the work that's being done on this important issue. I appreciate it.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Thanks for coming here to help us out today. Aye. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And Carla, please call the roll on item number 75. Fritz. Again, Mr. Jammer, thank you for your leadership on this important issue. It's truly appreciated. Aye. Please, Lightning, you're out of order. Lightning, you're out of order. Please don't do that. I'm leaving, Your Honor.
 Now. All right. Continue the vote. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Please, you're out of order, Lightning. Please don't do that. Fish. Aye. Ordinance passed. The council agenda is concluded. Thank you all. Council's adjourned.