Good morning, everybody. This is the regularly scheduled 9.30 a.m. meeting of the Portland City Council meeting for the 25th of January 2017. I'm calling the meeting to order. I'd ask the clerk to please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Here. Wheeler? Here. Thank you.
 The next order of business is communications. Before we begin, I just want to say a few words regarding council proceedings and maintaining decorum. The purpose of the Portland City Council meetings is to engage with the community and hear recommendation on the public's business. In order for us to hear from everyone and give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. Thank you.
 to make sure that the process is clear for everyone, both those here and those watching on their computers or TVs. I want to quickly review some of the testimony guidelines. My hope is that these details help everybody to feel comfortable, included, and heard, and ensure that decorum is maintained. My hope is that...
 Anyway, during the meeting there's two opportunities for public participation. Communications which we are at now, communications items are the opportunity to speak briefly on any subject that you would like, but these items need to be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office.
 First readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances, public testimony on these items must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need anybody's address. And if you're a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you're representing an organization, we would like you to disclose that as well. Individuals will have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated previously.
 at the meeting. When you have 30 seconds left, you'll hear a beep and you'll see a yellow light flashing on the box in front of you. If you have handouts for us, please give them to the council clerk.
 over here and she'll be happy to give those to you. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimonies or during council deliberations won't be allowed if that behavior is seen in the guidance. This guidance serves as a warning that anybody disrupting this proceeding may be escorted from the council chambers.
 and excluded from City Hall. If folks would like to show your support or displeasure for a particular item or comment, please do so with a thumbs up or a thumbs down so that no one is disrupted, but we can see your expression. Carla, please call up the first citizen for communications today. If you're disrupting this meeting, then you are treading on other people's ability to speak. You're out of order.
 We're going to take a recess. Let's take a 10-minute recess. So...
 If anybody wants to come up here and talk to the people of the city, talk to each other right now. Let's have this dialogue right now. I want to hear from the people in this group right now. It's a healthy issue. It's a healthy issue of no more people dying on our streets and getting housing. Where's your hand? Go ahead. Hi, this is Luke. This is Tom. Can you hear me? Yes. Do you have an organized camp? Yes. Do you have a trash pickup or...
 sanitation and laundry services you know it's not really that difficult to cost about three thousand dollars so the city is spending three hundred thousand dollars on cleaning with all the activities they want to do about the homeless homeless people themselves let's hear them
 That's the simple solution to this whole thing that's been going on for years. Here's a question for everybody. What about the nonprofits? If we solve, what happens to the nonprofits? They lose their jobs. The very people that are supposed to be solving homelessness have a hatred in keeping it going. Think about that. There are millions of dollars involved in this.
 Where was Mark Toland, your daughter? Where was Mark Toland? Nathan Howard told me, open up. Nathan Howard is a very old, very young, young, young, young, not a very young. That's what he said to me. Mark Toland, you know. Did Mark answer his phone? Of course we did. Mark didn't answer his phone. Or on the street. Or in the snow. Or in the... Or a broken egg. Yeah. And a baby. Yeah. Wow.
 And Mark, he got a raise. He got a raise. And they put him over $100,000. He takes over $100,000 on the back of the home. Isn't that cool? How many people was going to join him? How many just joined him? Yeah. He gets extra money from joining. And he gets an instruction from him. And he was running the whole damn program. He was running the whole damn program. That's right. Oh, no.
 uh... separate uh... uh...
 I can't see more of our kids. I can't see any bloodstains. The city doesn't want people there. There is no air. What are we going to do with them? We can't just give them apartments and expect them to live in them. Where are the churches? Where are the churches? There are no churches here. We have the same ones. Do you know where the churches get grants from the city to run their programs? There are no churches here. No? Yeah.
 I got Terminal 1 and the smirking jerk that pulled the plug didn't like that the green was going to be running it. The idea of actually working the track is... They pulled the plug. They pulled the plug. It's my girl with such a stereotype. I'm going to count you again from the city. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero. Zero.
 I'm going to go ahead and get a little bit of a shower.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Where's Tony? I didn't appreciate my wife. So, I'm very curious. What is one answer you can do right now? You know? Yes. How can you not be a good answer? Answer one. Yes. Is that right? Answer one. My God. I can't remember. Go right now. All opposed? That's unanimous. Yes. Can you have a question? Yes. Can you have a question? Yes. Yes.
 I'm not sure. You? I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don
 sites, the most closed opportunity. These areas will be expanded. More people will be able to find it. We have a lot of people in our town. We have a lot of people in our town. I'm sure there won't be hard to find it. But not any people in any super-small area. We can be prepared for it. And all the neighborhood associations, all the folks can be in these emergency stations in their own neighborhood. We have to be concentrated in all these areas.
 use examples the best parts the best parts all the best all the things that we've learned we've learned a lot we can't stop doing it we can't stop learning but we have a vision I've got a vision for the earthquake and having places where we can go because we're not left hanging on the roots we're not
 I'm just remembering, so we're probably going to get out here pretty soon. I think we're going to get out. So, yeah. So, my number two answer, my answer is the mayor's report. The guy in front of me has been ordered to shut down. R2-D2 is being thrown out. The only one that we have left is a patient on the road. A patient on the road was on a city court. That's vulnerable.
 These guys, if they really want to do something, they have stock holes. But they don't. What they're going to do is say nice things and then screw you. We've got a gate now. That's right. That's part of it. All right. Am I dead? Hello. Yes. Would you like a front? Thank you, ma'am. So here's the deal. I'm going to be passing. I'm going to pass the money. I know the line is to interrupt your ability. Time for us to do it.
 I know some of you would like to have a picture. I know some of you haven't seen it before. I do a whole. I have mine in my staff. I have a whole. That's the public talking about this. We're here because I'm going to send you a picture for you. I know some of you are going to see it. I'm going to send you a picture for you. And more importantly, what's going on? You're going to make time for it.
 I'm going to be on the front row right now. I signed up a month ago, all right? In about five minutes. I don't know how many hours. I don't know. You will get your time after the meeting. I'm sure you have time. I'm all for that. We still work with you. I think you want to do that one. So I will speak after the meeting for those of you.
 I will tell you this, if you can. You fell on the right. You will be arrested. You will be arrested. And so if you want to meet me after the meeting, I will be there. The rest of you can't. The block is in the council.
 Thank you.
 so okay
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 We'll leave these flowers and maybe they'll, you know... Don't know who opened them. Yeah, thank you. If you don't mind. It changes the lighting for the cameras. Okay.
 All right, Carla. We are now back in session. Carla, could you please call the first communication item?
 Item 64, request of Craig Rogers to address counsel regarding transparent and accountable. He was here a moment ago. Yeah, and some people may still be filtering in, so we'll move him to the end of the list. I know Ms. Smith is here. Item 65, request of Catherine Smith to address counsel regarding police issues. Good morning. Good morning. Can we call my name? Okay.
 We'll take you next. It's okay. I'm sorry. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Good morning. I did time this, and it's going to go about 20 or 25 seconds over. Is that okay? Yeah, go for it. All right. Mayor Wheeler, you are the Portland Police Commissioner. Yes.
 I need to ask you to intervene and talk to Police Chief Mike Marshman. Several Portland police officers and police employees are taking illegally, that is stealing, most of the letters, reports of evidence, even certified letters I sent to PC Marshman, asking him to assign my case to another Portland cop. Mail theft is a felony.
 It's an attempted murder case to me and my son. The officer assigned to my case more than three years ago is being blackmailed by the perpetrators, some Tigard cops, to not investigate nor to prosecute them. He, other Portland cops, and Portland police employees also block most of my emails to the police chief, thereby doing obstruction of criminal investigations, suppression of evidence, facilitation of attempted murder, etc.,
 I testified to Mayor Hales and the commissioners at least four times, but Hales would never even talk to Portland police about this, giving no legal reason because he didn't have one. He did this due to some bad and negligent advice from his city attorneys, I heard.
 And it appears people who have no experience reporting such crimes and probably little or no knowledge of the technologies they shoot us with daily, to me, 24 hours a day. I know that the police are the right people to report these assaults to. I've been reporting this for several years. And they have to investigate, collect evidence, interview the cops who stalk and shoot us, et cetera. It is no legal protection to the mayor and the city that instead of using his own authority to make the police stop these assaults,
 that he and his employees suggested to me that I call Project Respond, IPR, 211, Portland Women's Crisis Line, the mayor of Tigard or Tigard Police. I told him and the commissioners and city attorneys why that won't work. I live in Portland, so does my son. It's Portland Police's job to stop these crimes here, even ones done to people remotely, as those at least eight to ten Tigard cops do.
 More than a year ago when I testified about this, I gave pages of websites for the mayor and commissioners to look at to know more about what these microwave weapons, ultrasound weapons, voice-to-skull weapons, that's mind-control weapons cops have had more than 20 years, and lead-in-machine sleep deprivation are. Even if they didn't bother to read those, they're responsible for that information I gave them. I have lots of permanent injuries on me.
 They say to me every day they shoot my son with these when he's sleeping to give him cancer, and they voice to school him all day long. Sergeant McCormick and Sarah Westbrook said about a year and four months ago, I must go outside a central precinct to look for another cop to investigate my case. Since then, I stand outside.
 Central Precinct with a big sign that says, will you please make some Tigard cops stop shooting me and my son with microwave weapons, ultrasound weapons, voice at school weapons, lead in machine sleep deprivation, etc. Most cops and detectives walk by and ignore me as if advised to. A few say hi or good morning. There are hundreds of us in Portland who are shot, injured, tortured, incriminated with these weapons by those Tigard cops. My ex-Tigard neighbor lady participates in this."
 Almost all the homeless and poor people are their targets, they say. They lure most of them to Portland, they say, and don't let most of them work, so they're forced to live in the shelters and low-income housing places that are loaded with these harassment technologies. They harass people of other categories more subtly usually.
 please email me to say what action you did to stop these crimes to us no response or an ineffective response is acquiescence and facilitation thank you for your testimony and carla if you could please read item 64 i think mr rogers is here request of craig rogers to address council regarding transparent and accountable morning council good morning um
 My intention of being here is lifting the bar up with regards to transparent and accountable. I'm a good example. I hope dies last because I've kind of been down here at least once a week, sometimes every day, ever since May of 2014. That's when the street fees started. So OPB's been doing an article on
 toxic, city council, you know. One thing that seemed to me to be left out of that is why. And I've been down here and accurately stated, in my opinion, at the bar so low, you need a shovel to find it. I'm watching the death of democracy at the level of Portland City Council, and I live in Portland where everything's okay and nobody's responsible. And, you know, coming events cast their shadows before them, so I had an intuition about where things were going.
 And then when this came out, you know, it just kind of substantiated to me that the trajectory of all of the questionnaires in the 2016 community survey are going down. So my intention is to see things via transparent accountability go up, the quality, the approval, ratings, and so forth.
 So at the beginning of the street fee, you know, it seemed like there was no vote, no oversight, no sunset, raise any time, anything, it'd go on forever. That didn't seem right to me. The vote's pretty important. You know, if you're a convicted felon in prison, you don't have a right to vote. Sometimes that's the way it is here in Portland. You don't have a right to vote. You're on par with a convicted felon in prison. I want more people to know about that because right to vote is a bedrock of democracy. So...
 I start getting into street feed, putting the numbers together on the computer, you know. All of a sudden, there's $60 million or whatever they were asking. No, we're talking more like a billion dollars, you know. And, hey, you know, I start communicating to my friends, my colleagues, you know. We're talking, it's not $60 million or whatever. No, a billion now is a billion and a half. I bet you it's up to $2 billion now. So...
 Let me follow my own handwriting here. Okay, Joe. I turn on Channel 6. Here's Joe on Channel 6 going after – they want to cut $35,000 for Gary Corbin, who used to be a city employee, for this survey thing. And it's like, I understand how the interstate bridge, $200 million just to study it. But Joe was getting out there saying something about it, and I'm glad he did.
 I went to the Elliott Center and I saw a past member of city council speaking and he said to these emerging local government leaders, you know how you deal with the public? You give them choices. And immediately what I thought was, Henry Ford, you can get a Model T in any color of choice as long as it was black. And you know what? I thought that's a two-way street because the citizens can give the politicians a choice too. There's a door there and a door there and there is a plan B. Okay.
 That's all I have to say. Thank you, sir. Carla, if you could read the next item, please. Item 66, request of Moses Rosen to address counsel regarding biblical teachings, reading the orphan, the destitute, the downtrodden, and the rich. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor. Well, interesting morning anyway. Adonai zephetaf tifta ufi yagid tilateha.
 Last month, I gave some very harsh testimony. That's not my intention today. I also handed out some nicknames, so I'll follow up with our newcomers. Chloe? You the lady! Wheel and Ted, I wish you the best. You're going to have to cut deals better than POTUS Chump if you're going to survive in that seat. First off, terminate Mike Marshman immediately, or you will drown in that swamp. The three-minute...
 Limit is a form of censorship. I'm here today to share Jewish teachings regarding the orphan, the destitute, the downtrodden, and the rich. I've culled a few of the many sections of text, and I have a handout that I gave to Carla. But first, I'll finish last month's expose of the smirking jerk. Mr. Saltzman, in 2009, during the height of the housing crash, you reported rental property income of over $2,000 a day.
 In 2014, your rental property income was over $4,000 a day. That's 365 days a year. How much did you make in 2016? And I mean that on top of the $300 a day you get to play commissioner. In 2008, Marjorie Saltzman of blessed memory gave half a million dollars to Planned Parenthood. But that failed to inform your idea of sadaqah.
 I say this because two years later in 2010, you lobbied for and voted to grant $600,000 of the city's money to a charity that your then-girlfriend worked for. That was the same year you were police commissioner, the same year Frash Hour murdered Aaron Campbell, the same year of the road raging Sergeant Kyle Not-So-Nice. Both officers are still on the force.
 In fact, in 2013, Frash Hour was the fourth highest paid Portland City employee in a paid vacation for murder scheme. 2013 was the same year that you became the housing commissioner. Since then, we fell headlong into an affordable housing state of emergency, and we watched the number of homeless people skyrocket.
 Last October, just as the rain and cold were moving in, you pulled the plug on a project that some wealthy Portland developers had created to shelter 1,000 people. Why? Because you have a beef with the operations director that they had hired. Then, four people froze to death, and a baby. On October 12th, the council passed a new police contract that gave the devilish institution more money and less accountability.
 Like you, I was hiding out in my synagogue on that day. Ironically, at the exact time that my rabbi was speaking about the importance of Black Lives Matter, your riot police were rioting and trampling and pepper spraying your citizens. Nick the Smelly Fish is on the record of accusing me as an anti-
 Mr. Rosen, I'm going to have to ask you please to end your testimony. Thank you. There's other people who've signed up too. Carla, could you please call the next item? Agenda item 67, request of Charles Bridge Kane Johnson to address council regarding hashtag Black Lives Matter, service to the poor, and ending oppression and privilege. Good morning.
 Good morning, commissioners. There's so much on our plates as a city. So far, we haven't even had chance to talk about the federal... Oh, I'm supposed to tell you that my name, for the record, is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. The bridge crane is a very important device related to community activists, especially Ms. Teresa Rayford, who's recently undergone surgery. And I'm
 A bridge crane is an incredibly versatile free speech tool. When people feel that the system is locking them out by channels and structures and procedures and decorums, it's sometimes necessary to deploy the people's bridge crane. We'll see if this is one of those days. It's interesting.
 I know, I hope, I pray that you've been listening to the testimony of the citizens before us. And when we had our previous interruption, there's a coffin, I think, still in this room. Because this city values clean restrooms over human beings. All over the city.
 our neighborhood community centers, that we do not let people into after closing hours because, oh my God, someone might leave a beer can or a needle on the floor. The bathroom two blocks away, which is a militarized, hard-tack prison bathroom room
 We lock people out so that they can do their whatever bad thing is going to happen, whether it's rape or death by overdose. We can make that happen outside the bathroom with somebody who's had to crap their pants or crap in the business of one of the precious business alliance doorsteps. So we're not as good as we think. There's a lot of demonizing of the lunatic president, and that's an important truth, but a more important truth for us to move forward together.
 is to look at our failures as a community and as individuals and find ways to empower one another and partner with one another. We have to find a way that with a city council that has a retired psychiatric nurse, we can have a city where there's no barefoot women carrying around frozen, stillborn babies.
 So just, you know, some things need to happen and some things should be stopped from happening. So I'm not going to say exactly what's going to happen during the course of this meeting, but the ordinary functioning of Portland City Council has not been enough to prevent these tragedies. Once again, we're in this odd situation where out of all the landlords and real estate professionals in Portland, so far...
 Only the business working with the Menashe family has stepped forward to make climate-controlled space with indoor hygiene facilities, only sinks and toilets, not showers, available. Where is the rest of the people who are living the type of real estate-influenced, high-income life like Mr. Saltzman's history has been talked about? We know there are good people in Portland. We can't put it all on the back of the Paul Allen Foundation. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Item 68, request of Lightning Watchdog PDX to address council regarding City Hall Mayor Talks. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog PDX. The people in the council chambers this morning have brought up some very good points that we need to have addressed. One of the issues pertaining to the homeless that I have is that
 We need to lower the flags to show respect to any of the homeless that have passed away. We need to have a moment of silence for any of the homeless that have passed away. The other mayor, Mayor Charlie Hales, refused to do that. Mayor Wheeler, you have the opportunity to do that and show the community that you have respect for the homeless. And when they do pass away, you show respect to the community members.
 the homeless again that have passed away now moving on to the next issue on the Superfund cleanup site again I've talked to Commissioner fish I'd like to have a director brought in to the BES Bureau and begin planning the dredging task in the maintenance of the river it's long overdue we're looking at a billion plus dollar bill that the EPA has done a record of decision on with a lot of data
 And we need to also do a comparison to the Hudson River in New York and understand that they had a similar project going on. They can clean the river up. They were able to clean the river up, yes, for over a billion dollars. And it will be a continuous maintenance project over time in the years.
 The main focus is we do not want to discharge any more contaminants into the river. We need to stop that. We need to stop the Oregon Marine Board from issuing any permits that allow you to take contaminated sediment from the Willamette River, transfer it by dredge, and dump it into the Columbia. Again, I will be focusing on the Oregon Marine Board, letting them know. I think that is a criminal act.
 They will stop immediately and understand nobody in this city has a right to discharge contaminants into this river, and they need to be prosecuted. I will be dealing also with the Multnomah County River Patrol on why they have not enforced people from dumping contaminants.
 into the river. I want to understand why they get grants from the Oregon Marine Board stating in the grant one of the conditions is keep the river clean. We have just been imposed a $1 billion bill on the river. The river is not being kept clean by the people that are supposed to be doing the enforcement. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it.
 Carla, I'd like to move to the consent agenda and then get to the time certain items. Has any item been pulled from the consent agenda? Yes. Joe Walsh has requested item 71 be pulled. Item 71 then will move to the end of the regular agenda. Could you please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda? Fritz?
 Aye. Fitch. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Excuse me. Time certain items. Can you read the first time certain item, please? Item 69, accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer. Good morning. And if you could do me a favor and introduce yourselves for the record. Please do. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Jen Clodius, a senior management analyst with the Office of Management Finance and staff for the Technology Oversight Committee. With me today are Dr. Wilfred Penfold, who is the former Mayor Hales representative on the TOC, and Jeff Baer, the director of Bureau of Technology Services.
 As you know, the TOC is made up of five members, each appointed by the council members. The other TOC members are Ken Neubauer for Commissioner Fish, Diana Garcia for Commissioner Fritz, Josh Mitchell for former Commissioner Novick, and Mike Lynch for Commissioner Saltzman. We are here to present information from the Technology Oversight Committee's quarterly report for October through December 2016. That quarter, TOC followed only one project, ITAP,
 Normally, we would project dashboards showing you the condition of the reports. However, because the ITAP contract ended last summer, the dashboard would be full of NAs. This will change, and Jeff will explain how that's going to change over the next quarter. Thank you.
 In December, TOC added two projects to their portfolio, the Data Center Move project and the SAP Enterprise Asset Management project. TOC is also tracking but not overseeing two other projects, the Invoice Cloud Electronic Bill Presentation payment system and the 5E telephone switch migration project.
 Wilf is going to explain where the projects were up through the December report, and then Jeff will bring you up to date on what's happened in the last month.
 Yes, hello. Good to meet the two new members of the Commission. I wanted to cover the three projects that Jen talked about, particularly the first project, which is the large project that we've had for a while. We'll talk a little bit about the other two projects, which are both new to the Technology Oversight Committee.
 The main project I wanted to spend a little bit of time on is the Information Technology Advancement Project, which, as you know, we've been working on for a while. I'll give a little bit of a description of it for those who are unfamiliar. This project develops a paperless permit and case management process and allows complete online access to permits and case review services. Project deliverables include digitization and online access to historical permits,
 and property information, implementation of an updated permit and case review information management system, online case and permit application and review services and mobile online access for field staff, and implementation of an automated queuing system. As you can see, it's a fairly complex project.
 Over the last year, I think those of you who have been on the commission and seen TOC reviews before know that this has been a tough year for the ITAP project. I think the right things have been done. I'm feeling that this is probably the first time the TOC has been able to come to this meeting optimistic about the ITAP program. Last year was difficult because management of the program had to –
 look for good ways to bring the work to a halt so as we can have a look at where we want to go from this point forward. I think we're at a key point in that project. I think that the outlook is very positive. We're seeing nicely structured, forward-looking planning coming in. And we're at a point which I think that the opportunity is there for us to take a different approach
 to this task that is more incremental and allows us to make some significant progress as we move forward. So I think the TOC would indicate that we are positive about where we're going in the future. Jeff, did you want to add to that? Thank you, Will. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. Jeff Behr with the Bureau of Technology Services.
 You may recall, as we reported last quarter, we did complete an external assessment, and we've been using those recommendations as we begin entry into what we're calling the Discovery Project. And Paul Scarlett and I, the Bureau of Development Services, and I are going to be doing that
 and I are co-sponsors on this project, and we actually launched the program, this new discovery program, on January 2nd. And as our rebranding effort, staff had the opportunity to submit and vote on a name for the new program. We have selected that. It's now going to be referred to as POPs, Portland Online Permitting System, so you will no longer hear about ITAP for our reports going forward.
 And that really represents how we want to deliver an online development process and tools, and it really has that foundational activities of the system, which includes development reviews, permits, applications, inspections, and so forth. And it really is an ability for us to create a more positive presence online for the permitting system. And so for the first half of 2017, so over the next five months,
 The team is really going to be focused on this discovery project. It will thoroughly vet the status of the work that's been done to date. We're going to establish very strong planning and governance structure and looking at options as we're moving forward.
 In addition to that, some of the other things we've changed, and we've hired a new program manager to oversee this process. It's Lori Levy, who actually is coming from our staff in the Bureau of Technology Services. She formerly ran our project management office, and so she has been assigned to oversee the program for this new effort that we're pursuing here.
 And in parallel with that, our efforts are pursuing an upgrade to the existing AmandaTrack system. One of the things we found is that the current version of that system is an outdated, unsupported version. We are in the process of getting that to a supported version by the vendor.
 So those are some big milestones that we're working forward on, and I'll pause there in case there are other questions. I do want to say to Commissioner Saltzman, with his effort in getting us to this point, I know with Commissionary Daily, that's now BDS is reporting to Commissionary Daily, and I appreciate the support we've had so far. Tell me again what the POP stands for. Portland Online Permitting System. Wow. Wow.
 any further board questions or comments at this particular juncture
 If you have nothing else, we'll get to any public testimony. You do have one. Before we move on to the next update, I do want to share, this is the first time. We just had our TOC meeting last night on Monday. I'm sorry, TOC. Technology Oversight Committee. Thank you. Which Wilf represents. The first time in probably two years we've actually got green status showing on our progress. So a huge change from where we started from.
 I would back that up by saying that we're very happy with where we've got to. It's been a tough year to get here. I think we're in a really good position, but I think there's still a lot of work to do. So we appreciate your attention to what we're trying to do here and your support as we go through what will be a new planning cycle on this program. So thank you.
 So these two projects are new to the TOC, so there's really not a lot of update, but it's worth sort of just outlining what they are. So the data center move project, which is this project is to move the city's primary data center from the Portland building to a competitively selected co-location facility.
 This project will also obtain a secondary out-of-region co-location data center for facilities that will be used for data center recovery in the future. BTS requires facilities that offer acceptable levels of physical security, power, cooling, redundancy, monitoring, and compliance.
 So, this project is just, as I say, coming to the TOC. We're expecting there to be quality assurance added in the next month. They have not been assigned yet. And we'll be reporting on this as we go forward. Jeff, did you want to? Yeah, I'll just do a quick update. So, we've been diligently working through the terms and conditions. We did select a vendor who is via West, who is out in Washington County in Hillsborough off Highway 26.
 And sometime in the next few weeks, we're going to be returning back to city council for approval to execute that agreement. So we're just at the final tail end of getting through the contract terms and conditions. And our schedule remains on track to have the data center vacated out of the Portland building by the end of the calendar year.
 And we're going to keep monitoring this one because it impacts many of the things that we care about in the Technology Oversight Committee. So that's an important project. One of those sort of final projects is the Enterprise Asset Management Project. This project will implement a solution for management of property and facilities by constructing a central repository for all city-owned land, and will build a facilities asset management system.
 It is an integrated and scalable solution that will improve tracking, cost management, and planning for preventive maintenance. Again, this is a new project, and we expect the quality assurance team to assign a new manager to that very shortly, and we'll give you updates as we progress on this program. Any questions?
 And one notable update I have on this, I've currently placed a hold on this project related to the data center until we have a migration plan fully baked out. So we actually know when we're going to be moving the data center out. What we don't want to do is have new applications put onto the data center so that we then have to undo and move it and then replace them back on. So it's currently on hold right now.
 That concludes the report. Any questions or comments, concerns? I had a question on the data center move. I guess is the intent to ultimately move the data center back to the Portland building or is it to keep it in another location? No, it's a one-way trip. Once it leaves the Portland building, it will not be coming back in and it will be housed permanently out at the co-location, which is via west. Okay. That sounds good.
 We will also have disaster recovery associated with that, and I think the plan right now, I believe, is it's out of the region, so it wouldn't be impacted by any sort of incident that might happen. Great. Thank you. Any further council questions at this particular juncture? Just thank you for the report, and we're going to do our best to keep it in the green. I like the green, too.
 Great. Thank you. Carla, how many people do we have signed up for public testimony on this item? We have five people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson, Jesse Sponberg, and Star Stauffer. The usual reminders, if you could just state your name again. Absolutely. I'm Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson, but I'll be disgustingly germane to the topic of
 TOC, Technology Oversight Committee. However, it is interesting to notice that one of their projects that's in this report is the removal of rack servers or old iron legacy servers. We didn't actually get the verbal specifics in the presentation of what kind of equipment is going to be vacated from the Portland building as that undergoes its 100-plus million dollar renovation. And when it's gone...
 How many homeless people will be able to sleep in the server room? Hopefully we'll have a better solution at the end of the year when those old iron pieces or server rack equipment is gone. We'll have someplace better to emergency shelter people than the plastic-covered second-floor meeting rooms of the Portland building. One thing that I think that has never been under the purview of the TOC and needs to be is...
 police accountability statistics and reporting. I think especially today, people would love if not just under the United States versus City of Portland for the DOJ settlement, but under the Technology Oversight Committee, we made it the incident reports were plain from the IPR so that people could go and look and see, oh,
 The armory of the Portland police is seven pepper balls and 13 rubber bullets less than it was two days ago. Folks, again, I've offered to meet with people on this subject.
 after the city council meeting across the street. No, actually, public testimony has to be on the item that's being discussed. This is not a discussion about police accountability. This is about a technology project. I'm still very happy to meet with people on this other issue after the meeting across the street in the park, but let's please keep our testimony germane to these issues because we do have people who are here to testify on these subjects and we're going to have to meet with them.
 and we're taking their time away. Thank you. And I am serious. And we're stepping on their voice, and that is not fair to them. I am serious that, in addition to that work from the city attorney's office and the teams you've got working on the DOJ settlement, that it's interesting that other projects have come under the purview of the TOC and are in the report, but improving government transparency on police activity has never been there. So it's something for you to think about. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Good morning, guys. My name's...
 My name is Jesse Sponberg. Forgive me. I'm really scared right now. I wanted to talk about the moving of the records from the Portland building and the seismic requirements that we'll have to make sure that we look. I'm so, I can't even think right now, knowing that last time I came here and tried to testify and he brought the police, they almost snapped my head off my neck.
 For no reason. So please forgive me if I'm shaking right now and if my voice wavers. Because it's taking a tremendous amount of courage for me to sit in front of you.
 knowing the kind of brutality that you authorize on people like me. So please, forgive me for speaking up here and forgive me for speaking in the streets, but I'm honestly scared. So don't let this brave face betray how much I'm sweating right now or how I can feel drops of sweat running down my arms, knowing that at any time one of these women could be thrown down the stairs or I could be thrown on top of Teresa Rayford, who asked me to tell you hi.
 She's in the hospital right now and she's getting better. So let me get through this. So the thing is, we're moving our records out of the Portland building to a safer location because the Portland building needs seismic upgrades. But the truth is, if the city of Portland was to experience an earthquake that was close enough to the Hanford Nuclear Reservation or to the Columbia Generating Station... Can you see me shaking, Ted? Is this how you fucking lead a city, man? Yeah.
 So if there's an earthquake in Portland, it's going to hit those 11 fault lines on which the Columbia Generating Station sits. It's the same model as they have in Fukushima. For us to spend all that money on the Portland building, for us to spend all that money on the Portland building, when people are dying in the streets, even though I can't even get my thoughts together. Why are those cops here, Ted?
 Why the fuck are those cops here, Ted? Mr. Spahn. Okay, okay, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If the Columbia Generating Station should fall victim to a seismic event, the entire city of Portland downwind from the place on the Columbia River, which is only 210 nautical miles upstream.
 will turn into a wasteland on the level of Chernobyl. I don't think it's a responsible use of city money right now to dump so much in a place when people are dying in the streets, including babies. And I just think it's unfortunate that you are so pressed to just handle the everyday city business when this city is still on fire, Ted. But now it's even worse. There's babies dying, people are being shot in the face, and you with that same stone face are just business as usual.
 And it really hurts my feelings. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Star Stauffer. This is the first time that you and I are face-to-face. It's not the first time that I have met these other folks, except Chloe. You're new as well. Well, I had a lot to say about technology oversight. But like Jesse, I'm having trouble finding my words. Okay.
 I'm not really, I'm curious why there are so many police here for what is seemingly a business as usual city hall meeting, but. How many police are there here? Twenty-two. There are twenty-two police. Standing right outside the door waiting to beat our asses. Well, I don't see any police in the chamber. They're upstairs. Okay. Anyway, keep going. Amanda, will you show them where they are, please? You wanted it, Amanda.
 Will you show them? You really don't know there's 22 cops here today? Excuse me, folks, listen. Just ask us. I'm getting back to continue your testimony. Please continue. Thank you. Let's try and keep this moving. I'm assuming that by technology oversight, that includes the uses of our available technology right now. Maybe not. But right now we have technological resources available
 Throughout this city, the police, in fact, who 22 of them are upstairs right now, could concur that they have resources available to lend aid to the community rather than just terrorize the community. And I'm just curious why that is not being talked about more. Why is that not more of a pressing issue for you?
 When I see... This testimony is not relevant to the issue at hand. Could you... Is that the end of the public testimony? We have two more people signed up. Okay. Unless you have testimony that's germane to the issue at hand, I'm going to have to ask you to move on. I have a whole minute and a half left. To talk about the item at hand. If you're not going to talk about the item at hand... Which is technology oversight, correct? That's correct. Okay.
 And so what I'm talking about is the use of the technology that we currently have available to us here in the city of Portland in regards to how it can benefit our community and not just this council and the police force that seem to have a controlling utilization of that technology.
 that the police themselves are a major piece of technology for this community that need to be deployed in servicing the community instead of terrorizing the community. So if we're talking about technology oversight, then I'd like to talk about that because they are a piece of technology in this city. That is relevant. It may not be the words that you would have chosen, but it is definitely relevant. And as a woman and a community member in this city,
 that goes out day after day after day and works with the community and builds a relationship with them, you don't get to tell me my voice isn't relevant. Right. I will come back every single Wednesday if that's what it takes until you acknowledge that my voice is relevant. Right up there. He has the technology available to him right now to utilize it for the benefit of this community, for the actual safety of this community.
 to lend aid to those who are dying of exposure, to lend aid to people who are just trying to utilize their rights to peacefully assemble. If we're talking about technology oversight, then I guess my question is, why are you using the technology available to terrorize instead of better your community? Thank you. The last two are Standard Schaefer and Robert West. Again, name for the record, please. Please stick to the item at hand. Good morning.
 My name is Standard Schaefer. I'm representing a group called Empower Portland, particularly their ad hoc committee around...
 seeming communication problems between emergency services and the PPD. And so I'm curious about how this technology is going to improve that. So far, investigations seem to show that there's an extreme communication problem that when police officers are tear gassing innocent civilians. I'm sorry, this is not germane to the issue. It's absolutely germane. I have talked to the fire department about this.
 And they don't know what kind of gas you guys are using. Again, people, if you want to speak on this subject, I have agreed to meet across the street after this meeting. And if you want, you can sign up like everybody else for communications like the other people behind you did. This is a technological issue. You can do that too.
 We're discovering breakdowns in the protocol by the fire department, the emergency services, and the PPP. No, what you're doing is you're coming up to meetings so that people who want to testify on other issues are going to get less time. Will you guys meet with us about this problem? Because people are being injured, and there's no communication between PPP and emergency services about how to properly triage these victims.
 Would you agree to meet with my group and discuss some of the breakdown? I have already said I will be available in the park after this meeting. This is – I'm not – I'm not – It depends on you how long you want to make this meeting. I'm representing another group. Because we have another meeting this afternoon, so it's really up to you guys. Could I ask you for the – to state your name for the record, please? He was not speaking to the subject, so I've moved on. This is outrageous. There's a communication problem. This – my name is Robert West. No, it's not a communication problem. It's a listening problem.
 Sir, go ahead. My name is Robert West. I'm from the Police 911. And there's a couple things I want to bring up. One is Keith Davis is banned from city council because one of the commissioner people's workers filed an anti-stalking order against him, which now prohibits Keith Davis from coming in to testify.
 I think that is absolutely 100% wrong. Keith Davis should be able to come to city council. Again, this has nothing to do with the issue at hand. So unless you're going to get to the issue at hand, I'm going to have to ask you to stop. I also wanted to bring up the fact that a little child was gassed. Portland Police fired children. You know, I hate to do this, folks. We're going to have to take another recess. I'm sorry for those of you who showed up today to testify on these items. We'll take a recess.
 Any more public testimony on this item or no? That was all on item 69, correct? That was it? Yes. Okay. I would move to adopt the report. Do I have a second? Second. Any further discussion? Clerk, could you call the item, the roll call, sorry? Great. We're doing the roll call on item 69. Yeah, sorry. I'm sorry. Yes. Yes.
 Thank you to the Technology Committee. Congratulations Commissioner Ewe Daly and Mayor Wheeler. The EWPOPs project, Portland Online Permitting System, is now reset, which we went a long time to see if we could make it work because of a previous vendor that just didn't perform as they had been contracted to do. Thank you, Director Paul Scarlett, for your work on that, and also Rebecca Sponsor who
 absolutely tried our absolute best and worked with the attorneys to get it done as best we could. So that's reset. Really appreciate the report, which is what we're actually voting on today is the report. And so I'm happy to accept it. Aye. Fish? Thank you for your excellent presentation. Aye. Saltzman?
 well i want to thank the technology oversight committee for their great work and also to thank paul scarlett and jeff bear for their co-sponsorship of the the new pops project i like that name i think that's portland online permitting system i think it's great so keep up the good work thank you hi you daily i don't want to repeat what everyone else has just said so i'll just say what they said and um i'm also a fan of of pops so let's please stick with that yes
 Wheeler. Pops, it is. I'd also like to thank Tom Reinhart and his team for their good hard work on this. I, the report, is accepted. Carla, can you please read the next time certain item, item 70? Declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street improvements from Northwest 9th Avenue to Northwest...
 19th Avenue in the Northwest Front Avenue, Nato Parkway Local Improvement District. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This is an exciting local improvement district project that has lots of support, and we are leveraging our existing pavement preservation funding so that $1 of pavement funding becomes $1.74. The additional $1.1 million in LID funds provide greater assurance that we can address the pavement rehabilitation needs.
 while also adding three partial traffic signal rebuilds and ensuring that curb ramps are ada compliant for persons with physical disabilities with that i'll turn it over to andrew abby our lid administrator thank you very much commissioner salzman good morning mayor wheeler and council members joining me today is julia coon from kittleson and associates just wanted to run through our presentation here
 So there is a new development underway called the Field Office on Northwest Front Avenue, and this is an aerial photo. You can see it's a little bit to the north of the Fremont Bridge. This is a map of the area proposed for improvement from Northwest Ninth Avenue to northwest 19th Avenue. Those numbers that you see along all those different pavement segments are what we call the PCI scores, or the Pavement Condition Index scores.
 I want to emphasize that we're not using any of our Fix Our Streets funding that came from the voters with the gas tax for this project. But this project, nonetheless, will make a big dent in our backlog of arterial pavement in poor condition. So you can see that the pavement scores there, we rank everything in the city on a 0 to 100 scale, a 0 being an unpaved street and a 100 being a street that was paved yesterday.
 We have pavement scores along this important arterial as low as 21, and the goal of this project is to bring those pavement scores up to 100 when the project is complete.
 There also is a certain amount of risk financially and when you open up the road in terms of what you find. And so the contingency that we've built in here is that we have budgeted for a contingency in this project, but we also are providing the city engineer with the option of dropping the very north end of the project 760 feet out of the
 the total length of the project, which is 3,702 feet. We fully expect to be able to build the entire length of the project, but I just wanted to be transparent with Council that when you are working with these roads that are very old, you sometimes find things in the field that you didn't anticipate. Thank you.
 And this is an example of what we're looking at. This is a manhole that kind of sticks up out of the pavement on Front Avenue. So if you run marathons when you come down here in the summer or the fall, you'd want to make sure not to trip on that manhole. So that manhole, when this project is complete, will be at flush grade with the pavement.
 Here is an example of bus service line number 16 operates on this street. You can see a pretty poor trench patch in that pavement, and we have new pavement restoration standards with development, so we fully expect that once this road is reconstructed,
 that we won't see recurrences like that in the future. This is an example of depressions in the pavement on Front Avenue. You can see the standing water there on the street. So when we rebuild the street, the street will drain properly to the curbs on either side of the street.
 And then here is a bicyclist whom I took a picture of about two weeks ago. You can see there's a lot of cracks in the pavement, potholes, et cetera. So we want this to be an attractive environment for cyclists. This is the new development that's planned along Northwest Front Avenue.
 Here's another picture of it. You can see that that new development wraps around the infamous Dockside Restaurant, which has quite a place in Portland's history. And we expect there to be a very attractive streetscape when it's all done. You're going to hear from the developer here in a moment, but we are looking to add another bike town location here.
 fundamentally the problem that we have here is that we have a missing gap in bike lane between Northwest Ninth Avenue and this development so the developer was willing to come to the table with 1.1 million in LID funds which will be eligible for FTC credits as a way to fill that gap so the development will be very bike friendly but the goal here was to fill that gap in the bike lane so people could actually ride all the way to the development
 So here's a recap of the financials on it. I should also add, just to wrap up, that in addition to the $1.1 million for the LID, field office is also providing us $700,000 in additional resources for sidewalk infill on the west side of Front Avenue. So the total contribution by the developer is almost $2 million, and we're very pleased to be able to do this partnership.
 And I guess in conclusion, I just wanted to say that we thought it made a lot of sense to partner with the developer because we thought it wouldn't make sense to put a striping job down on the bad pavement that you just saw.
 You don't want to do striping on top of bad pavement. And then conversely, we didn't want to be in a position of using our pavement preservation fund to redo the pavement, but not also take care of the curb ramps and the striping and the traffic signals and some of the other things that we need to do. So we just thought it made sense to leverage the funds and have a more comprehensive project.
 And Julie and I are here to answer any questions you might have. Julie, anything you want to add? Yeah, just Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, thank you for your time this morning. So I'm the traffic engineer for the field office, and when we started talking about this project initially, recognizing the importance of people being able to get to not only the field office, but also the residential areas that are around here safely,
 on their bikes, on foot, in transit. And we noticed right away a missing link between 9th, where the bike lanes end now, and the property itself. And so we want to thank...
 number one, the city staff, PBOT staff, were working with us, but we were able to really take advantage of a nice private partnership opportunity to extend those bike lanes to the north. And as Andrew highlighted, the pavement condition, I know...
 Mayor Wheeler, you're a runner and probably have run along here. It's pretty abysmal for folks along here for trying to cycle safely and really improve the comfort and convenience. So I think this represents a really exciting opportunity for us to leverage everyone's dollars to really improve the safety and help work towards Vision Zero goals of the city.
 So Andrew and I are happy to answer any questions you might have, but we're really looking forward to watching this project come to fruition. Council questions, comments? And we have a few folks signed up to testify. Yes. Yeah, he's going to come up. Jonathan Ledesma, and he's signed up to testify. Do you want to come on up? If you could just state your name again for the record, we'd appreciate it. Jonathan Ledesma. So good morning, commissioners. Good morning. Does that have a testimony you want to read? No.
 So I'm Jonathan Ledesma with Project, a real estate developer of Field Office, which consists of two mixed-use office buildings totaling 300,000 square feet within a campus-like setting at Northwest 17th and Front Avenue in our city's growing frontside district. So in our developments, we strive to develop creative solutions in response to market demand, including a temporary homeless shelter in one of our downtown buildings.
 At Field Office, we are bringing together landscape and workspace to create a different type of workplace, one that does not hermetically seal us from the outdoors. So to this end, Field Office dissolves the architectural boundaries that traditionally exist between the inside and outside and celebrates the natural environment, which is one of the main reasons many of us choose to live in Oregon. We believe that Field Office will become an anchor in the district as the neighborhood develops and grows, much in the same way the brewery blocks have become a strong center in the Pearl District.
 So with this in mind, Field Office will cater to the city's bike commuter, a commuter lounge featuring bike storage for over 200 bikes, a bike repair bar, locker rooms, showers, and even a traffic monitor apparatus.
 transit tracker, thanks, will be the first stop for cyclists arriving at Field Office with a roll-in, roll-out entry into the building. We'll also be installing a bike town station, as Andrew had mentioned, along Front Avenue that will be used by not only the tenants of Field Office, but the many residents across the street, in addition to the other offices and restaurants and all kinds of things going on in the neighborhood as
 So approval of the LID, which I strongly support, and the subsequent construction of the road guide will amplify our bike-centric efforts at field office and will create a safe thoroughfare for cyclists along the NATO Parkway Front Avenue corridor, thereby continuing the city's efforts to facilitate safe bike traffic throughout the city.
 and also supporting PBOT's Vision Zero campaign. Thank you. Thank you. I have a couple questions. Yes, please. The dockside is one of my favorite restaurants. Are you preserving it because you did not acquire the site, and therefore they're just remaining, or did you build it into your developments?
 So two things. When we acquired the site, it was made known to us that the former owners had tried to acquire the dockside. And quite honestly, we didn't bother wanting to acquire it. We think that elements of the past that are institutions are important in our developments. And we reached out to them, and we have a great relationship with them. And in doing so, incorporated...
 our design around them. And so it may look like they don't have much space behind them, but they actually have quite a bit of buffer around the development in order to accommodate, you know, just access and flow. So on the weekends, like for brunch, there's a lot of motorcycles, sports cars, and other vehicles there. Where will customers be parking if they drive a long distance to get there?
 So if they do drive there, they can park on the on-street parking that we're providing along our frontage. We've currently been in talks. We haven't come to a resolution on it for the employees to potentially park in our below-grade parking lot. You said mixed use. So does that mean it will be both office and residential? No, office and retail. And retail, so no residential. No residential. And in the office space, does any of this sort of qualify as creative space, and will any of it be affordable creative space?
 much of the spaces can be classified as creative space. As far as affordable creative space, I mean, that's a term that I don't use. It's a market rate. It's a market rate, but at the same time, we make concessions or potentially make concessions to tenants or businesses that would like to locate there, depending on what they do and if they're local, not local. It all depends on who they are.
 further questions carl is there anybody signed up for public testimony yes we have eight people signed up okay so we're we are now way behind schedule and i have made a commitment that i intend to keep across the way so i'm going to limit public testimony to one minute the first three the first three please come on up for fj maloney j dubai and jesse spawnberg strikes man morning good morning
 If you could state your name for the record, please. Sure. F.J. Maloney. Thank you, sir. That's J. Duby, as in the joint. You can say it right before your testimony. Sorry. Go ahead. I'm sorry. I apologize. My name is F.J. Maloney. I live up in off of Skyland Boulevard, and I work over on close in east side over on the Burnside Rocket on Westside.
 cross-wimple hardware there. And so I commute every day along Northeast 30th and down along Front Avenue through the industrial area and in on this road. I often try and do it by bicycle. And if anyone's ever tried to bicycle that area, it's one of the most miserable stretches of pavement and road
 in the inner Portland area. And I think this LID, I'm familiar with the LID process and how that works, and I think this would be a fantastic way of improving this area. If you've biked along there, there's no room for bicyclists. There's a curb there, so you're hugged up against the curb. There's abandoned railroad tracks that...
 at a strange angle that'll catch your tire if you're not careful. There's many potholes, widened cracks. So to improve this area would also provide a great link between the recently improved area between Linton. They've improved that stretch of Highway 30, and what's been done in that downtown corridor area. To continue to bring that together would just be a fantastic way. I highly support this. Thank you, sir. Thank you. All right. I think it's just too much money. Yeah.
 Looking at the number crunches, it just doesn't make sense. And, again, it just seems to be going toward the one demographic of people, i.e. the richer people, and helping spread out kind of the pearl area. And though I like the people that have the money that are trying to be all green and stuff, I really don't think it's – there's so many better things we could be doing with money, guys. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir.
 Hey, guys, Jesse Spomberg. I think it's really telling that the protesters' voices are being silenced, but the big money interests are going to get all the time that they want to talk. This is also really telling of the way that...
 your four years are going to turn out with suppression from the real people and the moneyed interest will once again take a seat. It's nothing new. We thought that you were going to bring something different, Ted, but business as usual at City Hall is really sad. So I want to tell you how many people die on Division Street where I live. I want to tell you about Vision Zero where we're supposed to have no deaths. There are people literally dying on Division Street on almost a weekly basis. But
 Let's dump that money to make this monstrosity happen in Portland so that this guy who lives on Skyline can ride his bicycle easier. Meanwhile, people will be getting swept to make room for this. People will be getting their stuff stolen and displaced again to make room for this. There's no housing being built here. So you're going to take that money that should be spent on the east side and just continue reinforcing the status quo as usual. Thanks a lot, Ted. Thank you.
 The next three are Star Stauffer, Laurie Grasso, and Mimi German. We'll go with Willie Myers. I'd like to ask a question of Commissioner Saltzman. It might be helpful to the people who are here today to understand where these funds are coming from, what kinds of projects the funds could be spent on, and how we prioritize funding.
 the projects we move forward with. Do you want to do that after this testimony? Up to you. I bring Andrew Abbey up. Why don't we finish the public testimony? I just thought it would be helpful because I think there's a lot of confusion. Good. Thank you. This is the time for the people at the microphone to have their minute. Go ahead. Thank you.
 I'm concerned personally about this project. I can tell you probably 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, I don't know how many hundreds of people are out on the streets of Portland right now, houseless, all better things to spend money on than fixing cracks in sidewalks or making more room for more bike lanes for people to ride their bikes when there's people who don't even have a blanket around.
 It just seems very, it's callous. And I'm ashamed right now that this is the representatives of my city, that that is a more pressing issue and how to spend that money on those projects and have another gentrifying developer come in into my community that my father and grandfather built with their hands and callously talk about bike lanes and street cracks when there's a baby dead. So shame on you. Thank you.
 You can state your name for the record, please. My name is Willie Myers. I'm the Executive Secretary-Treasurer of the Columbia Pacific Building and Construction Trades. I'd like to start off by saying that the field office is actually a pension-funded project by the NEBF, which is the National Electrical Workers Benefit Fund.
 To allow and create accessibility to projects like this, it will help develop more and create more projects to create family wage jobs. This project alone will support 600 to 1,000 construction union construction jobs. So I've made a 35-year career out of temporary jobs. Thank you, sir. You're welcome.
 So the largest folks let's let's let him have his moment at the microphone This will also help us with thank you workforce diversity The largest number largest percentage of apprentices trained in the state or trained through union programs and the largest number and percent of diverse Apprentices in our in union programs by supporting the accessibility to this project We are supporting a project that promotes diversity and workforce and we urge you to support it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I
 My name is Mimi German, and I urge you not to support this. My concern about the development and LID, L-I-D, is that this money is used for gentrification, and with gentrification, we get a bike-friendly project, but it's homeless unfriendly. It's so nice that the developer gives money for upgrades, but we need to understand that this project
 This is a danger to people who are currently living on the street. Where are they supposed to go? Until you have houses for the houseless, I object to the sprucing up of the street for bikers and for others. What exactly is the homeless shelter the developer was referring to? Can addicts come in? Can the mentally ill live there? Can animals be with them? Can they bring all their belongings? Can they do as they please, as the rest of us can in the city?
 Or so we thought. Will we stand by and allow gentrification, which displaces and encourages sweeps? This is the next issue I have with this project. Sorry I'm going so fast, but I have like a portion of a minute. I imagine that the police presence will be more prevalent if the people currently living on the streets and sidewalks remain.
 So what's going to happen with that? We're going to see more attacks by the police against these people. This is untenable. We object to this upgrade until these questions are answered. One way to solve this is to have the developer give a million dollars. Thank you. You cut the mic. Ten houses for the people that they are getting rid of. Could you call the next name, please? The next two are Ryan Wood and Joe Walsh. Are there two more or three? Just the two. Those are the last two. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. That's Ryan Wood and Joe Walsh.
 good morning commissioners thanks for giving me some time here my name is ryan wood i represent lease crusher lewis the general contractor that's working with the developer in this new construction project i'll be extremely brief i just want to say that this job is a flagship project for us and is supporting up
 Upwards of 50 Elise Kirchner Lewis employees over the course of three years, so it's really important to our business. The LID is important to our business, and just like Willie touched on earlier, 600 to 1,000 union employees are going to stay employed because of this project. Union labor is vital to not only our workforce, but it's vital to business growth and construction growth within the community of Portland.
 So this project is going to house 200-plus new parking stalls, and it's not just going to be a benefit to field office, but it will be a benefit to all new projects being developed in the area, like the new waterline apartments across the street. So it's not just a benefit to Jonathan and his group, but it's a benefit to everybody in the area. That's all I had. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. Good morning. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 One of the things you better consider, Mayor, is the people that you're looking at and having trouble with today think that there's a little bit of light left. That's why we're here. That's why we take our time. That's why we're interested in this stuff, because there's a little bit of light in each one of you. What comes after us is worse, because those people will see nothing.
 You screw up in one minute, we will close you down every week. That's what we do. Threats aren't great. We will fight you. Fair enough. You want to fight us. And we won't forgive you in six months. Fine. We want it to end. Listen, can you cut off the mic, please? Cut off the mic? You can go to hell. Hell's not fair. So at this point, if there's any further conversation, You can go to hell.
 Excuse me. Commissioner Udailey had a question. Joe, Joe, I heard you the first time. Commissioner Udailey, you had a question. I don't appreciate people interrupting the public process. I don't appreciate anything. Thank you. Commissioner Udailey, you had a question that was posed earlier to Commissioner Saltzman. Did we want to hear some testimony on that question? So, yeah, Andrew, Andrew Abbey, there you are.
 so i'll take a stab at it and andrew can correct me if i'm wrong but i don't understand anything it's about a 2.6 million dollar project and about 1.1 million comes from our paving preservation fund and the other 1.5 million is coming in this case to the improvement district or the the property owners along the route
 I think that's right, Andrew? Yes. And I think one thing that's really important to note – And a paving preservation fund is, I assume, gas tax money or –
 I don't have the exact details of where that came from. But it's not general fund money. It's not coming from the general fund that could otherwise be spent on other services. It's housed in the Portland Bureau of Transportation, so it is not a discretionary funding item. If we did not spend that money on Nero Parkway, we would spend it on a street improvement in another area of the city. I guess the one thing that I would note is last year –
 Systems all the time. Yes, okay last year City Council approved the Northeast 47th Avenue LID just really quickly If we were to have to build budget for a total reconstruct of that Street like we did on Northeast 47th Avenue Instead of looking at about a 2.6 million dollar project. We'd be looking at 10 to 11 million dollars so fundamentally the reason that we felt that the timing of this project was critical is to make sure that we can make
 rescue the pavement before it further rehabilitates. And then we're back here in council talking about a $10 or $11 million project instead of a $2.6 million project. So we're just trying to save resources down the line so that more of our paving funds can go to other areas of the city. Again, I'm going to ask people please not to interrupt. Thank you. Thank you. Any further questions? Is there any further board discussion? Excuse me.
 Excuse me. You're out of order, and you're slowing everything down. And I think you said you want me to meet with you across the street. I committed to that, but if you run out the clock, it ain't going to happen, right? So let's try and get the meeting going. Let's try and get the meeting done. Commissioner Udaly, did you have a further question? No.
 This may be an exercise in futility if people won't actually allow us to conduct the business of the people and have this conversation, but I share some of the concerns with how we set our priorities. I wanted to hopefully clarify for the people who are here today that we don't have the choice of taking money out of PBOT and putting it into housing services or home for everyone. This is
 money that will remain in PBOT and we need to spend it wisely. The other concern I have is how we choose the areas that we're improving and what kind of equity we're seeing across the whole city. I'm not...
 necessarily saying I oppose this particular project. I think it's valid for community members to ask, you know, where are the other, what was that, your kind of degree of
 Yes, the poor condition areas. I understand choosing this area because we are able to leverage the developer money and therefore save 75 cents on a dollar. That's a smart decision. Is it the absolute priority in the city? I don't know.
 So if you can speak to those issues, I think it would be helpful. Thank you, Commissioner. I think you recapped it very well in terms of this not being discretionary across all the bureaus in the city as a whole.
 When this money was budgeted, Nato Parkway was among the streets that we were looking at. I can't tell you what the other ones were, but there was a short list of two or three major rehabilitation streets, and this was one of those that was identified as part of our budgeting process.
 and we specifically pardon what were the other two i don't know what the other two were i'm sorry and then i should also mention we have fix our streets funding which has been heavily targeted for example the east portland so this is complementary in the sense that we'll use it for nato parkway but we're trying to free up the fix our streets funding for underserved areas east portland other areas of the city so we'll get you we'll get you the names all of us the names of the other two streets that are
 subject to this pavement preservation fund. Yes. Further questions? I just want to make a comment, and I hope you take it in the spirit that it's intended. I'm not meaning to call you out, but I do think when we're in the midst of a housing emergency and we have thousands of people on the street, talking about making the street safer for people running marathons is going to incite the kind of response we saw here today. Absolutely.
 I thank you for including accessibility improvements in that area. That is an issue near and dear to my heart. And, well, don't get me started. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, Commissioner. Thank you. Are there any further Board comments or questions? Carla, could you call the roll, please? Well, thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for your clarifying questions. And we will continue to work on equity across the city. This is an opportunity to leverage a large amount of money from the developments happening right now. And as Andrew Abbey said, there's other funding that is being allocated preferentially and on lists. So the city doesn't just...
 decide first thing in the morning that Commissioner Saltzman doesn't just say, I think I'll do NATO this week. There's a list of priorities, and they're weighed on. They have to be weighed since they're system development charges. They are required to have those decisions made in an objective manner. So I very much appreciate this partnership, and I vote aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Thank you, Andrew. Aye. Udeli? Oh, it was an aye. Okay, sorry. Thanks for the presentation. Thank you.
 And I feel relatively satisfied knowing this was one of the top three areas and the fact that we're leveraging almost half of the, well, 75% of the money, I guess, through private investors. But I am going to continue to raise these issues and push for equity across the city. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 I think Commissioner Udaly has made a great point, and I agree. And these should be done through a lens where we can see a clearer prioritization. What gets to the top of the list? What doesn't get to the top of the list, and why? And I think it would be helpful for me to have that clarity, and I think it would be helpful for the public as well to have some sense of what's the decision, how are decisions made? So I would appreciate clarity on that as well. All right.
 Carla, could you please read the next item? Item 77, accept bid of Brown Contracting, Inc. for the Washington Park Rose Garden Accessibility Improvement for $954,927. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Brown Contracting.
 The engineer's estimate on this project was $960,000. On December 6, 2016, three bids were received, and Brown Contracting is the low bidder at $954,927. The Portland Parks Bureau has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing as good. The city put forward an aspirational goal for...
 DMW ESB subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction costs. Brown Contracting identified three divisions of work for DMW ESB opportunities with participation at 14.53%, or $138,750,000, with work being performed in masonry, survey, and landscaping. I will turn this back over to the City Council if there are any questions regarding the bidding process.
 Robin Laughlin is here from Portland Parks to answer any technical questions about the project you might have, and Sean Emrick from Brown Contracting is in the audience as well. Board of questions? I know that you often try to get the percentage of disadvantaged women and minority-owned businesses up. Is this, in your opinion, the best we can do, and is it the best out of the three bids that were received? Yes.
 So the second low bidder didn't have, had the same type of participation on this. So the other work is being self-performed by Brown. So these are the only subcontracting opportunities that they had identified. So every subcontracting is being done with a DBE or MBE. And could I actually talk to the developer, the construction company? Thank you.
 Thank you for being here. If you could just state your name for the record and what your job is. Hi, I'm Sean Emmerich. I'm with Brown Contact.
 So can you tell me about the diversity within Brown Contracting? Do you have processes to try to encourage women and minorities to work in your company? Absolutely, yeah. I mean, it's a goal of ours. Obviously, working with the city and knowing what your priorities are, it's a goal of ours to have a diverse workforce of our own. And how are you doing on that goal? I couldn't give you exact percentages off the top of my head, but we employ –
 Of a company of 60 people, we probably have four women on staff. We have eight Hispanics, two African Americans, a great old Filipino man working in our year. Yes? Thank you. So I know that your company does do contract with Inciti on and off periodically, which I believe we've been very happy with your work. Next time we have the next one, I'd like to have that update on how are you doing with employment within your company. I'll prepare that. Thank you.
 I have a question of first the Commissioner. Commissioner Fritz, is the money for this project, did it come from the Parks Bond or from another source? It's coming from Fix Our Parks Bond. It's one of the first projects that we're getting done in the first phase. Oh, congratulations. And this was one of the projects and one of the themes that you placed into the bond, and this is what the public wanted, is to make our system more accessible. Yes, this is a lot of...
 transportation improvements as part of this so that people using mobility devices can get from the parking lot to the lovely walk there. Yeah. And I spend a lot of time in that area with my daughter now, and it is relatively inaccessible to people that would have any kind of mobility issues. So I will be pleased to support this. Good. Is there any public testimony on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet for this item. Is there anybody who wanted to testify on this item?
 uh why don't you go ahead and and leave the dice and if we need you for further questions you guys for what you guys yeah thank you we appreciate it i've been sitting here for an hour and appreciate what you guys sorry about the delay i apologize yes sir one minute please so 850 000 for improvements at washington park are you paying for that who's paying for that
 We all are. It's the parks bond measure. It was voted on. We voted on it. It was specifically highlighted in the bond measure, and we campaigned on it. The reason I asked is because as soon as you guys asked about the contractors and the number of bids they got, everything got really muffled. And that smells of Water Bureau stuff, but I guess it actually just smells of all City Hall business. I didn't get a satisfactory answer to why there wasn't three bids and why they're just doing business with the same old people that they do business with.
 And it seems like just more of the same business at City Hall. While a baby dies in the streets and people are shot in the face, we just continue with these pedestrian things as if these other things aren't happening outside of the chambers.
 And so I would encourage you guys to hit a little harder and find out who those three bids are, because I couldn't hear them. And up there it said inaudible. So if you guys could bring those people back up and ask them to clarify why they don't have three bids. And sorry that you had to wait an hour while you're making salary, because I had to take the whole day off to be here. Thank you. Mayor, I move the report. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any further discussion? Clerk, can you call the roll? Okay.
 I just got a full briefing yesterday from the Portland Parks and Recreation team that's been working on the Fix Our Parks bond measure expenditures. They're really coming along very, very well. We will have about $20 million left after this first phase. And we're going to be announcing very shortly a public process in February, March and April, coming back to council probably in May to approve the process.
 project list for the last money in the bond measure. So I hope that everybody will participate in that because we have about at least 200 million worth of repairs that need to be made and only 20 million to make them. So we certainly want everybody's voice to be heard in that process and I'm really glad about this Rose Garden project because it's going to be done and completed in time for the centennial this year.
 I know it's going to get there in time for the centennial. I just am liking it. It's been such a disrupted morning. Hi. Fish. First, Commissioner Fritz, thank you for the leadership that you brought to passing the parks bond measure and for prioritizing projects that make our system more accessible to all the people we serve.
 and i also want to thank you for the leadership role you played with me and others in converting all the single stall restrooms in our park system to all user so they are available and accessible to everyone in our community this is an important uh next step in washington park making sure that people regardless of their abilities are able to enjoy access to nature and to our park and pleased to vote aye saltzman aye
 I want to congratulate Commissioner Fritz. I think this is outstanding work, and it does perfectly fulfill one of the objectives of the bond over which the Parks Bureau and Commissioner Fritz had a leadership role, important leadership role, and I'm very pleased that mobility for all of our citizens is being taken into account. So I'm very happy to vote aye. Thank you.
 Could you please read the next item? Item 78, Authorize Amendments to the Voluntary Retirement Incentive Program for 2017 Health Reimbursement Account Plan Document and Summary Plan Description, administered by the Bureau of Human Resources Health and Financial Benefits Office through June 30, 2022. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners, Anna Kenwitt, Director of the Bureau of Human Resources. I think the title of this ordinance probably takes as long as part of my presentation and Kathy's will be. So Kathy Bless, who's our Benefits Manager, is here to also provide additional information on this ordinance. But this, if adopted, creates, again, our Voluntary Retirement Incentive Program. This would be the third year that we're going to be doing this.
 that we have done this in prior years. The participation has been approximately 73 employees each time. Our bureau directors are very interested in this program and having the tool available because it can mitigate impacts
 of budget reductions and loss of filled positions. It encourages people who are retirement eligible to leave the city voluntarily, thereby reducing, again, potential layoffs and also bumping as employees move throughout the city under lockdowns.
 obligations we have on our collective bargaining agreement. So again, this program can save a filled position. Also can – I'm sorry. One of the reasons that we like this particular program, which puts $15,000 into a health reimbursement account for the employees is –
 someone is Medicare eligible, a concern about retirement can be, you know, the expense of health insurance. So, again, this provides that incentive. We believe it's a fiscally responsible program. Again, saving positions. The person who retires agrees not to come back to the city, with some exceptions being allowed, and can reduce unemployment costs as well because a person is retiring rather than being laid off.
 so overall we think it's a very good program Kathy Bless will cover more of the specifics and then if you have any questions we're here to answer those as well Thank you
 Good morning, Commissioners, Mayor Wheeler. Just to add a little bit to Anna's comments, we have about a quarter of city employees that are eligible to retire. And those same individuals often make their retirement decisions based upon the cost of purchasing health care prior to Medicare. So this tool really does help.
 bridge a portion of those costs between when a normal retirement age of 58 for PERS 1 employees through Medicare eligibility at 65.
 The program itself really does provide flexibility for bureaus. It allows for that knowledge transfer and institutional knowledge. It gives some time for folks to think about leaving and have the opportunity to be able to hire new employees coming into the system, which I also think is a benefit overall.
 We do require that employees are employed for at least five years, invested within the pension system. There is requirements that, you know, they're retiring for the first time. So definitely that these are not people that have come back and have other retirement benefits available to them.
 Also, it allows the bureaus that kind of flexibility once an employee leaves.
 does the application that process really is completed and it's just a matter of the retirement dates that and then the program fees for the 15,000 deposit directly so with with that I'm happy to answer any questions but I certainly hope that you authorize the program any board questions any further testimony clerk could you please call the roll
 This is a helpful way to make sure that we can save some of the taxpayer's money while being very fair to our employees. So thank you for that. Aye. Oh, I'm sorry. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Could you please call the next item, Carla? Item 79, extend term of a franchise granted to Olympic Pipeline Company to transport petroleum products by pipeline. Any board discussion on this issue? Carla, could you please call the roll? Aye.
 Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. And if you could please call the next item. Item 80, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Southeast Interceptor Rehabilitation Project number E10030 for $4,347,967. Commissioner Fish?
 oh sorry is there uh anybody here i think we can take it from here thank you that's great if you would please introduce yourself for the record i appreciate it good morning mr mayor city commissioners my name is scott gibson i'm a principal engineer at the bureau of environmental services my team provides project management and engineering in support of the bureau's capital improvement project with me here today is david hammond who's our project manager
 We're requesting approval of an ordinance authorizing award of a contract for construction of the southeast interceptor sewer rehabilitation Project to the lowest responsible bidder the estimated cost of the sewer rehabilitation Contract is four point three four point three five million dollars the project is within Bes is current approved capital improvement program budget the total project costs listed in the approved budget is fourteen point two million dollars but the team at bes
 is pursuing a smaller scope of work than originally anticipated. Our current estimate for the total project, including costs outside of the contract before you today, is $6.8 million. The main reason for this change is that the sewer condition is better than we had anticipated. Thank you.
 This opened the door to less intensive rehabilitation techniques, and David is here with a short presentation. Before David presents, and I'm sorry. Okay, very good. Go ahead, Dave, and then I'll let Commissioner Fish present. I'm sorry, Commissioner, I didn't see you were out of the room. I would have skipped this item. Good morning. My name is David Hammond. I'll give you a brief rundown of the project. The project location, as shown, the Southeast Interceptor Sewer, I'll sometimes refer to it as SEI for short,
 It's located in inner southeast Portland. This pipeline was built in the early 1950s and since then has begun to deteriorate and now needs restoration and rehabilitation. SEI is a cast-in-place concrete horseshoe-shaped sewer pipeline that varies in width from 66 to 72 inches, and the height varies from 68 to 72 inches in height.
 The depth in the sewer line is between 24 to 54 feet as you go along the alignment of the project work scope. The pipeline lies underneath existing railroads and arterial roadways, and therefore with that and the depth, open-cut repairs will be very expensive. So we will be doing the repairs from inside the existing pipeline.
 We've divided it into two sections that you can see on the map. The upper portion, we'll call Section 1, is approximately 2,300 feet long. It's located in the Kearns neighborhood along Southeast Grand Avenue from Stark to Davis, and then west along Davis Street to Northeast 3rd. Section 2 is 3,700 feet long. It's the dark one to the south.
 and it's located in the Buckman and Hossford-Abernathy neighborhoods along southeast 16th from Pershing to Powell and along the Union Pacific Railway as well as the Portland-Milwaukee Light Rail, then along Division Street up to 7th Avenue. In all, approximately 6,000 lineal feet of the SEI will be rehabilitated to eliminate significant leaks and repair existing structural defects in the pipe.
 Grout injection will be used to fill voids outside the pipe and prevent further deterioration of the pipe. And we will also be using grout injection along three manholes on Grand Avenue to prevent further pavement settlement in the manhole vicinity, which has been an ongoing problem.
 BES public outreach staff and consultants have conducted extensive community outreach to local residents, property and business owners, and neighborhood and business associations who may be impacted by the construction activities. The outreach staff has mailed six public information flyers to the stakeholders. A flyer was also mailed out to inform them of proposed night work to help minimize impacts. A noise variance application has been submitted and a night work variance is being sought.
 and will be required prior to allowing any of the night work to commence. Temporary traffic control will be used to maintain traffic flow, pedestrian access, and ensure worker and resident safety. And traffic will be maintained. Street closures will not be allowed. The construction contract is estimated to be $4.35 million and has a high level of confidence. The advertisement and bid date is scheduled for early February, with construction hopefully beginning by June of this year.
 And I guess thank you for your time, and I'll entertain any questions. First, thank you. Thank you for your excellent presentation. And, Scott, just to put a fine tune on it, and I apologize for being outside on a family call when you started, this project is funded exclusively with dollars that are ratepayer dollars or are part of our utility system, right? So there's no general fund money here. Absolutely. And this is also part of our long-term capital improvement plan.
 That's right. And this is a pretty significant piece of our system because of its location and its size, correct? Yeah, there are 11 main trunks in our system. This is one of the 11. We're sort of working our way through those based on priority. Any further board questions on this one? Is there any testimony on this item? Seeing none, this is a non-emergency. It moves to second reading. Carl, if you can call the next item, please. Thank you for your testimony. Appreciate it.
 Item 81, authorized contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of Mount Scott Arlita Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E10678, for $1,910,000. Second reading. Commissioner Fish, did you have anything else on this? No, Mayor. We'll go right to a second. Any further conversation? There being none, could you please call the roll? Okay.
 Fish. This is a proposal to rehabilitate approximately 5,500 feet of sewer mainline in the southeast neighborhoods of Mount Scott, Arlita, and Woodstock. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. I'm sorry, Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The, uh, uh...
 Could you call the next item, please? 82, authorized price agreements with three firms for on-call civil engineering services not to exceed $500,000 for price agreements. Commissioner Fish, anything else on this item? No, thank you, Mayor. Any testimony? Hearing none, could you call the roll? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly?
 Carly you're gonna have to call mayor Wheeler hails at some point to make up for that I almost did because it's that's what it's no no in fairness in fairness in fairness I am regularly referred to as Commissioner Fritz, which I take is a great honor. We call you fit You can call me whatever you want, but I'm just kidding. We're all interchangeable. We learn. All right, it passes Could you call the next item, please?
 883, authorized contract with Pure Technologies U.S. Inc., not to exceed $3,610,710 for the Bull Run Supply Conduits. Commissioner Fish, anything else? Vote only? No. Any testimony? Could you call the roll? Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. It passes. Could you call the next item, please? Item 84. Aye.
 create a local improvement district to construct street sidewalk and stormwater improvements north of southwest loridale street in the southwest 47th avenue phase one local improvement district commissioner saltzman do you have anything to add uh no any further discussion could you please call the roll fritz hi fish hi saltzman hi you daily i wheeler hi it passes and uh
 That's it, right? Oh, I'm sorry. We have one item that was pulled off of the consent agenda. Item 71, accept a grant from the Oregon Military Department Office of Emergency Management for their Emergency Management Performance Grant Program in the amount of $284,210 for administering an integrated all-hazard emergency management program for the City of Portland.
 is there any testimony on this item uh joe uh was supposed to get rid of things would you like me to go get joey you broke protocol to move joe to the back so joe should uh here he is he's here here he comes yeah of course all right we're waiting for you sir
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Did you get a staff report on this? Did you get a staff report on this? Yes. Did you give a staff report? We are entitled to listen to staff, say why you're doing this, and the ramifications before we speak on it. Why is there not a staff report here? Do you understand how this works, Mayor? That you're not a dictator? That you have to follow the rules?
 And the rule says you have to have a staff report. Where's the staff report? 13 seconds, Joe. Okay. Let me explain something. We're going to close you down every week. Every week. Okay? We can go to jail. They don't need to have my first name in jail. It doesn't bother me at all. You are a total idiot.
 You are a total idiot. Joe, you're not helping. You're not making your case very well. No, you're not helping. Clerk, could you call the roll since this is our last item? We have such promise for you. Mr. Walsh. Such promise for you. Mr. Walsh, if you'd like to, I was just about to tell you. No, I didn't. Would you be quiet? It's my turn to talk. Joe, Joe, you're out of order. Just call the roll. Let's get this done. Fritz. Thank you. No, nobody's going to buy it. I wish.
 salzman hi you daily aye wheeler all right thank you the meeting is adjourned yeah why don't you meet me upstairs
 Oh, all this has to be... Kristen. Kristen.
 Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday afternoon session, 2 p.m. January 25, 2017. Carla, if you'd please call the roll. Ritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Here. Wheeler? Here. If you could please call the first item. Thank you.
 Agenda item 85, place a measure on the May 16, 2017 ballot to amend city charter provisions to protect auditors' independence. If I may, auditor, before you jump into your testimony, I think it would be helpful if we put the amendments on the table first, including yours, so that everybody understands what the amendments are, and that might help in your presentation to be able to speak to some of those amendments.
 amendments. Just in terms of framing the issue here, obviously the auditor plays an incredibly important function in city government. The auditor is independently elected. The auditor is responsible for ensuring that our city government operates in an accountable manner. The auditor and her team have worked hard to create a
 a program that they would like to refer to the voters. It would be a charter amendment and therefore requires approval from the voters. The city council has to have a majority vote in order to refer this to the voters. So that's the spirit in which we're here today. We've had a work session. The auditor and her team have met with all of our offices individually to walk through some of the specifics related to this issue. Of course, some of us, I think...
 just about all of us have amendments that we would like to propose to this. And we may or may not have the opportunity to vote on this, just depending upon how much time we have. This could potentially get carried over to next week. If that's the case, we still have plenty of time to put it on. Well, not plenty, but we have time to put it on the ballot. So we'll take it from there. I'd like to start by...
 asking each commissioner if they have amendments to read those amendments and briefly describe those amendments to the degree that they feel sufficient. My intention is to second all of them for discussion purposes. We won't actually be voting on the amendments. We'll just be putting them on the table so that people have a chance to reflect and respond to them. After the auditor's presentation, there
 There will be an opportunity for public testimony. I don't think I'm going to read the entire statement again. It's pretty common sense. If you are a lobbyist, please disclose that. If you are here representing an organization, please disclose that. And importantly, please keep your testimony to this particular issue. With that, I will ask my colleagues if they have any amendments they'd like to put on the table. May I have an amendment? Commissioner Fish. Yes.
 So I offer the Fish Amendment, which I believe my colleagues have, and it reads as follows. Prior to the adoption, amendment, or repeal of any rule, the auditor shall provide reasonable public notice and opportunity for comment. The auditor may adopt interim rules without prior notice upon finding that failure to act promptly will result in prejudice to the public interest and shall be effective for a period of not more than
 than 180 days. So I move that amendment. Commissioner Fish, I'll second that for the purpose of discussion. Mayor, I have a brief statement in support. Yes, sir. If I could. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, I believe we do our best work in the light of day, and we can never take public trust for granted. During my eight years on council, we've adopted many important reforms to increase transparency and accountability. We established a new oversight body for our public utilities, the Portland Utility Board.
 We made it easier for people to appeal administrative decisions made by the city. We created an independent budget office accountable to the council as a whole. We restored the city's chief financial officer position, bringing back the independent guidance we need to make good decisions about taxpayer money. And last year, we became the second city in the country to require political consultants to disclose their relationships with city council members.
 Today's proposed charter referral is yet another important reform designed to protect the independence of the elected auditor, the city's watchdog. I support the auditor's proposal for a number of reasons. First, I agree we should update the charter to reflect the increase in responsibilities over the past 30 years. Second, I strongly believe the auditor should have the right to seek independent legal advice.
 And third, I believe the auditor must have the freedom to issue tough audits without the fear of retaliation from the council or city bureaus. I've heard two basic arguments against referring this package to the May ballot. First, that these changes can be accomplished through changes to our code and not to our charter. While this has been the approach in some other cities, I believe that a charter change provides an extra measure of protection going forward.
 Second, some argue that this referral has been rushed and that we should hold off until next year. While we should never refer a charter change that is not well considered, the auditor has worked closely with the council to answer questions, clarify details, and to make reasonable changes. And today, I expect that my colleagues will have additional suggestions to strengthen the proposal. I have one of my own, and that's not unusual. I see no reason for further delay.
 The debate today should not be about whether strengthening the auditor's independence is a good idea. Of course it is. On that question, I believe there can be no debate. If this proposal is referred to the voters and passes, successful implementation will depend on a high level of cooperation between the auditor's office, the city council, the mayor, bureau leadership, and the public. And that's true of any charter change.
 Therefore, my amendment, which I have proposed, provides for public comment in the rulemaking phase, assuming that it is, in fact, approved by the voters. It was suggested by the League of Women Voters, thank you, Debbie Iona and others, and has the support of the auditor. And to our auditor, thank you for the spirit of collaboration and the open mind you have brought to these conversations. Today, I look forward to the presentation, the testimony, and our discussion.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Go next. Commissioner Soltzman, you have a package, and if you want to go ahead and introduce them as a package. It's just one amendment. Just one amendment. Thank you, sir. And it's very simple. My amendment basically would remove placing the ombudsman role in the Charter. I offer that amendment for a couple reasons. I do appreciate the auditor bringing forward her amendments to enshrine the auditor's office independence into the city Charter.
 and I fully support her rationale and reasoning behind her proposals. I have had concerns, however, about listing independent police review and the ombudsman in the charter, and without a chance to take more public input about that. And I think that that's really why I'm removing this, just as the auditor has herself removed the independent police review function earlier.
 From these charter changes, I feel that in order to gather more public comment and thought on that, I think we should do the same with respect to the ombudsman. And this is by no means a reflection on the performance of our ombudsman, past or present. I'm just reluctant to – there's very few positions that are spoken to in the city charter. You know, the city council, the auditor, the treasurer are all spoken to. These are all positions enumerated in our city charter, and
 I'm just reluctant, without more public comment and understanding about that, to place yet another position in the charter, which when you place it in the charter, it's more or less there forever. And I think just as police review is a dynamic issue,
 changing environment. I think so is the role of investigating and holding cities accountable. I mean, the ombudsman movement got its start in the 1800s in Sweden and has really grown in popularity. But who's to say, you know, two decades from now, there may not be some other
 better way of doing holding government accountable than the ombudsman but without having to so that's why I would argue that we need some flexibility at least those are my my thoughts but I would like to have the chance for the council to have a broader deliberation on on this and that's why I would offer my amendment to delete for the time being establishing the ombudsman in the city charter just as we have deleted for the time being establishing the independent police review office
 in the charter. Thank you, Commissioner. I'll second your amendment for the purposes of discussion. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Auditor, for all of the work you've done on this. And I apologize to the public that I've got a lot of amendments and unfortunately I was still working on them up until 1 o'clock today in
 a rhai y mae'r cyfrifwr yn cytuno â'r eraill, ac mae angen i ni gael trafodaeth cyngor. Felly, rwy'n bwysig, gan y cyngor, nad yw'r amser i aelodau cymunedau gwybod beth sy'n cael ei gynllunio ac, felly, i sylw arno. Y cyflwyniad cyntaf, rwy'n ei alw'n ffrids nifer un, yw'r un-eithro. Mae rôl y cyfrifwr yn y ddinas wedi newid yn fawr dros y 30 mlynedd.
 Felly, nid yw'n gwneud gwirionedd i'r cyfrifwr, sy'n rheolwr o gyfranogwyr amrywiol o ran y rhain, yn unig â'r Prif Weinidog, fod yn cael ei gwerthu. Mae angen i'r Cyfarwyddwr y gwerthu fod yn gwerthu, neu'n gwerthu. Ac yn annibynnol i'r cyfrifwyr a'r cyfrifiadurion, nid ydym yn cael cychwyn argyfwngol am y cyfrifwr y ddae. Mae angen i hynny newid, yn enwedig fel rhan o ddysgu o gyfrifwr mwyaf gyffredinol o dan y newidiadau ymgyrchol yma.
 Os ydym yn clywed y cyfnod a dywedodd y cyngor fod angen i ni gadw'r cymorthau,
 yna rhaid i ni sicrhau bod y cymorth allan o'r Swyddfa Archwilio yn digwydd yn aml ac mewn ffordd amser. Felly mae fy ngwneud ail ar un o'r rhain, yw gofyn am gymorth allan bob 4 mlynedd yn y flwyddyn cyn i'r awdurdodau. Felly mae rhai arweinyddion, nid y Cyngor, yn edrych ar y cymorth.
 gyda'r Swyddfa newydd sylweddol. Rwy'n mynd ymlaen i gael iddynt i gyd fel rhaglen. Diolch. Ac, pan fyddwn ni'n cael ein hymgyrchu, gallwn ni ddewis unigol. Iawn, diolch. Felly, ymweld â'r ail amgylchedd, a'r ydym yn ei alw ar nifer 2, yw llwyddo'r gwasanaeth newydd y gallai'r awdurdod ddarparu o ran arian heb ddim o flynyddoedd o flwyddyn i flwyddyn, fel y mae'n cael ei gynnal gan ddeddf ystod y llaw.
 Nid yw unrhyw weithwyr arwain arall wedi cael y pwnc hwnnw o ddim yn dod i'r Ffin Gwaith yn ystod y cyllid cyffredinol, oherwydd y gwahaniaeth rydyn ni wedi ei roi
 Mae'r rhan fwyaf o'r cyllideb a ddod i gynnal gwaith ar gyfer gweithredu sefydliad. Mae hynny'n rhywbeth y mae'r awdurdod a'r awdurdodau wedi dweud yw'n dda. Mae angen i ni ddefnyddio mwy o arian ar sefydliad sy'n ddiddorol. Mae angen i ni wneud y ffordd y mae'r rhwystrau.
 Yn ystod y 5 mlynedd diwethaf, mae'r Swyddfa Archwilio wedi cyfrannu 2.2 miliwn o adnoddau heb eu bodoli, sydd yn gredid i'w hwynebu cyfrifol.
 that money has been used to address our existing infrastructure maintenance need and the housing crisis. So like the rest of the council, the auditor should have the ability to request carryovers and request positional authority within the existing budget. I don't see that having a carryover of an average of $465,000, $100,000 is the best choice for taxpayers' money.
 And the next section is very much to speak to my brothers and sisters in the labour unions. We have a classification and compensation structure for a reason. The audits, the charter changes that happened under Mayor Potter in 2007 completely redid the civil service section and made it very clear what the rights of employees in classified positions.
 positions is. And so I know that this is something that the auditor is intending to provide the same checks and balances and rights with her later administrative role. And so this, number three, is, I messed that up, didn't I? Sorry. There's actually several different amendments in this
 2-506, which is again why I wish we'd had a bit more time so I could be more organised. Another one is that the new language says the auditor may appoint employees and establish their compensation. I think we should add within existing classifications and compensation structure, so that we're not giving the auditor ability that none of us have to pay either less or more than the classification range for a particular type of work.
 What's that? That was three. And a three, right? Yeah, thank you. There's several in three. And then thank you for keeping track, Commissioner. No, no. The next amendments four and five are ones that the auditor has graciously accepted. In the section on deputies and employees, the proposal said the auditor should establish and administer human resources policies. We need to change that to the mandatory shall.
 And then further down that, we want to make it really clear that although the auditor gets to propose her budget with no input from outside offices, that the funding of the number of employees that the auditor states is necessary is subject to funding by the council that we support.
 A future auditor could, of course, take any of that ending from balance and move it into new positions. And that's something that we all can do. But I think it's been very clear that the auditor respects our responsibilities as under state law, as the Budget Committee, that it has to be the council who makes that decision. In D, there's another, it's about procurement. We're changing another should to shall decision.
 And then this is the section I was talking about earlier. It's 506A. And so we're proposing to strike the language that says the Auditor's Human Resources Policies and Rules shall provide for...
 for four-cause disciplinary review procedures for an employee who is not an at-will or subject to a collective bargaining agreement, we want to be much more specific to make sure that future auditors know what's meant by that. So we would change it to the auditor's human resource policies and rules shall provide functionally equivalent protections as the classified service, including four-cause disciplinary review procedures for all auditor's office employees, with the exception of the chief deputy auditor, the ombudsman, and the audit's director. Okay.
 employees hired under that section of the new section and who are designated by the council as at will and also employees subject to collective bargaining agreements are also protected under this amendment.
 Very good. I'll second these for the purposes of discussion. And I'll get them posted on the website as soon as I can so that people can follow them. I would like to actually request that we could carry over the hearing until the next week. That would allow me and everybody else to really look over what we've done and make sure it's complete. Very good. Commissioner, to you daily before I jump in, did you have any amendments today? I do not. Very good. I've only got one myself. Okay.
 Add to the beginning of Section 2-508F and 2-509F, adding the language subject to collective bargaining agreements with the city's recognized bargaining units.
 Add to Section 2-509H, the powers and duties of the Ombudsman shall not be exercised in contravention of any collective bargaining agreement or obligation of the City, and then continue on with the rest of the existing language. Second, please.
 And Commissioner Saltzman seconds that. So we have these amendments now on the table. Thank you. Excuse me, Mayor. I have an amendment as well. Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. Yes, auditor. For the record, I'm Mary Hall Caballero, city auditor. And I have one amendment, and it is in Section 2-504. And it's about the salary. And it makes an effective date of January 1, 2014.
 2019, and so that would have that section starting at the next full term of auditor. And is it not that way now? The salary of the auditor isn't that...
 what is the same as the commissioners, right? It's the same as commissioners in practice, but we're just making that reflective in the document. But just for clarity's sake, I didn't want people to think that this was about a raise for the auditor or something like that while I'm in this position. And so while that's true, it just is establishing the effective date at the next term. Mayor, consistent with the rules you established, I will offer the auditor's amendment if necessary.
 And it just requires a second. That's correct. So Commissioner Fish moves. Is there a second? All second for the purpose of discussion. Could I just say, in response to what you just said, likewise, I don't want people to think that we haven't been paying you properly up until now. Very good. So now we have all the amendments on the table that people would like to put on the table. Auditor, I'll turn this over to your presentation. Thank you for your patience.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I would just like to note that I have Margie Sollinger from my office here with me as well. And when Portlanders elect a city auditor, they elect the person responsible for holding city government accountable. There is no asset more vital or fundamental to the ability to fulfill that responsibility than independence.
 Particularly in a commission form of government where council members serve dual roles as the legislators of code and administrators of the executive branch, the independence of the auditor's office is something that cannot be left vulnerable to the politics of the day or the personalities of the moment. Independence was a priority during my campaign for this office and a topic I highlighted in this chamber when I was sworn in.
 I realized quickly after assuming office, just as my predecessors had warned, that the independent safeguards in Charter that may have been adequate 35 years ago are insufficient today. Charter reflects an outdated version of the auditor's office, one that does not accurately portray or protect the comprehensive accountability and oversight operation that it has become.
 It is for these reasons that I have proposed modest but critical revisions to the city's charter, which can only be changed by a vote of the people. The proposed revisions provide the necessary safeguards to protect the auditor's independence and allow my office to continue its accountability work without perceived or actual interference. My office has been working on this proposal for the better part of a year now.
 I have spoken to and collaborated with community groups, individuals, council members, and city staff. Those conversations were aided by news and editorial coverage that introduced the issue to a wide audience. The documents before you are better than where we started because the people were willing to provide input in the spirit of placing the best option before voters. It's important to remember the proposal we discussed today represents the broad strokes of governance.
 if adopted by council and approved by voters there will be an implementation phase where many many details will be worked through i look forward to joining council mayor wheeler and his executive team in a collaborative effort to ensure a smooth and cooperative transition to more independence for the auditor's office my presentation today will illustrate the problem and provide an overview of my proposed solutions
 I will also highlight areas of the proposal that have changed since the City Council work session on January 10th, including some additional improvements since we filed the resolution paperwork last week. Proposed replacement language for Exhibit A of your packet should be before you. We have marked up copies available for members of the public to see the evolution of the document as well.
 After my presentation, you will benefit from the views of three distinguished former city auditors. Following them, you will hear from a representative of a professional auditing association, as well as the director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. You also have received written testimony from former Secretary of State Gene Atkins and various professional organizations that support the resolution, including the U.S. Ombudsman Association.
 For oversight entities such as the auditor's office to have credibility, they must be independent from those they audit and investigate. To be independent, auditors and investigators must be free in fact and appearance from personal, external, and organizational impairments. The important concept to note is that appearance counts as much as actual interference.
 Impairments exist when reasonable and informed observers suspect that our objectivity is compromised because we are beholden to or dependent on those we audit and investigate. When the public perceives that the objectivity of the auditor's office is compromised, our credibility as an independent entity is undermined and the integrity of our audits and investigations may be questioned. Organizational independence can be achieved in a number of ways. First.
 One model is to place oversight functions in separate branches of government. For example, at the federal level, Congress has the Government Accountability Office to audit and investigate executive branch agencies overseen by the president. Another model is when an oversight function is in a different level of government, such as when a state office has investigative authority over local governments.
 Oversight agencies can also be led by an elected official. We have that model with the Oregon Secretary of State, where the Audits Division audits and investigates state agencies. What all of these models have in common is, at a minimum, administrative independence from the entities they audit and investigate. In Portland, having an elected auditor means we have the broad structure in place to have an independent home for oversight.
 However, the auditor's office is not appropriately independent from the city bureaus it audits and investigates. This is an organizational impairment, partly caused by the evolution of the office over the past 30 years. Prior to 1986, the responsibilities of the auditor's office were focused on administration and financial auditing. We still have those responsibilities and five more.
 In 1986, then-City Auditor Jewel Lansing persuaded Council and subsequently voters to authorize her to conduct performance audits. That pivoted the office toward its modern function as a comprehensive oversight entity. In 1991, the Council and then-Auditor Barbara Clark agreed to locate the Code Hearings Office in the Auditor's Office to provide it a non-political home and administrative support.
 Ten years later, former Auditor Gary Blackmer agreed to take responsibility for the Ombudsman and Independent Police Review, precursors of which had been in the Mayor's Office. In 2006, the Lobbyist Registration Program was created and placed in the Auditor's Office. Charter and administrative practices have not kept pace with this evolution to ensure that the Auditor's Office has adequate safeguards to protect its independence.
 As a result, it does not have the arm's length distance it needs from those it audits and investigates. The good news is that the current charter provides a solid foundation on which we can build. Articles 3 and 5 in Chapter 2 of the charter describe our government structure like this. Voters elect six officials with separate and distinct responsibilities. Commissioners in charge administer the executive branch.
 The auditor is responsible for independently holding the executive branch accountable to the public. Regrettably, this is not how the structure actually works. It has been eroded by administrative practices that were more appropriate 35 years ago, but no longer are acceptable given the oversight entity that the auditor's office has become. This is reality. The auditor is not treated as an elected official, but rather is treated like a bureau.
 This subordinated position puts the staff in three city offices and the commissioners in charge who supervise them between the elected auditor and the voters. The three offices that pose the greatest appearance of organizational impairments to the auditor's independence are the city attorney, budget, and management and finance. They exercise control over the auditor. At the same time, the auditor audits and investigates their operations.
 The top officials in these offices are appointed by the mayor and serve council. The auditor is not referenced in the sections of charter and code that govern them. We audit and investigate all three of these offices. The city attorney works for council and reports to the mayor. Yet the auditor is expected to rely on the city attorney's advice for ongoing audits and investigations of the bureaus the council administers.
 The auditor does not have a separate legal advisor and is prevented by city code from seeking outside counsel without the permission of the city attorney. The chief administrative officer directs the Office of Management and Finance. This position reports to the mayor and works for council, yet exercises control over the auditor's decisions about human resources, procurement, and other internal matters.
 The City Budget Director reports to the Mayor and serves Council, yet the Budget Office uses the Mayor's annual budget criteria to make recommendations that Council relies on regarding the level of funding the Auditor's Office should receive and whether services and positions should be continued or cut. In past years, 80% of the Budget Office's recommendations about the Auditor's budget were accepted by Council, whether or not the Auditor agreed with those recommendations. Slide.
 So at the very least, we've got an organizational structure that creates the appearance that the auditor's office is impaired by offices the auditor must hold accountable. This fact alone undermines the credibility of the auditor's office. The structural subordination of the auditor that currently exists creates the appearance that the auditor's office is dependent on or beholden to the executive branch.
 It is not unusual for Auditor's Office staff to be auditing and investigating bureaus at the very moment we are dependent on them to grant permission for us to take some action or are simultaneously investigating a complaint against an Auditor's Office employee. This is untenable in terms of our independence.
 In the last two years, we have audited or conducted investigations into complaints about the city attorney's office, the budget office, and several bureaus in the Office of Management and Finance, including Human Resources, Procurement, and Technology Services.
 This circular relationship is problematic for both the auditor's office and the bureaus because it introduces the appearance of conflicts of interest and fear of retribution when all parties may simply be doing their jobs. It unnecessarily calls into question decisions made in every transaction. This is especially true for our interactions with the budget office and the office of management and finance. There is a similar but different issue with the city attorney's office.
 The city attorney's client is the municipal corporation. As such, the city attorney advises the city council and bureaus, as well as the auditor's office. When it comes to the auditor's oversight functions, consultation with the city attorney's office creates the appearance of an impairment to the auditor's independence, and therefore our objectivity. In matters related to audits and investigations, the city attorney advises both the watchdog and the watched.
 This is untenable for the auditor's office. For example, the appearance of an impairment is most acute when the same attorneys try to advise the auditor's independent police review and the police bureau. This arrangement contributes to the perception that the civilian oversight of police is not sufficiently independent from the police bureau. That damages the credibility of my office. To avoid that consequence, my oversight staff and I forego legal advice on certain issues.
 This constrains our desire to have the best possible decision-making information and potentially increases the list of legal liability. It's hard to think of a worse outcome. The good news is that these organizational weaknesses can be fixed. There are models within our own government and from other jurisdictions that can guide us back to the structure that the public expects and that credible oversight requires.
 Our proposed solutions were informed by research into these and other jurisdictions and represent what we think are the best elements that work in our commission form of government. Professional organizations for local government auditors, ombudsmen, and civilian overseers of law enforcement support the proposed charter safeguards that will serve to protect the independence of these functions. These three organizations submitted letters of support for the resolution you are considering today.
 The charter amendments I have proposed would accomplish two objectives. They would update the charter so it reflects the modern office and matches function to form, and they would end the auditor's dependence on the bureaus we audit and investigate. The amendments address four areas. One amendment would place the ombudsman in charter.
 You may recall from the prior work session that I originally recommended placing independent police review in the charter as well, but subsequent input from some community groups indicated that it would be premature, given the strong desire for ongoing conversations about the structure of police oversight. Today's proposal does not include language specific to independent police review, but it will benefit from the remaining safeguards nonetheless.
 The Ombudsman has been in the Auditor's Office for 16 years. It is responsible for conducting impartial and in-depth investigations in response to complaints from members of the public who feel wronged by the city. It is a last resort for those who have been unable to resolve their disputes directly with the bureaus or through counsel. The language in the Charter proposal mirrors that that already exists in code. No new powers are included in the proposal for the Ombudsman.
 By design, the ombudsman tries to resolve issues informally and at the lowest level possible. So some in our community may not be as familiar with its work. But for those whose livelihood has been rescued, whose business has stayed open, or whose pocketbook has been protected from unfair charges because of the ombudsman's office, it is a memorable and vital service. And it does occasionally take on some higher profile issues. Here are some examples.
 The ombudsman was responsible for bringing in the FBI after a complaint investigation into transportation employee Ellis McCoy revealed evidence of criminality. Just this past month, the ombudsman's office issued a report detailing its discovery that the city had been unknowingly losing callback information about tens of thousands of 911 calls for more than a decade.
 The ombudsman persuaded counsel to pass legislation requiring that members of the public be notified of their appeal rights. The legislation also stopped the practice of charging more than $1,300 to appear before the city's hearings officer. Because of an ombudsman investigation and subsequent advocacy, Portland has the power to punish businesses that defraud the city's program for social equity and contracting.
 While it's hard to argue the public benefits of these examples, the ombudsman's office can be a target for political retribution when powerful people do not like the outcome of an investigation. When the ombudsman exists only in code, its very existence is fragile. The opportunity for retaliation is reason enough to place the ombudsman in charter, but threats to its funding made by two prior mayors make it more than a theoretical concern.
 Most recently, when the ombudsman concluded there were undisclosed conflicts of interest among powerful members of an advisory board during the West Quadrant planning process, a former mayor threatened to replace the ombudsman's office with a website. For as long as the ombudsman's office exists, it should be protected from retaliation and perceived as independent from those it is tasked with investigating.
 If at some point Portlanders no longer need an ombudsman, removal of the function should require a vote of the people. The argument for placing the ombudsman in charter is the same one Jewel Lansing made back in 1986 when she sought to place in charter the authority for the auditor to conduct performance audits. In pointed but clear language, Auditor Lansing said, Right now I'm doing auditing only at the generosity of counsel.
 That means if for some political reason they didn't like an audit that came out, they could just stop it tomorrow. People can't believe that there's no authority in the charter for the auditor to audit, but that's true. A charter amendment protecting the auditor's ability to audit was the sound choice 30 years ago, and it is the sound choice now to protect the ombudsman's investigations. The second solution is to end the auditor's dependency on bureaus. That creates the appearance of organizational impairments.
 The proposed amendment would place responsibility for internal control with the auditor and require external reviews by independent entities instead of management and finance bureaus. Former Secretary of State Jean Adkins captured the importance of ending the dependency on those we audit and investigate in a letter supporting our proposal. She said...
 The power to control and manage our own internal functions is fundamental to faithfully executing our constitutional duties. The Oregon Secretary of State's office is the primary model we look to for how to achieve independence with regard to human resources and procurement. The language is also similar to an example closer to home, the Portland Development Commission.
 The commission is a city agency that has independent safeguards for the purpose of insulating spending on urban renewal projects for political pressure. While today's proposal provides for administrative independence, it lands short of that enjoyed by the Development Commission, which has a fully separate infrastructure system from those of the city.
 We, however, intend to continue in the overhead model for funding, which will allow us to consult with subject matter experts in the bureaus and use existing technology while retaining decision-making responsibility. Let me walk you through the key points in the language regarding employment and procurement, as well as some additional improvements made since the work session. Bear with me through this very text-heavy slide while I cover the main points. Thank you.
 The noteworthy replacement language is in the blue box. You can also find it on page 2 of Replacement Exhibit A. The proposal continues to make the auditor responsible for the conduct of the office's 50 full-time equivalent employees, but authorizes the establishment of personnel policies and a disciplinary system for employees in positions not covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
 Collecting bargaining procedures would still apply to the five employee positions represented by a union. In the very rare circumstances where we need to discipline or discharge employees, those who currently are covered by civil service protections will continue to have them and will have access to a review process by an independent body.
 This follows the procedures used by the Secretary of State's office, which is not subject to the rules of the Department of Administrative Services, but must comply with state and federal law. Since filing the resolution, we have made some additional revisions to this section that you'll note in the replacement document for Exhibit A.
 We added a provision that indicates the auditor's office is committed to adopting policies that are consistent with citywide standards for employees, except where those policies conflict with the auditor's independence or ability to fulfill the auditor's duties. Also, while the intent of the original language was to mirror protections employees already have, it was interpreted by some by making all employees in the auditor's office at will. We added language in the replacement exhibit,
 And Commissioner Fritz has mentioned an additional amendment today to clarify the original intent that employees currently covered by civil service protections will retain similar protections, including dismissal for cause. While the auditor's office enters into only a handful of contracts per year and the median dollar amount is low, the principle of administrative independence from those we audit and investigate applies here too.
 We have proposed a reasonable middle ground that grants contracting authority to the auditor and requires the adoption of administrative rules, but retains counsel as the local contract review board. In terms of implementation, potential vendors would not detect any change in the process as the auditor's office intends to continue using the online procurement center for its handful of contracts per year.
 It is important that the auditor's office assures the public that it is operating efficiently and effectively. To accomplish that, the proposal includes requirements for internal controls and external review that go beyond what currently are in place. Among our existing controls are voters, council's budget authority, standards associated with a required professional credential, peer reviews for audit quality, and internal controls.
 The proposal would result in the expansion of existing controls and add two new ones to assure the public and counsel that the auditor's office is efficient and legally compliant through organizational assessments and compliance reviews. As with our current peer reviews for audit quality, we would make results of the new assessments public and available to counsel.
 In contrast to the individual transaction controls we have now, the additional assessments have the advantage of looking across and more deeply within the office's operations, identifying risks, and suggesting areas for improvement. None of this occurs today. The third solution authorizes the auditor to access independent legal advice.
 This is something that Charter already authorizes for two city bureaus, the Portland Development Commission and the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement. This authority will improve decision-making within the auditor's office by enabling access to independent advice. It will eliminate the problem of sharing counsel with those we are auditing and investigating, and it will enable us to receive legal advice based on our mission of ensuring open and accountable government.
 The fourth solution relates to the process for the auditor's budget, which is less than 1% of the overall city budget, 0.53% to be exact. It is relatively stable year over year. In other jurisdictions, auditors can bypass the executive branch and directly submit their budget request to a legislative branch. That is not an option in Portland.
 Addressing the appearance of an organizational impairment during the budget-setting process is more challenging here because of Council's dual roles as legislators and executive administrators. A consequence of Council's fiduciary role over the auditor's budget is that it creates a perception that decisions could be based on a desire to limit accountability.
 This was especially troublesome last year when the city experienced record revenue and the auditor was the only elective office to take cuts. It is also important to acknowledge that any dollar provided to the auditor is one individual commissioners give up for their own bureaus. This is an inherent conflict caused by the commission form of government and requires that steps be taken to mitigate it.
 The charter amendment I propose is an incomplete solution, but it represents a necessary first step in the right direction. The proposal is focused on the process and is intended to enable a direct dialogue among the six elected officials. It respects council's fiduciary obligation to set the city's budget, but also acknowledges the separate and distinct responsibilities of the auditor.
 The proposal requires the auditor to prepare a budget request in accordance with state law and submit it for council consideration during the regular budget process. The auditor's requested budget would not be subject to the city budget office's review. In response to a suggestion that came from the work session, the language was updated to clarify that council is not prohibited from seeking advice about the auditor's budget requests.
 Council would decide the merits of the auditor's budget request and modify accordingly. In evaluating the auditor's request, the proposed language suggests that council evaluates the auditor's budget based on the auditor's priorities and duties, rather than evaluating it as a bureau budget that must conform to the council's priorities for the executive branch. The proposal also includes the authority to carry over unused funds in compliance with state law,
 Although it varies from year to year, historical data indicate the carryover amounts would range from $100,000 to $200,000. Throughout the year, the Budget Office monitors how the Auditor's Office is using its appropriated funds and determines whether it must return money to the general fund. The ability to carry over funds is an extension of the principle that the City Budget Office, an entity we audit and investigate, should not be involved in the Auditor's Budget Office.
 Under the proposal, so long as the council-appropriated funds are spent as intended for either personnel or materials and services, the auditor would retain unused dollars for those purposes the following year or place them in contingency. If funds in contingency are needed for purposes other than those originally agreed to, the auditor would be required by state law to return to council to request a change.
 And of course, Council's budget-setting authority operates as a check on how the auditor exercises the ability to carry over unused funds. That the auditor's office be independent from those it audits and investigates is fundamental to the credibility of our work. Taxpayers invest about $9 million in the accountability and transparency functions in my office.
 That investment should not be undermined by an inappropriate organizational structure, especially when it can so easily be fixed. This is an opportunity for the six elected officials to demonstrate to the public that the city is honest about its strengths and weaknesses and working hard to continuously improve.
 The amendments I prepared for your consideration address the greatest risk to independence, avoid duplication where possible, retain access to in-house expertise, and increase accountability across the board. This is a governance issue, and governance issues belong in charter. While the city code belongs to you, the charter is the people's document. This matter should be decided by voters in the May 2017 election.
 The time is ripe for asking voters to weigh in and have the ultimate say. We have generated considerable momentum, and the city has a history of referring important charter amendments to the May election, where voters tend to be well-informed because measures are less likely to be crowded out by more high-profile issues. More important, the cost of delay or inaction is too steep to ignore. The credibility of the auditor's office is at stake.
 Portlanders deserve an auditor's office that is beholden only to the cause of good governance.
 Mayor, I have two panels of invited guests to bring up, but I will defer to council if you want to continue discussing the amendments or... No, please continue. I just have a question, or two questions actually. Is that all right? Please. Thank you. The proposed amendment says that there will be periodically external review. How often are you envisioning that there would be external review of the auditor's office?
 I think that that would be based on need and based on priorities, given how much money I would have in any given year for those types of reviews. Okay.
 That's not very reassuring. Anyway, the second question I have is there's appeal in the classified service now in the charter. There's the right of appeal to the civil service board. And I understand that since the civil service board is appointed by the mayor, that's not acceptable to you. Who are you thinking would be the outside appeal body when you set up the structure to be similar in the auditor's chapter? Oh.
 We have talked about this on a limited basis with the Secretary of State's office, and the model they use is to have an administrative law judge. We also could have a panel similar to the Civil Service Board look at that. And I think there's some considerations, some legal considerations around that that I'd like to pursue should this happen.
 before we make a decision one way or the other. Those are the kinds of details that I was referencing that would have to be further researched and decided. So, yeah.
 Then though, once this leaves our desks and goes to the voters, we don't have any place... We're not involved in the administrative rules and the other implementation. The proposed change says specifically the auditor shall judge whether or not it's the right thing or not. So for the first set of administrative rules, because I'm very concerned about that ability for...
 people who currently have the protections of the classified service, having similar protections in the offices you envision it. But you're not thinking of bringing back any of those details to council, right? No, that would not be my thought today. But we would, based on the amendment that Commissioner –
 Fish brought forward, we would be posting administrative rules to the public for public comment. And we also have some language in there that we will be consistent with city rules and regulations across the board so that the city as a whole is consistent. And I think that that's where some of your concerns would be assuaged.
 Under our current system, when the Human Resources Director is redoing any administrative rules, all of the council get notified of that, I expect you do as well, and have the opportunity to comment.
 How would a citizen or a council member know that you were in the process of doing administrative rules? Well, we have some administrative rulemaking capacity in our office now. For example, the hearings office has to provide 30 days notice, and the last time that the hearings officer changed the administrative rules for that office –
 We use the mailing lists of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. In my office, we have a lot of mailing lists that go out to people, the council clerks, the ombudsman, and independent police review and audit services. They have large mailing lists who –
 they regularly communicate with. And so we would use all of those methods, certainly as we do now. But there could be, if you have other suggestions, I'd be happy to consider that. Well, I would certainly, for this first set, like your commitment that you would let the council offices know that they're ready to work with you. Oh, certainly. Certainly. Thank you very much. So if I may, auditor, I just want to state the obvious. We have another time-certain event that's supposed to happen in half an hour. I understand we have 27 people signed up so far for public testimony on this item.
 this is also a very important item, so I'd like to continue this. But I want to give the bad news to those of you that are here for the 3.30 time certain. I'm pretty much certain it isn't going to happen at 3.30. It will probably be closer to 4.30, and I apologize for that. But that's where we are right now. Thank you, Mayor. So, Madam Auditor, I have a question. We have put on the table a number of amendments, and I just want to be –
 as we continue the hearing that I'm clear as to which ones you support, which ones you don't support, and then I would hope that at the end of the hearing, after you've heard all the testimony, you could be invited back just to have a discussion with the council to see whether there are any other changes that you might consider. So...
 My amendment, based on a suggestion from the League of Women Voters, my understanding is you support that. I do. Okay, thank you. The mayor has proposed two changes relating to collective bargaining agreements. Do you support those? I do. Okay. Commissioner Saltzman has proposed taking the ombudsman out altogether. Your position on that? I do not support that.
 Commissioner Fritz and you have reached agreement on a number of amendments, which is laudable. She has one amendment with an alternative and two other amendments. Do you support them or not at this point? I have differing opinions on them. Would you like me to go down the list? Sure.
 I'll tell you what, because we have people backed up, could we invite the auditor back at the end, Mayor? Let's do that. Have that conversation. Let's get to some of the tests. You said you had two invited panels. Yes. And they will be brief. If there is an amendment, Madam Auditor, that you don't support now, that based on the testimony and further consideration, you have an alternate suggestion, I hope at the end of today you can come back and share that with us.
 If there's a path to getting to some compromise. So before you leave, I just want to make sure I understand, under your proposal, how your budget gets set. Is it the city council, the final decider on your budget? Yes, that's your responsibility under state law. Okay, so if you're given a 5% cut, just to choose a number, you understand that has to be, you have to come up with a budget that's 5% less than what it was the year before. Correct. Okay. And it says that you have the...
 to modify or not modify that budget. That's your decision. I would put up a request, and then you all would decide it. So we're free to say you can't cut this, but you can cut that. Is that what I understand by saying that? Well, I think that the way I would view that is that it would be my responsibility to make my best pitch for how I wanted to spend the money, and then it would be your decision about whether I had made my case or not. We have some leeway already existing today about...
 applying resources differently so long as personnel services remain personnel services and materials and services remain material services I guess I'm speaking to you know there's a dynamic here it's probably true in every government that when bureaus are asked to make cuts they often offer up the things they think are the least acceptable to the governing body to cut and so what I'm trying to ensure here is if you were to engage in that same practice that we would be able to say no you can't cut
 that very popular program or that very important program, you have to cut over here, as long as it falls within the guidelines of personnel and materials and services.
 I believe that's correct. I don't think that it would be, you know, so, for example, there was a retirement in audit services, and I moved that position to create a deputy ombudsman. And so I think I have that authority now. I don't think I have the authority to say I will get rid of all the council clerks. So, you know, I think that that's, is that what you're describing? Yes. Yeah. Okay. That's what I'm describing. Okay. I will not get rid of all the council clerks. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for that.
 Okay, I will quickly introduce the two panels. I have asked them to be very brief. And the first panel are former city auditors Jewel Lansing, Gary Blackmer, and LaVon Griffin-Vallade. And the second panel is Elliot Shuford, who is representing the Association of Local Government Auditors, and Dante James, who is the director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 I just want to say for the Guinness Book of World Records, I think this is the first time in council history we've had four current or former auditors in the same room. So it's quite an honor for this body. Colleagues, while the panel is coming up, I want to get a sense of you whether or not we could continue the next item, item 86, the North Northeast Community Development Initiative five-year plan. Could we continue that to tomorrow afternoon? Does that work?
 I would prefer, Mayor, I think it's unlikely we're going to be finished with this matter until 5, and that includes a discussion by council. And I just hate to hold people waiting, particularly since people may have to pick up kids at school or get home or do other things. So whatever we do, I think it would be more respectful if we just set it over for tomorrow or some other time rather than keep people hostage. I can do tomorrow. What time tomorrow? 2 p.m. I can't, but that's all right.
 I can make that. You can make two? Okay. I'm sorry about that, Commissioner Saltzman. Why don't we do that so that people don't have to stick around who are here for that item? Kimberly, does that work? Okay. Do I need a motion or anything on that, or can we just do it? You can set it over that. It's been set over until 2 p.m. tomorrow. For those of you who are waiting for time certain item 86. Thank you, and I apologize for that. Sorry. Go ahead. Okay.
 Good afternoon. My name is Gary Blackmer, a resident of Portland and former Multnomah County, Portland, and Oregon State Auditor. It's truly an honor to be here with these other noteworthy city auditors, and Jewel Lansing especially deserves recognition. She set a course when she arrived in 1983 to improve Portland's services and ensure the best use of its public funds. We all followed in her footsteps on that same mission.
 Jewel Lansing created performance auditing in Portland and even in the Northwest and knew the importance of a certification requirement for the city auditor and for professional audit standards for the office. For these reasons, the public has come to trust the work of the auditor. I believe you also trust the work of the auditor, and this proposed charter is expressing trust in her judgment and professionalism to carry out her administrative responsibilities.
 But working in this environment where the auditor is dependent upon bureaus while also auditing them can be troubling. I think a story is the best way to explain the challenges faced by an auditor in Portland. Before I was an auditor, I worked for a sergeant in the planning research unit of the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office.
 He was a wise man with many years of patrol experience. He said that it was common for restaurants to offer free coffee to deputies, and he regularly stopped at one business in his district and accepted the free coffee. He said that one day he stopped a speeder, and it turned out to be the restaurant owner. The owner said to him, after all that free coffee, you're not going to write me a ticket, are you?
 The sergeant said he wrote the ticket, and he also regretted all that free coffee, and he never took another cup of free coffee. So what's the connection to the auditor? There are times when the auditor needs to work with the Bureau on an administrative matter, like purchasing or hiring. If the Bureau's rules don't make sense for the auditor's needs, should she accept the bad situation and struggle with the consequences, or should she ask for an exception?
 And if she asks the bureau director or the commissioner in charge for an exception, what has she lost in integrity if that exception is granted? Would she ever hear, after we granted you that exception, you're not going to write a negative audit, are you? And could her exception come back at her publicly? And even asking for an exception and having it denied, could that ever come back on her publicly?
 So these are things that go through the mind of an auditor and the bureau director, as Auditor Hau Caballero had explained. This is an example of what the audit standards call an independence issue, or what others would call the appearance of a conflict of interest.
 The public expects an unfettered auditor, but Portland offers few protections from these situations. Something in city code is not enough. This charter proposal allows Portland's auditor to have transparent, professional, working relationships in both administrative and auditor matters with other bureaus and with council. I urge you to support the auditor's office in its mission to improve Portland through audits, the ombudsman, and IPR.
 The protections in the proposed charter change can only enhance the contributions that an auditor can make to the city, and they are long overdue. Thank you. Hi, I'm Jewel Lansing, former city auditor, as you've heard by now. I just want to take you back a little further, back to 19, look it up, 67.
 when Multnomah County passed a home rural county charter. And in that charter, there's one little sentence that it says that there shall be an auditor who does regular audits. And the reason the charter actually passed is because the incumbent auditor, George, not George, that was over here on this side. Jake O'Donnell.
 I beg your pardon? Jake O'Donnell, I think. Oh, yeah, Jack O'Donnell. Jack O'Donnell. He was said to not know the difference between a ham on rye, and it appeared before council. Oh.
 And mainly they went around and counted cash in the various offices is what they did. But the way when I went to the county, the way I was able to keep my head above water was that I had all this support from Don Clark. He said...
 Tell them if they won't cooperate, you come to me. I'll see that they do. He was determined that that would be a worthwhile position and a worthwhile cause. It wasn't then until 1982, and the reason the change came in 1982 is because Mildred Schwab got elected. It was on city council, and she's one of the most popular people
 local government officials you'll ever find. And she took me on as her favorite project. And she was my independence, as Don Clark was at the county. Because Mildred was the one who would take my wishes to council, and she ran...
 always supporting my office in that. Otherwise, it would have been a miserable time at the city because, as you know, it's a really high-pitched kind of environment that goes on there, and the auditor can help key that down. But that issue, the one of independence, and I heard you talking tonight also about the issue of...
 Well, salaries was in there by now. Believe me, I got much less than the council members did. They said that things have changed. But again, Don Clark, of course, as I say, was a very important person in the process. It was that there was an example there at the county that worked at the city. And it took a long time to...
 to get to the point that these amendments that are proposed get to the guts of the whole overview of how important
 the auditor is or is not in it. The reason the city council actually in 1982 voted to approve performance auditing is that there got to be letters to the editor from the public. And it got to be the point that it was an issue that the public would think you were trying to hide something.
 and that you wanted her things covered up. And when they approved, when council approved that money, there was a picture on the front page of the Oregonian, believe it or not, showing Frank Ivancy over here. He won't even look at the rest. He won't look at me. And Mildred and Margaret Strawn and Charles Jordan are all there, and they...
 So it was a big day, and we got a banner headline in the Oregonian. And thank goodness the Oregonian has always been supportive of the audit function, and that's an important part too. So I'm going to let LaVon talk now. I have a proposal that we call Mary back up here after I'm done with my little speech, and we'll sing a quartet because there's four of us.
 I'm Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm LaVon Griffin-Vallade, former city auditor. I was recently at home sitting in my office, minding my own business and attempting to finish the draft of my first novel.
 when I received a request to weigh in on Auditor Hulk Caballero's efforts to strengthen, or should I say fix, the structural deficits within the city charter that effectively impair the elected city auditor's independence. Like Jewel Lansing and Gary Blackmer, I'm also a former Multnomah County auditor,
 The three of us know a thing or two about the importance of a government accountability, transparency, and public stewardship. And we definitely know a thing or two about the added difficulty in achieving those goals at the City of Portland. That's among the reasons we support Auditor Hulk Caballero's vision of the Office of City Auditor.
 I've read all of the documents provided by the auditor's office and viewed the recorded January 10th work session three times actually. Here are three significant concepts that I want to pinpoint from Auditor Hulk Caballero's statements that day. Independence is the cornerstone of credible oversight and credible oversight is the cornerstone of good public sector governance.
 Regarding independence, the work of the ombudsman and independent review divisions will have far more success in changing the systemic flaws they encounter if their authority is cemented in the charter language that guarantees the independence of their investigative function and purpose. And yes, I know the independent review division is no longer included in this effort,
 And apparently the Ombudsman's office is threatened. But I believe both should be part of the charter change. And I'm deeply disappointed that IPR currently no longer is. Auditor Holcabiero also suggested that it's time for the city to make a culture shift.
 to quote, Historically, the auditor's office has been viewed as just another subordinate bureau rather than being treated as an elective office with separate and distinct responsibilities from the mayor and council. That means structural improvements are needed to make the auditor's office administratively independent from the executive branch and from the bureaucracy it oversees. So the third...
 concept I want to pinpoint is I wholeheartedly agree that the city auditor should have the authority to hire outside counsel the Auditors arms-length oversight role requires independence and objectivity in general good judgment at times The auditor might question the attorney's office assessment of what is best for Portland as an institution as opposed to what is best for the community or the overall long-term interests of the city and
 such circumstances would benefit from guidance by outside legal counsel. Further, I would argue that the auditor should be granted the funding necessary to hire in-house counsel
 Such legal advice is needed on many day-to-day administrative questions, particularly regarding IPR, the Ombudsman, audit services, and the hearings office, or other matters that potentially conflict with the efforts of individual bureaus and or council members.
 And here's the thing, in my view, these are all changes the public deserves the right to consider. These are all changes the public might already want, even clamor for. These are also changes the public might reject. So what is the harm in simply allowing voters the right to decide whether or not these changes should be included in the city's charter? Thank you. Thank you. It's good to see you again. Good to see you. Thank you.
 I would just like to thank the panel and say that it is a thrill to have four of you in the room at the same time. And I want to also thank Ms. Lansing for the crash course in the first 150 years of Portland's politics. It came in handy. I have one question, Mayor, just before we lose our panel. Sure.
 One of the amendments proposes to change the qualifications of the office, and I don't think we've had a chance to hear from all three of you as to your view of that. So just as succinctly as possible, could each of you just comment on the amendment that we have on the table which would change the qualifications for the office? So I've heard this particular office compared to the Secretary of State
 office and the Secretary of State is a politician is a party official and has I believe Gary can help me out here, a real arm's length uh
 Relationship. Relationship with the Audit Services Division. And I do believe that Jean Patrick is a certified auditor. No, no, no, she's not. She's not, so that's not a requirement there at all. Anyway, I think that the reason why that has become important to both the city and the county and Metro and also to Washington County's auditor is that there's a certain level of –
 commitment to the traditions, not only the traditions, but the standards that are established by the GAO, and this is called the Yellow Book, and I think that was brought up at the work session, which establishes how audits should be performed and what level of independence the auditor should have, and that is a...
 That's a really important understanding and depth of knowledge for whoever is elected to the city auditor or whoever is elected as Multnomah County auditor or metro auditor. And that's a regional tradition that is highly respected and viewed very highly through the rest of the country. Gary Blackmer again. Thank you.
 The worst case scenario is someone who really has a political ambition, and they get elected auditor, and they start writing audits that attack your bureaus, and then they run to be a commissioner or a mayor.
 that is one big risk, and that was one of the considerations that was in Jewel's mind when, I mean, she can correct me if I'm wrong, when she put that certification requirement in. But there was also the expectation that the otter would be a professional and that it was a means of ensuring that greater credibility, which is one of the reasons why she introduced it in Multnomah County.
 when they asked her to come back temporarily to fill a position, and it was approved overwhelmingly by the voters. So there is an expectation that this is a person who is outside of the
 the politics of the moment or their political career, and working hard to do what they can as a professional to make government better. So that would be my quicks. If we didn't do that, I mean, if we don't take that amendment, and we did take the amendment to have a set timeframe for the periodic audits of the department, what would that timeframe be in your recommendation? Sure.
 When you say the department, do you mean audit services or the entire office? The entire office, because obviously there's a smaller audits department we haven't really addressed here. But if we don't have robust elections, which is how each of us gets really determined whether we deserve to continue or not. Well, the same with the auditor. Well, I can't remember the last time there was a contested race except for the open position when you weren't. So that's really not... It doesn't give me...
 concern that this could happen. If we did put a number in instead of just periodic audits, what would the number be? I could support that, but I have not had that discussion with
 the auditor, Hulk Abayero. As you can see, I wasn't even prepared to answer the question that Commissioner Fish asked, so I'm really not prepared to answer that one either. You're going to scramble to figure out what's going on. I guess there are so many diverse responsibilities at the auditor's office, it could be a relatively expensive review because if you wanted a review of IPR and the ombudsman and audit services,
 and the hearings office and council clerk. And, you know, you aren't going to find experts that are going to be able to make concrete recommendations in all those areas because it would be five or six or seven different reviews. So...
 I think it's a challenge. I'm sorry. Audit services must have a review every three years, a peer review, and that's part of following government auditing standards. In order to meet those standards, you must have... Are those published? Yes, they are. In fact, you could go to the auditor's...
 Audit Services Division website and find them. Then that happens on a routine. On a routine basis. So what we'd be looking for is auditing of the rest of the money and functioning. I assume that that is sort of the model that Mary had in mind.
 Thank you very much. I just wanted to respond to your question. It's been a troublesome question to me whether there should be these professional requirements because you do now have to be a certified individual, and that's not an easy haul to jump. That's a big requirement. The reason I support it is because I see what the alternative would be.
 And when I wasn't going to run for re-election and I heard who was going to run to fill my place, it just made my blood run cold because there are people who just wanted to get in, as Gary mentioned, that that's an easy way to slip into government. And then you're there. You can be there for life, you know, really. And I just want to say, Auditor Lansing, in light of what –
 Commissioner Udailey said earlier, when I first ran, I read your book and outlined it. The only difference is I sent you a copy of my outline, and you sent it back with corrections. This is true. This is a true story. Thank you.
 It does take a special sort of person, I think, to be an auditor. It's the introvert part, but also the willingness to sort of step back from your self-interest and your personal views on things. And I think that that is ingrained in us, not only through our personalities, but also through the fact that we follow government auditing standards. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Okay, can you close these? Was there another panel? There's another panel. Very good. Thank you so much for being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, members of the council, for the record, my name is Elliot Shuford. I'm here as a representative for the Association of Local Government Auditors. It's also known as ALGA. It's a professional organization of over 350 audit organizations throughout the United States and Canada.
 Thank you.
 Auditing helps ensure that citizens and elected officials can have confidence that scarce resources are protected by strong management controls and practices. The proposed charter amendment aims to ensure independence for the auditor in several ways. First, budget. ALGA's model legislation states that an auditor's budget should be submitted directly to the City Council.
 This aims to reduce the threat to the auditor's independence, such as potential management interference through control or manipulation of the auditor's budget. In Portland, the auditor submits the budget through a city bureau, and that's a situation that the Charter Amendment rightly seeks to rectify.
 Independence is critical because auditors may be called upon to issue reports that critique the efficiency or the effectiveness of management's programs. If auditors are not independent in areas such as budget, they may encounter pressure to avoid certain topics or to omit or change information in a report that's critical of a program. Such pressures can be particularly acute in situations where auditors must seek permission or approval for certain administrative functions from a department or a bureau that is also being audited.
 The proposed charter amendment would also ensure the auditor greater independence in other areas, including human resource management, procurement, and legal advice. Greater independence in these areas would assure both you, as well as the public, that the auditor's reports are objective, fair, and complete. We understand there may be interest in strengthening the auditor's independence through changes to Portland's code rather than amending the charter.
 While that option may appeal to some, it does not provide the same guarantee of structural independence for the auditor's office. Instead, we support the use of the charter amendment process to protect the independence of your city auditor and encourage you to pass a resolution toward that end. Thank you for the opportunity to address the council. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. My pleasure. First time this year, so happy New Year.
 I've been invited to speak just on the narrow aspect of the issue of my office, the Office of Equity and Human Rights. My name is Dante James, and its relationship with the auditor's office and whether there's any particular concern about a loss of relationship, a loss of authority, a loss of oversight or engagement that my office may have with the auditor's office.
 And the short answer is that I've had the pleasure of working both with the present auditor and the previous auditor, more often than not, at their engagement, reaching out to my office. And also with IPR, with the ombudsman, have been able to work collaboratively and collaboratively.
 testify here in support of several of the issues that the auditor has brought forward or I was brought forward last year. So essentially my office has no more authority over the auditor than I have over you. And so it's a relationship based on mutual trust and respect as well as sometimes using my bully pulpit. And so I don't find any –
 negative in terms of the relationship that my office will have with should this move forward and be referred. So that's kind of the short answer with this. And also, just as an FYI, when I was working in Denver, I worked for the mayor of Denver. Before he was the mayor of Denver, I worked for him when he was the auditor.
 So there is no expectation or requirement for any certification, and it is very much a political office and has been a stepping stone from the auditor's office to the mayor's office for several, probably in the last 25 years. So for what that's worth. Is that a good thing or a bad thing in your opinion? A little bit of both. I mean, I've seen the office used sometimes as a political sword sometimes,
 But I've also seen the good work of the audits that are done. But it truly creates a political theater sometimes that plays out that isn't necessarily good for the outcomes. Thank you, sir. Thank you both. Appreciate it. So with the forbearance of my colleagues, we can start with the public testimony. How many people do we currently have signed up? Twenty-seven. All right. Why don't we go ahead and start with that, please?
 The first three, please come on up, are Sherry Solomon, Stephen Solomon, and Daniel Solomon.
 And they'll be followed by Peter Kwong. Could I make a request that just given that we are way, way over schedule, could we limit testimony to two minutes? And I realize that puts the burden on the people who go first, and I apologize for that, so I won't be draconian about it. Can I just make an observation? Yeah, please. We have six or seven amendments on the table in addition to the referral, and
 and we're in a very compact time frame to make a decision so i would urge us to err on the side of giving people time to the extent they are talking about the amendments as well as the main motion that that would be fine my concern is i think we may lose our quorum at 4 30. i know i will have to leave i know commissioner fritz already has an excused absence at 4 30. i don't know where we are with the others
 The alternative is we could do the three minutes with the understanding that we're probably not going to get through it all today. Unless, I mean, it seems we probably want the full city council here. Why don't we do this? Let's start with three minutes and then let's see where we go. Let's see where we go. And if you could just state your name for the record and off to the races. Hi, my name is Steve Salomon. I'm from Goose Hollow. Thank you, sir.
 My family is here today to ask for the City Council to send the auditor's proposal to the voters. We believe it's crucial for the ombudsman's office to stay with the auditor's office and have more independence than it has now, especially since Mayor Hales made threats to the auditor's budget when he didn't like auditor's reports or the ombudsman's findings. Thank you.
 Send this to voters to give more transparency, more ethical treatment, and fewer political power plays over an office that should be independent. The auditor and ombudsman have been very important to West Side neighborhoods where we live. The ombudsman responded to an anonymous complaint about huge financial conflicts of interest with West Quadrant Stakeholders Advisory Committee members.
 The West Quadrant Plan is the basis for the Central City 2035 Plan that you'll be voting on. Her report found that there were enormous financial conflicts of interest by these members who promoted their own financial interests and advocated for increased heights and relaxed zoning on their own properties or properties they had financial connections to.
 Residents who attended West Quadrant meetings repeatedly told staff their concerns that they saw ridiculous financial conflicts during the West Quadrant process. Planning Bureau staff scornfully dismissed these concerns. This is what they scornfully dismissed. A developer on the Stakeholder Advisory Committee sent emails to staff saying, hey, you forgot to raise...
 heights on these blocks, which lo and behold turned out to be their properties. The current planning commission member who was on that stakeholder advisory committee
 had many years of paid work trying to get parking structures at Southwest 10th and Morrison redeveloped, yet still advocated for that redevelopment to be made at West Quadrant Priority and claimed it was not a conflict.
 A developer who owns many properties in Goose Hollow advocated to remove the required residential overlay, relax zoning, and raise heights in Goose Hollow. Unsurprisingly, all of those things will dramatically increase his property values. Staff told concerned residents that these were not conflicts.
 We've heard estimates that the West Quadrant... I'm really sorry to interrupt. Could you just state your name for the record? Sherry Salomon. Thank you. We've heard estimates that West Quadrant developments that will receive increased heights and relaxed zoning in favor of those conflicted SAC members if you approve the Central City...
 plan will gain $50 to $100 million in profit from those policies. There is a lot of money at stake. Several city council members have received substantial donations from the same people who were named as having financial conflicts.
 Planning staff, SAC members, and the Planning Commission ignored the Ombudsman's requirement that SAC members must disclose their financial conflicts. The Planning Commission voted to give increased heights and relaxed zoning to those conflicted SAC members even after hearing overwhelming testimony about the conflict.
 about residents' outrage, of which the three of us also testified, I might add. Our family testified at the planning commission. We were stunned to see that the deck was already stacked. It didn't matter that a third of the testimony was against these conflicts. The commission ignored the outpouring of public testimony and voted to give conflicted SAC members millions of dollars in benefits from
 from serving on an SAC and steering policy their way. We are so grateful for the Ombudsman's efforts to try to fix this, but we see that the Auditor's Office should have independence and the ability to require enforcement, since City staff and the Planning Commission completely ignored the Ombudsman's requirements.
 Within months of the ombudsman reports, Mayor Hales was threatening to reduce the auditor's budget. People named as having conflicts donated to his campaign. This does not look good for democracy. We are very concerned that Commissioner Saltzman is, and apparently, one who suggested removing the ombudsman's office from the vote to make the auditor independent.
 You may not know this if you do not read the Northwest Examiner, but Commissioner Saltzman owns many properties in the West Quadrant but did not recuse himself from voting to approve the West Quadrant plan, which increased the values of his very own properties by raising
 heights, and relaxing zoning. This surely violates ethics law. It may even be illegal, but also makes us question why he is pushing to give the Ombudsman's office less independence. Daniel, your turn. Okay. Name for the record, please. Thank you. My name is Daniel Salomon, and I live in Goose Hollow. Thank you. We also appreciate the auditor's report on the problems with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement.
 We agree with the auditor that any business association or nonprofit receiving city funds to promote community engagement should have oversight and ethical obligations. We have seen a business association begin in our neighborhood, which is almost fully funded by our tax dollars through Venture Portland and claims to represent neighborhood businesses, but in reality appears to be a puppet organization for
 For one of the developers, the ombudsman identified as having a conflict on the West Quadrant SAC. This organization functions almost completely with our tax dollars, but has no obligation to have open meetings, open records, elections, or conflict of interest obligations for board members. They sent letters to the cities taking a stand on land use and operations
 and other policy issues without ever having a meeting with their membership or board to vote on what stand they will take.
 This should not be funded by our tax dollars. If they want to go to the trouble of creating a puppet organization which speaks for the financial interests of only a couple of powerful people, they should do it on their own dime. The auditor's ONI audit points out these exact issues of nonprofits funded through ONI and with business associations."
 We hope the auditor audits Venture Portland and the Planning Commission next. We're telling you these stories so you know how much the auditor's office, including the ombudsman's office, needs independence.
 free from political power plays, and free from the influence of powerful political donors. You can see how much independence is needed by the fact that it took an anonymous complaint to the ombudsman to get anyone in the city to care about flagrant financial conflicts of interest on the West Quadrant plan.
 Portland residents deserve to know that the auditor's office and the OMSPUS office can be independent of such political processes. Thanks very much. Thank you for your testimony. Just as a point of clarification, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement doesn't do anything with business associations. That goes to the Portland Development Commission. So it was kind of a misunderstanding in the audit. So thank you for your testimony. Oh, you're welcome. Mayor, if I could also just note that...
 because you raised the question, we agree that based on the ombudsman's report that we need to change the rules applicable to boards and commissions.
 As you know, historically, people were not required to fill out a disclosure form. There was no training. There were no uniform bylaws. There was no master database at the city of people who served. We're in the process of bringing forth a package of reforms that draw from the ombudsman's report, which will address a number of those things. So separate and apart from what we do with the independence of the auditor.
 Those issues are being taken seriously, and we will, in the near future, have a hearing on changes to how we do boards and commissions to address the very issues you raised in your testimony. So I appreciate it. Thanks very much. Thank you. Thank you. The next three, please. And again, if people could just state their name for the record, that would be helpful. The next three are Peter Kwong, Chris Broderick, and Michael Mahaffey, and they'll be followed by Wendy Rahm, Chris Nielsen, and Tim Helzer. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Peter Kwong. I'm a certified public accountant and an audit shareholder of the Portland accounting firm, Perkins & Company. The views that I will be stating today are those of my own and not necessarily those of Perkins & Company. Thank you.
 i have audited privately held and publicly traded companies for over 20 years a little over a year ago i was asked to join the city auditor's advisory council and during that time i've gained substantial knowledge about the elected city auditor and auditor's office and what their roles and responsibilities are for the city of portland in my experience as an auditor the city of portland is in some ways like a publicly traded company
 Shareholders and publicly traded companies are individuals and investors who rely upon the statements made by management and their independent auditors. In all publicly traded companies, an internal audit function exists outside of the company's operational management. Generally, the largest blue-chip public companies have internal audit functions that are fully independent of management.
 In large companies, the board of directors or audit committee sets the budget for both external and internal auditors to ensure that the information reported to the public and investors is materially accurate. That independence is crucial to the credibility of the auditor's work. The shareholders and the public depend on those audits. So why would this be pertinent to the City of Portland?
 If the public views City Council as a board of directors, similar to a publicly traded company, it would need to ensure that the information the auditor's office presents to the public is non-biased and materially accurate without any undue influence from the city departments, including the offices of budget and management and finance, that the city auditor and her office are responsible for auditing. The advice and work of the city attorney's office, which represents city,
 departments being audited should also be kept separate from the city auditor, with the auditor being able to obtain legal advice from independent counsel. Whether we work in a company or in a city, auditors should be able to report critical findings and have the budget and support they need, especially when audits uncover findings that are critical of management.
 It is also important to have an elected auditor in office whose licensed or certified professionals uphold the following principles, integrity, objectivity, confidentiality, and competency, and that they have the means to do so without undue influence from others, especially from those that they audit and investigate. Thank you.
 In my opinion, by updating and aligning the city charter to be consistent with roles and responsibilities of the auditor will help preserve the independence and integrity of this office and the city government it audits and investigates. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. I'm Chris Broderick. I'm also a member of the Auditor's Citizen Advisory Committee. I am an associate vice president of Portland State University and a former journalist at The Oregonian who has a special interest in government accountability.
 Our committee believes strongly that an independent auditor's office is crucial to being professional and impartial, to provide, rather, professional and impartial oversight to evaluate city operations from police to parks to public housing. An independent auditor helps you as the mayor and the city council to recommend improvements that move our community forward.
 The functions of the auditor's office have not been updated in the city charter for more than two decades. And since then, as you've heard, the responsibilities have expanded greatly, such as the creation of the ombudsman. We feel on the committee that it is important to put the ombudsman in the city charter instead of a city code, because it does not only enshrines it into the charter, but it ensures that any changes from then on will have to be made by the voters and not by three votes of the city council.
 The office should be independent from the agencies that are subject to auditor oversight. You heard that clearly from the former auditors. An independent auditor is not just a best practice, but a common practice among cities with elected auditors. An example is the budget. Under the current system, the city budget office oversees the auditor's budget, and that arrangement, I think, can shape the spending priorities of the auditor, what the auditor does or does not do,
 So to me, it's difficult to have an independent auditor without an independent budget process. And as for oversight, the auditor still would report to the city council and ultimately to the voters. An independent auditor enhances the credibility of Portland City government. As you know, there are past examples when the city lost credibility with the public, such as how police handled the mentally ill or the parking meter bribe scandal.
 an independent auditor's office grounded the city charter would boost public confidence in the ability of city government to hold itself accountable. That all said, some of you still have concerns about this proposal. And ultimately, however, I think it makes sense to let the voters weigh the pros and cons of this to decide for themselves if this is a good idea. And that way, the burden of persuasion is on the auditor as an elected official to prove to the voters that this is a good idea. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Michael Mahaffey. I'm president of the Goose Hollow Neighborhood Association. And I submitted written remarks to you by letter, but I'd like to summarize those in oral testimony as well. And as I noted in the written remarks, the board of Goose Hollow Foothills League has unanimously voted to support the auditor's proposal.
 We strongly concur with the need to secure independent legal advice, create an independent budget process, and affirm the independent operations of the office free from the fact or the appearance of undue political influence. We also strongly concur that these reforms should be embodied in a charter amendment approved by the voters, free of potential for changes by the council members who also serve as bureau executives themselves.
 The issue of ethics in city government was an important campaign issue in last year's election, as you know, and rightly so, we believe. We've all seen recent evidence of disturbing lapses in ethical transparency and accountability. For example, as was alluded to earlier, the West Quadrant of Central City neighborhoods has much to be grateful for in the work of the Ombudsman's report,
 of 2015, finding undisclosed potential conflicts of interest in the West Quadrant Plan Stakeholder Advisory Committee process, and I appreciate the efforts to deal with that process more thoroughly. We believe the last city election has provided a clear mandate to restore public confidence in the integrity of that system.
 And we also want to thank the auditor for making us aware of a number of issues in the recent review of Portland's Neighborhood Involvement Administration. And we believe this and other recent events point to a very important need for really thorough structural reforms,
 leading to greater subsidiarity, transparency, and representative democracy in Portland's neighborhood involvement system. And we look forward to working with the council to address this need. And finally, may I add on a personal note, not speaking here for the board, that I really appreciate Commissioner Fritz's
 sharing her concerns with us about employment issues in this proposal and other aspects of that and I hope that these issues can be addressed and this important initiative can go forward with everyone support thank you thank you sir next three are Wendy Rom Chris Nielsen and Tim Elser and they'll be followed by Debbie Iona Carol Cushman and Dan Andelman
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Wendy Rahm. I hope to explain why I think it's so important for you to approve the auditor's proposal, all of it, including incorporating it into charter and putting it to a May vote.
 After 27 years of tests driving the current system, the flaws are known. A prominent lawyer, past auditors of Portland and of the state of Oregon and even of another major city, endorsed the proposal at the earlier work session as best practices. They all testified that the auditor's office, including the ombudsman, must have complete independence from political pressure, both in appearance and in fact.
 Any scent of political pressure on an audit or ombudsman process can distort the results and the public's confidence in those results.
 And that is where we are in Portland, with the public questioning results because of shaky processes, with some, at least, appearances, if not fact, of having been subjected to political pressures. In fact, the auditor is obliged to seek autonomy by GAO guidelines called Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards, which specifically requires an auditor to address threats to an auditor's independence and,
 Our auditor is responding to this higher standard. An auditor should be able to hire independent legal counsel and not be obliged to use a city attorney who is hired by city council. An auditor should be able to have some control of that office's budget without first having to get approval from another city bureau also competing for dollars and which is hired by city council. An auditor should be able to make decisions
 Did it go off? No. An auditor should be able to make management decisions independent of other city bureaus which are hired by city council. Checks on the auditor exist. First, the auditor is an elected official.
 Also, the auditor is required to follow all HR rules outlined in federal law. And City Council may play a part in contracting an independent professional audit review agency to review the auditor's office. And those results would be made public. I hope my testimony helps to lead you to do the right thing. Ensure that effective checks and balances in our government are in our charter.
 Please vote to put this entire proposal to the voters. Thank you for letting me speak. Wendy, just one clarification. It's the auditor who would be asking for the audit of that office. But my understanding is that, in fact, that proposal would be contracted or the funding would be approved by you as well. I don't believe so. No? Yeah. I think so. Yeah. Okay. Thank you.
 good afternoon mayor commissioners i'm chris nielsen i'm here to speak to you today in support of the auditor's request to the city council to refer to the voters of the city of portland amendments to the city charter to protect the auditor's independence portland is the city that works yet in the 2016 community survey reported in november 2016 rankings of portland is a livable city
 and city governments' overall delivery of services have declined by double digits since 2012. Performance audits conducted by the city auditor's office of city bureaus and complaints invested by the ombudsman are two ways that the performance of the city can be analyzed and improved, and that citizens such as myself...
 can have confidence that our city government is doing the best possible job with the resources it has, my confidence is built on both the reality and the appearance of the auditor's independence, including the work of the ombudsman, which the auditor's budget supports. The auditor works for me, just as all of you do, and for the people in this room and the people outside these doors.
 I would like the auditor to have both actual independence and the appearance of independence. That's the backbone of the auditor's credibility. I ask you as the city council to give me the opportunity to vote on the charter changes that would make that so. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, there's one more. Sorry. Yes, sir. Mayor, members of the council, my name is Tim Helzer. I'm a resident of Hayden Island. Thank you.
 I've been a resident of Portland since 1946. Our economically diverse residential and commercial community on Hayden Island is home to approximately 3,000 full-time residents and many retail and recreational interests. We are near major rail, barge, air facilities.
 deepwater marine, and interstate highway systems, making it very attractive for industrial development. The area is also a fragile, primarily marine-based ecological region with several thousand acres of urban wildlife habitat for a wide variety of birds, mammals, riparian creatures, fish, specialized forests, and other species assets.
 Portland City Council is sponsored as major investment partner the development of huge projects that would have had high economic impact
 environmental, transit, and social impact on a major portion of Hayden Island and the city. Here are three of at least 17 such projects that would have impacted very directly the citizens and the creatures of Hayden Island. First, the city council was a major supporter of a several billion dollar investment in the Columbia River Crossing replacement bridge,
 22 lanes going across Hayden Island, massive environmental impact and other consequences. With little direct oversight by the city's auditor's office, more than $100 million in engineering and other costs became totally unaccounted for. Whereas an independent financial fraud investigation auditor identified this massive ripoff
 and blew the whistle on it to the Washington State Senate. Project canceled. Next, a sprawling marine-based industrial complex was grandly proposed and aggressively promoted by the Port of Portland to Portland City Council on the 825 acres of West Hayden Island, for which there was never any proven economic need.
 $200 million would have gone down the drain, destroying 300 acres of natural wildlife habitat and endangering another 500. Little in-depth oversight by the city auditor's office was provided to you to avoid that kind of train wreck.
 You are all very familiar with the Pembina propane storage and transfer operation that the city was very interested in, promoted by the city of – or by Port of Portland again. It would have employed three full-time people, and yet it would have exposed this city to one of the most tragic and destructive explosions ever known across any part of the United States –
 You have a team member in the city auditor's office that needs to be more independent, needs to be better supported financially to serve you and serve us more effectively. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you all. The next three are Debbie Iona, Carol Cushman, and Dan Handelman, and they'll be followed by Robert Wright, Chris Broderick, and... Good afternoon. Thank you for being here.
 Thank you. I'm Debbie Iona, representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. The League supports the goal of Auditor Hall Caballero's proposal for administrative independence, but believes accountability safeguards need to be added. Because this is a charter amendment, there should be a very high bar for referral.
 We recommend that a requirement for a clear and open process for crafting the rules needed to exercise the new administrative powers be added to the Charter Amendment. Furthermore, those rules should be subject to a periodic review process. In our accompanying memo, we provide details and the rationale for our recommendation to add a provision G to the administrative powers section.
 Provision G would require administrative rulemaking procedures for developing the rules and regulations implementing those powers. Of particular importance to the League is that administrative rulemaking requires public and stakeholder participation and input.
 In addition to using administrative rulemaking, at least once during an auditor's four-year term, an ad hoc review committee, including stakeholders such as employees and interested members of the public, should review those administrative rules to identify possible improvements. The committee should also review the rules that govern the timeline, selection, and other elements of the auditor's use of outside expert reviewers.
 The League's Provision G recommendations also address the Oregonian editorial board's concern that, quote, increased autonomy, however, should not translate into a pass from accountability, end quote. The League fully supports providing administrative independence, but accountable use of that independence is a must.
 The initial rulemaking and periodic review we recommend will require capacity beyond what currently is available in the auditor's office. With that in mind, the League recommends that the auditor include in her upcoming budget the resources needed to conduct the initial administrative rulemaking. And I just want to draw your attention to this one-page thing with...
 We're recommending on Section 2506A under administrative authority that you delete policies and practices because that might be a way to get around the requirement for public participation in rulemaking. And then we've got Commissioner Fish's office.
 Office sent us a copy of the proposed amendment, which is fine with us. But we also really think it's important to have that last sentence that we have in Section G that requires that every four years, you know, having an ad hoc committee look at the rules just to see, you know, if there's any room for improvement. And also be a good exercise for...
 If an auditor changes every four years, for the new auditor to, you know, become more familiar and have a good discussion about the rules that govern the way the office works. Debbie, I'm hearing a sense that we may lose a quorum later, which may prevent us from acting today. Yeah. Therefore, it may go to next week if that's the case. Yes.
 If that does happen, I commit to sit down with you on the language you've proposed and you've given us and the amendment that I've crafted to see how we can harmonize them. Sounds great. And then I'm done. Thank you. And I would second that as well. So their amendment is on the table as well.
 Very good. So Commissioner Fish will work with you, and I will second. It sounds like you're already seconding as an amendment what we will call the League of Women Voters Amendment, and we will add this to the pile along with the others for further discussion. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you. I'm Carol Cushman, also representing the League of Women Voters of Portland, and we have three additional issues that we would like to address. But we wanted to give a
 full-time to our proposed amendment. The auditor pays into the general overhead fund using an allocation process that also applies to city bureaus. Given the new administrative powers proposed in the charter amendment, several centralized services that the auditor is paying for would be used to a lesser extent. Instead, the auditor would be paying outside entities for these services.
 We recommend adding a provision to the resolution clarifying that the charter is committed to a future evaluation and adjustment of the general overhead fund model regarding the auditor. So not that you would worry about the money now, but let's not be double paying for some services. The league supports retaining the educational credentials for the auditor candidates.
 The educational credentials requirement was adopted in a 1986 Charter Amendment referral with an 80% yes vote. Auditors received training and agreed to abide by professional guidelines for conducting their work, which are valuable attributes for this position.
 Finally, the League is pleased the independent police review was removed from the proposal. We support including a civilian review board focused on police accountability in the charter, but recommend creating a separate process to explore how best to accomplish that goal.
 In our view, a targeted task force made up of members selected by the mayor and auditor with an understanding of our existing system should be formed within the next two years and charged with developing a recommendation. A future charter commission would not be well suited for the task as charter commission members are selected by city council without auditor involvement. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Council. This is the first time I've been in front of this body. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch, and you will definitely be seeing me again. So there's been a lot of discussion about whether people are for or against the charter amendment being proposed, and I think that too many people fixate on for or against because there are details that are really important, and that's what auditors, we count on auditors to be,
 very exactly about those kinds of details I challenge anybody in this room right now to tell me what we're considering right now as a charter amendment because there's so many amendments floating around there were stuff that was introduced today that I never saw before and people prepared testimony on what was already presented to us this is our Constitution what's the rush here why do we have to have it on this May ballot let's get this right let's have a longer discussion we actually agree with Commissioner Saltzman that
 the ombudsman's office shouldn't go in the charter amendments being made now however we agree that it should also be in the charter that we proposed this in the last two charter commissions that came up in 2007 and 2011 that the ombudsman
 a police review agency not necessarily called IPR, and the Human Rights Commission, actually. We think all should be in the charter as they're very crucial, and they also come at odds with the city attorney's advice, and they all need the independence that's being talked about today. So we want to make sure that
 people understand we're not opposed to the seed auditor having more independence or getting independently legal counsel we just think this is being rushed unnecessarily and for whatever discussion's been happening out in the community and to the extent that the auditor is listening to people and we appreciate the ipr being taken out of here it's just happening too fast um so i also want to add that uh
 One of the problems with the Ombudsman's office, the way it exists now, is I personally had a problem with an elected auditor and an IPR director trying to file a complaint. They said, first of all, they can't take a complaint against an elected official, and second of all, they wouldn't take a complaint against their own boss or somebody else in their office. As long as the IPR and Ombudsman are in the same place, how do you file a complaint about the IPR?
 These are things that need to be considered before we put the Ombudsman's office in the charter. And that's not even written into the ordinance that says they're not supposed to investigate other parts of the auditor's office. It's just a practice that happens. It is, again, we very much appreciate having an independent counsel be part of this. This is something that was recommended by the stakeholder group about IPR.
 This has the hallmarks of what happened with the proposals to change IPR, where things happened behind closed doors and too fast for the community to really be involved in it. We also think the outside contracts to review the auditor's office should have a set number of years, probably two or three years and not any longer than that.
 And we'll try to send in some more written comments based on what was added today. Thank you very much. We appreciate your testimony. Next three are Robert Wright, Chris Broderick, and Bob Tackett. And they'll be followed by Tracy Prince, John Calvin, and Rehana Ansari. Robert Wright, Chris Broderick, and Bob Tackett. Let's go ahead and go with Tracy Prince and John Calvin. Rehana. Mr. Light. Oh, there's Rehana. Sorry. Thanks.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Robert Wright. I live in the West End and I'm a proud Portland native. After a 27-year career in the United States Air Force and seeing much of the world, I returned to the best place on earth. In the Air Force, I shouldered the responsibility of command four times. Certainly, military and civil organizations are not the same.
 but they hold something very much in common, the need for independent, unfettered investigation and reporting outside the influence and pressures of the chain of command. At the highest levels in a military organization, there was the office of the Inspector General, the IG, a feared organization if you were on the operational side of the military. Investigations helped ensure that taxpayer money was spent legally and efficiently,
 that graft and corruption did not exist, and that people were treated fairly with equal opportunity for all service members. Of course, commanders had these same fundamental responsibilities. But for the IG, it was there just to make sure. The directly elected city auditor is essentially the IG for the city council and the citizens of Portland to ensure unbiased planning and execution of programs in the best interests of the city. Auditor responsibilities for this elected position are in par with commissioners.
 The office should not be buried within city government bureaucracy. This has the appearance of being vulnerable to biased pressures from the very offices and bureaus and their programs subject to investigation. But this may be more than just appearance. During the last year, the ombudsman in the auditor's office reported serious conflicts of interest and violation of long-established ethics requirements in the development of the Central City 2035 plan for the West Quadrant.
 Some that had served on an advisory committee simply refused to comply with the report's recommendations for full disclosure of financial interests. With no city follow-up, this is much more than just troublesome. To ensure the free movement of action and independence in operations and budgeting, the auditor must report directly to the city council. This amendment to the city charter must be put before the voters in this upcoming May ballot. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Hi, I'm Tracy Prince. I've termed out as president of Goose Hollow. I'm now vice president. Goose Hollow supports the auditor's proposal for removing the office to be independent. We also vehemently object to removing the ombudsman from that process. We want the ombudsman to be independent. We want it codified in charter so that it can't be overturned by city council.
 I was not at the work session, but I have had a chance to read Commissioner Fritz's concerns. I have so much respect for her and for what she has done for my neighborhood and our city. She is often the commissioner who catches the small details with big implications. So I hope that her concerns can be addressed so that this can go to the May ballot.
 Please wait one week to give time to process this. I think it'll be a much stronger package if it goes to the voters with Commissioner Fritz's endorsement, since the voters know that she cares quite clearly about ethical governance. Goose Hollow, perhaps more than any other neighborhood, can tell you why the auditor and the ombudsman's independence is important.
 We've seen questionable behavior, like PBOT staff stacking the Central City Stakeholder Advisory Committee with the three companies who own the most parking spaces in downtown, who then voted to deregulate parking.
 We know that the outrageous financial conflicts of interest we saw on the West Quadrant Plan Stakeholder Advisory Committee were scoffed at by Planning Bureau staff and would never have been brought to the light of day without the ombudsman. After the ombudsman bombed to the light of day, this was quickly followed by threats from the mayor for the auditor.
 We know that at every level of Portland government, residents are not considered significant stakeholders, while developers and those who stand to gain financially are the most esteemed stakeholders. This leads to giant ethical problems across all bureaus. We need robust and independent oversight. The ombudsman's office should have the same independence the auditor seeks. The ability to hire separate legal counsel is an important issue for both the auditor and the ombudsman.
 The Ombudsman undoubtedly received legal advice from city attorneys on the West Quadrant SAC process, requiring that SAC members should have disclosed their financial obligations before the Central City 2035 plan was
 went to the Planning Commission. Yet Bureau staff, Planning Bureau staff, sought legal advice from the same city attorneys who told them that disclosure by conflicted SAC members wasn't necessary before going to the Planning Commission as they voted on Central City 2035. Their argument was that no vote by the commission can be overturned in court, so therefore it's not necessary.
 Shockingly, this is actually true. It can't be overturned under current ethics laws, which I hope to change.
 Let me quickly go through this because it has to do with why the legal thing. Can I ask you to be very quick? Yes. Because you're at your three minutes. Yes. We've got lots of people waiting. So the ombudsman should have the ability to seek its own legal counsel separate from the city, and that is why I think they should be independent as well. And we deserve to have that independent oversight. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. I'm Rehane Ansari, Government Relations Manager for the Portland Business Alliance. The proposed amendments before you today represent an opportunity for an important community conversation. We believe that voters should have the opportunity to review the merits of this proposal, and we therefore support referring the proposed charter changes to the voters. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you all. That's the most succinct testimony I've heard in years. Thank you. I can't say my name that quickly. Next three are Lightning, Mark Velke, and Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson, and they will be followed by Shirley Rackner. I believe the first name is Bora Harris, and Roger Leachman. Good afternoon. Good evening, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson,
 And we haven't talked enough about the dreaded asterisk. But you did this morning have a lot of input from Joe Walsh, who will often say, emergency, emergency! Because when we expedite things, we call them emergencies here. So I think it would actually be good to actually have the city attorney or yourselves say,
 to inform the people of the exact date, the last date this could possibly be referred onto the May ballot if it passed as an emergency so that we have an idea of the time frame. Some people have said we can even wait beyond May, but the League of Women Voters has offered a lot.
 and I'm in favor of, I think, getting it on the chart as soon as possible. There's really so much on the table that we need to open up some space for vigorous discussion. I'm sorry that Commissioner Fish had to step out because I think what he meant to say was when he has the discussion with the LWV, we want to make sure that also Ms. Hall-Caballero or somebody from her office can also be in a dynamic conversation because, of course, we're talking about the balance of power between the auditor's office and you all. Thanks very much. Thank you, sir.
 Good afternoon. Mayor commissioners. Uh, thank you for the opportunity, uh, to let you know my opinions on this subject today. My name is Mark Velke. I live in the goose hollow area and I am a board member on the goose hollow foothills league neighborhood association. And we voted unanimously to support the auditor's office and city ombudsman request today. We represent about 6,500 citizens. However, uh,
 These are my own opinions, and they just happen to match those of my neighborhood association. First, I would like to praise the auditor's office and the city ombudsman for the great work they are doing. Two recent examples of that are the report on the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and the West Quadrant Plan Stakeholder Advisory Committee report on, frankly, incredible ethics violations. Keep up the fantastic work.
 So to continue to do that and even more, they need city council support today. And let's talk about what the auditor's office and city ombudsman are asking you to do. This is a complete no-brainer. This has to be one of the easiest votes you will ever cast. It really boils down to this. Are you for more transparency and accountability or are you against it? I would hope that every one of you are for more transparency and accountability.
 So, do the right thing and refer to all of us here, the citizens and voters, so we can pass it by a landslide for inclusion in the city charter. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 I'd like to address Mr. Johnson's question. Thank you. This needs to be decided prior to Thursday, February 2nd, to be referred to the May ballot. And that's if it's an emergency. If it's not an emergency, we need even less. It's a resolution. It's not an ordinance. Darn. Thanks. Thank you both. The next three are Shirley Rackner, Bora Harris, and Roger Leachman.
 and they'll be followed by Suzanne Leonard, Kasia Rutledge, or Mark Kramer, and Deanna Mueller-Crispin. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. I'm Shirley Rackner. I live in southwest Portland. I was on my way to Washington, D.C. last Thursday to join a million other Americans in support of all that we value and honor in our democracy. Knowing it was going to be a long trip,
 I had taken a local newspaper to read, and the first article I read was concerning the auditor's office. I admit the extent of my knowledge about the auditor's office is that I had voted for someone to do this important job. I must say that this afternoon I've learned more about the office. The further I read, I realized that this issue was complex. This afternoon I realized how complex it was.
 and that the commissioners might have concerns on the question of independence for the auditor's office. That was somewhat understandable. What was not understandable, as I read, was why not give the residents of Portland a voice on this and allow them to look at the question and vote one way or another. To further understand the issue, I found that the current structure
 of the elected auditor's office could be second guessed by the commissioners and other unelected city offices which is rather confusing since the definition of an audit is i quote an official inspection by individuals of organizations typically by an independent body led by a cpa that seemed very simple to me
 It's also my understanding, like you, the auditor is democratically elected and should be independent. I ask the question, what makes this so difficult for this council to give the voters the opportunity to democratically decide on this question? And I must say, the irony did not escape me as I was flying to a people's march asking for a voice in our government.
 Thank you. Thank you for that. I can just picture you going to that march. When it's referred to the ballot, it's either yes or no. So as you've heard earlier, it's not whether to send it to the ballot, it's exactly what are we going to send to you, the voters, for a yes or no. So it's very important that we get the details right. I'd also say that I think if the council had the ability to influence the auditor too much now, that certainly has not shown up in the audits that
 that I've had and each one of my colleagues has had. So I'm astonished that people think that I had anything to do with that. Good afternoon. The podium has already been addressed. I'm Deborah Harris, a.k.a. Bora. My presence is not personal, but about what is honest, what is fair, what is ethical, and what should be real transparency. Thank you.
 Studying the organizational structure, I support and appreciate the need for change and see much value placed in the office of ombudsman into charter. I began to reflect on the current and past state of police accountability.
 and inconsistencies, credibility, and lack of transparency. Consideration of the IPR into charter should not be a question. No. The auditor's office monitors practices, programs, policies, not manage offices. The auditor's office, the IPR should be put underneath
 judge for disciplining practices and patterns the Charter is valuable for it allows we the people to vote if a shift needs to be made not just a handful of City Council members who are fixed with a culture of making decisions in a nanosecond in their best interest Charter helps restore the credibility that we the people should have of the auditor's office
 It allows the auditor's office to simply do its job.
 When groups or individuals have the power to hover over auditors' office, it suppresses the auditor's ability to fulfill its mission. I support the need to create a budget process. In prior discussions, I have expressed the need for independent audits of some of our bureaus with untrackable tracking spendings. Where there are little to no trails, tracking can be quite difficult.
 Establishing an independent budget clearly says you can't touch it. Then the fear factor of the auditor's budget being detracted is no longer there. When the auditor's office can count on an expected budget when it's needed, it opens more opportunities for independents.
 When many groups or individuals have been granted so much power, but has never understood the administration of the powers, we have witnessed these results of the outcome over and over again.
 The writer Edgar Poe said, Be not the first by whom the new is tried, nor the last to lay the old aside. Many changes outlined by the Auditor's Office are not new. Laying the antiquated, the old aside is a necessity for positive change. My closing statement begins with three carefully chosen words, The Court.
 The court, that source of power connected to the auditor's office that does not allow it to function as it is designed to function or as we the people expect it should function with independence, transparency, and justice. I see real value of the auditor's office needing its independence legal.
 advice from the city attorney because the city attorney needs to be separate Chinese her own the officers office it needs is on Legal advice. Thank you very much. Thank you. It's good to see you again. Good to see you. Thank you. Good afternoon Good afternoon My name is Roger Leachman and I serve on the board of the goose Hollow Foothills League tip O'Neill famously said all politics is local true or not it has more appeal than the national and
 where Professor Lasky's words, written over half a century ago, have a bitter irony. The elaborate farce of the Electoral College is still enacted, even though all the world knows that it has lost any meaning. Back to the local. Nothing is more local than a neighborhood association.
 Citizens, neighbors, come together, discuss robustly the issues that affect them, and take action. We proudly follow Bud Clark's charge to our association, that it was founded by residents and business owners to defend Goose Hollow from outside forces not acting in the neighborhood's best interest and to create a vision of better livability.
 In that advocacy, we often can relate to Commissioner Udaly's description at the work session of people who felt disenchanted and unheard by their city. So where can they turn? Where can the general citizenry find a little hope? We take heart then when the ombudsman calls out BPS over conflicts of interest during the West Quadrant process.
 a report for which she got a lot of grief, as you have heard. Prima facie evidence, she's doing her job, and why her office should be in charter and not just in code. We take heart from the auditor's report on owning. Without these exercises in accountability, how would reform, much-needed reform, come about?
 How would more respect and trust in the government of our city be fostered? Ensuring transparency and accountability is the auditor's charge. Give her the means to follow that. As my friend Mark said earlier, it's a no-brainer. I urge you to refer it to the voters. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Suzanne Leonard, Kasia Rutledge.
 And Deanna Mueller-Crispin. And we'll go to Mark Kramer. Is that okay, Deanna? I thought we finished. I'm sorry. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Thank you. I apologize. Good afternoon, Commissions. Thank you. I'm Suzanne Lenard. I'm co-founder and director of the International Making Cities Livable Council and resident downtown.
 I respectfully encourage you to accept the City Auditor's proposed Charter Amendment and place it on the May ballot. It's essential that the City Auditor's Office is independent, free from the fact or appearance of conflicts of interest. The public expect and deserve transparency and accountability in their city government. The Charter's four amendments are most appropriate.
 placing the Independent Police Review and the office, especially the Office of Ombudsman, into charter, authorizing the auditor to obtain independent legal advice that is focused on the mission of the auditor's office,
 creating an independent budget process that ensures the auditor's office is appropriately funded and insulated from political interference, and affirming the auditor's office is autonomous from the Office of Management and Finance and other bureaus.
 I hope Portland will lead the way in government accountability and transparency. Please accept the Charter Amendment and place it on the May ballot. Thank you. Thank you. And I just need to say, as soon as one of my colleagues gets back, I have to leave, unfortunately. I have a city business appointment that I need to get to. But I will watch the remainder of the testimony and expect to participate in the discussion next week. I think we have the last speakers. Thank you. Oh, are you?
 Well, in that case, I'll just... Are these... I'm sorry, Carla, are these the last speakers? Madam Clerk, I'm sorry to interrupt. Are these the last speakers? So, yes. Oh, okay, great. Fabulous. Yes, that works. Thank you. My name is... Thank you. Is that okay with you, Alan? Thank you. Oh, you can ask for it.
 My name is Mark Kramer. I'm a member of the Portland chapter of the National Lawyers Guild, Mayor Wheeler and Council. The Portland chapter of the National Lawyers Guild supports the auditor's proposal.
 For over a decade, we've been intimately involved in police accountability in Portland. I was part of Mayor Katz's 2000 work group. I was part of Mayor Adams' 2010 work group. We were going to be part of the work group that the former mayor was going to initiate last fall. So through that time, we've come to know the ways in which the auditor's lack of independence negatively impacts the effectiveness of its programs.
 The credibility of the ombudsman and IPR depends entirely on the independence of the auditor from the city. The most obvious problem, particularly from a lawyer's point of view, is the auditor's lack of independent counsel. The Guild, along with many other organizations, recommended independent counsel as part of the 2010 Stakeholder Committee. Unfortunately, that proposal did not reach fruition.
 Regardless of whether the city attorney's joint representation of the city and the auditor's office, and in particular IPR, is an ongoing ethical conflict of interest, there are times in which the auditor takes positions which are materially adverse to the city. For example...
 The Guild and other groups are upset and concerned about PPB's use of rubber bullets and tear gas at the J-20 demonstrations. There have been and will be complaints filed with IPR. The same city attorney's office is going to be advising PPB on the use of rubber bullets, on the use of tear gas, on the application of force, is going to be advising IPR, who's going to be investigating that. That's a conflict of interest.
 This perceived conflict, whether real or not, reduces transparency in government and creates a lack of trust in the auditor's services. This, in turn, is part of the lack of trust of IPR, and that, in turn, causes litigation when litigation is not necessary in every case. If we had a credible police accountability system, and the auditor's proposal is one step toward that, many citizens' complaint that head to court could be resolved otherwise.
 The Guild strongly urges the City to adopt the auditor's charter changes and to do so now. Making changes to code will not be sufficient because what the Council creates in code can be changed. It is also in the City's best interest to propose these charter changes immediately to increase confidence in the auditor's programs, and we appreciate your thoughtful consideration of the auditor's proposal. Thank you, sir.
 Last but not least. Well, we'll see. I'm Deanna Mueller-Krispa, and I live in the West End. I'm a member of the council. I do urge you to support the city auditor's proposed changes to give the auditor's office, including the ombudsman, real independent authority, as so many people have said this afternoon.
 Among the ombudsman's duties are receiving and investigating citizen complaints against administrative acts of city government, which, of course, includes complaints against conflicts of interest, which applies as well to appointees to boards and city volunteers. I got a lot of this from your website. Such as stakeholder advisory committees, SACs, and you've heard quite a bit about that today. Okay.
 However, I would like to point out that without the ombudsman's taking up of this issue, these conflicts of interest would never have come to public light. It has to come to public light in order to maintain the credibility of government and the faith in our government. However, it certainly seems clear to most of us that the auditor's office and the ombudsman's
 I never say that. Ombudsman cannot have much power to affect real change in behavior of city officials, including employees or appointees.
 when they are dependent on the city, perhaps on the same offices against which this and complaints are brought, for their budget and legal services. For example, the ombudsman's requirement or request, I'm not quite sure which, for their ex post facto declarations of conflicts of interest from the West End staff members have not yet been fully implemented. Thank you.
 For real independence and effectiveness, the auditor's office needs to have legal counsel independent, have independent budget, and be able to make their own management decisions. Please put this on the made ballot. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. So I believe we've completed the testimony. We're going to lose our quorum. So with the permission.
 and approval of the auditor we will continue this next wednesday at 3 15 p.m that will be a time certain uh we will make sure that there is nothing else after that so we will have plenty of time to discuss it
 I apologize we weren't able to get it all done today, but I think with the number of comments and amendments, it'll probably help us to have that discussion anyway. Commissioner Fish? Mayor, my hope is that since you're continuing this hearing, it means that we can continue to receive comments from the public in writing or by email. And my hope is that
 we can take the amendments on the table and see whether they can be resolved. The auditor has to decide which of these concepts she's willing to accept into her proposal. My hope is that at the end of this process, we'll come back next Wednesday with the revised auditor's proposal, a clear understanding if there are any remaining amendments, and that we would simply –
 Mayor, at that point, take votes on the amendments and on the package. Very good. So, to clarify, we have closed the public testimony in terms of oral, but are accepting written comments through next week. Right. So the hearing next week will be for the purpose of reviewing any revised proposal from the auditor, considering any amendments which are still on the table, and then casting the final vote on the referral. Okay.
 Very good. Last word to the auditor, please. Will this be brought next week? Okay. Thank you. No, we're done with amendments, and we're done with the testimony. The only thing, Madam Auditor, that could happen is if there's an amendment on the table which you don't accept in its current form, but you're able to negotiate the way you have on other issues, then I would expect that would be incorporated into a substitute that you would bring. Okay. Thank you for that clarification. Final word?
 Thank you very much for your time. I appreciate all the people who came here today, and I look forward to continuing the discussion next week. That's excellent. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, everybody. We are adjourned.