This is the Wednesday, January 31st, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Here. Wheeler? Here.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on items of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will make everybody feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and to also ensure the decorum is maintained for all of us.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communication to briefly speak about any subjects they wish to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of resolutions and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 Please state your name for the record. We do not need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. And if you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up, and when your time is done, the red light will come on.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I will issue a warning. If there's any further disruption, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest.
 arrest for trespass. If folks would like to show their support for something, a simple thumbs up is good. If you don't like something, a thumbs down works as well. Please no shouting out. Thank you and let's get started. Carla with Council Communications. First item please.
 Item number 85, request of Brigid Blackburn to address council regarding the impact of crime and vandalism has on business, employees, and clients in the Central East Side neighborhood. So Carla, and I'll ask this of the presenters, as I look at this, are you all part of a group? Would you like to come up together? Would you like to come up individually? It's your call. Very good, why don't you read all five please, Carla.
 86, request of Brent Perry on behalf of the Central Eastside Industrial District to address council regarding increase in crime and vandalism in the Buckman neighborhood. 86.
 87, request of Brooke Kabatik to address council regarding increase in crime in the Central Eastside neighborhood. 88, request of Tamara Goldsmith to address council regarding help for businesses in the Central Eastside neighborhood with vandalism, mental health resources and homelessness.
 And 89, request of Emma Palat to address council regarding the impact rising crime and vandalism has on businesses, employees, clients, and community in the Central East Side. Very good. And a reminder, name for the record when the light comes on, the red light, your time is up. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, I'm Bridget Blackburn. I'm the co-owner of Cargo. We're a 20-year-old independent business that relocated into the Central East Side about three and a half years ago.
 When we moved into the neighborhood, we formed a small informal group of businesses with goals to promote our businesses and create community standards. Three years later, we're now a part of the Merchants and Makers Committee, which is a part of the Central Eastside Industrial Council. We work frequently with the city's crime prevention specialists and have formed a robust Business Watch program with numerous trainings led mostly by Mark Wells and Terry Papino.
 We hold regular quarterly district cleanups in the district. We partner with Solve, the City of Portland's Graffiti Abatement Task Force, and your Pick It Up Portland initiative. We have also started regular cleanups with Central City Concern's Clean Start program. And we have funded, in part with grants through Venture Portland, both the first ever district-wide map and the new CEIC website.
 We have seen a spike in property damage vandalism, deterrence to our customers coming to the area because of smashing grabs in cars. Rather than go through a list of all of those specific stories and hardships, I'd like to speak to a few possible challenges that I think we might be able to come up with a partnership to come to some solutions to. One is we need a much more efficient way to work across jurisdictions.
 We, for instance, when we have to clean up garbage or graffiti from our area, we have to identify ownership and get permission from all kinds of groups like ODOT, the Multnomah County, PBOT for parking meters, BES for bioswales, Union Pacific runs through our district, and then City of Portland and private landowners as well.
 We have a short list of requests that we would like to make from each of those departments that would result in much quicker response so that we could have higher cleaning response and that would eventually minimize the issues we're seeing on those streets. Our time is too valuable as volunteers to be caught in the red tape, and we know the mayor's office has seen some of these issues, especially in working with departments like ODOT.
 Finally, we also need to come up with a way to address the lack of public restrooms. During my time over the last three years leading cleanups with Solve, I've learned a lot about public safety and keeping our volunteers safe from the contamination of human waste. In the Central East Side, we're very connected to the river and its health.
 From Second Avenue down, the catchment flows right into the river. We need innovation around this problem. One idea might be to get actual camp toilets, the same kind of thing that you're using when you're
 rafting on the rivers in Oregon and have something like a waste collection site available for them. This solution in my experience as a camper costs $18 and I can go to a waste collection site. We'd like to start a discussion with you around solutions like this. Thank you. Not sure who would like to go next? Okay. Good morning. My name is Tamara Goldsmith.
 I've been a business owner of a retail shop in the Central East Side for the past 12 years. In recent years, we've faced incredible new challenges. Break-ins are occurring much more frequently, vandalism is rampant, and shoplifting is now a regular occurrence. Drug paraphernalia, garbage, urine, and feces are something shop owners have to clean up on their doorsteps on a regular basis. We're in regular contact with people exhibiting belligerent and erratic behavior who appear to be either in opiate withdrawal or experiencing a mental health crisis. Not only am I concerned for the safety of myself and my staff
 but also for my customers and our community at large. Historically, we've relied on the calling of 911 for help, but the response time is slow and reporting process is confusing and generally inadequate in addressing the rules, roots of our bigger problems. About two years ago, frustrated by these circumstances, I started a closed Facebook group called PDX Theft Watch. As an online community of small business retailers and now 600 members strong, we provide a support network to one another while addressing security and safety concerns.
 We circulate immediate warnings, ideas, stories, surveillance photos, and descriptions of perpetrators to one another. We encourage others to file police reports, which helps build interconnected cases using shared information. The biggest issues we have are with known chronic thieves and people who repeatedly engage in violent behavior or enjoy creating a public nuisance.
 What I would ask from the city is for some sort of a similarly coordinated method of communicating the issues business owners have with an appointed liaison and local law enforcement. We need a single representative at the PPD who we can rely on to return our calls, help us build cases against known chronic shoplifters, and help us create a network of better communication about incidents involving repeat offenders. Having a single appointed official to connect with when eliminate the confusion we often have when trying to link multiple case numbers against a single chronic shoplifter.
 Our Facebook group has proven to be an incredible resource, but what it lacks is the experience, guidance, and database of the PPD. If we can utilize technology to communicate better through some sort of online system that effectively circulates safety and security information and provides a simple platform to connect the business community with law enforcement, I think that would give us all
 A few more ideas that other Theft Watch group members have suggested online. Number one, public bathrooms in and around downtown and the central east side. Number two, more security foot patrols day and night in high traffic shopping areas. Three, more public campaigns and education about the availability of social services and programs like LEAD, Central City Concern, and Outside In.
 Four, funding and approval of new programs like Safer Spaces, which seeks to mitigate drug-related issues by providing a supervised facility for users to use in private, giving users access to immediate treatment options as a humane alternative to incarceration or overdose. Five, more direct access to addiction and mental health services, not restricted only to PPD referrals.
 Six, addressing the housing crisis with taxation of corporations and the wealthy to provide more emergency shelters, supportive transitional housing, and subsidized affordable housing. Seven, initiatives could be funded by increasing the property taxes on vacant commercial space. When a landlord leaves a building vacant, consider increasing their tax rate.
 I have one more. Consider increasing the punishments of repeat offenders, the frustration of being a victim of violent acts of aggression, theft, and vandalism, only to have assailants re-release the same day is unacceptable. Really appreciate your time and your service. Thank you for hearing me out. Thank you. Do you want to go ahead? Sure. Hi, my name is Brooke Kabatik. Thank you for allowing me this time. You turn that microphone on. Thanks, guys. Not super close, just on, yeah.
 I manage the Logos building at 529 Southeast Grand. We're in the heart of the Central East Side. The Logos is a mixed-use building with three restaurants on the ground floor. My father's place restaurant, which has been there 40 years, Slow Bar 15 and Side Door 12. We're not new to the neighborhood. We're across the street from City Team Ministries and we share a wall with the Columbia Shelter. City Team Ministries and our building have coexisted just fine for over 20 years. We've advocated for transition projects to remain in the Schleifer Building as long as possible.
 With that said, over the last two years, and this last one in particular, we've experienced a level of increased crime that is tremendously affecting our businesses and the safety of our employees and our patrons.
 Over the last year we've installed a door entry system at the Logos so that our main entrance is locked at all times. My father's place has hired night security. U.S. Bank has installed gates around their parking lots and has hired a full-time security guard inside their branch. The Shell gas station now has a night security patrol and both the barber block and city team ministries have installed metal gates around their doors. All of this in the last year.
 Regular patrons of my father's place no longer come because they have been harassed time and time again and don't feel it safe. Employees of the restaurant have been threatened on numerous occasions and one was assaulted bad enough that he was knocked out and taken to the ER where he was treated for a concussion and stitches.
 Windows smashed, graffiti, sidewalks defecated, urinated on, needles found, fires set on street corners, drug deal shootings assaults. I mean, I could go on for hours about specific examples. Instead, I took photos to document the ongoing issues that we're dealing with around our building. Please take the time to go through each one of these photos and the wording underneath it. It's really hard to capture these on photos.
 I'm only at our building a few hours a day and most of that's in my office, so what you're seeing is just a tiny snapshot of what's happening all day, every day around our building. We are losing business because of crime. On numerous occasions, the police officers responding to our calls have told me that they normally work as specialty unit like drug enforcement and this is not their area of expertise.
 We are asking you, the city, for a public safety action committee in the Central East Side. We really need this. We're asking you, the city, for a district officer that knows us, knows our community and its challenges. We need this. We are asking the city to allow the police to enforce laws that are already set in place. For example, code 14A.50.010, no alcohol consumption on sidewalks. Or 0.020, prohibits camping on public right of ways. Or 0.030 and 0.035, leaving sidewalks clear for pedestrians and wheelchairs.
 I don't know why these aren't being enforced already. We've lost long-term staff. We've lost long-term customers, people that know the neighborhood but no longer feel it's safe. We need your help, and I invite you on the first sunny day of spring to come have lunch outside at Slow Bar to see why. I would also like to know who we can follow up with at the city regarding the Public Safety Action Committee and a district officer. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you.
 Brent Perry, President of Bremer Construction. We moved into the Central Eastside in 2010. I don't know that I could say it much better than what these three ladies have said, so I will just reiterate the same story. Central Eastside is a very important part of the City of Portland. It is the next growth area. I think everybody sitting here would acknowledge that.
 Let's treat it that way. Let's start enforcing the basic laws to make it a safe place for people to want to come to work. That's all. Thank you. Hi, I'm Kate Maryland with the Central East Side Industrial Council, and Emma Paulette couldn't come because of a family emergency, so I'd like to request permission to— I will allow it in this circumstance. Thank you.
 I want to start off by saying that we really appreciate the guidance that the city has given us recently in the process of setting up an ESD and also Venture Portland who gave us a grant to pursue this endeavor. This is a major volunteer and staff effort with over 300 signatures for us to get. So we hope to achieve this by the end of spring and be here to talk to you about that then.
 We would love to continue partnering with the city and finding solutions to these livability issues and I just have to say that ONI has been invaluable in this. Graffiti abatement, crime prevention have been there when we need them and so I really want you to consider really supporting these programs and even expanding them and letting the
 having a communications budget to let everybody in the city know about these resources. It's amazing. Also we'd love to have community policing. We did have a CPAC committee which I think was kind of what you talked about.
 I recently have been getting business owners in some problem areas together with police to talk about these issues. And it's very cathartic for the business owners and it also helps them understand how to report things and what's going on with our police system. So I would like to really encourage more of that interaction with the police and business owners.
 I also, as we start in ISTE, we don't want to be pushing this out into the neighborhoods, all the problems. And so we would love to work with you to find ways to empower other neighborhoods to be able to move ahead on these livability issues. And one great example was a grant that we were able to get...
 Excuse me, this is a disruption in violation of council rules. I will remind you, if you disrupt the meeting, you will be asked to leave.
 Continue, please. Yeah. So, one great example was a grant that the city was able to give us to have Central City Concern come in with the Clean Start program in partnership with Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods. That was a great pilot and we've been able to expand it. So starting February 1st, we'll have Central City Concern going throughout the central east side thanks to funds through our Transportation and Parking Advisory Committee, which is a great partnership with PBOT.
 So with that said, thank you so much for your support and let's keep working together. Very good. And does that cover all five of you? Yes. Thank you for your testimony. I appreciate it and I'm compelled to say something. And this is not a counter to what you were saying. I just feel compelled to say something on this subject because it weighs heavily on me and it weighs heavily on this community.
 I just got back from the US Conference of Mayors this past weekend and I convened the West Coast mayors and we added Alaska and Hawaii to the mix as well because this is an issue that has filtered up not only as an important issue, it has become the issue. And I want to first of all just say the City of Portland is not the only city experiencing this issue.
 And while things are certainly dire here, and I do not want to in any way suggest that this is not a serious situation, it is a very serious situation, it's actually worse in other areas. But I want people to be aware of what is happening here. There are large trends that the city of Portland does not control at work here. The first is the economy.
 We are seeing a rapid concentration of wealth. That means people at the lower end of the economic spectrum are being the hardest hit. And at the exact same time what's happening is the cost of housing is becoming increasingly affordable for lots of people.
 We have the ability to control that to a certain degree at the local level. That's what we're doing with the 2035 plan. I hope people will continue to support height and density, sorry 2035 plan, thank you, height and density in the central core so we can have workforce and lower income housing. The second trend is opioid and heroin addiction. And again, this is a national issue.
 and it is filtering down, and we are seeing it here at the local level. We have to go upstream to be able to effectively address these issues. Third and finally, you're seeing more mental health issues here.
 This nation has not been successful at addressing community-based mental health services. There are a lot of good providers here, but there's so much more that we can do. So I just want to continue to have people to focus upstream. Now we have a responsibility here to do what we can do with the tools that we have at our disposal, and I want to assure you that my administration is working very, very hard on this.
 We have been addressing livability issues, so public health issues, environmental issues. I remind you that that is in violation of council rules. Please do not do that again.
 We have increased our police presence. We have increased park ranger presence. We have increased funding for trash collection, biohazard collection, and other issues. We have worked with private sector and nonprofit partners to help encourage volunteers to participate both supporting the homeless population and addressing some of the livability issues that come with it.
 So what I'm asking us all to do is let's put our collective energy, no matter where we... Excuse me, you are in violation of council rules and you have been asked... Excuse me for one moment. We're in recess. We'll be right back. We're in recess.
 Carla, have any items been pulled off the consent agenda? I've had no request. Let's move it. I'm sorry, I have to get this back in session. I apologize. We are back in session. Carla, have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? I have no pulls, but we need four people. That's true. For the consent agenda? Yeah, we do. That's okay. Let's call Venture Portland up, and as soon as Dan gets here, we'll adopt it. Or Amanda. Yeah. We'll just wait a minute. Hey, Heather? Heather?
 Why don't you and your team come forward so that you're ready to go because you're the next time certain. Make sure the PowerPoint's working and everything you need. We're sending the sergeant-at-arms out to get Dan Saltzman. Here he comes. Okay. Carla, please call the roll on the consent agenda. Nothing's been pulled. Fritz? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda's been adopted. Item 90, please. Item 90, Venture Portland Annual Report to Council. Okay.
 Commissioner Foosh. Mayor and colleagues. For the record, I'd like to put yes on the consent agenda. Okay. And one more yes on the consent. Mayor and colleagues, as council liaison to Venture Portland, I'm proud to welcome today Heather Hale, Executive Director of Venture Portland, Matthew Mesetic, President of the Venture Portland Board and owner of Red Castle Games on Southeast Foster, Brad Forkner, Dane Fredericks, and Calvin Huff, who are district organizers for Venture Portland. Thank you.
 As you know, Venture Portland serves our 50 neighborhood business districts, which represent over 19,000 individual businesses and provide nearly 250,000 jobs in Portland alone. The average small business in our city employs three or fewer people. And remember, when we shop local, 70% of every dollar stays in our local economy.
 Venture Portland is completing the third year in a program designed to bring increased capacity and resources to business districts in North and East Portland. The so-called catalytic investment initiative is exceeding our expectations. The modest investment we've made is making a huge difference in these traditionally underserved business districts, and I look forward to continuing to support this project into the future. With that, I'll turn it over to Heather Hale. Heather, welcome. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Thank you for making time for us today. Hopefully that's coming through. Okay, there we go. All right. As Commissioner Fish, thank you for introducing me. I'm Matthew Mesetic. I'm the president of Venture Portland, as well as the owner of Red Castle Games on Southeast Foster.
 Last year was a tremendous success for my business. We had record-setting holiday sales, and year-over-year sales growth was 18% over 2016. So business is strong in Foster. We also had a tremendous achievement, and we purchased a commercial building on the Foster Corridor because much like
 people and housing, there's a lot of displacement in businesses as well. And this will ensure our future and my 10 employees' future on Foster forever now. So it's really exciting that we can put our roots even deeper into the neighborhood. Finally, I'm also president of the Foster Area Business Association, one of Portland's 50 neighborhood business districts. As you may have heard, our business district is getting a new shelter this year.
 While citing a shelter is never an easy task, Mayor Wheeler, I've been impressed by the responsiveness of your team to the questions raised by foster businesses and particularly the hard work of your policy advisor, Sarafee Allen. Thank you and I'll pass that on to her. She's probably hearing it. Thank you. Oh, she's here. Very good. Thank you. I look forward to working with you and your staff, the Joint Office on Homeless Services to implement the innovative foster area shelters
 steering committee. I think this will be a great new resource to help bring the neighborhood and the shelter provider as well as other interested parties together and make this as successful as possible in our district. But we're here to talk about Venture Portland today.
 2017 was a big year for Venture Portland. We launched new programs, expanded the Catalytic Investment Initiative into North Portland, and continued our partnership with you, City Council. As you know, Venture Portland is the support system for Portland's neighborhood business districts, which contain 19,200 individual neighborhood businesses and provide employment for 267,000 Portlanders.
 We are the only entity in Portland that works exclusively at the business district level, making us the support system for all of the city's neighborhood business districts. In Portland, small really is big. Venture Portland promotes these critical commercial corridors and supports the dedicated volunteers that manage them with training, technical assistance, and grants.
 In fact, over the last 21 years in partnership with the City, Venture Portland has invested more than $1.5 million into business district growth, leveraging an additional $4.9 million in private business district investment. This is a more than three-to-one match. As President, I know that the strength of this organization has always come from our collective efforts, the beliefs that the business of Portland is about more than just business.
 It's about the people, the neighborhoods, and the culture we have. It's about passion and dedication and starting something because you believe you have a great idea to make your part of Portland a wonderful place. It's also about the vision of our city that business owners, residents, and elected officials share. A vision that celebrates the individualism and distinct flavor that makes Portland, Portland. There's no Chicagolandia. There's only been a Portlandia.
 The knowledge that our diverse neighborhoods and unique views make up the very fabric that binds us and our city together is what creates this great cohesive place. Venture Portland means business, and so do all of you. So I'll turn it over to Heather to discuss the specifics of our 2017 achievements and our 2018 plans. Heather.
 Thank you, Matthew. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Heather Hale. I'm the Executive Director of Venture Portland. As Matthew said, 2017 was a big year for Venture Portland and the neighborhood business districts we supported. The following brief overview provides a snapshot of our work over the last 12 months. Thank you.
 After seven years of sustained double-digit growth, we once again expanded access to our capacity building services. We increased participation in our training and technical assistance program 11%, with almost 600 business district leaders attending one of 44 trainings that
 that covered everything from the legal responsibilities of nonprofit officers, to the creation of an enhanced services district, to asset mapping in diverse and rapidly changing neighborhoods.
 And we addressed more than 600 district-specific requests from districts citywide. That's a 25% increase over the number that I reported to you last year. This in-depth, personalized support helped districts navigate major leadership transitions and effectively manage business mix, built form, and demographic changes in our rapidly growing city.
 Over the last year, we provided 3,294 hours of training and technical assistance to district leaders from emerging and established districts. That's a 41% increase over what I reported last year. To put this exponential growth in perspective, in just the first six months of this fiscal year, we've already roughly matched the entire number of training and technical assistance hours provided in FY14-15.
 We also significantly expanded access to our grants, awarding more than $100,000 to fund 42 projects that leveraged almost $400,000 in additional business district investment, a nearly four-to-one match, making these some of the most efficient dollars the city spends. In addition, two-thirds of our total grants went to underserved business districts in East and North Portland.
 The following are a few examples of how these catalytic funds have supported neighborhoods. After helping Beaumont, which is northeast Fremont, launch Dash to Donuts in conjunction with Portland hosting the 2016 World Indoor Track and Field Championships,
 We provided grant funding to expand this unique event that partners two unlikely district businesses, Foot Traffic and Pips Donuts, to encourage a fun run and track and field style obstacle course hosted at individual businesses.
 The success of this family-friendly event led the way for the district to launch a series of new events this year, including Halloween and holiday promotions, and significantly increase business engagement.
 After two years of unrelenting district construction on Williams, including 11 new high-rise buildings which brought more than 1,000 new apartments, about 100,000 square feet of retail space, plus a bike lane that is the only one in the city on the left side of the street, Williams was concerned about losing the community's history and identity.
 After adopting, honoring history and embracing change as their manifesto, the district used Venture Portland grant funds to commission professional photographs of the district's diverse businesses, customers, and residents for use online and in published collateral, including their district map, which this year also proudly features the Black Williams Project historic markers.
 Finally, after receiving significant feedback from Northwest industrial businesses in the industrial sanctuary and acknowledging that there were in fact no residents inside the industrial sanctuary.
 Northwest Industrial moved to operate exclusively as a business association. In partnership with ONI and Neighbors West Northwest, Venture Portland helped these volunteers navigate this transition and provided grant funding to launch an inaugural membership campaign that has generated first-time revenue for this important, close-in industrial community.
 The overwhelming majority of Portland businesses are neighborhood-based, which means neighborhood businesses truly power Portland's economy. All year, but especially during the holidays, Venture Portland helped cash registers ring citywide.
 In addition to launching six new business district events between Halloween and New Year's, we promoted, and I attended, 50 retail events in 21 days, including little boxes, which incentivized 15,000 store visits on Black Friday and Small Business Saturday.
 and we continued to support Multnomah Village's innovative Golden Ticket program, which has generated $6 million in retail sales in just Hillsdale and Multnomah Village over the last six years. It is that kind of innovation that truly makes our economy hum. We also helped connect neighborhood businesses with city commissioners and bureaus. For the fourth year in a row, we worked with all permitting bureaus,
 to ensure that 100% of street fairs were permitted. This is a yeoman's effort. These 50 events collectively attract 1 million visitors annually. So I'd like to give huge extra thanks to PBOT staff for continuing to make this process manageable and affordable for these volunteer-run associations.
 As I told you this fall, I'm very excited about Council's newly adopted livable street strategy, which I expect will make 2018's season of street fairs and festivals even more successful.
 We continued our partnership with BES and PBOT to mitigate the impact of construction and demonstration projects on neighborhood businesses, especially during the critical holiday retail period. By coordinating construction schedules, communicating with business district leaders while planning projects, and adhering to the construction blackout between Thanksgiving and Christmas, these bureaus have made the city that works work better for business.
 Following Council's unanimous vote last year, business and neighborhood associations now receive the same city notifications for the first time as residential neighborhoods, correcting a systemic inequity. Speaking of notifications, while land use and zoning are frequently hot-button issues, by providing equitable information to business districts about proposed changes in their communities—
 you are better able to leverage Portland's creative and thoughtful business owners and give them the opportunity to work with you to find solutions to some of our biggest challenges.
 In particular, I want to note the examples recently set by Kenton, Lloyd, and Foster. When given the opportunity to have a meaningful discussion with city leaders about the need to provide shelter for our most vulnerable citizens, all three districts rose to the challenge and have welcomed shelters and temporary housing.
 After negotiating a number of sustainability improvements with our landlord, we secured our sustainability at work certification. We also worked with BPS and their economic planning team to design and develop an online database, which is expected to launch this spring. They'll provide critical business district demographic and economic trend information to district leaders citywide. This is a very huge and exciting development.
 Last month, we worked with public information officers from PBOT, ONI, emergency response bureaus, and your offices to plan severe weather communications. And as a member of the Age-Friendly Portland and Multnomah County Task Force, we maintained our Age-Friendly business certification.
 Finally, we were exceptionally proud to be one of the first partner organizations to sign on to Commissioner Fish's all-user restroom challenge and to help promote neighborhood businesses doing the right thing for their customers.
 Last, but certainly not least, I want to recognize Venture Portland's dedicated volunteers, several of whom are with us here today. Our board, made up of one representative from each business district, contributed a whopping 1,386 volunteer hours last year. These volunteer hours, which are equal to 0.67 FTE, or 27 hours a week, were in addition to each board member's work in their own business and volunteer work in their own business district.
 Our success would not be possible without this incredible commitment. Finally, I want to acknowledge the exceptional community spirit of Portland's neighborhood business owners. In the face of 2017's unprecedented challenges, they came together to weather a series of crises, ranging from severe weather to threats and violence, and opened their hearts and their wallets to respond with their own unprecedented generosity.
 By leveraging their entrepreneurial creativity and promoting their shared values, they have once again proven that the business of Portland is about much more than just business. Last year, we transitioned our innovative East Portland pilot project into the Catalytic Investment Initiative and expanded the effort into North Portland.
 This catalytic effort addresses disparity and gentrification in eight targeted districts and has three short-term goals to increase membership, volunteers, and revenue. I'm thrilled to report that in the first two years of this work, we have radically exceeded all of our goals. We increased membership 112% so that slightly more than half of all business district members are now new in these districts.
 We also increased volunteerism 35% while diversifying business district leadership and bringing it in line with the demographic population they represent. And finally, we generated almost $200,000 in new revenue to help support neighborhood businesses. That's private investment that is coming in as leverage for city dollars.
 And that's not all. We've also made significant progress on our long-term goals to create a stronger support network that crosses business district boundaries, create stronger ties between businesses and residents, and improve business identity and positive public perception of East and North Portland. We helped districts launch more than two dozen events designed to connect residents with businesses and make cash registers ring in economically lagging parts of Portland.
 We improved the perception of East and North Portland with 56 positive media stories and a variety of publications. And we increased district capacity to help the city invest more than $100 million in public infrastructure projects in these eight targeted districts. So how have we done it? We started by hiring professional staff and placing them directly in business districts.
 We provided seed funding to help districts experiment with new programs that better serve their diverse districts. And we provided innovative and personalized technical assistance to districts, including
 helping them identify 49 geographic nodes of commercial clusters, analyzing almost 10,000 diversity points to help districts set diversity benchmarks, visiting more than 3,000 individual businesses and using their feedback to improve business district programming, and finally analyzing the diversity and skill sets of almost 75 business district volunteers to help them better recruit and develop new leaders.
 I could talk about the success of this project all day, but wanted to let you hear from the business district organizers who have implemented this work. Brad. Hi, my name is Brad Forkner. I'm the district organizer for 82nd Avenue of Rose's Business District.
 This last August, we hosted our second annual Around the World in 82 Dishes, a month-long international food tour on 82nd Avenue. Seventy-three percent of the 45 participating restaurants were minority-owned, and one-third of them became brand-new association members because of the program. We produced a five-language passport and generated more than 300 purchases during the campaign.
 Catalytic Investment Initiative funding enabled passport production and translation, and without dedicated staffing to successfully address cultural and language barriers with these diverse businesses, this hugely successful district-wide event would not have happened. We are currently planning our third event for this next fall. Thank you. Dane. My name is Dane Fredericks. I am the district organizer for Foster Area.
 In November, we held our third annual winter tree lighting on Foster Road. More than 300 kids and families braved the cold and donated over 250 pounds of food to the food bank in our district. We distributed 300 promotional bags, including coupons, to district businesses. And this promotion helped contribute district-wide holiday sales success, including Matthew's record-setting sales, as you heard earlier.
 Catalytic Investment Initiative funding enabled us to expand this event into a revenue-generating promotion for district businesses. Thank you. My name is Calvin Hoff, and I am the district organizer for Gateway Area. Earlier this year, I represented Gateway and the City of Portland at People for Bikes National Conference. With significant infrastructure investment occurring in Gateway, including 13 new bike lanes and two new parks, having a seat at this conference was critical for the business district.
 Catalytic Investment Initiative funding will enable us to launch a brand new event this summer, Cruising Gateway, that will promote our new infrastructure and connect Gateway Transit Center, Discovery Park, and the Halsey-Weiler Couplet. I am also the district organizer for Kenton. This fall, Kenton used Catalytic Investment Initiative funding to launch the Tall Paul celebration, which resulted in the unveiling of the newly refurbished Paul Bunyan statue.
 Our district's iconic landmark, built in honor of the state's centennial anniversary, had fallen into disrepair. Kenton came together and collectively raised more than $80,000 for this renovation. Kenton also hosts the first street fair of the season and I hope you'll join us in May where you can check out, Paul. Thank you. I am also the organizer for the Midway Business District. Last spring, Midway used Catalytic Investment Initiative funding to launch a first-time event at Powell Butte.
 After mapping the assets of our very large and very diverse district, we realized that we weren't taking full advantage of a major regional destination. In partnership with the Water Bureau, we hosted a business fair on the Butte, turned out community members for a service project planting native species, and sent them on a business scavenger hunt through the district to grow Midway's economy.
 The event was such a success, we are currently planning our second annual event this June. More than 50 businesses and 20 partnering organizations will be involved, and I hope you will join us. I'm also the district organizer for Parkrose. In October, Parkrose held its third annual Trunk or Treat at Parkrose High School. This innovative event gathers the businesses in our non-pedestrian-friendly district in a safe and walkable space to provide candy to kids and coupons to adults.
 After launching the event in 2015 in record-setting rain, we more than doubled participation this year with 2,000 kids and families attending. District businesses and local partners, like the team from PPB's North Precinct, dress up and have a great time giving back to our hugely diverse community. We are also using Catalytic Investment Initiative funding to promote the businesses that contribute to Park Road Business Association's college scholarship program.
 In a school district that speaks more than 24 languages, district businesses have raised more than $80,000 over the last several years to make college attainable for Park Rose's best and brightest. Why is it called trunk or treat? I'm sorry? Why is it called trunk or treat rather than trick or treat?
 because it takes place in the Park Rose High School parking lot because there's a lack of walkable neighborhoods for the kids. So businesses bring a car or a truck and they decorate their trunk, which is where they have candy, so that kids can be in one safe contained area instead of going door to door because it's not a walkable neighborhood. I was hoping it might be a tree planting thing as well. Maybe next year.
 As you may have noticed, the Williams District is undergoing a massive transformation. With 11 new high-rise buildings, more than 1,000 new apartments, and over 100,000 square feet of ground floor retail space, we've been under construction for the last three solid years.
 To remind people that Williams isn't just a difficult construction site, we used Catalytic Investment Initiative funding to launch Walk Williams, a six-month program featuring late business hours, discounts, deals, and the opportunity to win prizes just by visiting businesses.
 To combat the previous displacement of Williams' African American population and ongoing gentrification pressures in this vibrant district, we're honoring our history and embracing our change. I hope to see many of you walking Williams when we kick off our second year on May 9th.
 Awesome. Thank you, Brad, Calvin, and Dane. This program is working exactly as we had anticipated. Although we launched this effort as a 12-month demonstration project, we knew that for a catalytic investment of this magnitude to succeed long term, it would require a three to five year effort per district.
 At the midpoint of year three, I'm pleased to report that it is, in fact, working. On December 31st, the Montevilla East Tabor Business District graduated from the Catalytic Investment Initiative, following 30 months of record-breaking growth due to Venture Portland's high-touch personalized assistance.
 recently ranked one of the top 10 neighborhoods in the United States by Lonely Planet. On January 1st, Montevilla hired its own first-time executive director.
 They were able to use city funding to catalyze their own growth, build their capacity, and ensure their financial stability. They have graduated from the program into their own success and were now able to transition these resources to the newest formal business district in the city of Portland, Lentz.
 I'm also excited to tell you that using privately generated funds, we've expanded the successful model to additional business districts citywide, including Northeast Broadway, which hired its own first-time staffer in late 2017. And using that organizer's time, uncovered a 33% increase in businesses in their district.
 Following the explosion in Knob Hill last year, we also helped that district to hire a first-time staff person to bring the community together, plan recovery, and help ensure ongoing district resilience.
 In 2018, we're expanding even further. We are helping six districts invest in first-time staffing. This is fully privately paid, leveraging the great resources that the city has invested in Venture Portland. It's bringing an additional 64 hours a week of employment and more than $100,000 in new payroll to our city.
 Our ongoing partnership truly drives Portland's economy. Last year, neighborhood businesses contributed more than $100 million in taxes to help fund essential city services like first responders and parks, and now it's your turn. We're hoping that as you design the FY18-19 budget, even in a resource-constrained environment, that you transition our successful catalytic investment initiative to ongoing funding to ensure it will continue.
 It is a pleasure and a privilege to get to work with you and your bureaus. Together, we are growing business and connecting neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you. So, Commissioner Fish, it's my understanding this is a presentation only. Is that correct? That's right. We can just informally accept the report or formally accept the report. It's their annual report. Move to accept the report. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second. Commissioner Fritz and Eudalia, respectively, please call the roll.
 Fritz. Mostly I wanted to congratulate you, have an opportunity to make a little speech because I really appreciate this presentation. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your leadership and support of Venture Portland.
 I remember when it was fewer than, I think, 39 neighbourhoods. So I got a bit dizzy at the beginning when you were doing all the logos, because not only were there a lot more neighbourhoods, but they all now have their branding. So it's really exciting to see the expansion that you've been able to do. I was especially glad to hear at the end about the private money coming in and the graduating of Montevilla. That's very exciting. I have to say on a personal note that
 The Portland Cacophony Society, I think, started the handing out of donuts at races at the Shamrock Run. But they give beer as well. So might need to – they do it in guerrilla suits, though. So I think maybe your particular way of doing it is safe. Or else they'll have to think of something even more Portland-ish to make the mark. So thank you very much for all that you've done. And I very much appreciate you taking the time to come in for this report. Fish? Yes.
 Well, I can't tell you how proud I am of the work of Venture Portland and this leadership team. I think the request, Heather, that you make that we convert a portion of the catalytic investment program to ongoing, I think is compelling. We have some tough choices to make in this budget, but thank you for flagging that. That's an issue that we can track with the Prosper Portland budget.
 I want to thank you for really framing over the holidays the whole Buy Local campaign. You know, we know what the benefits are of buying local, but I think it was very important that you got the word out about how 70 cents of every dollar stays home, that you can save a buck on Amazon, but at what cost? Amazon doesn't pay taxes here. Amazon doesn't invest in Little League. They don't support, they don't have volunteers working to keep the neighborhood looking nice.
 So we have a choice. And I took the pledge, and I did all my shopping, mostly actually at Matthew's toy store, I mean at his game shop. But he did solve one family problem, which is that my son has been winning all of the games that we play. So Matthew introduced me to a new kind of game where it's not my son against the rest of us, but we're all of us against some plague. So thank you. I think it brought some peace over the holidays. Thank you.
 I also appreciated that you called out the work of PBOT in coordinating capital construction projects. And I want to say that under Dan's leadership, he's really taken that to the next level. And for people just who have followed us for a long time, once upon a time,
 the Portland Bureau of Transportation, the Bureau of Environmental Services would plan big capital construction projects, and they wouldn't necessarily consult with the impacted business district to find out if that was going to be intrusive. Now it's just baked into the system that the work will not be done during signature events. We're not going to be tearing up St. John's during the St. John's parade, things of that nature. But it took change in culture. It took...
 advocacy, and now it takes good coordination and communication between infrastructure bureaus to make sure that we work around the signature events that neighborhoods plan, and you've had an important role in that. I'm very proud of the fact that the voice of small business is now at the table with our neighborhoods helping make good policy. And it took a change where we had to mandate you got the same notice that neighborhood associations, but I think we all believe that when we have more people at the table,
 In good faith, we often get better outcomes. I think it's been very important to have the small business community at the table. And finally, you know, we don't always get it right, and we're continuing to learn from experience. Heather was a little aggrieved a couple years ago during a winter storm. I think part of the winter storm, I was in charge as the president of the council and the mayor being out of town, in which our message to people was stay home. It's not safe. It's not safe.
 Well, that is technically true. We did not want people getting their cars, driving on the roads. But it missed a nuance, which is stay home, don't drive, but frequent your neighborhood small business. It is okay to go out, walk a few blocks. And, in fact, we must do that because neighborhood small businesses often get hammered during snowstorms. And so our message has now evolved where we are counseling safe behavior, like not getting behind the wheel of a car,
 but also taking advantage during those snow days of shopping locally and supporting our neighborhood businesses. And Venture Portland was very emphatic about the need to change our messaging in that regard. So I think it's a tremendous partnership. The record speaks for itself in terms of how you've leveraged public resources, and I will work with my colleagues to see if we can't convert some of that catalytic investment money to ongoing. So thank you all for your good work. Hi. Saltzman. Hi.
 Well, as always, a very impressive report and very, really tangible results. I think the investment, I think it was 12 hours a week of staff with each neighborhood association, or business association, is really evident in the presentation you just provided for all the different neighborhoods that you've been working in. Really remarkable results.
 identities being associated and events that get people excited and help create revenue for those small businesses. So excellent job, and Heather, you've done a great job as the head of Venture Portland. This is a remarkable report, as always. I'm pleased to support it. Hi. Eudalie. Thank you for the report. I enjoyed working with Venture Portland back when I was vice president of the Historic Mississippi Business Association.
 I thought it was a great time to get out of retail last January. Now I have to reconsider that decision because those numbers are pretty impressive. And, of course, I'm a...
 Big supporter of our local small businesses. I would love to see more collaboration between neighborhood associations and business associations because I think there's a lot of missed opportunities there to work on shared priorities. And so I would be happy to help facilitate that through ONI. And I'm also a supporter of the Catalytic Investment Initiative, and I will continue to do that. Thank you.
 Wheeler. So I want to thank you on a couple of counts. First of all, you took a very principled and courageous stand with regard to the shelter.
 that we have opened in southeast Portland, or that we're in the process of standing up. And I want to thank you for the shuttle diplomacy you engaged in on that issue, and you provided what I thought was a very informed and rational voice during that discussion. And I appreciate it. I know Serafie continually reported back to me that the conversations were productive and meaningful. So I want to personally thank you for that while I've got you here.
 I want to acknowledge that we are in fact a small business city.
 Most people in this city are employed by small businesses, so it's important that you be successful. Your success is the city's success. And as you mentioned, Heather, it's more than just a bottom line proposition or an economic prosperity proposition. Small businesses actually help define in really important ways the look and the feel of this community.
 And if there's anything I've learned about the work that my colleagues here have done and city staff has done around the 2035 Central City Plan, it's that people want to live in complete communities.
 And if you see the polling data that's in the news this morning, it absolutely underscores the point. People want to be able to live close to where their kids go to school, close to where they work, close to where there are amenities. And those amenities are, of course, provided by small business owners and operators in the community. So, again, again,
 Your success is integral to the kind of long-term vision that we have for this city that is supported by polling in terms of what the public says they want and expect from their government. So I appreciate that. And finally, I just want to thank you for being community leaders. In a time where it seems it is almost epidemic that we think about the worst case scenarios,
 and we think about what's going wrong rather than being appreciative or grateful for what is actually going right. You're an organization that brings people together in the community, helps encourage people to be proud of their neighborhoods and the community, and you have never lost sight of what I think is the single most important missing ingredient in today's society, which is you bring fun.
 to the neighborhood. And it's great. I just loved watching these photos of kids and parents and older adults coming together and meeting their neighbors and sharing a good time.
 And we need a lot more of that, particularly right now in our society. And you guys are providing the leadership to do that. You are espousing a positive vision of what this community is and what this community can be and what it will be. And so I just want to thank you as individual leaders for that. Obviously, I vote aye to the report's adopted. Thank you. Thank you. Next time, certain, please. 91.
 accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer. Colleagues, speaking of fun, the technology oversight committee provides citizen oversight on significant city technology projects, especially those that are high risk or high cost. This gives us early and continued technology oversight by the independent five-member committee for the purpose of increased transparency and accountability.
 The Technology Oversight Committee sends quarterly reports to the Chief Administrative Officer who then forwards the reports here to the Portland City Council. The quarterly reports include information from each project's independent quality assurance consultant and TOC's assessment of the project's status. I want to thank our Bureau staff for taking the input of the Technology Oversight Committee seriously.
 The POPS project will help reduce delays in permitting, and our Bureau staff have made changes to help ensure that this project is successful. I'd like to add that next week, Commissioner Udaly and I have an item coming to the City Council that will address some of these issues and upgrade our permitting system to continue to make the kind of progress we want to see moving forward.
 To discuss today's report further is the City of Portland's Chief Technology Officer, Jeff Bearer, and Technology Oversight Committee Member, Josh Mischel.
 And I'm not sure who would like to kick us off. Good morning. My name is Jen Clodius. Jen is. Thank you, Jen. I am a senior management analyst with the Office of Management and Finance, and I'm staff for the Technology Oversight Committee. As you mentioned, Mr. Mayor, with me are Jeff Baer, the director of BTS. Jen, can I interrupt? Surely. I keep forgetting to do something. Mm-hmm. And it's really important. Colleagues, can we suspend the rules for just one moment? Ben Walters, sitting right over there,
 In the legal box, and I learned yesterday that is what they call it. They call it the box. This is his last day as an employee of the city of Portland after 32 years of dedicated service. Can we give him a round of applause? And I hope he'll someday teach me how to tie a bow tie that well.
 Thank you, Ben. There. Here. No. No. I've watched the video. It's the magic right there where it just sort of disappears. That's the part I'm struggling with. He's struggling too. Finding the loop in the back. Yeah. Yeah. I. Just the bend, not the end. Yeah. You can describe it all you want. My ability to do it's somewhat limited.
 We don't want to do anything against the law. There you go. Thank you. Sorry, Jen, to interrupt. Thank you. No worries. That was a worthwhile interruption. I'm glad that Ben got the acknowledgment. It's been great working with him.
 So also with me is Josh Mitchell, who is the TOC member that is helping Jeff out today. I have to say this is Josh's last day as a TOC member. He is now working with BTS on the new website refresh project. Great. Thanks, Josh. So we will be contacting your office, Commissioner Udaily, for a new member for you. So the other four members of the TOC are Ken Neubauer, Dr. Wilf Pinfold, Diana Garcia, and Mike Lynch. Thank you.
 As you mentioned, the TOC advises the Chief Administrative Officer, Tom Reinhart. We are here to present the information from TOC's quarterly report from Mr. Reinhart to you. This is information from October through December, so it's five weeks out of date information at this point. So Josh and Jeff will be updating the information for you. We have two dashboards to show you. The first one is for POPs.
 All right, thank you, Jen. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of City Council, Jeff Behr for the Bureau of Technology Services. And here to talk about a number of different updates since the quarterly report was filed covering the months of October through December last year in 2017.
 Since that time, we've had a lot of different activities to establish the platform for which we're going to be moving forward with. We brought these- Just start by just giving an overview of what the Portland Online Permitting System is. Yes, absolutely. Thank you. So POPs is known as the Portland Online Permitting System.
 The previous project which we undertook over a course of several years was referred to as ITAP. That is no longer the case. We've evolved it into the Portland Online Permitting System. What that is going to do is provide an electronic permitting system different than what we have today at the Bureau of Development Services.
 And one of the key pieces that we're actually working on that you'll hear about in more detail next week is the combination of electronic plan reviews. So a completely electronic way to view plans and submittal. It's a product called Vent Project Docs. So I'll hold that aside for now. Did that cover that? Thank you.
 In terms of the reporting, you'll notice that although the two reporting periods for November and December are marked yellow, that's from the external quality assurance assessment, this was just a new engagement with a new consultant for external QA services.
 You'll notice too that the Technology Oversight Committee members did not weigh in and assess the project because we are starting to get the foundation to which we are building on for an implementation approach for the AMANDA 7 product for in combination with the electronic plan review. I'll hold off there, we've done a lot of different work on the ground in terms of getting the
 great pieces in place to do a formal launch. But I'll turn it over to Josh for his comments. Definitely. So the major accomplishments that they reported to us for this quarter were scoping.
 and basically doing an approach meeting with the vendor that they're going to be working with. I was able to actually attend part of that, and I was very impressed with the general approach that the vendor was taking, the structure of it. They were looking for quick wins. They were looking for ways to break it up so that they can continually deliver value to the city rather than having a large delivery two years into the future. And I think that's an important part of what we've seen in an ongoing basis with the project.
 They're also creating a high level architecture to just make sure that they understand what they need in place to implement the system. They're creating business to functional requirements and modifying over what they had previously documented because again, that previous approach was going to be this large delivery of something that was gonna take a long time. And so they're really trying to hone in on the requirements that allow them to deliver something sooner. Project Docs is a very good example of that where they can do online review
 get rid of paper documents and try to reduce the time it takes to review those things. Those sorts of projects can be done in a smaller fashion. They're still working on the scope, schedule, and budget, and that's one of the reasons why the TOC
 requested that we not put a red, yellow, green on it yet. Until we actually know what the scope, schedule, and budget are, it's hard to say that the project either is or is not on track. And so we didn't want to prematurely say that it's going to fail or that it's going to be great because we really don't have enough information to provide that back to the city.
 Upcoming milestones that are planned right now, definitely getting the contracting in place to continue with the vendor, having that complete solution design put out by the vendor and by the team that are implementing it, deciding whether the implementation should be hosted here at the city, or should it be hosted in a managed hosting environment where the vendor actually takes care of it for the city. There's pros and cons to each.
 They still have some additional staffing that they want to bring on. And in general, one of the risks and concerns that we had going into the end of last year was the requested proposal for reorganization. One of the things that we see as a key success factor
 A key way to achieve success in this project is to make it really clear who's responsible for the delivery, make it really clear who's responsible for managing that overall product. As of the December meeting, there were definitely some hesitation within the TOC as a whole in terms of what that approach was looking like. There have been some steps taken to address that, and I'm sure that will be coming in upcoming presentations as well. Very good. Thank you, Josh.
 So on the data center project, excuse me, this is one where a project you probably don't hear a lot about. It was one that we completed last December, fully taking and decommissioning the old data center, full migration out to the new location out of Highway 26 in Hillsboro. And we are currently, and actually we were the last ones out of the Portland building before construction started over there across the street. So we are completely out of the building. The data center is completely moved.
 Everything's been decommissioned, and now we're in the secondary phase of this project, which is actually setting up our disaster recovery backup site in Denver, Colorado. So it's one of those projects that was completed on time and on schedule. I'll just add that the TOC was impressed with that project throughout. Excellent job by the city staff in putting out a budget and also a schedule and a scope for,
 and beating it on every level. And that's really impressive whenever you can see a project like that happen. Large data center moves are complicated, and they performed admirably. That's all we have. Most of the questions. Very good. Josh, could I just get a clarification? I think you answered this sufficiently, that the POPs went from green in our last report to yellow today. Is that simply reflective of the fact that we're bringing back the software upgrade
 It's more related to the progress that was made on the discovery project during that time period and specifically how the QA that had been brought in felt that it had changed as a result of some uncertainty around the reporting structure of who was going to be responsible for what and what features were going to be included in the upcoming timeline.
 I think they're beginning to address it, definitely, from a position of looking at it from the outside. And also having had an opportunity to attend a couple of those meetings where they were doing the planning for the next version. They're really working hard to try to break it apart. It continues to be a concern, though. Like, how are you going to structure the...
 the responsibility for that delivery so that it can get done in a timely fashion. And I think that's ongoing. And that's the QA's biggest concern. They see a lot of risk in that uncertainty. Again, until that scope and budget are really put in place and that schedule is put in place, the TOC felt it wasn't necessarily appropriate to rate it.
 Because it's not a started project until that point. Very good. And you seem like you're shaking your head yes, so it sounds like you're in agreement with the basic hypothesis here. Yes, I am. And one of the things that we've been working on, and this is during the reporting period, so it's not reflective in this current report here, is I've been working directly with Development Services Director Rebecca Esau. Her and I have been jointly –
 focus on how do we ensure we've got the right platform, right foundation for where we're going to go forward. We've made a lot of those decisions already in this time frame, and in fact a lot of decisions have been made over the past month in where are we going to be at in the summer, where are we going to be at in 2019. So we've got a clear plan and that's what we're going to be presenting back next week. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? I'll accept a motion.
 So moved. Second. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you for this report. Thank you especially, Mr. Mitchell, for all your service on the committee. I'm especially pleased to hear that you were invited to be part of the consultant conversation early on because that's absolutely the intent of the Technology Oversight Committee is to be involved very early so that we get the right.
 initial steps right, which hopefully will then result in good outcomes. And I know that a lot of people in the Bureau are working hard. Thank you, Director Esau. And it's a complicated project. We need all the help we can get to make sure it gets done right. Fish? Thank you for an excellent report. Aye. Saltzman? Yeah, thank you for your work, Mr. Mitchell, your service on the committee, and best of luck to you with the city. And thank you all for giving us a great report. Aye. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Well done. Thank you. All right. Report's accepted. Next, item 99, please. Reappoint Jenny Kim and appoint Tommy Renee Hetman to the Home Forward Board of Commissioners. Colleagues, today I have the pleasure of reappointing Jenny Kim.
 and appointing Tomarin Hetman to the Home Forward Board of Commissioners. Jenny, a graduate from the University of California with a degree in microbiology and molecular genetics, has served on the National Korean American Coalition and the American Cancer Society boards.
 She believes anyone, regardless of their education level, race, gender, or religious beliefs, deserves the American dream of a happy and stable life. Tomreen Hetman served on the HomeForward's Resident Advisory Committee. She has an impressive list of volunteer experiences serving Hollywood Farmer's Market, the Lean on Me program, and the Humane Society.
 Tomarine feels an opportunity like this will expand her heart and soul. With us today to discuss the great work of the Home Forward Board of Commissioners, the work that the Home Forward Board of Commissioners is doing is Ian Davey, the Chief Operating Officer of Home Forward and Home Forward Board of Commissioners Chair, Mickey Herman, Jenny Kim, and Tomarine Hetman. Come on up.
 Good morning. Morning. Good morning. Well, good morning, Commissioners and Mayor. Thank you very much. At Home Forward, we always strive to fulfill our primary goal of... I'm sorry, and could you state your name for the record? Sure, of course. My name is Ian Davey, Chief Operating Officer at Home Forward.
 We always strive to achieve our primary goal of providing affordable housing to the Portland and Multnomah County community. As part of that, it's very important for us to always remain connected with the community and with our residents. As the Mayor explained, Tomi-Reen Hetman has been a valued member of the Home Board community for many years. She has resided in our housing nearly nine years.
 has resided in Multnomah County in Portland for nearly two decades.
 and has served not only on our Resident Advisory Committee, but also on various interview committees, hiring staff within the agency. She's very connected to the agency and, as you heard, connected to the community. And we're very excited to have her joining our Board of Commissioners. Jenny Kim has been introduced to this body before, sometime in the last year. You heard of her accolades as well.
 the commitment that she maintains to the community, and we're also very excited to have her reappointed to our Board of Commissioners. At this point, I'll hand it to Tomi Rehm for any comment she has.
 I am so humbled and honored to be coming into this commissionership. I realize it's not about me. I am going to be the voice of many, many, many residents of Home Forward. And back in December, I was struck by this couple of quick paragraphs from my mentor in faith, Daisaku Ikeda,
 A society that has sacrificed so much material wealth that it has forgotten the human heart and the better human aspirations degenerates into something compassionless, doctrinaire, ignorant, and ultraconservative. When this happens, fundamental solutions to calamities become impossible.
 If we protect the truth and are resolute, we are capable of creating peace and prosperity. And the truth we must protect ought to be high and great. Our great truth, the truth that we must protect to the utmost, involves ethics and the best of human nature.
 But more basic than anything else is our duty to guard the truth of life, the truth that we and the universe are one, and that a single ordinary human thought contains the entirety of universal life. I am so happy to be here this morning. Thank you. We're very appreciative of your service. Thank you.
 I don't know if I can follow that because I don't have a quote like that, but thank you again for allowing me this opportunity to be reappointed. And I know that a lot of people have come before me in this role to do the right thing by our citizens. And...
 Yeah, I'm very honored to be part of this wonderful organization. And I do have to give a lot of credit and kudos for the staff that we have at Home Forward. We have an amazing leadership team and fellow commissioners who have a lot of passion and genuine interest in the well-being of people. So thank you again for this opportunity. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions? Yes.
 I move the report. Second. This is a resolution. The resolution. Excuse me. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes. We have one person signed up, Shedrick J. Wilkins. Very good. Close the list. You can cool your heels. Thank you. If you want to sit down, you can go ahead and sit down. Do you want to come sit down? Go ahead, Shedrick. Hi, I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I do believe, and I'll tie this conversation in the next –
 issue is prostitution. I do believe that low-cost housing allows women to not have to sell themselves for rent money. Over the holidays, I love a movie called It's a Wonderful Life with Jimmy Stewart. And there's this Pottersville where everybody's renting and he wants people to own their own home. And in a parallel universe, credited by the angel or whatever, Violet Bick
 who's kind of flirty, is forced into prostitution. And she's handcuffed. And I like that scene, and it's really weird. Senator, can you bring this back to the audience? The issue is, if you really want to get women off of prostitution, you must provide them with low-cost housing. Thank you. Okay. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superjustice Watchdog.
 Absolutely agree with the two people being reappointed and appointed. Again, my position is that I'm hoping that the group would also focus again on the Metro housing bond that is currently moving forward, provide your input on how you would like to see the possibly $500 million up to possibly a billion dollars be distributed.
 and through the housing community, and also to the people. Again, I found it interesting, if I heard correct, molecular genetics. I'm a watchdog of Calico on expanding your life expectancy, the years. And if you begin to really understand...
 providing the proper housing to people that are currently homeless, you can also be providing them additional years of their life and you have to start calculating this out on the research that is being done from such as Larry Page at Calico on what you can actually do for the homeless communities on expanding their life as far as adding more years from housing to health
 to safety and understand that when the communities or the commissioners or anyone thinks that people living out on the streets is going to add more years to their life, you have to start understanding that it is traumatic to them, it is stressful to them, it is unsafe to them, it is unhealthy to them.
 It is not having a concern for them if you think living outdoors is good for them and the longevity of their lives. So just again, I find it, I think you're both great people to have on this. And again, just focus on the $500 million bond and focus on getting more housing projects out for people.
 the people currently out there and to build new, create new jobs, buy local,
 and focus on that and don't buy existing or current inventory, which I do disagree with that because we want to add more supply, more jobs, and more inventory out in the marketplace is what I want to see happen. So anyway, great selections, and I look forward to seeing what you're going to do. Thank you. Thank you. Please call the roll. Fritz. Well, Ms. Hetman and Ms. Kim, each of you have come a long way in different ways.
 and so I really appreciate your willingness to serve as commissioners. This is a very important board that Home Forward relies on, we rely on, and you each provide a perspective that is not currently on the board, which is always important. So thank you to Home Forward, the mayor, for making these selections and wish you all the best. It's truly a task that needs all of us engaging constructively rather than adversarially. So thank you very much. Aye.
 I want to thank both of our candidates for agreeing to serve. When I came to Portland, the great Gretchen Kifori urged me to consider serving on the board of what was then called Home Forward, or the Housing Authority of Portland.
 And it was an amazing experience and it was really the training that helped me be more effective when I later became housing commissioner for the City of Portland. It is a fiduciary board where critical decisions are made about how we spend, particularly the federal funds. So it's an enormously important assignment. And I want to just also acknowledge that the resident commissioner plays a unique role.
 because most of the people we serve are people that have very busy lives, struggling to survive and meet all their responsibilities. So it's that resident commissioner bringing the voice of folks we serve into the decision-making process is so important.
 And then I'd be remiss if I didn't just acknowledge that there's probably never been a period where the relationship between this local housing authority and the federal partner that provides the bulk of the funding has been more strained. And unfortunately, not only are there these significant headwinds, but there's an active debate about the role of the federal government in providing funding.
 for this important cause. And let's be clear, housing authorities house the poorest people in our community. They serve people who have nothing, up to about 30 percent of median family income. They manage our public housing and our affordable housing targeted to the neediest in our community. We cannot do it if the federal government keeps scaling back. Can't maintain our assets. We can't continue to serve. We can't stretch the dollar on the vouchers.
 I hope we come to our senses on this, but unfortunately we're going through a period of real retrenchment at HUD, and it's going to make your job harder. So I would say I'm even more appreciative that in these tough times you're willing to step up and serve the community because your service really matters. Thank you. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you both for your willingness to serve. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Well, thank you for your service and your continued willingness to work with us on this vital issue. Aye.
 Thanks to Tom Reen-Hetman for stepping up and being willing to do this important work. I'm always happy to see new people joining a board, particularly on an issue as important as this. And Jenny Kim, what can I say? I'm just as impressed as always and so appreciative that we have people of your caliber who are not only willing to step up and serve but are willing to do it on a long-term basis. So thank you for that. I'm grateful. I know the...
 The city council is and the community is as well. So thanks. I vote aye to the report. Excuse me, the resolution is adopted. Thank you. Next item, 100. Amend an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County to extend the sex buyers accountability and diversion program through December 31, 2018.
 Good afternoon, gentlemen. Are you going to kick us off today? I am, just briefly. Thanks. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Brian Parman. I'm the commander of East Precinct. And so I'm here today with my team, who's still finding their seats, want to present an overview of our...
 Sex Buyers Accountability and Diversion Program. At its core, the goal of this program is to use this moment of police contact as a chance to intervene, provide education, and change future behavior. This program is administered through an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County and LifeWorks Northwest, and so we'd like to provide an overview of the program, and we're seeking your approval to extend our existing IGA for an additional year.
 And I'm here today with Sergeant Mark Georgoff, who oversees the day-to-day operations of our sex trafficking unit, and Kristen Williams from LifeWorks Northwest. Thank you. Good morning, Councilmembers. As Commander Parman stated, my name is Mark Georgoff, and I am a sergeant with the Portland Police Bureau currently assigned to the sex trafficking unit. The sex trafficking unit is a team that works to combat crimes and victimization caused by sex trafficking.
 both by bringing accountability to sex buyers and working with victims of the sex industry by collaborating to assist those who cannot escape this personally devastating industry on their own and often need both accountability and resources to survive and thrive in life. One of the key components in the effort to combat sex trafficking in the Portland area is the Sexual Buyers Accountability and Diversion Program, more commonly known as SBAD.
 I'm here today with Kristen Williams from LifeWorks Northwest, the organization that operates the New Options for Women's program and designed for women attempting to transition out of the sex industry lifestyle and which cooperatively with PPB runs the SBAD program. Kristen and I both firmly believe the continued funding of this program agreement is essential to reduce the frequency and impact of the sex buyers have in supporting this victimization industry in the city of Portland.
 The SBAT program has operated successfully since 2011 and has been attended by several hundred sex buyers during that time. The purpose of this course is to reduce the demand by interrupting the frequency that buyers attempt to purchase sex. This is done by educating persons arrested for the solicitation of prostitution through a classroom setting where they learn about legal, social, and health ramifications of the commercial sex trade.
 The SBAT program is designed to represent a paradigm shift from solely criminal prosecution to early prevention, rehabilitation of those who solicit prostitution. The program is generally offered for first-time arrested offenders and if completed will suffice for any court ordered accountability otherwise. As a sex trafficking sergeant, I am the designated program manager for the SBAT program. This program is based on an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County and the City of Portland.
 The county subsequently contracts with LifeWorks Northwest for program coordination and administration and is taught by members from LifeWorks, the PPB Sex Trafficking Unit, and other community and social service partners, as well as a very powerful presentation from a survivor of the sex trafficking industry. All fees generated by the program are shared equal proportions between LifeWorks Northwest, PPB, and the Willamette County District Attorney's Office.
 The impact of the program consistently has shown over the years that it has been immense in the lives of many sex buyers who have participated in the program. This is reflected in comments made by participants in the follow-up conducted at the end of each course. While not all participants feel the punishment fits the crime, a large percentage feel the class changed their views dramatically about prostitution and commercial sex solicitation, and never realized the victimization it creates.
 Some of these reflections are as follows. This was a very informative class. It is a chance for people to actually learn from their mistakes. It is a great opportunity to think about behaviors and values. If I had access to class within my community, I do not believe that I would have made the choice that I made. This was a great experience. Another, I appreciate each speaker's tone and how they did not come across like I was garbage.
 The law enforcement aspect was very informative and interesting. The Sark piece made me sick to my stomach and was very powerful. And the survivor piece was heartfelt, emotional, and powerful as well. Overall, a good class. And finally, it was a very well laid out and presented class. It changed my view of prostitution and left me with some soul searching to do. I believe this class is very beneficial.
 As you can see by just a small sampling of the many comments received, the impact is immeasurable. The content and context of the course is one that certainly requires sex buyers to think, reflect, evaluate, and oftentimes change their views about prostitution and the victimization it creates for so many people.
 As the process takes place, we strongly believe it prevents buyers from becoming repeat offenders, which ultimately reduces the demand for commercial sexual solicitation, creating much less victimization of those prone to working in the sex industry. It also serves to increase the participants' risk awareness through self-responsibility and motivate changed behaviors.
 The partnership developed over the years between LifeWorks Northwest and PPB has grown to be an efficient and consistent source of information sharing. The frequent contact about collaborating, serving victims, discussions of changing trends in the industry, and dialogue on the best way to create an impactful SBAT program over continual basis and review is the framework for this successful program and the foundation it's founded upon. The partnership between PPB and LifeWorks is also reflected in other ways.
 This is illustrated in a nice note Officer Mike Gallagher of the Sex Trafficking Unit received just this past week from a long-term sex trafficking victim whose life he has had dramatic impact on and a conjunction of services from the NOW Program. I have presented to you today a copy of the note for your review and highlight a portion from this victim. Quote, I would still be lost, lonely, and surviving day to day without the NOW Program and the efforts of the police department. Unquote.
 This type of impact cannot be made up or replaced if the relationships are lost. These words speak for themselves and are a true testament of the importance of having programs that positively impact both victims and sex buyers. We know that if allowed to continue, the SBAD program will positively impact the lives of many more sex buyers for years to come. Thank you.
 Morning, Kristen Williams. I was still listening. I'm Adam Lee. Kristen Williams with LifeWorks Northwest. Good to be with you all again.
 I just want to highlight a couple of things. So the ESPAD program, it's an eight hour diversion class, as mentioned, and a couple of other highlights is we only offer this six times a year. In fiscal year 2017, we served 165 sex buyers. Already this fiscal year, we served 102. There's a wait list every class. We are full every class. And so the demand is there.
 To combat the issue of sex trafficking, we need to look at the demand, and that is what this class does, and it has really evolved over the years. We have taken feedback over the years from participants and from community partners involved, and we've really adapted and made this from a punitive class. I don't know if speaking on this before or years ago, it was more of a punitive class, and now it's more of an educational, collaborative.
 collaborative experience for these sex purchasers as a diversion, really to educate as a prevention tool so they don't go out and recidivate and do this again. And I also gave you a packet of some feedback that's pretty much, I think it's all of 2017 and current 2018 feedback.
 Some of it isn't positive, but we review all of it. And another component of this partnership is after every diversion class, we all meet and debrief, and we talk about what went well, what could have improved, the feedback. We look at how to continually adapt and mold this program to really enrich and be an educational experience.
 Not only that, but another thing I wanted to just point out briefly is a few years ago I was able to help to collaborate and start the first ever national John School Conference. And we had contact with over 37 programs nationally that we were able to identify. And of that...
 So many of the programs are 30-minute videos, hour videos, while they're in handcuffs in the back of a police car, or while they're in custody detained, in handcuffs, a video. Or it's a class, a couple of hours, taught by maybe a police officer or maybe a single lens.
 And one thing just to really celebrate again is in Portland we have this fabulous, rich collaborative where we're able to have a survivor come in and speak at the end of the day to really bring together everything we teach. The police officers do a fabulous presentation.
 presentations from the therapeutic lens, a male community partner to kind of have that man to man kind of conversation. And we brought in Sexaholics Anonymous to reach out to any man who might identify that need. So we've really enriched this program and having been able to get a greater national lens on that and help other programs enrich their program from what we do, I'm really proud of the work we get to do here with these sex buyers.
 You'll notice I won't say John's because I like to call them what they are, sex buyers. That's my personal lens. And the other component, I think that I just wanted to also say this really helps us to focus on the demand. If we're going to end sex trafficking, we need to focus on the demand. And so I'm really proud to be able to partner with the U.S.
 Portland Police and be able to put on this fabulous program. I don't know if I'm allowed to do this, but we invite you to come sit in one day if you would like. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. So I'm interested to hear you say there's a waiting list. My understanding is this program is paid for by those taking the class. So what's the limitation on adding more space? So if we could probably have I mean 40, 50 people per class, but in that kind of
 discussion safe environment, that educational environment kind of is lost. And so I'm stepping back into this role a little over a month. I've been back and so before we kept it because of actual physical space in the classroom and now I think it's mostly because of space.
 But is that because we couldn't put on more classes? Is it partly due to the officers' time and the survivors' time? I think it's a little bit of all of that, of scheduling and also just the financial resource it takes to put this class on every second Saturday of the month. And we actually did. We ran an extra class this last fiscal year. In 2017, we added at least one, maybe two classes.
 to the normal rotation just because of the demand. Well, I'm glad that we're increasing the agreement or continuing it. If there are things that we can do to help in funding or looking at city facilities for physical spaces, please let me know. Okay, thank you. The other question I have is about recidivism. Do we have data on whether people who have taken this training are less likely to reoffend and get rearrested? No.
 Yeah, we talked about that leading up to this presentation, and we're only aware of one person who had been through the class who has then been rearrested.
 So could I second that? Because I loved your testimony, by the way. It was fantastic testimony. But the only thing that made me cringe a little bit was to say that the success of this program is immeasurable. It's absolutely measurable. And what you can do is you can –
 screen for recidivism and compare that to the population at large. So I would hope that we would do that and make the case that this is actually a best practice that works. So that's sort of the first thing is just to underscore what Commissioner Fritz already raised.
 The second question is really more of one around is this something that is now nationally done or is this something unique to our community? You mentioned that you go to conferences and it seems like there's more of a punitive tone in some of the other programs. Why did we choose to go in a different direction?
 So I know that I previously stepped out of this role in 2016 and then I came back. So there was one conference and there actually, it never took, it never got any claws in anything and so, probably not the best way to say that. But so I know that, oh,
 About a fourth of the programs that were there were just starting. They had never had a program. They were done basically solely through law enforcement or a survivor agency. And so it was a really siloed process.
 you know, lens of how to approach this issue. So I would say that we're still really at the beginning nationally with approaching this, and I would say Portland is ahead of the game in regards to this. The diversion program, I believe we really do it the way we do so that we aren't just telling them,
 you know, they're bad, but we're really getting to the why of the issue. We're educating them around the buyers and, you know, like that how, what, why. We really focus on the why. And it's not just, you know, them. It affects their relationships, their family, their friends, their, you know, we have a lot of data around that, and it also affects, you know,
 you know, how they view the world. And we really believe that the aversion component is important addressing all these things. Very good. And what happens if somebody, I assume this is voluntary. Is it voluntary, first of all? Yes and no. It's what happens if you're familiar with, like, in the court system, there's a DUI diversion program. If you're a first offender, you have the opportunity to participate. Similar to that effect.
 If a person is, in general, a first-time arrested offense, they're offered this opportunity for a diversion program. Is it the judge who offers it or the DA? Yeah, through the court process. Through the court process. Their defense attorney would negotiate this with the prosecution and gets authorized by the judges in the court system. Say, okay, you have X number of months to complete this program and then receive the certificate and come back to the courts and show that...
 you were successful. And if not this, then what's the other track? What does that look like? They're able to have a charge. Yeah. In addition to having the charge of commercial sexual solicitation, they would also have the financial responsibility of the conviction as well.
 And if I may get back to just the program, this program originated under, it was kind of modeled, the city of San Francisco had a sexual diversion program and very similar in its functions and form and kind of was the,
 the example that the city of Portland followed at that time. It really hasn't expanded beyond a lot with other programs being similar, although there's a lot of interest in it. I've had quite a bit of discussions with Washington County as we've helped them in developing their sex trafficking program out there and working with their district attorney's office
 who's connected with Multnomah County's District Attorney's Office in how this program is modeled and creating a diversion program in an adjoining County for the same type of a thing. I'm very interested in that. There's several other folks who have contacted me over the last course of a few months and said, what do you guys do and how does this work? So I think it's a good model and something that the city can be proud of. Very good. Excellent. Colleagues, any further questions? I guess I'm just curious, are
 the sex buyers primarily street level solicitations or do we see, are we going after online solicitations? Well, you will, in today's generation, the majority of the purchasing of sex is done online.
 or the relationship contacts developed online. There certainly is a level and element of street-level prostitution. That is not what this addresses particularly, although it could. But the majority of our efforts are to combat those that are done online through dating apps and text messaging and all that. So, yeah, the majority of our custodies are related to online. So that is the majority now? Absolutely. Okay, great, thanks. It's a lot more secret than...
 out on the street. Yeah. Very good. Is there anybody signed up for public testimony? How many people? Yes, we have one person. Very good. Shedrick J. Wilkins. Thanks, gentlemen. Thank you. And ladies. Hi, I'm Shedrick Wilkins. And when I was in the Army, I was stationed in Germany in which prostitution is legal. I understand it's legal also in Israel. I found I didn't like it. It's wrong. I do not think that prostitution should be legal in the United States.
 I think that in a diversion program, the people who are chiefly responsible for these are the people, what we would call the pimps or the mafia or whoever, or people setting up these online websites. They are responsible for prostitution. It's not the people who on a low level want it. It's the people that make it easy. It's the lawyers that...
 Defend people who are accused of being the sellers or sex buyers, setting things up. You get these people and put them in jail and you can stop prostitution.
 Again, I think too that time is ripe where we're really kind of saying things like, well, Harvey Weinstein's not a pimp. Well, yes, he is. And even women who benefited from his ability to get them acting jobs, whether they did get jobs or didn't, they don't like the guy. And they didn't like being forced to stand in one spot while they were harassed because they wanted the money. Enough said. Thank you, sir.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning's Superjustice Watchdog. Again, just on my position that you have this diversion program, and in my opinion, without the actual data on recidivism, it's really difficult to have an understanding really how effective it is. And in my opinion, that if we're going kind of, use the term a little bit easy,
 on the perpetrators per se. That concerns me. In my opinion, there should be an excessive fine. That is a deterrent to people that possibly might be doing this. And I don't see that. I see a diversion plan go off to the side. And again, from my position is that are these names of these people made public so people in the community can see that they have been charged? Yes.
 with this? Is that put on any type of website? I know when you arrest individuals for other crimes, it's put on a website or that people are able to see their pictures. Is there that possibility that that is happening, or are you actually on this diversion program saying that we won't even post your picture with this being charged against you?
 And again, just from my position, when you're talking the being real, what I call easy on the per se buyers, is that on the quote victims, that fine should be going toward the victims is my position, is that that sends a real clear message. And if you're just allowing people with kind of a go watch a video, feel free to go out the back door. We'll make sure your picture's not posted.
 have a good day. I don't think that's the right way to do it. So again, I'm looking at more harsh treatment, more you're a scumbag, okay? And you got caught. That's your problem right now. That's why you're here, and we're going to make it very clear to you. There's going to be extensive fines. It's not going to be comfortable for you. You're going to be posted on websites. It's...
 You're going to be known in your neighborhoods. And if you don't like that, then don't do it. That's my position. I think this is too soft. It's too easy. And I really hope that's not what the whole point of this diversion plan is. Again, more harsh treatment. That's my position. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions? Please call the roll. Fritz? Yes.
 Well, thanks for another excellent presentation. Thanks, Sergeant Joff and Christian Williams, for your write-up in the impact statement, which says that LifeWorks retains 10% or $1,400 for each session conducted, whichever is greatest, as reimbursement for administrative and direct cost, and the remainder is split between Multnomah County District Attorney, the Portland Police Bureau, and LifeWorks.
 So I think all of those, and the Police Bureau uses their portion to fund further missions and investigations. So it's a wonderful program. Thanks, Officer Gallagher, for being here again and for educating me last time that part of the value of this is having the buyers in.
 in the room, both with the survivors and with each other, as was brought out. This has become very much an online and anonymous thing, and by forcing people to be face-to-face with each other and with the survivors, that makes it much more real, and I appreciate that. Bish. Thank you for an excellent report. Seltzman. Thank you. All right.
 E. Daly. Thank you. I. Wheeler. I'd like to see us strengthen the measurement of the success of the program. I think you've given us very, very good anecdotal evidence. And the letter that we received presumably
 I believe you said from a young woman, is very compelling. The statements made by the folks who have participated in this program are compelling. But I'd also like to see us take the lead on measuring the success of this program and see if there really is an effective best practice here that could potentially help address this issue. I vote aye.
 the ordinance is adopted. Commissioner Fritz? Just add something onto that. I think also I'd like next time you have the presentation, the data on the demographics of the people who choose this program versus the people, the overall arrest rate for this charge. Thank you. Next item, 101.
 Authorize five-year price agreements for purchase of fuel from Associated Petroleum Products not to exceed $32 million and from CECO Inc. not to exceed $500,000.
 Colleagues, this fuel purchasing contract is aligned with the City's carbon reduction goals. The resulting contract will decrease the City's total energy use. Portland has been using high blends of renewable fuels in our fleet vehicles for over a decade, and this contract enables the continued and increased use of those renewable fuels going forward.
 City Fleet has been a national leader and early adopter of sustainability practices. For example, City Fleet won the National Green Fleet Award in 2010. There are many transportation fuel options that will bring us closer to our 100% renewable goals, such as electricity, biofuels, and renewable natural gas.
 In the last fiscal year, 76% of City Fleet's diesel fuel use was from renewable sources. Thanks to City Fleet, 20% of Portland's sedan fleet is already electric, and we have a goal of getting to 30% in the next three years.
 City Fleet has also been an important partner with the City's Bureau of Environmental Services to recover methane from the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant to generate renewable natural gas, RNG, as a transportation fuel for City vehicles starting next year in 2019. Put another way, as Commissioner Fish I think put it so well, we're turning poop into power.
 This new fueling contract will cover the remainder of the city's fleet that has not been converted to electric or renewable natural gas and will allow city fleet to continue efforts to invest in sustainability through the purchase of renewable and low-carbon fuels. We have a unique opportunity to transform the transportation sector in the region to reduce carbon emissions, enhance public health, and stimulate economic development.
 Portland City Fleet is leading this charge. Interim Chief Procurement Officer Larry Pallott and Vehicle Maintenance Superintendent Don DiPero are here to discuss this item in further details. Gentlemen, welcome and thank you for being here. Good morning. Thank you, Commissioners. Mr. Mayor, I am Larry Pallott, Procurement Services. Procurement Services posted the ITB for this project on October 25, 2017. That's a little out.
 which publicly notified the vending community, including firms certified as disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business enterprises, that the goods contract for supplying fuel for the city fleet was open for bids.
 Ten bids were received and opened on November 28, 2017. All bids received were determined to be responsive to the solicitation requirements, including a composition of fuels and fuel blends that meet the City's Climate Action Plan to minimize, to the extent possible, the City's carbon footprint. On December 5, 2017, the City issued a notice of intent to award price agreements to Associated Petroleum Products, Inc. and Seco, Inc. No protests were received.
 The contract has been negotiated in the amount of $32 million to Associated Petroleum and $500,000 to SECO. The city's intent, as was made clear to the vendors, is to use Associated Petroleum contract as the primary source of fuel and SECO as a backup source.
 The City's Fleet Division is in the Bureau of Internal Business Services, worked diligently to meet and address the concerns of affected bureaus and the concerns of City Commissioners. The successful bidders have available for delivery the necessary range of fuels and fuel blends to meet City's requirements at the most advantageous price to the City operations.
 Purchasing fuel based on these contracts represents a savings of millions of dollars per year over buying fuel at standard local gas station type prices. The primary contract holder associated with petroleum is located within the city limits at 9270 Northeast Gleason Street. Both vendors are in compliance with all city contracting requirements including business tax registration and payment.
 If the City Council has any questions concerning the solicitation of resulting contract, I'm happy to answer those. If not, Don DiPiero is here from City Fleet to answer specific questions relative to the fuel. Colleagues? Only one. The number to me was staggering. And my staff picked me up off the floor and put me in the chair and then went through the economics of this and convinced me that this is a substantial savings over previous years. But as I look at this, I'm not sure
 Given the magnitude of the number, there is an opportunity to change that number dramatically, even through small changes or incentivization programs to further reduce our overall fuel usage in the city fleet. Is there further opportunity, for example –
 savings sharings with bureaus, you know, a 50-50 split just for example. Are there other ways to get the cost of our fuel usage down further than this? And I realize what you're presenting here is a huge win over previous years in terms of reduction, but I guess the question is, is there a way to push even harder?
 The contract itself is designed, the pricing is tied to an index and there's a published index. So pricing specifically is tied to that. So as markets go up or go down, it's usually tied to spot pricing for fuel coming out of, it's not specifically tied to the price of oil coming out of OPEC countries. It's tied specifically to a gas index. So if prices go up and down, our prices will essentially go up and down.
 To the extent that specific bureaus can reduce their need, there could be constructed between city fleet and the bureaus some IA internal agreement that would...
 share savings or share differences in overall budget amounts relative to budget? The reason I mention this is this is a tough budget session we're about to be teed up for. And if we can reduce the cost and further our climate action goals at the same time, that's the kind of reduction I'd like to see in the budget. So could we think on this? Could you strategize a little bit and see if there isn't a way even to get a 2.5% reduction
 That would make a meaningful difference. So if we could just think on that. Two and a half percent of $32 million is a lot of money. Yes, sir. Is there any further questions? I'll accept a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Aye.
 Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Report's accepted. Thanks, gentlemen. Thank you very much. 102. Authorize a grant agreement with APANO Communities United Fund not to exceed $33,000 to support the Asian Pacific American Communities United Against Hate Project.
 Colleagues, I was absent last week on city business, and I've reviewed the record for this item. My understanding is that this item was pulled off the consent agenda last week for further discussion. The Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, APANO, provides culturally specific services and was selected as a provider of these services by the Portlanders United Against Hate, PUYA,
 selection committee, a process that was run through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. In the fall bump, our fall budget process, the Council authorized the funding. What is before us today is the grant agreement which ensures grantees are compliant with the City's values to receiving funding. While this grant agreement is generally a standard grant agreement, there is additional language that considers the recent allegations against APANO.
 To be clear, the city takes these allegations regarding workplace equity and fairness incredibly seriously. That's why...
 There is this additional language which acknowledged the audit report being performed on the organization. The City reserves the right to terminate the grant agreement if the findings in the report are found out found to be out of compliance with the City's values as stated in the grant agreement. Here to further discuss and answer any questions are Kerry from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and Grant Manager Sheila Craig.
 You don't look like two people. I'm not. I'm just the one. Very good. Sheila's here. Um, and yeah, my name's Carrie Ko with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and the Portland United Against Hate Grant Program. And I am just here to answer any questions that you might have about this grant. Colleagues, any questions? So, if I might just interject, I was the one that would not vote for this last week. So it's why it's here today. And...
 This issue was unknown to me until you raised it, Mayor. I think it was during the fall bump when Epona was here receiving a major capital grant from us. And I simply believe that we, you know, somewhere, somehow some very brave people stepped forward and brought these allegations to the light of day. And as one thing we've learned in this nation over the last six, seven months, it takes very brave people to produce some very profound changes
 in the way we interact with each other and the way we treat each other. I feel that it's no longer a business as usual with respect to allegations of gender, sex, or sexual orientation discrimination. And for us to approve this grant today is the business as usual approach. Hey, we hear the allegations, we're going to investigate them, but we're going to go on funding you just like we always do. And NAPANO gets a lot of funds from us, as do many other organizations. And I think this council needs to set an example here
 that until we get this report, until we know whether these allegations have any substance to them, we should withhold our funding to APANO, to any other organization of which allegations of gender, sexual orientation, or sex discrimination are made. We need to hold people to a higher standard. That's one thing we've learned, and that's why I will be voting no on this. And I urge my colleagues to do so as well.
 So you see the position we are in. So I'll give you your best shot here because it's my understanding the way the contract has been negotiated, I'll just call it the innocent until proven guilty scenario.
 but it puts a significant financial burden both on you and asks this council to take commensurate risk. As I understand it, what it would require you to do is in the event that the allegations are proven to be true, we would both terminate the contract and you would be obligated to pay back any funds that have already been deployed. So I guess my question to you based on Commissioner Saltzman's, I think,
 very important values-based statement is this. Why should we not just wait, as Commissioner Saltzman suggests, until this is cleared up as opposed to forwarding the contract today? Give us your best case.
 Great. I'm glad to hear that the council is taking this seriously. I think that we and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement takes this very seriously as well, which is why, in part, it's built into the contract and we've been working with APANO to figure out how to move forward.
 So the piece of the grant that I think is important to bring to this conversation is the fact that one, they have told, APANO has told us that they are on track to bring this report as is indicated in the contract, that they will have it to us by the end of February.
 which is what was requested of them. And second of all, this, as you all probably know, is a reimbursement grant. So actually funds are not automatically distributed once you approve this contract. And actually it takes
 a significant amount of time for the reimbursement to process through the city. So the time that we have to figure this out is substantial once we move this forward and they can start doing the work. So why not just hold this off and pass it later on an emergency basis? Could I answer? Commissioner Fritz? This is about getting money to the community in response to an identified community concern.
 So it says in the ordinance, Apano and Erko co-hosted a listening session in the Jade District in April to engage with Asian and Pacific Islander community leaders on how they are responding to the new political climate. The takeaway was that immigrants are deeply concerned about their personal safety. A few Chinese restaurants had their windows broken after the white supremacist rally and the march down 82nd Avenue.
 Personal safety has risen to the top of APANO's list of priorities. APANO members' kids are being called Japs in the Muslim community of Oregon, many of whom identify as Asian.
 The number of incidents of bigotry is so high that several Muslim-owned restaurants had to shut down during the month of Ramadan because they are afraid of being targeted. So to me, it's urgent that we get this money to the community. And it's not really benefiting Opano. They're going to be supporting the community in reporting these hate crimes. And that is urgent. That is here and now life safety. Thank you.
 Yeah, thank you Commissioner Fritz. I would agree that they, APANO has been active in working with Portland United Against Hate. They've been a part of the coalition. They've been bringing the issues to the forefront of how folks in the Jade District in particular are being directly impacted by this and doing the work on the ground to help folks from that community to be a part of building their own capacity to take action and support the communities
 the community's work, and then also bring that perspective to the wider community about what's really happening out there east of 82nd. So I want to be clear. I have long supported APANO and the issue around immigration and protection and services
 That's not in dispute for me at all. My preference would be definitely to approve this contract, get the resources out into the community and go forward. I'm just trying to figure out the logic chain here.
 You yourself just said we don't really need the resources right now. If we don't really need the resources right now, what's the big hurry? Give me an answer to that that I can take home. Yeah. So the logic is that we want to keep the resources moving out the door as soon as we can. So they have until the end of February to submit their report. We want to be able to offer them...
 their grant money as soon as we are able because they have already been approved for this grant. This is for this fiscal year. So really we are like more than halfway through the amount of time that they should have already been able to get reimbursed for their grant. Okay, so this is for the current fiscal year and closing it out. Yeah. Okay, thank you. That's helpful. We want to keep things moving because we want to respect the fact that they're already out there doing this work. And we
 have been working with them to make sure that's not an issue. So I have a question. Commissioner Fish? I have a question. I'm going to pose it to our council. So this is now a non-emergency ordinance. So if we passed it today, it would not kick in for 30 days. Is that correct? That's correct. And it is contemplated under the contract that we're adopting
 that the APANO will provide a report to council within that 30-day period, correct? I believe that's the calculation, yes. What is the recourse? So let's say the council gets the report. I'm following the logic of Dan's argument. And the report is deemed by the council to be non-responsive or inadequate or raises other questions. What recourse does the council have at that point?
 Well, the way that the ordinance is drafted, the authority is given to the mayor to execute the grant and agreement. So if the mayor, if it was the sense of counsel that the mayor should not execute because the report came back with information that was...
 of concern to the council, then the mayor, the council could, as a sense of the council today, ask the mayor not to execute it under that scenario. Well, and here's the other challenge. We don't actually have a clear standard of how we would evaluate this. And I don't want to go too far afield here, but I'm guessing that we regularly approve distributions of funds to entities that have pending lawsuits.
 HR complaints, challenges before administrative bodies and the like. And generally we don't require all that to be disclosed. There is a process for that to be evaluated. There is a process for someone that brings a complaint against an employer, which I used to do this law, so there's many different ways that you can get recourse. The council has, however, said that we want to report to better understand how the
 agency is dealing with this matter, which by the way the agency has been very transparent. They've sent out communications to the council explaining the nature of the complaints and what they're doing. I might suggest this as a compromise because I don't think there's a significant disagreement here on values. So let me make this suggestion to Commissioner Saltzman and the Mayor. If, why don't we just make a either sensitive council or friendly amendment that says
 that in the next 30 days, the mayor will only sign this agreement provided the report has been furnished and has been reviewed by each council member and the mayor is satisfied that that provision of the contract has been
 honored and that this money can be dispersed. It doesn't mean there might be another opportunity down the road if other information comes out, but I think what Dan is saying is don't put the cart before the horse. So by effectively delaying this by 30 days because this is not an emergency,
 I would be comfortable delegating to the mayor to review the report with his colleagues and make a sense about whether he should sign the agreement. Clarifying question, Commissioner Fish. And thank you for offering up an alternative here that I think is responsive. Would it be your intention then to make an amendment but add an emergency clause to that so that the 30 days is already commencing? Yes.
 I think whether we do that, Mayor, or it just slides to next week and we adopt. At any event, it's going to take 30 days because the emergency clause has been removed. That's correct. What I – I have a few things to add, if I could, as the commissioner in charge of ONI and the program that's being impacted. You do daily. Unfortunately, I wasn't here when this conversation really originally happened and the language was added to the ordinance around receiving the report, but –
 My support of this ordinance has no bearing on my feelings about the allegations. I strongly disagree that these funds should be held hostage and that this program should be further delayed pending this report. I have confidence that APANO is going to take the appropriate action based on the report.
 It has taken an extraordinarily long time to get Portland United Against Hate officially launched. APANO is providing critical support to the program. It's really not kind of an optional... I believe they're doing data collection and can you elaborate on what APANO will be providing us?
 Yes, they are planning to be a point of contact for, which is what we're calling the data collection and tracking mechanism. And then they are planning on doing work with ERCO and other folks in the Jade District to do community capacity building around dealing with hate in their community. Yeah. Can I cover? So this money is for the program. It's not paying for the ED's salary.
 And I just, I certainly appreciate how serious these allegations are being taken. I appreciate the conversation as a woman and as someone who has experienced sexual harassment. I feel this is really off base. So can I just make one comment? Commissioner Fish.
 Because, look, we have already voted to authorize the $33,000 grant. We are simply giving the mayor the authority to execute this agreement. But there is one – I'm just going to gently push back on one thing my colleague just said.
 because we do not have the actual luxury of separating out the issues because the standard grant language that we operate in at page 5, which goes into every agreement, says...
 In carrying out the activities under this agreement, grantee, which in this case is a PANO, shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant. And it goes on to explain the duty. That is a standard that we impose in every contract, and that is a standard that at any time can be formed the basis for the revocation of the contract. Now, we don't...
 So it puts me in a bit of a quandary. I have great confidence in APANO. I've already supported the grant. I would like to see the money go out the door. I support the program. We are literally talking about a 30-day timing issue. A report will be issued within 30 days, and presumably that report will say APANO has taken affirmative action. That may very well be enough for all of us to say that satisfies their requirements. The money is then distributed. What I think is...
 But because this is no longer an emergency matter, all I'm suggesting is that we give the mayor the chance to review the report before he puts his signature on the agreement. And on the assumption that APANO does give us the information that we seek, we should go forward. But we have the luxury of the 30 days to do that, and that's why I think we should consider taking advantage of it.
 Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fisher, I hate to argue with the lawyer. It seems to me that the language you just referenced on page five is about the employment under this grant and that they will not discriminate. I totally agree with everything Commissioner Eudaly said. I think this is a very urgent issue that, as I said, is life safety for people in this community. And I would be very upset, Mayor, if...
 The report will come. I have every confidence in that. If it shows that action needs to be taken, that is a separate thing from getting the money out to the community for this purpose. And I would be upset if you did not sign the contract in 30 days. That was my question. Thank you for...
 highlighting that particular language, but at what point does that come into play? Are we going to look back? How far do we look back if the charges are or the accusations are unsubstantiated? Then we... Well, right. And what makes... I mean, I wasn't here when we changed the terms of this grant and now we're changing them again. And that's really what I'm taking issue with. Well, and what makes this case, in my view,
 unique is the level of transparency from the grantee and others about what the issues are. So it's not my desire to put obstacles to putting money out the door for community-based projects. Again, that's why whether we do this formally or informally,
 If the mayor just acknowledges that he will review the report, and if he has any concerns based on the report, get back to us, otherwise execute the agreement. That's the insurance policy that I would need. I don't even need an amendment if the mayor is comfortable with that. I'm comfortable with Commissioner Fish's amendment as long as we get the report. I mean, there's still the possibility that somebody at some point, probably an attorney, depending on what they find in this investigation, is going to say –
 You know, we need more time. Or we can't give you this report because it exposes us to a liability. I mean, we've served on this body long enough to know we hear those lines every day in this job. But I am comfortable supporting Commissioner Fish's amendment as long as it would be clear that if the report doesn't come within 30 days, the mayor will not execute within that 30-day period. So are you seconding Commissioner Fish's motion for the amendment? Yes.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second. Commissioner Fritz and Saltzman, respectively. No, Fish. I'm sorry, Fish and Saltzman, respectively. And may I just be clear, Mayor? Yes, sir. It is my goal, and I have been a longstanding supporter of Vipano and their work, that the intent of this amendment is within the 30-day period that would otherwise have to elapse before the effective date of this ordinance,
 that you would be able to review any report furnished by APANO, and as long as you have no concerns based on that report and advice you get from counsel, you would proceed to sign the agreement.
 which seems to me to be a very modest compromise that captures Dan's concerns without setting a precedent, but also ensures the money goes out the door within 30 days. The only question is whether APANO, which has previously made a commitment to give us a report, meets that deadline. That's their response. All right. Well, let's do this. We have several options on the table.
 And why don't we take some public testimony. Let's let this sink in, and then let's have a conversation after the testimony. It's public testimony on the amendment, right? So it would be public testimony on the amendment. That is correct. How many people do we have signed up, Carla? We didn't set out a sign-up sheet because this was a continued item, but I know Mary Sight would like to testify. Okay, we'll let Mary testify. Thank you. You can come on up.
 Hi, my name's Mary. And then lightning, and then the list is closed. I really appreciate the conversation and the deliberation around this. And I think what you're trying to do, I really appreciate, because you don't want to throw the baby out with the bathwater. If an individual...
 person is misbehaving or treating an employee in a discriminatory manner, that's one thing. What is that? How does that reflect on the entire program and the good that this program does? And I think Commissioner Fish's proposed amendment is a really good example
 not just a compromise, but a way to get to what you're really trying to do here. And yet it's not holding the money hostage. It's not withholding the money. It's just saying, you know, we've got this 30-day window. Let's use that window because you're not – the money is – nothing is going to happen with that money in the next 30 days anyhow. It's not going to be distributed. And I think this is a good deliberation because –
 Like I say, I don't think we want to throw the baby out with the bathwater, but we also don't want this swept under the rug. And I think you're doing a very good job of finding a good balance here between addressing those different issues. Very good. Thank you. Yes, sir. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Justice Watchdog. I absolutely agree with Commissioner Fish on his position on this amendment.
 And why it's important is that this also allows APANO, again, to provide the report, the mayor to review the report. Everything looks good. Everything moves forward. It has to be done like that because in the grant agreement itself, these terms are very important to follow. If something looks out of place.
 It has to be reviewed. It has to be adjusted. And that's what's being taken care of right here. It's not a long time frame out. They're not asking to extend this out a couple months. They're just saying get the report reviewed by the mayor. So absolutely agree with Commissioner Fish and feel that's the proper way to move forward on this. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Colleagues, any further questions before we call the roll on the amendment? Point of order. Yes.
 Yes, sir. Just because On your very last day. On my last day. Point of order. Excellent. So to the extent that I'll be working with the council clerk on incorporating the change, I just would like to clarify that what we're doing is adding some language to the ordinance, not to the contract, and it would follow the directive A and be inserted as a new B.
 so that it would authorize the mayor and then there would be the following paragraph that would incorporate the language offered by the commissioner.
 Commissioner Fish and Saltzman? That's how I would draft that up if the motion passes. Yes, and keep it very simple. The intent of this is that the mayor would have the opportunity to review the report with council prior to putting a signature on the grant agreement within the 30-day period. So there would be no delay. I do not intend this to be precedential, and it simply addresses what I think Commissioner Saltzman has raised as a timing question
 And I think we should give the mayor the opportunity to review the report before we require him to affix his signature. And that's the intent. Colleagues, call the roll. Fritz. So this amendment does further, it would if it passes, further delay getting the money out because we wouldn't vote on the actual ordinance until next week and then it wouldn't go to effect for another 30 days. I don't believe we need to have an amendment to direct the mayor to use his good judgment.
 There was a process to allocate these grants, and we know the purpose of this grant is to get the aid to people in the community. And I concur with my colleague, Commissioner Udaly, that...
 I try not to speak on behalf of impacted communities, and I have not heard from anybody in the Asian American community, Pacific Islander community, that they don't want us to give this grant. We've heard that they do want us to be very mindful of the investigation and the report, but I haven't heard anybody speaking against the purpose of this grant, no. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udeli. Aye.
 I have also not heard from a single community member up until today, so we have two, who is concerned about us allocating these dollars. I, again, appreciate the seriousness with which these allegations are being treated. If this grant was going towards APANO's general fund, I may be more concerned.
 to support it, but it's not. It's going toward a very specific program or service that is a vital part of a program that we need to move forward on, and I don't support it, no. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Any further conversations before I move this on? This is a first reading, it moves to second reading. Item 104, please. 103. I'm sorry, 103.
 Authorize up to $250 million of new money sewer revenue bonds to finance sewer system capital improvements and authorize refunding of outstanding bonds.
 This proposed ordinance authorizes issuance of sewer revenue bonds in an amount sufficient to provide up to $250 million in proceeds for costs of sewer system improvements. These bonds are expected to fund BES's capital needs over the next 12 to 18 months. The ordinance also authorized the issuance of bonds to refinance outstanding debt. I'm sorry? Is this the second reading? Second reading, Mayor. You're absolutely right. Call the roll. Okay.
 Fritz. Hi. Fish. Colleagues, we got an email yesterday from our debt manager that Moody's had just issued a credit opinion, and they have determined that the Bureau of Environmental Services rating should be elevated one what they call notch from –
 AA2 to AA1, on approximately $1.4 billion of rated debt. And they have shifted the outlook on our debt from what is called, quote, stable to, quote, positive. In the analysis, Moody cites, among other things, prudent financial practices, capital plans driven by system integrity and addressing deferred maintenance, and a strong management team. Thank you.
 The net effect of this is that the Bureau of Environmental Services will now rank among the top 25 rated sewer utilities in the country based on their credit rating. And as we know, the Water Bureau currently has the highest possible credit rating.
 The effect of this, since we're now poised to vote on the issuance of new debt, is that we will be eligible for more favorable interest rates, which means the cost of providing the services will be reduced. So I want to compliment our debt service team, all the people in our finance team who have direct interface with the Moody's and other services that rate us. I want to thank Director Jordan and his team and all the finance people.
 And I'm very proud that we have achieved this milestone, which is good news for our ratepayers. Aye. So, Smith? Aye. Udaly? Well, congratulations, Commissioner Fish and BES. Aye. Wheeler? So, I was not here for the first reading. I've reviewed the record. I've been briefed by staff. I want to thank Commissioner Fish again for his exceptional leadership.
 of this system and the staff who've worked so hard on the revenue bonds to finance these sewer system capital improvements. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 Amend subrecipient contract with Inhabit to increase by $100,000 to expand flood insurance savings program. Colleagues, this ordinance provides an additional $100,000 for Inhabit to help reduce the costs of flood hazard insurance for southeast home residents.
 Portland homeowners. The Portland Housing Bureau received a special appropriation of $50,000 in general fund resources to address needs in the community and initiated a sub-recipient contract with Clean Energy Works Incorporated, DBA, and Habit to create a pilot flood insurance savings program.
 In 2017, Portland Housing Bureau piloted a flood insurance savings program to property owners in FEMA's Johnson Creek flood plan, which provided financial relief to 33 low-income homeowners, many of whom were seniors or from diverse backgrounds. This success prompted an expansion of the program to serve at least 50 more vulnerable homeowners in southeast Portland, Lentz and Powellhurst-Gilbert neighborhoods.
 Portland Housing Bureau's Flood Insurance Savings Program is another example of how the City of Portland is developing innovative approaches to addressing what is really a national problem. To discuss this further, we have Housing Program Coordinator Jacob Sherman and Neighborhood Housing Program Manager Andrea Mathiason. Come on up.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for your time this afternoon. Andrea Matthiessen, Portland Housing Bureau.
 So the flood insurance savings program that you have in front of you today is nested under the great work of the Lentz Stabilization Collaborative. Oregon Governor Kate Brown has designated that collaborative as an Oregon Solutions Project. It involves the commitment and passion and great work of not only the Housing Bureau, but the Bureau of Environmental Services,
 the Office of Management and Finance, Prosper Portland, and other community organizations and government organizations, all working to address the impacts of flooding on families and businesses in the Johnson Creek floodplain. As part of the collaborative, the Housing Bureau is really focusing on stabilizing the low-income vulnerable homeowners in the floodplain.
 Lentz has historically been an affordable neighborhood, but now gentrification pressures threaten to displace the area's low-income and very diverse homeowners.
 As the Mayor indicated previously, the Flood Insurance Savings Program was initially funded with a special appropriation allocation of general fund resources in 2016. The ordinance in front of you includes a general fund allocation provided in the fall bump.
 The Housing Bureau and all of our Lent Stabilization Collaborative partners appreciate the Council's support of this great work and the resources that you've committed to this project. Thank you very much. And with that, I want to turn this over to Jacob Sherman, the Program Manager, so that he can provide you just a few high-level highlights of the pilot program's success and the outcomes that we would anticipate with it.
 the additional resources being considered today great thank you good morning mayor wheeler and commissioners my name is jacob sherman i work at the portland housing bureau our flood insurance savings program was inspired by a very successful program that was launched in the aftermath of super storm sandy in new york city you might not have first-hand experience with flood insurance but trust me when i say that for the average house
 hold. Flood insurance is confusing, it's expensive, and it's incredibly frustrating. In addition, for low-income homeowners in particular, rising flood insurance costs threaten to destabilize these families and members of our community.
 So with that, our flood insurance savings program, which was co-developed with Inhabit, really does what the name suggests. Helps people save money on their flood insurance and reduce their household expenses. The program, the pilot program, was highly effective. Some program results for you. For the 33 participants in our pilot, the average premium was $1,195.
 After the intervention through our program, most people got the average premium down to $450 for an average savings of $745 a year. We had one client who saved an astonishing $5,800 a year in her flood insurance.
 We've been focused on targeting households at risk of displacement. The average area median income of the homeowners served in our pilot was 66%. Thirty-nine percent of the people served in our pilot were communities of color. Eighteen percent were seniors. So as we look forward to expanding this program, we're eager to be serving more community members. We're getting ready to commence outreach with this ordinance going into effect, and we're happy to answer any questions that you might have.
 Colleagues? I'm just kind of curious. What are some of the things...
 people are doing to reduce those premiums so much? The program is kind of a three-step process, and to be brief, it involves hiring a professional land surveyor to come out and take detailed measurements of a home and then compare those to the estimated height of a 100-year flood. Inhabit then sends a home advisor through the home to determine kind of flood resiliency measures. And then Inhabit,
 Both of those items are followed up with a targeted one-on-one counseling session with a flood insurance expert. And together, that package results in those savings. Great. Any further discussion? Public testimony? No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Very impressive results being obtained. Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. Good work. Thank you. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item, 105. Amend contract with Land Morphology, Inc. in the amount of $674,137 for additional design and construction administration services for the Leach Upper Garden Development Project. Commissioner Fritz. Aye.
 Colleagues, often when we have increases in contract amounts, that's not necessarily a good thing because it means something has gone wrong. In this case, it means that something has gone very right, and I'm happy to bring this item forward. It's a huge increase in the contract cost because of a huge increase in funding available through the Leach Upper Garden Project. Leach Botanical Gardens is a treasure in Portland with a wonderful support group, the Friends of Leach Gardens.
 And back in December of 2016, I offered a challenge to the Friends, that if they could raise a total of $1.26 million overall, then I would dedicate $4.9 million in funding from Portland Parks and Recreation's system development charge, which are impact fees developers pay, to see the project to completion. I'm very happy to announce that the Friends group and partners have surpassed their goal, and that is why we can increase the contract.
 So I want Commissioner Fish to also have an opportunity to introduce this, because it was his leadership when he was in charge of parks that got Prosper Portland to start investing in leached botanical gardens, and it was really his vision to see that this could be an economic driver as well as a wonderful amenity in East Portland. So Commissioner Fish. Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And let me begin by saying that
 Your stewardship of systems development charge dollars, the fees that developers pay, and your focus on investing in East Portland is going to transform the parks system for 40% of the population and a place where so many kids and families live. So I want to compliment you, and I think it will be the cornerstone of your legacy as commissioner in charge of the Parks Bureau. As to Leach Botanical Garden...
 Each of us who've had a chance to visit the garden and the manor house have fallen in love with it. It is a crown jewel in East Portland. It is, in my view, the most developed and most important park in East Portland, and someday it will be competing with lots of other amenities. And I am particularly pleased that the way this was structured, this is a public-private partnership.
 substantial developer fees, substantial commitment by Prosper Portland, a Metro grant, and then the generosity of donors who have invested in the future of Leach. What we're really talking about is taking...
 a local gem and turning it into a world-class attraction. And we are very proud of what David and his team are doing and grateful. So thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your leadership. Thank you for your partnership. Now I turn it over to Ross Swanson of Portland Parks and Recreation and David Porter of Leach Botanical Gardens. Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor, Council Members. My name is Ross Swanson. I'm a Capital Project Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. With me is David Porter, Executive Director of Leach. Thank you.
 They are a non-profit partner that oversees the garden on a daily basis and all the programming that takes place at the garden. We are here to amend a professional technical expert contract, or in this case a design and engineering contract, with Land Morphology. It is in the amount of $674,000. It will provide additional design and construction administration services for the Leach Upper Garden Project.
 Approval of this council agenda item will advance the design of the first phase project for the garden expansion. It is a project that is exciting for East Portland and for the garden. We are here as a result of four concentrated years of effort around design work and the capital fundraising part. David will address the success of the fundraising part in a moment, which is important for our ability to move forward today.
 So back in 2014, Leach Garden Friends and Portland Park Recreation entered into a master planning and capital project for the garden. It was catalyzed by an acquisition of a property just to the north of the garden formerly called the Davis property. At that time, the project hired a nationally recognized garden team of land morphology and the architecture firm of Olsen Kundig. They are out of Seattle but nationally known. Their job was to master plan and create a development strategy.
 The goals of this contract are to connect the upper garden with the lower garden and the manor house that we all know, create community open space for East Portland, provide a regional draw and a nationally recognized garden for East Portland. Currently, most of our nationally recognized gardens are either in the central city or on the West Hills. Strategically balancing operations revenue and growth for the garden. In other words, as we expand the garden, we want to ensure that our staff, as well as David's staff, are able to program at a reasonable rate.
 The slide you see is the grand vision of the property completed in 2015. In addition to the physical planning efforts, a prioritization exercise was undertaken with garden staff, parks and rec, and we tried to determine what would be the first phase of construction.
 What you see here is the prioritized elements of the master plan and they were determined by the last three years of work. It has been a work that has advanced through further design of these elements and it also has gone through a required type 3 land use. In other words, we do now know what all the other bureaus are going to look from us. With the addition of improved infrastructure that runs the garden on a day-to-day basis, we have some key elements to highlight. The first one is an aerial tree lock that allows everyone access to the forest.
 Community open spaces, which includes a fireplace terrace and gathering green. And finally, a beautiful habitat and pollinator garden with new plantings along the forest floor. Those are some of the highlights that we feel will create an East Portland icon for us. With that, I'm going to turn it over to David Porter to explain the success of the fundraising for the project. Thank you, Ross. Mayor, commissioners, it's really a pleasure to be here again today to talk about a project that increasingly looks successful. Thank you.
 As Ross mentioned, in 2014 we had a schematic design for the upper garden and about $2.15 million in funding from mostly Portland Parks and Recreation and what was then Portland Development Commission. We believe that that funding, that amount of money, was insufficient to build a botanical garden that would do justice to the expectations of the city and to the residents of East Portland.
 nor did we think it sufficiently honored the legacy of Lula and John Leach, the benefactors who gave the property to Portland Parks and Recreation years ago.
 In December of 2016, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, she responded to this dilemma by challenging Leach Garden Friends and our wider circle of friends to raise $1.26 million from private sources. If we succeeded, she said, she committed to match our money with $4.9 million in additional system development funds. Just before Thanksgiving 2017,
 A day I think I will not forget for quite some time. Me neither. Leach Garden Friends announced that we had exceeded our target activating the match. We actually hit $1.27 million and there are people still sending money in. So it was very moving. Additionally, Metro Grant committed $188,000 to the project and Prosper Portland added another $1.8 million.
 So the visionary challenge offered by Commissioner Fritz increased the resources available for this project 363% for a total project of $9.9 million. That's amazing. That's great. So with the expanded revenue, the project is on solid financial footing to move forward with the expanded scope of work.
 This contract amendment moves us forward with the nationally recognized garden design team that has been involved for three years. The amendment will increase the design services contract to $1.2 million from the original $433,000. Utilization of the same design team though will provide consistency and will help expedite the construction. This contract amendment does represent a 180% increase in the consultant services. This requires council approval. Our proposal is supported by procurement services.
 We anticipate construction beginning next winter with plans for opening this long-awaited project in summer of 2019. This timeline is critical as Leach Garden of Friends relies heavily on the summer program for its operational revenue. With that, thank you, and we're here for questions. Any questions, colleagues? So the total project budget now is $9.9 million? $9.9 million. That is sufficient to do the job? It's sufficient for the Phase 1 improvements that are scheduled that have been approved, yes. Yes.
 So that's the tree walk and all those things? The tree walk, the habitat and pollinator garden, the aerial, the gathering spaces. Yes, the gathering spaces. The improvement of utilities. So everything you just showed us then is the phase one? Yes. Yes. But that kind of implies there's going to be more. This is a project that we will be working on for some time to come. Rome wasn't built in a day and neither was Leach Botanical Gardens.
 Very good. Any public testimony on this item? No one's. Call the roll. Well, thank you, David and the Leach Board. You've done an absolutely amazing job of fundraising, and it's an honor to be partnering with you. Thank you. Thanks, Ross and the team at Portland Parks and Recreation. Christina Nieves on my staff and Pooja Bhatt have also been involved. It's exciting to be doing something that's going to be...
 I think, an international draw, not just even a national or a regional draw. And it's something that East Portland richly deserves. I. Absolutely. Fish? Yeah, just in addition to all the thanks that Amanda has just given, I want to do a shout-out to the leeches.
 because they were very public-spirited. And hopefully someday Mr. Leach's old pharmacy will be restored because it's quite an interesting building. Let's do a shout-out to Charles Jordan, who saw an opportunity and convinced the council to acquire the site so we didn't lose it.
 And then to Commissioner Fritz, who's continuing on a legacy at Parks of supporting this and taking now Leach Botanical Garden to the next big level. Very proud day. Congratulations to all. Aye. Saltzman. Very impressive work and fundraising. Aye. Udaly. I'm looking forward to visiting. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Well, this is really impressive. And as I was watching your PowerPoint presentation, I was leaning over to Commissioner Fritz and just saying, wow, it is a great vision. It's not a...
 At least we can do vision for an iconic space in East Portland. It is, I think Commissioner Fritz hit the nail on the head, I think it will be a national draw. If it lives up to the current plan, I think it's going to be fantastic. What a great thing for the community. Thank you for Commissioner Fritz for pushing and pushing and pushing to make sure that this vision comes to fruition in your entire team.
 And obviously the folks, the many, many people at the garden and the volunteers and the people who put their blood, sweat, and tears into it over many, many years and the Parks Bureau and everybody else who has a role in this, further proof that Portland can come together and do some amazing things. So thank you to all of you who provided leadership on this. I vote aye.
 The ordinance is adopted. And I'm with Commissioner Udaly. She and I are going to go out to the grand opening together. It looks like it will be a lot of fun. We'll rent a bus. We'll rent a bus. By the way, there's a pretty good gift shop there, too. Very good. Next and last item, item 106. This is a second reading. It's already been read. It's had testimony. Please read it.
 Increase contract with eBuilder, Inc. by $746,818 for additional software and license support and training for the Capital Project Management Software System. Please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Again, I was absent for this, but I had the opportunity to review the record and be briefed by staff. Thanks, Commissioner Fish. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned until 2 p.m.
 Hey Carla. Yes. Very good. Good afternoon everybody. This is the Wednesday p.m. session January 31st 2018 of the Portland City Council. Carla please call the roll. Fritz. Here. Fish. Saltzman. Here. Udailey. Here. Wheeler. Here. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business including hearing from the community on issues of concern.
 In order for us to hear from everyone and give due consideration to matters before the Council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also ensure that decorum is maintained for everyone.
 If you are called upon to give public testimony, please state your name for the record. We do not need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. And if you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. There will be an opportunity for people to testify, and if you want to do so, you need to sign up with the clerk. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light's going to light up, and when your time is done, the red light will come on. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting.
 Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected is subject to arrest or trespass. If you want to show your support for something, simple thumbs up is good. If you don't like something, a simple thumbs down works. Please don't shout out. With that, we will get to our first item today, item 107. Please read the item, Carla.
 appoint Albert Lee, Vadim Mozroski, and reappoint Kristen Malone, Julie Falk, to the Citizens Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review, a division of the City Auditor's Office. Director Sevier.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, members of council, Constantine Sevier, director of the City of Portland's Independent Police Review. And it is my honor today to bring before you four very qualified individuals to serve a three-year term on the Citizen Review Committee. Two members will be new to the Citizen Review Committee, Albert Lee and Vadim Mozerski. Just briefly, Mr. Lee
 is a graduate of Creighton University and received his law degree from George Washington University. He is currently the Dean of Business and Computing at Portland Community College. Mr. Mazurski is a graduate...
 of the University of Texas and has served as a clerk at the Texas Court of Appeals, United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Palau. He currently works as an administrative law judge with the Social Security Administration. Ms. Malone received her Bachelor of Arts degree in Liberal Arts from Sarah Lawrence and her law degree from the University of Texas.
 and served as a judicial law clerk for John Rogers at U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Ms. Falk is a graduate of Swarthmore and
 University, I'm sorry, Swarthmore College, I definitely got that right. And she serves as an executive director at Bitch Media. She is originally from Kentucky and moved to Portland in 2006. The applicants that we have before you are- Just have to say, I think that's the first time that word has been uttered by a staff person in my time on the office.
 That's where she works, ma'am. I wanted to make sure. Actually, we've said that before. I remember the first time we were slightly transgressive about that. So the applicants that we have before you are highly qualified, and that is a testament to the hard work of the IPR staff, in particular Irene Konev. As you know, getting community members to volunteer their time to serve on the Citizen Review Committee, which serves a very important task.
 which hears appeals of police misconduct cases, makes policy recommendations to the mayor, the police bureau, chief of police, as well as the city auditor, is an incredibly important task. It cuts into a lot of people's spare time and is very difficult for us to get qualified applicants and for us to have the level of...
 just skill and professional experience with the current applicants is absolutely outstanding. And I'd like to take right now just to thank Irene for her hard work.
 So at this point that is just my recommendation to you for you to appoint these people to serve a three-year term on the citizen review committee. Very good. Colleagues, any questions for Director Sevier? Commissioner Fish? Are we going to hear directly from the candidates? They are, I forewarned them that council may want to hear from them so they are prepared to speak on their behalf if you would like to hear from them.
 I don't want to change up the order. I mean, would it be appropriate for each candidate just to say a couple words, Mayor? Why don't we invite them? They're here. They made the effort to be here. I'd certainly like to give them that opportunity. Thank you. Come on up. Thank you. Hi, everyone. I think all of you know me. I'm Kristen Malone. I've just completed or am about to complete my first three-year term on the committee. I've been the chair for almost two years now.
 It is, as Director Sevier said, challenging and time consuming, but I really do believe we're doing excellent work. I'm excited to have these new people joining us. We've had a couple new members in the past six months or so who have really brought a new energy and excitement to what we're doing.
 I think that in the next year-ish, hopefully you'll be hearing more from the committee about how we can improve our processes and increase transparency. I think that's one of the most valuable things we've been doing, and I'm really excited to continue the work.
 Thanks, Kristen. And I just want to personally thank you for the time that you've spent with me and members of my team to help us coordinate and understand the work of your committee and the needs of your committee. So thank you for that. I really appreciate it. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, members of the City Council. My name is Albert Lee. I'm currently a dean for business and computing at Portland Community College. I consider this a high honor to be a member of the Citizens Review Committee, and I should hope to be installed.
 I believe that this is a great civic duty and one that I feel is very important to have oversight over the police bureau.
 Thank you. We're delighted to have you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Woody Mazurski, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. Some of you I've met before, and some of you I look forward to meeting in the near future. I moved to Portland several years ago and was welcomed here, and I feel it's very important as a citizen of the city to give back, and I hope to be able to do that to the best of my ability.
 I am working with tremendous individuals and great staff at the IPR who I have had training with recently and have been educated on a lot of the issues that are before us. And once again, look forward to serving. Thank you. Excellent. Thanks. Just want to observe.
 There's something about the University of Texas Law School. I don't know what the – my stepbrother went there and went on to become a white-collar criminal defense attorney doing FISA court work. And he had a great experience there. And, sir, I noticed in your resume, Mr. Mazursky, it says you're on the steering committee for Project SEARCH.
 We're currently doing a pilot with Project SEARCH at one of our utilities with the hope of making it a permanent program here at the city. What drew you to that work? And Project SEARCH places people with intellectual disabilities in full-time employment opportunities. Thank you.
 Well, my background working for the Social Security Administration has intersected with people who have faced various adversities in life, including disabilities and challenges. And it's always, I think, to the benefit of individuals to be able to find employment that coincides with the difficulties that they face and allows them to be able to be productive.
 productive citizens. And so Project Search, I think, is a great foundation for that in helping people find those jobs through internships. And it's my understanding that the current individuals that are going through those internship projects here in Portland are doing a very good job in...
 as I understand it, will be able to find work in the near future. And I think that is a great opportunity for individuals. And I think anybody that can participate in that process should do the most they can. Well, thank you for your service. That's great. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions? Excuse me.
 Very good. Public testimony? Yes, we have four people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Dan Handelman, Regina Hannon, and Robert West. Dan, would you like to start, please? Well, Ms. Hannon asked if she could go first. Oh, very good. Absolutely. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler and members of the council, my name is Regina Hannon, and I'm a member of Portland Cop Watch.
 With few exceptions, I have been attending the Citizen Review Committee meetings for years, and I understand you're going to be appointing the two new members and the two returning members.
 However, I am concerned that the CRC is not truly representative of our whole community. It is made up mainly of professionals, and I am particularly concerned about the houseless community.
 In my many contacts with that community, I have found they are particularly treated poorly by the Portland police. They're subject to sweeps, they have their belongings confiscated, and they are frequently stopped and asked to produce their ID.
 Yet, there is no one from that community or from any agency that assists them that are members of the CRC. And I believe this is an issue that needs to be addressed and worked on. I'm also concerned about the committee which interviewed and ultimately selected the new members of CRC.
 It is possible that not one of them on the current selection committee had even attended a CRC meeting. I find that unacceptable and astounding, and that absolutely needs to be remedied before the next round of applications begins. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, or good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. Used to being here in the morning. We don't have any serious concerns about the individuals being reappointed to the Citizen Review Committee or the appointment of Mr. Mazurski. However, we are concerned about the comment made by Mr. Lee in his application about his lifelong friend in the St. Louis Police Department. I'll quote from the application. Thank you.
 On special assignments including Ferguson and riot control after difficult judicial decisions, as a black officer, he has faced ire and discontent from some parts of the black community. He is an excellent officer and one that I'm trying to personally recruit to Portland. So this statement appears to indicate that Mr. Lee doesn't understand why community members might be upset with an officer of color who participates in violent crackdowns against protests, which are dubbed riots by those in charge, when only a few people are causing property damage or other potentially criminal acts.
 that he wants to recruit his friend to the port and police indicates he may have hidden bias in favor of the police point of view, which make him not the kind of neutral candidate we want from the CRC. However, or moreover rather, these two men are filling seats vacated by African American women, Julie Ramos and Kiesha Ford, the former of whom resigned without comments in October and the latter chose not to reapply. There should be some due diligence about why that might have happened.
 There's potential that CRC will be going to a less diverse group. It had two Latinas on it before, three African American women and seven of its 11 members were female. These appointments will make CRC evenly split of five men and five women. The Latina member, Maricera Rivera, resigned about a month ago and her replacement will be presented to you on February 21.
 We've also repeatedly brought up the concern that CRC went from a group which perhaps had too many retirees to one that's tending to exclude older members. At this point, Mr. Mazursky, who is under 50, will be the eldest member of CRC. In a group that requires a lot of time from its volunteers, it would behoove IPR to send more retirees to council for confirmation. It's very hard for them to get their work groups together to meet even these days. Thank you.
 It reminds me here of the Portland Copwatch Warren Council last April about reappointing Mr. Jim Young, who missed more meetings than he attended. The mayor requested that Mr. Young promise to attend meetings by phone when he couldn't be there in person. He agreed to that, but then resigned three months later.
 We understand the need for the auditor to be independent, and we certainly don't want City Council stacking CRC with its own political appointees, but you are given the statutory authority to approve or reject these appointments for a reason, as a check and balance to the auditor's office, which has perhaps lost perspective in some way. We respectfully submit that this may be the case at this point. The auditor is also asking you to add two people who are or were lawyers, always a concern of being too much in that direction.
 Chair Malone is an attorney, Mr. Young and Ms. Ford were also former attorneys. Ms. Hannon noted that there are no houseless people being chosen. This analysis is coming to you from a group that's attended every CRC meeting since its inception. It's a lot more than the members, as you heard, of the selection committee have done. And the CRC used to bundle the applications with accounts paperwork and for some reason it wasn't included this time. I noticed last year they included them in April and September but not in August. So it's just inconsistent. Can I just wind up? I got one more paragraph.
 Since IPR has wised up and set aside four applications for other people to step in, if anyone should resign or be disqualified, we urge Council to consider delaying Mr. Lee's appointment until the February 21 session and have the auditor bring forward the two most neutral candidates at the time. Perhaps he is one of those two. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Robert West with Film and Police 911. And I do have the same concerns as Portland Cop Watch about Lee's.
 I do like the idea that the group has representatives of all the different racial groups. I don't think there's any Asians on it, though. But, yeah, these meetings need to be set up so that people of all groups are represented. And...
 That's one concern I have, is that there's no or very little Asians on it. I haven't attended within the last six months. But one thing I noticed is it's mostly white and a few blacks. And I didn't like that then, and I don't like the idea of most of it. I think that it should be split up amongst the different groups. Not necessarily nationalities, but racial groups. Whites.
 blacks, Hispanics, Asians, stuff like that, Indians, whatever groups there are in the city of Portland, I'm sure you can find people that are willing to sit on that board and listen to what the public has to say about their police officers and listen to the complaints. And that's what I wanted to bring up. All right. Thank you, sir. Thanks, all three of you.
 The last person who signed up is Eli Ritchie. My name is Eli Ritchie. I was born and raised in the city of Portland. Matter of fact, I wasn't really prepared to testify today, really hear more with questions. For one, it has to do with and to make sure we stay on topic, the Independent Police Review, which I actually, at this point, videoed.
 My encounters with IPR have lost absolute faith in any accountability for individuals that are filming the police in the city of Portland. And I just simply refer everybody to my YouTube channel, which is Son of Hightower Police Academy, inspired from the 1980s. The character Hightower, I thought that it would be kind of a funny solution and offer the city an opportunity to see Copwatch in a different perspective. Yeah.
 But unfortunately, the city seems to have buried their head in the sand further and further. My first interview ever scheduled with IPR was scheduled with an individual named Eric Berry. He's an investigator with IPR, and it was scheduled by a Portland police officer. In fact, the desk sergeant, I believe, at Portland Police, I haven't identified the individual. I got him on a way to do that interview.
 still seeking answers from the city. But I have recorded it. I'm not sure if that's procedure or not. And when I asked that question on camera, I was asked not to film anymore. And since I've been banned from actually going into IPR, and the reason being is I guess that it was because I was filming from the public sidewalk. And I had asked some security guards about the...
 public notice that's on the window out front. And that was used to ban me from IPR. I'm in the process of appealing that right now. But I really have no faith in the new people coming in. I really have no faith at this point. I really want to have faith. I really want these questions. I really like some answers to these questions.
 And until then, I would just recommend that the people of Portland really take this independent police review idea and really embody it for themselves. And so I consider myself an independent police review person. And that's because, again, I haven't seen very much independence in the public review board here in the city. So with that, you guys, thank you very much for your time. Yep. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Colleagues, any further questions or thoughts before I call the roll? Commissioner Fish. No. Please call the roll, Carla.
 Fritz. Thank you very much for your willingness to serve. Thank you, Ms Malone, for being willing to serve again. I do look forward to hearing the policy changes that Council will be considering. I want to thank Julie Ramos, who is my liaison to the CRC and who I met with as she was telling me that she was leaving the committee. I very much appreciate her monthly updates to me and letting me know what's going on and appreciate her service. Hi. Fish. Hi.
 These are four outstanding candidates, two new members and two being reappointed. I'm grateful to both. For someone to step up and take this on as a new assignment, this is a very challenging work, and we're looking for great people, and I think we have four outstanding candidates. And to the two individuals being reappointed,
 who are continuing with it, we have a special thanks that you're continuing to prioritize this service because we know you have a very busy life, and we're grateful for your service. So thank you all. Aye. Saltzman. Yes, thank you for your willingness to serve and to serve again. Appreciate it very much. Aye. Udaly. Thank you for your service. Aye. Wheeler. I appreciate Mr. Handelman noting that there is –
 There's a bit of a back and forth here. The independent police review process is intended to be separate from the city council, separate from the police bureau, and certainly separate from me as the police commissioner. And so I want to call that out and acknowledge what was said. And it's for that reason that I'm very reluctant to micromanage the selection process.
 That being said, I think the candidates that have been put forward here are outstanding, and I appreciate the willingness of people of this caliber to step forward and be able to volunteer on what is obviously a very, very challenging but extremely important commission. So thank you for your service. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you.
 Colleagues, we're going to take a five-minute break because the next item is a time certain at 2.30. We will convene at 2.30 and we will take up the proclamation on Black History Month. We are in recess. We're within the rules here. We are now reconvened. Please read the next item. Item 108, Proclaim February 2018 to be Black History Month in Portland.
 Welcome, everybody, and thank you for being here today, and thank you for your patience. Portland has been greatly enriched by the collective ingenuity, creativity, contributions, culture, sacrifices, achievements, and traditions of black Americans. A significant part of that contribution has come from the sacrifices black families made in times of war, and specifically by our veterans.
 There's a lot to know about the approximately 31,000 veterans in Portland. Are our veterans finding prosperous employment or businesses? Are they getting access to the health care and to the housing that they need and that they deserve? Of the approximately 225 veterans employed by the city of Portland, 22 are black.
 Today we are honored to hear black veterans from Portland and the City of Portland workforce as they offer us some insights and personal experience. I encourage all public officials and city staff to engage the public with black history to better understand the needs and concerns of our black veterans.
 I'd like to take this opportunity on behalf of the City Council to read the proclamation that we're celebrating today. Whereas in 1915, Dr. Carter Goodwin Woodson, noted black scholar and son of former slaves, founded the Association for the Study of African American Life and History and initiated Black History Week on February 12, 1926.
 And whereas, during Black History Month, all Americans are encouraged to reflect on past successes and challenges of black Americans and continue to uphold and live up to the ideals of freedom, equality, and justice, we celebrate the many achievements and contributions made by black Americans to Portland's economic, cultural, spiritual, and political development.
 And whereas the 2018 National Black History Month theme is African Americans in times of war, a resilient spirit. And whereas reflection on the black American experience in times of war helps us to remember the significant contributions and sacrifices black Americans made for our nation, Oregon and Portland.
 And whereas in Portland, World War II is a significant marker for migration of black families to Portland and Vanport to build and serve on ships for that war effort. And whereas as black veterans experienced opportunities for advancement during the war, they also witnessed repression, lack of memorialization of their contributions.
 and systematic withdrawal of benefits ranging from housing to health care. And whereas the housing crisis and politics of gentrification black veterans and families faced after the Van Fort floods is still very much felt in Portland.
 And whereas we recognize the contributions of black community organizations, non-profit organizations, and advocates who continue to uplift the black community in Portland and call for racial justice and an end to economic and social inequities.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim February 1st through 28th, 2018, to be Black History Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month.
 I'd like to take the opportunity now to pass this on to Kim McCarty. She is the program coordinator for the Portland Housing Bureau. Welcome. Thanks for being here. And we'll hear some testimony from some invited veterans. And then if it's okay, we'd like to take a picture with the whole city council down front. We would like that very much. Thank you. Thank you, Kim.
 I'm Kim McCarty from the City of Portland Portland Housing Bureau. So good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Council Commissioners. Today, on behalf of the City African American Network, we're kicking off City Events for Black History Month. I'm proud to introduce our black veterans who will share black history, which is also America's history, from their perspective.
 We have three speakers today. Our first is Frazier Raymond Jr., U.S. Army retired. His group will be followed by Jonathan Ross, who served in the U.S. Marine Corps, and Havar Rakenya, who served in the U.S. Army with the 82nd Airborne Division. I'll say more about each presenter before they present, and in the presentation, by inviting everyone to the atrium for dessert and to see the historic Black Williams Project.
 So first, our speaker, Frazier Raymond, Jr., U.S. Army, is retired. He's president of the Buffalo Soldiers Pacific Northwest Moses Williams Chapter, and he's joined by T. Sharp, Sergeant of Arms. The Moses Williams Chapter is committed to preserving and recognizing the contributions and commitment of the Buffalo Soldiers Pacific.
 The Buffalo Soldiers of the Moses William Pacific Northwest Chapter are involved in various community service activities, including flag-bearing ceremonies, mounted cavalry, units in the Rose Festival Parade and the Hollywood Parade, camping trips, lunch events for inner-city youth. And the chapter is also developing plans to create a housing program that would offer shelter to young adults and families. Thank you. Well, as she said, my name is Frazier Raymond, Jr.,
 I come out of Louisiana in 1950 and I joined the military at 18. I'm kind of nervous though, but anyway, I went in at 18. I'm a combat veteran at 20 and I went on to spend 22 years, 10 months, and 17 days on active duty. I didn't think I was going to get this emotional, but I'm married. The father of three children, they're all grown. I have a stepdaughter.
 She's about to graduate from college after three years. My wife and I live in northeast Portland. I've been in Portland roughly, I guess, 17 years. I came here in 2001, and I attended Portland State where I studied urban planning and community development, where I learned just enough to go home and stay out of everybody's way. So I fished for a while. I just kind of, you know, when you come out of a regimental lifestyle,
 And then you go into one where, for me, you know, civilian world seems to me like half the time nobody's in charge. I understand there's a, you know, the mechanism in place, whatever. But when you're coming from a structured environment and you come to one that's not as structured, you have to find your place all over. I went in the military at 18. I came out at 40. I knew that structure. I served the government in various capacities. I served around the world.
 I've been to some places. We traveled two-person team, but I did what I had to do for my country. But anyway, I retired here and I recently joined the Buffalo Soldiers. And there's a man by the name of Bill Morehouse. He just recently passed away. And I'm still running errands for that guy today. He was a World War II veteran, and he served at Vancouver Barracks. He lived at Vancouver Barracks. They're going to honor him with a plaque and a bench and a tree in front of the barracks he lived in.
 But Mr. Morehouse served in a segregated army. He would guard the Italian and German prisoners of war. They were allowed to go places in Vancouver where he had to stand outside and watch them. But he did his duty. And that's one of the reasons I'm still with the Buffalo Soldiers. I'm still serving today. We're a small outfit, but we are United States Army sanctioned. And as far as the Buffalo Soldiers go, they've served from the time of Crispus Attucks until now.
 And the Buffalo Soldier, even though the designation has been changed, the 10th Cavalry still exists. So therefore, the spirit of Buffalo Soldier exists. And as long as there's an American and an armed force, the Buffalo Soldiers will continue to serve. The 7th and the Philippines, the unit that was stationed at Vancouver Barrack, 24th Infantry, was the same unit that went to the Philippines. Teddy Roosevelt went up San Juan Hills, the 10th Infantry Cavalry that led him up that hill. History bears that out.
 Moses Williams was buried in Vancouver Cemetery, the National Cemetery of Vancouver. Moses Williams became an Ordnance NCO, one of the first African Americans to attain that position. It was a position and not a rank because the Ordnance NCO was responsible and he was assigned to the installation, not a unit. To make a long story short, Fort Stevens, they took the garrison from Fort Stevens and sent them over to nearby Fort Cambie because that was under repair.
 Since the Army promoted Moses William to an ordnance in Seattle, it's like, what do we do with him now? Well, let's send him out to Fort Stevens where he can serve by himself for two years, which he did. At the end of his two-year assignment, Fort Cambie was, the repairs were completed. And history tells us that, history says that the old soldier retired after 37 years of faithful service to his country. But he was forced out. He came back to Vancouver. He died a year and a half later.
 And like I said, this chapter is named for him. And as long as the Buffalo Soldiers' spirit is alive, this chapter will live. Thank you. I overwrote my time, didn't I? No, no, you did. Yeah. I can go back and sit down. You're very welcome to sit down and share Murphy-like. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. We appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Jonathan Ross. Come on up, Jonathan. Jonathan is a United States Marine Corps veteran. Yes.
 Part of his six years of service include responsibility for ensuring the successful operation of food services, recreation facilities, employee services, and administration of funds acquired by the association, totaling over $2 million. Now he's a full-time student and does work-study for the Public Affairs Office for the Veterans Health Care System at OHSU. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you for having me. Like she said, my name is Jonathan Ross. First and foremost, I would like to thank everyone who made this opportunity possible for me. It's an honor to have the spotlight and share a bit of my perspective with you all. I grew up not too far from here and I've lived in multiple parts of this city. Originally, I saw this world very different as we all would surmise. I saw this city as a child with minimal understandings.
 Depending on people around me, my peers and role models, like we all naturally do, I began to take root and grasp similar concepts of ones I admired, respected, and looked up to. Along with this admiration naturally came a responsibility to protect, which led me to where I am today. I remember walking down the hallway in my high school and seeing military branches organizing push-up challenges
 And you know what I did, I kind of did those push-ups. And to be honest, I had no idea the difference between the branches. I had actually joined the Army debt program before the Marines and saw the Marines work a little bit harder, so I kind of switched teams. My recruiter didn't lie to me when he told me it's not going to be easy and that much sacrifice will be required.
 And at a young age, when we sign such a daunting contract, none of us really realize the true commitment that we're about to take. So two months after graduating high school, I was going through a very painful process, Marine Corps boot camp. Nowadays, I tell people my horror stories and I get responses like, oh, that's terrible. How could you do that?
 People always perceive the experience as terrible, extremely difficult, but what I find that is most funny is nobody ever asked, how did all 80 of us live in one barracks for three whole months? We were all from different states, different colors, came from different cultures and had different beliefs from all walks of life.
 But you see the hardest part within the Marine Corps is to recognize that we're all equal. It only took a few months for us to grasp this. It's taken the country a little bit longer, but we're getting there slowly. So after boot camp comes Marine Corps combat training and then primary job as it all is. And to my knowledge at that point we'd work for some time, but no. You get thrown into the fire pretty quickly.
 I had about three months to learn my job and then endured about six months in a combat zone using those skills. Nineteen years old in Afghanistan really puts a perspective on a young mind. I spent many nights wondering what my friends were doing in college. And war itself is such a nasty business, I'd rather not bore you with timeless delusions of grandeur. After my combat deployment, I felt compelled to start to continue serving my brothers at a higher capacity.
 I wanted to make monumental changes in the world that I lived in. In Afghan, I started this process of becoming a Marine Security Guard, one of the most prestige special duties in the Marine Corps. In my first application, it was denied. No matter, try again, try harder. And through perseverance, I made that job my job. Long story short, extreme training conditions, they were so subtle, it was almost poetic. Nonetheless, I was persistent.
 I didn't see failure as an option. No Marine sees failure as options. At this point in life, failure was foreign to me. They became more like speed bumps. Yeah, they slowed us down like they do all people, but they're never meant to stop us. I continued to do that on my first post in Bogota, Colombia, where I lived for two years. I became a defensive tactics instructor for the Ambassador's Private Detail. I provided security for notable VIPs like Mr. Joe Biden and many others.
 I had opportunities to gather knowledge and insight from gentlemen like Eric Holder and Secretaries of Defense, and many other esteemed men and women. And still may I remind you as a young black man no more than 22 years old at this time doing all this work, being a Marine 24-7, seven days a week is no task. It's no easy task. There is a sacrifice needed in every choice, and with sacrifices come opportunity.
 So after South America, I went back to Islamabad, Pakistan, where I continued my duties and also became a Marine Corps martial arts black belt instructor. That consisted of a lot more training and a lot more pain. And I think we can safely assume you all know what I did. I got through that school. I got through that school with a lot of style and perseverance.
 Later that year came even more great opportunity. I was elected by the embassy to take the responsibility of vice chairman for a multi-million dollar association. And I can't even get into the details of a monster of a job that was. But as a 24-year-old Marine, the only thing I knew, again, was failure was not an option. I held that position until I left Pakistan, where I was given plaques and letters of recommendation. I'm very grateful for that experience that I had. I've always been a man of extreme focus.
 And as I started to transition out of the Marine Corps, which is always an incredibly agonizing process, which I plan to do something about in the near future, I received several overseas job opportunities, jobs that paid a heck of a lot more than jobs I could get back home as a 24-year-old black kid. I had an amazing skill set, but still had to compete with the education factor. And our education is extremely important.
 So naturally I chose contracting for a while, avoiding the inevitable process of coming back home and trying to blend in. What most people don't realize about the military is there's a shared pain. It kind of acts like a social glue. It fosters cohesion and solidarity within groups and between those shared painful experiences. And as a black Marine, it made no difference what color I was nor the societal bias. We are all still equal.
 I returned feeling like a completely different person, more or less more confident. I had a sense of self and a sense of purpose. And at that point, I didn't realize that the preconceived ideas and misconceptions that society was putting on me before I stepped off the plane. And I think a lot of us struggle with that reality. When I returned to Portland, I realized a hard truth. I left this city with one mindset, and when I came back, my perspective had changed based off my experiences in other countries.
 and I no longer felt at home. The society that I grew up in no longer felt familiar. And I'm not going to lie, the transition from Marine to student is difficult, and from active duty Marine to veteran is challenging. Nonetheless, we persist. I'm not just another entitled millennial, which is loosely thrown around. I'm not just a 26-year-old black kid that grew up in northeast Portland. Society assumes a lot of things about us.
 I'm a proud Marine, a dedicated college student, and a resilient black man. I've been to about six out of the seven continents in around 22 countries, and I'll end with this. The framework in which we structure our societal norms is the same framework that I believe causes such a platform of disconnect and tension. It's more than I've seen in any other country, and the solution is...
 Simply put, it's in our everyday lives. I truly believe Portland, which is why I love Portland, I think it's going to be a front-runner for changing this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's Maverick. He's my companion. He's awesome. All right. Thank you. Our next speaker is Javar Rakenya. Come on up.
 So, Javar Rakenya is a member of the Citi African American Network. He's been with the Citi for five years as a finance staff person in the Office of Management and Finance. He spent eight years in the U.S. Army with the 82nd Airborne Division. He has multiple tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. He wants people to know, as a vet, everyday life sometimes has a difficult task.
 for issues ranging from PTSD to injuries sustained within the time of service. Thank you. OK, mic check, mic check. OK. Hi, everybody. How are you doing today? My name is Jabari Cana. I'm originally from South Bahamas. This is where I was born. From then, I moved to Miami. I was like one or two. And then spent 10 years in Miami. Then I moved to Atlanta, Georgia. So I'm a Georgia boy. I kind of claim it. I'm a big fan of boiled peanuts. You should enjoy it.
 Let's see. I played sports in high school. I was a track and football star. Thought I could get some scholarships, but they kind of failed out. So I was supposed to go to the University of Florida to run track, but they got in trouble with some things with the NCAA, so I didn't go run track for them. I ended up doing two years of community college in Atlanta.
 Didn't have enough money to go to school. As most kids in the inner city, money is kind of an issue. So I ended up joining the military because I wanted to get out of Atlanta, try to do something different, see if I could actually do it really. So I went there.
 You go to MEPS, you meet your recruiter to take you to MEPS. That's where you figure out what your job's going to be. End up getting a job as a combat engineer, and then end up getting an airborne slot. So I said, what is that? So you jump out of airplanes for a living.
 I was like, okay, that sounds awesome. Let's do that. So I ended up signing up for that. Not a really good choice. My body definitely feels it now. Ended up going to Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri. Spent a harsh winter summer there. It was kind of crazy. Mosquitoes about as big as our bodies.
 But it was great. Ended up doing that, going to AIT, that's where you kind of learn how you do your job and stuff like that. Ended up taking a bus ride from Missouri to back to Georgia, the Fort Benning, Georgia to go to airborne school, which is great. Kind of scary when you figure out you get ready to jump out of an airplane for a living. That's kind of what you do. I see a lot of injuries. People don't open or people land in trees because of the wind.
 kind of laugh on their face when they're trying to get out of their chute. I happened to one girl I kind of felt bad for, she actually didn't graduate because of that.
 Ended up going to the 8th Airborne Division. To my surprise, I was told, don't make any big purchases. We're getting deployed in three months. Don't buy a car in a house, nothing like that. So I ended up going to Afghanistan in 03 as a 21-year-old. A whole new world. When you're on a plane going through Germany, it was like, okay, we're going to war. I really don't know what that is because it was kind of all new to us.
 And I opened the airplane once we got to Afghanistan, it was real. When you open that door you feel the heat. Yeah, you're at war. Everybody got serious and it was time to go battle.
 So in Afghanistan in 2003, this was coming in order at the beginning of the war almost, there was not a lot of things there. And so when we went there, there was definitely a lot of sandstorms, never been used to that, especially being from the south, I don't even know what that was, until it hits you and you can't really see in front of you. There's no stars on the side of the country, so it's pitch black dark at night, so it's really hard to see. So you had to wear a flashlight with you at all times.
 Ended up going to Kandahar, doing missions out of there. And ended up going to Bagram Airfield, that's up north in Afghanistan, doing missions out of there. I became part of a QRF force. My job was to protect the president of Kabul. So if he ever got engaged, if there was ever an issue, my team would go take care of those guys. As well as other groups like Special Forces, Army Rangers, Marines, anybody who went down. It was our job to kind of help them get out of the situation.
 So that was crazy. Plus my helicopter almost crashed nine times.
 while doing those kind of missions. Oh yeah, yeah, nine times. One time the engine actually stopped propelling in midair. And so as we're falling down, everybody bucking their chin strap, it's like, okay, this is how we go. So everybody kind of holds onto one another. And all of a sudden as inertia, I guess, as the helicopter almost crashed, the wind kind of helped the propellers repel again. And we're going to continue our mission. Okay guys, there was false alarm. So everybody kind of relaxed again. The Army guys, kind of how we are.
 We're a little off. So over there, I spent 13 months in Afghanistan, and that was
 My first deployment, I ended up going to Iraq a couple times. So my last year in Iraq was in Ramadi. I was like, you see, west of Baghdad. So it was like Fallujah. Everybody knows about Fallujah. But Ramadi was next city over, which was pretty bad. When we got there, the country was pitch black dark. There was no lights on at night.
 And our patrols would come through. People would flash their light at the enemy knowing we were coming. And we had on all the lights. You could pretty much see us from miles and miles away. It was like, Primus, please shoot at me. We kind of want bullets to kind of ricochet off the vehicle so we can feel alive in some instances.
 There's a ton of missions out of there. There is a good book called Extreme Ownership written by a Navy SEAL who was deployed the same time he was. I know this Navy SEAL as well. And it's a pretty good depiction of exactly what was going on in Ramadi at the time. It was a pretty bad area pushing out Al-Qaeda, Taliban, whoever it was. And it was a lot of ambushes.
 We got ambushed a lot there. In some instances, some FOBs, some foreign operating bases, you see bullets fly over your head as a daily occurrence. Like it was nothing new to see bullets fly over your head, or bullets getting RPG'd or grenades lobbed from rooftops. That was kind of norm. It got to the point to where you could hear certain sounds, like an AK-47, M4, a 240 Bravo, mortars.
 And you know exactly what it is. Or like vehicle-bound IEDs or an IED, because of the explosion, because you hear it so commonly, you know exactly what it is. There are some instances to where we got bombs in the base, a couple of mortars landed. Some were duds. And we actually walked past it. Oh, look at that dud. Oh, it didn't go off today. And that was a daily norm for us, especially in Iraq.
 From there, I took a 300-pound IED to the face and survived. I was a bomb of a hole, 8 feet wide, 6 feet deep. An IED is pretty much a roadside bomb. It's pretty major. I should be dead, honestly. It was a pretty big blast. I had a brain bleed. I was blind for 24 hours. I had internal bleeding. I had to get medevaced out. That's when I knew I was done. I was pretty much done with the military at that point because I almost died 1,000 times. I think that was my last...
 my last life in a sense. Contra, I used the ball 50, it was kind of crazy. But yeah, that was it for me. And so after that deployment, we came home, demobilized and found out, well, this is what happens when you come back from overseas, when you come back from pretty much hitting the gas hard and they say, okay, now you're back, don't kill people, goodbye.
 That's all we got. There was no, here's counseling, here's a chiropractor to go to, none of that. And I found out I had an issue with my spine I didn't know about, and I had to go to the chiropractor to get it fixed. And the military doesn't have any chiropractors. I'm not sure anybody even knows that. They don't have chiropractors. When you carry 80 pounds of gear plus a backpack that weighs 120 pounds, it compresses your spine. And the military doesn't do anything for our backs.
 at all, so no issues with the concussion. And I had one, I came all the way back and found I had a brain bleed, because I couldn't remember anything. So I would go to school, I finally ended up going to school.
 I would read something, and I couldn't re-architect the information because I had a brain bleed in my left hemisphere of my brain that I didn't know about. So I had to go to a CAT scan. I had to get nine of them because they're not the size of it. It was about the size of a dime that I would suffer from overseas. So I had traumatic brain injury. And so then on top of that, going to school and having PTSD is a totally different monster.
 It pretty much told you a 180 of your true self. So if you're a confident, happy, go lucky guy, it makes you a whole 180 of that, pretty much the whole total opposite of you. So I was very second guessing myself. I wasn't confident. I wasn't happy. I wasn't anything. I was pretty much a sad shell of myself, in a sense.
 So that took about two, three years for me to get out of that. Going to counseling, getting medication. The medication they give you, because I could only sleep 45 minutes a night. I couldn't sleep longer than that. My mind, my body would not allow me to do that. So the medication they give you, it puts you right out. Like you have to sleep eight hours. You have no dreams, you don't remember anything, you don't do anything. You sleep like a rock. But then if you don't sleep the eight hours off,
 You're groggy. You're like, your mouth is like, it's pretty bad. And that's all they give you. The counseling, the VA, they don't do enough for veterans. And not just being African American, but just veterans, period. We're suffering as a whole. 22 veterans kill themselves a day. The trauma we go through, I mean, I've seen the whole human body exposed to oxygen. The whole human body. And that's something I have to deal with for the rest of my life.
 So if I didn't have counseling, that's something, if I never talked to anyone, if I never did anything with that, I would be reliving my dreams over and over and over and over again. It's not a good feeling. It's not at all.
 So the VA doesn't do anything for us in that instance. I mean, they're trying their best, but it's not enough. We need more. I mean, if the city could definitely help out with veterans with that, that would be great. I know it's a tall task, because there's a lot of us out there. But we are out here, and we're hurting. We definitely could use some help. So after that, end up going to school, finish my bachelor's and master's degree, end up trying to get a job. That was a difficult task. Just period. Veteran, not veteran. It's really hard out here trying to get a job.
 I interned for a whole year to finally get a job in the city. I interviewed like 13 times. My interviewing skills were poor, I said much. As a veteran, as a military guy, we're short. So you ask this question, we pretty much say, bah, bah, bah, that's it. We would never go into detail of step one, two, three, four, five, because we're not used to that. Our stuff is short. If you say, hey, this is your affirmative, that's it. Or copy, continue mission. It's simple. It's simple stuff.
 So one of the instances, we just need more, especially in the job market. Maybe it's a way you can reach out to the VA. Maybe look at some veterans who are looking for a job and don't really have the skills. Maybe we can do something to assist those veterans with PTSD and people that are hurting, who don't really know where to go or what to do. That would be grandiose for us. Trying to think what else. I mean, that's pretty much about it.
 I've been working for the city for a while and it has been great for me, especially being a veteran, helping other veterans, talking to other veterans around the city. There are some great ones in the city. That's what's awesome. I mean, the people y'all have recruited to work in the city, they're great. There's a ton of us that are in the city and we're just happy to be here, happy to help out, happy to just be a part of whatever you need us to be a part of. I mean, the thing about veterans is that we're positive people, especially we've been through hell and back.
 And we've seen it all. I mean, there's pretty much nothing you can do to us that will make us feel bad, because we'll push our body to the brink and return. And so we know what the bottom is. But we just need help. We just need y'all to do your job as a city and definitely give us a leg up, because we definitely use it. All right, thank you. Thank you so much. Tosin, are you here? Tosin, come on up, please, please, please, please. Irene, are you here? Just downstairs, okay.
 Just a few more comments. And Sholanda, are you here? OK, thank you. So first and foremost, I want to thank our co-organizer, Tosin and Irene from PBOT. Thank you.
 So you may have noticed that most of our presenters were men, and of course women are also serving. I did ask some women to present today, and unfortunately they could not, but they asked me to share a few comments from them. So let's not overlook the black women veterans in Portland. The women that could not be here today want to say that there's a lot that the city can do for veterans today.
 that veterans cannot do for themselves. For example, the Veterans Administration healthcare system is failing black women for reasons systemic to the Veterans Administration and for reasons of sexism and racism. Health issues for female veterans include being vulnerable to more violence after initial military service injuries. I was also asked to remind all staff to understand
 and use the veterans preference system here at the City of Portland. When hiring and when recruiting black veterans and recognize the skills that veterans learn during service translate into skills that we seek at the city and they make for a very skilled workforce. So thank you for listening.
 We're going to invite you all to take a photo with our presenters today. And then to join us downstairs in the atrium, we have an exhibit, the Black Williams History Project. And then we also have some additional speakers, specifically one of the organizers from the first Black History... Help me. Festival.
 And it's going to be one of many in the coming years. Thank you. Thank you. So, colleagues, I'd invite you to say something at this point if you'd like. Commissioner Fish, did you want to start? I just want to make one comment, Mayor. First, I want to thank everybody for joining us and thank our heroes for testifying and sharing their stories. And, yes, we do have a veteran's preference, and we have to be scrupulous in applying it, and we need to do a better job of outreach. Thank you.
 I just want to share one quick story. I watched the State of the Union last night, and I couldn't help but think about Barack Obama. And I remember his State of the Union and how it lifted us. And we all have our own views of last night's State of the Union, which I felt was a very divisive speech. But I've only been invited to the White House once in my life, and it was because Senator Wyden arranged a visit. And I went with Bernie Foster from the scanner.
 And I went with George Hawker, who works at the county. And the ceremony was the President of the United States awarding the Medal of Honor to Henry Johnson. And there was an undercurrent in some of the presentations today about how the military in the last hundred years has treated the black soldier and the extra burdens faced by the black soldier. Henry Johnson was a member of the 369th.
 the Harlem Hellfighters, and he was considered one of the bravest men of his generation. He ended up dying a pauper on the streets of Albany, forgotten. But it turns out he was a very, very brave man, but there was no way for America to officially recognize his service because in the Jim Crow Army he was not allowed to wear the uniform of the United States. So he fought wearing the French uniform, not the American uniform.
 even though he was fighting the same war on our behalf. Well, because the French government acknowledged him to be the bravest soldier who had ever worn their uniform, and they awarded him the Croix de Guerre with palm, it took 100 years for this country to recognize this man's service and bravery. And it took the first African-American president, Barack Obama, to actually insist that he get the Medal of Honor, our highest award.
 And I want to acknowledge also the fact that Bernie Foster, who was the publisher of the scanner, wrote an award-winning series of stories about Henry Johnson. And it was our senior senator who then got involved to make sure this wrong was righted. That's 100 years ago. And he fought to defend our freedoms but wasn't allowed to wear the United States uniform and did not fly the United States flag, flew the flag of his state.
 So we've come a long way and we have a long way to go, but the stories we've heard today of African-American leaders in our community serving is very inspiring. And our city would be foolhardy not to find ways to hire more veterans because obviously these veterans would bring distinction to our city. So thank you.
 I'm glad you came back up because your story was reminding me of the first director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, Dante James, an African-American who was military security and did security for First Lady Hillary Clinton and then did a phenomenal job of our first five years of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And we would not be where we are as the city of Portland or the wider city of Portland without his leadership. And so...
 I hope that you two are looking for leadership opportunities, both at the city and in our community, because you're certainly well qualified, as was Dante, and thank you very much for that. I'm also wondering, are there other veterans who are in the audience today? If you could raise your hand. And other city employees who are part of the City African American Network, please raise your hands. Thank you for this presentation today. It reminds us of the important work that we all do. Thank you.
 Very good. I'll just say this because I can't add anything to the stories that were shared here today except my thanks and my gratitude. And as we heard up here at the microphone, these veterans went to hell and back, and they did it for us. And now we owe them. And so thank you for the concrete suggestions that were also made around the veterans.
 administration and health care services and what we can do to encourage the employment and economic prosperity of veterans in our community. And thank you for the courage that you exhibited by sharing your stories here today. I can't tell you how important it is that you did that. So thank you, all of you. So why don't we, could we reconvene here in front of the mics and get a photo? That'd be great. Thank you for your time. I really appreciate it.
 We are adjourned.
 I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break. I know I had to stop. I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break. I'm going to take a break.
 There's plenty of room. Get in here. Get in here. There's always room for a good-looking guy like you. There's room.