Good morning and welcome to the February 4th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll, Carla? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. We've got a few more minutes.
 a few communications items up front as usual, and then a couple of times certain and a consent agenda and a regular calendar. If you're here to speak on any of those regular calendar items, please identify yourself. You need to give us just your name.
 If you're a lobbyist representing an organization, please disclose that. We typically give people three minutes to speak and ask that we maintain civility in this room so that everybody's point of view is heard. So if you agree with someone, feel free to give them a wave or a thumbs up. But please, let's not have vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens while they're having their say. With that, I think we will take up communications item number 124.
 Request of Ibrahim Mubarak to address council regarding houseless issues. Good morning, Ibrahim. Welcome. Good morning, Councilman, Mayor, Commissioners. I had a slideshow, but unfortunately it won't be able to, we can't hook it up. Okay.
 What I want to talk about is the present situation of the houseless people sleeping out in the streets. I know we was doing a houseless count to get exact numbers, and I heard it was passed down through the Commissioner Dan Sossmann that there would be no sweeps so they can get the proper count of the houseless community.
 Well, I had slides and I have proof that the people were still being swept and they were being told they took their belongings and they were being told to sit there and wait for people to come and...
 and do a survey for them. And I don't think that's fair because if you got people sitting out in the streets with no coverings, with no belongings, and if you can stop people from getting sweeps where they're comfortable at, where they can get a proper night's rest, they won't be sprawled out over the streets in the daytime.
 Also, if you can stop that for your purposes, why can't you stop it for their way of survival? And that's the irony part of it, that people is not the problem. The problem is the problem. We keep focusing in on them, moving them around and sweeping them away from the social service environment.
 area where they need to be at. So I would implore you that you sponsor the Homeless Bill of Rights Right to Rest Act that's going before legislators as we speak now, and I would like for you all to back us up because who knows best what the homeless community is suffering in this city. Thank you.
 That's all I have to say. Thank you. I'm not feel well. All right. Thank you. Take care. Thank you very much number 125 request of Maryann Schwab to address council regarding Mount Tabor Reservoir disconnect public involvement processes Good morning, miss Schwab Good morning mayor and commissioners. My name is Maryann Schwab. I
 I'm here today to talk about the Mount Tabor disconnect, the Type 3 Historic Resource Review and the Type 2 Environmental Review meeting that took place on January 26th.
 Surely the Super Bowl trumped Southeast Uplift directors as well as city council from taking time to watch a 71-minute documentary featuring complex battering between the historic marks commissioners while listening to relentless badgering from Tom Heron to get an agreement on that application on that day.
 Nor were the Southeast Uplift members able to have fine time to get our latest edition of the Southeast Examiner to read the comments that were expressed by the commissioners. These commissioners are professionals. They give their time. And when you have an attorney say, hey, we need to stop this, we highly recommend this, go to mediation. We highly recommend that we have a meeting with all stakeholders. And to that end, I would like to have that happen in this room today.
 on camera so everyone can know what's happening. We have to have a vision for the future.
 To disconnect pipes and maybe 50 years out have our great-grandkids have to pay to reconnect them is egregious. It's not broke. Don't fix it. I've talked to your principal engineer. We can order retrofitted pipes and valves and have a second one there so the water will not ever go back into your clean water system. There is a way of getting this done without spending a bazillion dollars. Here, $480,000 for the Mount Tabor adjustments.
 I'm not going to go there right now. But I am concerned that for the commissioners on the 26th, this is the question. If the deadline for new material was to be submitted by noon on the 26th, how then can the Historic Landmarks Commission have proper time to look at the 12 noon submissions and digest any new material in order to be ready at 1.30 hearing to voice an opinion on that application? Okay.
 If legal documents are very complex, because this is land use, this is serious, this is laws, we need to protect with our Oregon Historical Preservation Office that treasure. There needs to be money to maintain those tanks. And when I watched the Mount Tabor –
 presentation and saw the films listen to the environments and we see how much is lacking in repair up there just on that physical plant it's egregious please let's go to mediation on this and um let me leave you with one thing here um if this if you keep pushing this forward and you did stop it once
 You did stop at once because you knew these reports had not been completed. That was a good thing. So please don't embarrass us anymore and keep pushing us into a corner. Listen to the people.
 We each have a duty to the land in which we live. We all come from the earth, and on death we return back to the ground. And in the cycle of life, everything that is born is always connected with water. Water is the giver of life. And that's from a religious leader, Pierce Mitchell.
 We must protect our water system. It's a 120-year treasure, and I very much want to recognize Mount Tabor Reservoir, Friends of Reservoir, Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association, and especially Cascade for getting this on the historic registry. Thank you. Thank you. Can I just make one quick comment?
 Because this is a land use proceeding, we can't comment on the merits. We're not allowed to say anything, and you know that. I know that. But we can stop the clock. We can have mediation. Right. We can't comment on a land use proceeding, period. But the one thing that you and I have talked about outside of this forum is that when asked, Commissioner Fritz and I agreed to convert this to a Type 3.
 and to set up a citizen stakeholder group to advise the bureau because we because the community said they wanted a bigger say so so that that was designed to get as many voices at the table at some point this will come to council but in fact amanda and i were very responsive when we first heard the concerns that people weren't involved in this that's why we shifted to a type three and set up a citizen stakeholder thing i think it's unprecedented to do that
 But at some point, this will come to council, and we'll have a discussion. We can't obviously comment on it until it does, but you'll have a chance to give your full views if it does. Two minutes, because this room will be packed.
 is really, I think, a compromise to the public involvement process. We really need to have that on camera and really hash this out, and I'm begging you to consider that. Thank you. Thank you. You won't have to make any comment. You can just sit and referee from the sidelines and watch how they come to a conclusion. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thanks very much. Okay. Thank you.
 Hey, folks. Come on. Hey. Thank you. Let's take number 126. Request of David Keefe Davis to address council regarding police targeting of journalists and photojournalists during Ferguson Solidarity March. Mr. Davis, are you here? Okay. Then let's move on. 127. Request of Joe Walsh to address council regarding scheduling a communication. Mr. Walsh, good morning. Come on up. Okay.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Just a side item. The sign-up for communication is now taking anywhere from a month and a half to two months. That's outrageous. The county, you can sign up and speak in communications that day. So you ought to consider revamping it somehow. You have people not showing up because they forget. Or it's very difficult to schedule something two months in advance. Yes.
 Now, this is our response to the mayor's state of the city. The state of the city is good, not because what the city council has done over the last year, but in spite of them. We still do not have fluoride in our water, and that is a good thing. The city council tried to shove it down our throats, but by popular vote, we have clear, wonderful water.
 If the reservoirs are covered, it will not be by the will of the people, but by five cocktail liberals who think they know best and have lied their way to giving out millions in contracts to friendly people who will repay them in the coming elections. We still have anywhere from 1,800 to 3,000 souls who every night try to find a place to sleep and be safe from the police.
 Police sweeps continue. Fencing off areas used by campus seems to be the new threat to the homeless. Restrooms are just about non-existent unless you are a paying customer. And transit cops continue to ticket people who have no money to pay fines. Community service has become free labor for the city.
 Politicians constantly pat themselves on the back for doing a good job. Sounds like a repeat of the Bush telling Secretary Brown, Brownie, you're doing a heck of a job, as Staldins were trapped and Bush was bragging how good the government was doing their job. Each time a politician brags, a star goes dark in the universe.
 Learn how to do things instead of just telling us it's going to be. Politicians always tell us, look forward, look ahead, turn to new things and never look back. They do not want to remember what they did or tried to do. This administration has been involved in one scandal after the other. We would like to have just one month without being told that someone that somebody did
 has money missing or the money has been illegally moved from one account to the other and someone was fired because they tried to change things.
 Judges tell you to clean up your administration, and your answer is to waste money appealing decisions that are solid decisions by both the federal bench and state bench. Accountability, transparency, responsibility are dirty words to this administration, and all three running for re-election should be defeated unless they are changes."
 When we talk changes, that would be for the people and not for the business alliance or the nonprofits who have their hands out for money from the Treasury that does not belong to Charlie the Hale but to the people of Portland. Yes, Portland is doing okay, but can you imagine how wonderful we would be doing if we had real progressives leading us instead of shills for the corporations? Thank you for your time. Next. Next.
 Item 128, request of Michael Withey to address council regarding update on micro communities, accessory dwelling units, and tiny houses. Good morning. Good morning. I am also having some issues with my presentation, so I think I'll just go ahead and switch to this slide. Can we?
 So this three minutes is an answer to your request that I come six months ago and talk about micro-communities. Since last June, we've taken your advice, Commissioner Fritz, and went ahead and continued to speak with the different neighborhood associations, different organizations from the Human Rights Commission and Architects Without Borders, et cetera, et cetera. We also have quite a nice team of volunteers. What people?
 Well, unfortunately, this is just not working. So what we're going to do is just close it off, and I'll just speak. So what we've done is we've planned a micro-community at 151st and Stark. There is approximately 38 units, a total of –
 46 beds altogether. They're everything from just single rooms in a community house that will rent for $150 a month to studios, which there's 24 studios on this 0.6 acres. Those will rent for $200 a month. Everything has their own bathroom and kitchen, by the way. There's 10 two-bedroom homes. There's two three-bedroom homes. All of these will be for low-income individuals.
 So how it will work is financially $150 for the studio, $250 for the room, $250 for the studio, $300 for the two-bedroom, $400 for the three-bedroom.
 How we will work in our model is that half that money, which is almost $10,000 per month that we'll bring in at that low rate, half of that money will go to take care of that micro-community as far as pay for the full-time manager and the sewer and the water and the electricity.
 But the other half will go to finance the next micro-community. So there's about, it equals out to 4,900 that will go back into the community and about 4,600 that will stay in the bank for the next micro-community.
 How we can adapt that to micro community for the homeless in Portland would be to go ahead and build that exact community, except that half that money, approximately half that money, would not go to refinance the next micro community, but would pay the rent for the other half of the people that are going to stay there transitionally. So what we would have is a 50 percent of the folks paying the rent,
 The other 50% receiving a free place to stay for a determined amount of time, whatever the caseworkers would think is appropriate to get them on their feet.
 This program, I believe, should not focus on the chronically homeless. It should focus on the folks that are just on the verge of becoming homeless, that just need a little bit of help. They don't need six months of free rent. They just need a place to stay for a month or two while they move on to wherever they're going to move on to. So this is not really a program for chronically homeless, but it certainly could be a project for chronically homeless. Yes.
 So initially, that one program at 151st and Stark, we could build that for less than $1 million. And we could do it because we're a nonprofit and we have a lot of volunteers and a lot of organizations that would help us build it. So we could build that for less than $1 million, and we could house 60 people permanently. So that's what we would have to offer to you. I could send you each of the presentation via Gmail. I hope it won't be the dirt.
 Well, that's at 151st and Stark.
 That was a great deal. Unfortunately, we – Who owns it? It's a privately owned piece of property. Have you put an offer to buy it? As soon as we finished our architect, finished his job, or other teams finished their jobs, we took it and presented it to the Human Rights Commission homeless event, and within three days it was sold. So we're trying not to tell people where we're planning our projects because they have a tendency to sell quickly. Hmm.
 That piece of property was for sale for four and a half years until we put it out in public that we wanted to buy it. Do you have funding lined up to purchase the next property? We do not. We do not have the financing lined up, but we do have a great finance team that are writing grants that are in the process of doing all that fundraising. But the reason I'm here today is to tell you that we know of a piece of property in northwest Portland that we could certainly put a micro-community on, and it is owned by the city.
 And we would like to talk to you privately about that as well. Okay, good. So we could, if you guys wanted to give us, say, in three weeks or a month from now, to come back and give you a presentation with all of us for a site-specific micro-community, specifically for the homeless issue, we could do that. We could put a presentation together. Are you part of a process either with the mayor or the housing commissioner on micro-housing? I mean, do you have a forum to discuss this other than coming to us?
 Not really, no. There really is no forum to come and talk about a new sort of micro-community. Micro-communities are new to begin with, let alone homeless micro-communities, low-income micro-communities. That seems to complicate things quite a bit. So we think we could partner with the city on a homeless micro-community and set a precedence.
 that other cities could easily replicate. In fact, we have a lot of other cities that are calling us and trying to find out about this. It's still in its preliminary stages, so we can't set an example, but we should set an example. And we would love to work with the mayor's office, your offices, in the meantime, in the next few weeks to go ahead and set up a presentation that we can come and give you in just a few weeks.
 and see if we can decide to go ahead and partner up, at least on the land, and our nonprofit to go ahead and set up on these low-income micro-communities. Yeah, we'll do follow-up with our offices about that, about that particular site as well. Yes. Good. Right. So...
 To get on the agenda for in about a month from now to present for a half-hour presentation on that. I'm not sure if you want to necessarily get on the council agenda so much as some of the advisory committees that work on these issues. But I would say get the particulars about that site and your plans for that site to us.
 to our offices, just get them to the relevant staff people in each offices and let us evaluate that particular proposal. I don't think we should discuss it now in the room for the reasons that you just cited, but, you know, bring us that particular idea on that particular site and let folks evaluate that. Then I think then the formalities can start after that, but I think it would be good for each of our offices to see what you specifically have in mind, what the costs are.
 what the city would need to contribute if the city's contributing land. But I'll continue to work with Josh Alpert on that. Yeah, work with Josh in my office, please. If I could answer your question, Mr. Fish, there's going to be a meeting at 3 o'clock this afternoon at the county building. Deborah Kofor, I believe, is chairing that. It's on the homeless issue. We've had a meeting after meeting, committee after committee after committee. Okay.
 Everybody has their own agenda. When you go and you sit down and you join a committee or a team, you're really not going to get where you need to go. Michael, just my sense is that you should go to that meeting, and if the county intends to issue an RFP, which is how money is distributed, you should go to that meeting.
 and you have an idea, I would urge you to respond to the RFP so that you can be considered for funding, because my understanding is that's how the county intends to put this out. We do, and we will be at the meeting. Yes, absolutely. Okay, thank you. I just sent Josh a note. Thank you very much. Okay, let's move on to time certain, 129.
 Item 129, proclaim the month of February 2015 to be Black History Month in Portland. Well, February is a traditional time of year for this declaration. There's a lot of things that are happening in the African-American community in Portland. There are a lot of things in which...
 The city of Portland tries to partner with our African-American community, but once a year, at any rate, we make special notice of that progress and those issues and those challenges. So that's what this proclamation is about.
 It says, whereas much of City of Portland's honor, strength, and stature can be attributed to the diversity of cultures and traditions that are celebrated by the residents of this great region, and whereas African Americans have played significant roles in the history of Oregon's economic, cultural, spiritual, and political development, while working tirelessly to maintain and promote their culture and history,
 And whereas as a result of their determination, hard work, intelligence, and perseverance, African Americans have made valuable and lasting contributions to Portland and to the state of Oregon, achieving exceptional success in all aspects of society, including business, education, politics, science, and the arts. And whereas Black History Month is a time for all Americans to acknowledge the legacies and remember the teachings of those who helped
 build our nation, took a stand against prejudice and injustice, advanced the cause of civil rights, strengthened families and communities, and paved the path to lives of dignity and prosperity for all minorities. And whereas present events, both in Portland and across the United States, have brought the topics of race and social justice to the forefront of conversation and remind us that though we have come a long way, the journey towards equity is arduous and ongoing.
 And whereas during Black History Month, all Americans are encouraged to reflect upon the past and current challenges and successes of African Americans and look to the present as an opportunity to continue to improve society, advancing the ideals of freedom, equality, and justice.
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim the month of February to be Black History Month in Portland and encourage all citizens to observe this month. Thank you.
 So I'm proud to once again make that declaration. If you haven't had a chance to go up and see the exhibition at the Oregon History Center about the history of African Americans in Portland, or at least a good piece of that history, I recommend it. The Historical Society has done a good job there. Just in the last month, we've had some pretty amazing events like the arrival and chance for some of us to hear
 Marilee Evers speak here in Portland, the widow of Medgar Evers, the civil rights leader. So we keep looking back in the past to examples like Medgar Evers and Dr. King. We also see as this proclamation tries to capture issues of the present day. And so I'm glad that once again we get to acknowledge the importance of this history and this part of our community and declare this Black History Month.
 So, again, let's all get up there and take a look at that exhibition if you haven't seen it yet. It's a nice piece of work and shows both the injustice and the struggles and the triumphs of the African-American community here in Portland. Thank you. So shall we move on to regular agenda? Oh, sorry, consent calendar.
 I think we have had a couple of requests to pull items to the regular. Before you do that, I just wanted to comment and thank the affinity group that have been putting this presentation together, this acknowledgement, and for all of your work within the City of Portland and in our community as leaders, as folks who are, especially our city employees who are African-American,
 working so hard to correct the wrongs of the past. And I very much appreciate all of the work that you do for Black History Month, but throughout the year. It's not a one-time thing any more than Women's History Month is just a one-time thing. It's all the time, and I appreciate all your work. May I add something? Yes, please. And anyone else wants to add to the record, come on up this morning, please. Do you? Anyone want to speak on this this morning? Come on up. Don't be shy. I'm sorry, Commissioner. Hang on.
 Last year, my wife got me, for my birthday, my wife got me a wonderful book, Bartlett's Familiar Black Quotations. And we keep this in my office in February and post on Instagram, which I don't know how to access, but they tell me we do it every day. One of the quotes in this book, so I wanted to read one of them today. This is from W.E.B. Du Bois, Jr.
 The discovery of personal whiteness among the world's peoples is a very modern thing, a 19th and 20th century matter indeed. The ancient world would have laughed at such a distinction. The Middle Age regarded skin color with mild curiosity, and even up into the 18th century, we were hammering our national mannequins into one great universal man, with fine frenzy which ignored color and race even more than birth.
 Today we have changed all that, and the world in a sudden emotional conversion has discovered that it is white, and by that token, wonderful. Well, well done. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Laurie Steen. I work in the Office of Transportation, work with the City African American Network, and representing, standing in for Sunny, who's out of the country right now. But just thanking you for the proclamation. We've been working hard to, we do have several things going on this month.
 There's a calendar on the DEEP website. There's also something going on at noon in the Portland building. We have Mrs. Memory bringing some...
 a performance at noon. So I just want to thank you for your time and thank you for the acknowledgement, and we'll see you again next year. Good. Well, we appreciate Can and Deep as groups of our own employees, as you have, who've said let's get engaged in these issues, even though we have a professional responsibility here, we also have a community responsibility, so really appreciate that for all of you who are involved in that effort. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, anyone else?
 Thanks. All right, now let's move on to consent calendar. And I think we've had one item, maybe more than one item. Yes, two items pulled. One is 130 and the other is 132. Is that right? Correct. Okay. Anything else to be pulled off from consent to regular? If not, then a roll call on the balance of the consent calendar, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. All right.
 Why don't we take those now? Because they're going to be relatively brief, I think. Item number 130. Item 130. Authorize city attorney to seek and appeal a limited judgment in Anderson v. City of Portland, Multnomah Circuit Court number 1112-15957, the water and sewer fund expenditure case. Mr. Thatcher. Good morning. Counselors? Yes.
 I am here to present this resolution, which authorizes the city attorney first to seek what's called the limited judgment in the Anderson, or so-called ratepayer case, which will then allow the city, if granted, but that is in the power of the circuit court judge. So first we have to ask for what's called the limited judgment, and then if the limited judgment is granted, we'll ask for the limited judgment.
 The city attorney has recommended and the Mayor and Commissioner Fish have concurred that we should appeal the fundamental legal rulings in the initial Anderson order on summary judgment. And the reason we recommend that is we believe that the judge has unreasonably restricted or interfered with, I should say,
 the policy discretion of the City Council and how it runs its water and sewer entities. And as a consequence, we believe that an appellate court should review that decision sooner rather than later. This case may go on for some time. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of individual expenditures that have been challenged. It will take a long time to work through that. And in the meantime, we believe that the...
 appellate courts should review the fundamental legal interpretation of the city's charter, which is contrary to that presented by the city. We have previously gone to the judge about this, and he said that he did not think that the matter was yet configured in terms of how the, what we call the remedy was structured, but that he said he understood why we were asking for it, and he thought, in fact, that
 it might well be wise, he did not make a decision, that it might well be wise to have an appellate ruling on his fundamental interpretation of the charter. We believe that we can now present to him a judgment configured in such a way with an appropriate remedy that he could, if he decides, could allow us to appeal his fundamental legal ruling.
 And we would be appealing those parts of the ruling that determined that the city council had improperly spent water and sewer money on what we used to call the voter-owned elections and on LOOS. And I want to emphasize that in those decisions, the council decided to spend a certain amount, less than 50% of the LOOS expenses came from the Water Bureau.
 the council made a decision to split that expense between various bureaus, including the Water Bureau. And with respect to voter-owned elections, whatever, one may think about the validity of that concept. And it was, in many ways, a noble experiment that didn't work. I would beg to differ. It worked at least one time. And it worked to save the right payers money. And it worked to help get money out of politics. But in any case, that's gone.
 But in that case, the city council said every bureau should pay to help decide who runs all the bureaus, even the Water and Sewer Bureau, because you run the Water and Sewer Bureau. And the judge intervened and said, no, I think that the city council shouldn't share this burden among all bureaus because I have a different idea of how we should implement the city charter. And it's that kind of judicial intervention and policy choices –
 that we believe deserves appellate review. And that's why we're asking for this authority to seek what's called a limited judgment, and then, if we get it, to ask the Court of Appeals to review the circuit court judge's interpretation of the city charter. We think it raises very important issues. Mr. Thatcher, I have two questions. It seems that the Anderson decision was quite some time ago. Why are we appealing now?
 It's just taken us some time to get things configured in a way that we thought that we could go back to the judge. And there isn't a time limit on how soon after a ruling that you can appeal? Not when you have to. There is normally, but in this case, we actually have to ask him for the permission to appeal.
 so we're going back to asking for permission and if he says yes and will appeal he may say no in which case we won't get to appeal okay so that that's that situation my second question is could there be any unintended consequences to this appeal could the ruling that mo everything except those two expenditures was correct uh be overturned theoretically i suppose that's true i have to say that we think it is a very low risk that the court of appeals
 will overturn the judge's decision to uphold city council discretion. So yes, theoretically there is a risk that there will be a cross-appeal and that the appellants will be able to say that sewer money shouldn't be spent on clean stormwater.
 But we just think that the fundamental principle here is so important and the risk is so low that those parts of the ruling will be overturned that we still recommend an appeal. But that's a very good question and one that we did contemplate and talk about with the Commissioner and the Mayor. Mr. Thatcher, one of the arguments that persuaded me was the argument that by taking this approach, we potentially save ratepayer dollars. And here's the argument you made.
 When we moved for summary judgment, both sides said, in effect, here's how we read the charter. Here's what the charter says we can and can't do. Judge, you tell us how you read the charter. And the judge issued a ruling that neither side loved. The plaintiffs argued something, and the judge said, I don't fully agree with your view of the world. And we made an argument, and the judge said, I don't fully agree with your view of the world. So at that point, we had two options.
 We could go through each of the expenditures that are challenged. The biggest single group in the lawsuit is all of our green infrastructure investments. So everything we're investing in nature to save ratepayer dollars has been challenged in this lawsuit. But we could go through each one of those and spend a ton of money convincing a judge that those are perfectly lawful.
 And at the end of the day, one or both the parties could appeal that to an appellate court and a judge could say, well, as a threshold matter, I don't agree with the standard that you apply to determine whether the charter says you can or can't make that expenditure. And what persuaded me when you briefed me was, why should we expend all this money?
 operating on the assumption that the judge got it right, let's let a repellent court tell us for sure what is the standard for judging whether green infrastructure investments are authorized by the Charter or not, and then based on that ruling, come back and do the litigation. And I think the point you made to me was compelling, was we might actually save a lot of money in legal fees
 by doing it at the front end rather than waiting at the back end for a judge to say, oops, you applied the wrong standard and you spent all this time litigating the case. And then go back and do it again. So you have proposed that we appeal it, get a ruling, and that that ruling then governs the case. And that's what persuaded me because I think it ends up saving us ratepayer dollars that we might otherwise expend unnecessarily. So I appreciate your presentation.
 Other questions for our legal counsel? Thank you, Jerry. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I was the one that pulled this item that you attempted to take it under consent agenda with no discussion. So the citizens watching this would have been deprived of the very good questions that Commissioner Fritz asked. Those are pertinent questions.
 And those are the questions that we considered also when we were looking at this. We think that you are running the risk of a cross-complaint.
 that the people that took this to court in the first place, in very general terms, had the option also to appeal the judge's decision, and you gain $10 million by the judge's decision, if I understand it correctly, because it was a split decision. Here's the problem. You treat judges like they're machines, and they're not. They're human beings.
 And when you appeal one of their decisions, they don't like it ever under any circumstances, under the best circumstances. Even if the judge says, go ahead and do it, they don't like it. He's a human being. We don't like our decisions questioned. So you're going to take this to the appellate court, and you're going to aggravate another judge. You've already aggravated the federal courts. Now you're going after the state courts? Yes.
 to aggravate them or embarrass us. Even if you win this, you lose. Because the next case that you're really interested in will have to go to one or the other jurisdictions. And judges have memories. They're human beings. Again, this is a stupid, idiotic appeal. And God, how...
 The city attorney talked you into doing this is insane. And you've got two lawyers sitting up there, and neither one of you either understand the probability of winning this, or you don't care, because not your money. It's the ratepayers' money again. Thank you. Anyone else? Further discussion? Roll call on the resolution. Fritz? Yes.
 Well, obviously, I had already asked the questions that I asked Mr. Thatcher today beforehand because I was prepared to vote for this on the consent agenda. I am not a lawyer, but I do understand that there's a principle of law in the United States that legal decisions set precedent, and then other judges follow those precedents. So it does seem to me to be important to find out what the courts, the appeal court, would
 is the authority of the city charter and the authority of the city council. I disagree with the finding that voter-owned elections was not appropriately funded by ratepayer dollars simply because I saved the ratepayers $500 million by being independent and able to challenge the intent to build a filtration plant in the Bowen watershed.
 So I'm interested in overturning that particular piece of it. I am guided by the city attorney. They have the best interests of the city as their job, and so I support this resolution. Aye. Fish. Aye. Seltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. Testify and affirm that I believe that our city attorney is sane. Aye. Okay. Next item.
 The other pooled item is 132. Appoint Aubrey Alverson, Marcia Suttenberg, Suzanne Legrand, and reappoint Amy Samara, Shabri Vickers, and Rebecca Naga to the Human Rights Commission. Okay. Did someone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Good morning, Council. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Stephen Entwistle. I represent the Healing Man Sanctuary. I represent Individuals for Justice. I represent 100 million friends, and I am a whistleblower for the less fortunate here in Portland. Let's rewind six months back.
 The people that were in Chapman Square, the people that were out in front of City Hall, that have a right to protest grievances against its own government. There was a young man named Nigel, really smart kid. Okay, I couldn't call him a kid. He was an adult. But he was a really nice guy, and he was sharp. And he was really interested in the Healing Man Sanctuary.
 And he was excited. He wanted to work with me on it. And he wanted to work on my mayor's campaign also, because I'm running for mayor. And anyway, he's a young black male, and he was my friend. The city, in your desperate attempt to drive out the remaining folks in Chapman Square before the new year, you sent out some paid police informants to go out and harass people.
 the individuals out there, to get them out. Some of these folks had medical histories that only I didn't even know, but we know now. And some of these medical histories, somebody had cancer, lung cancer. Another person had a bad heart. Another person had some mental issues. And what this council did, and they know who did it,
 They would data mine the information to find out the medical records and go out and harass and bam blast people in public in order to get them to move on because they didn't want them around. Well, we found out that Nigel had a bad heart. He's been in a coma for over six months. I don't even know if he's even alive right now. And I'm holding back his last name in order to respect his family. But this was brought on by the city council, paid for by the city council.
 And here you talk about how well you're doing for the black community here in Portland. I think it's a disgrace, and I think you guys need to be caught in what you're doing. This person, Sondra Harmon. Okay, you're done. Okay, no, I'm not done. Sondra Harmon. Time is up. Okay, Sondra Harmon has the storage unit. Okay, your time's up. Thank you. We have to let someone else speak now. So, Charles, you're welcome. Come on.
 Good morning, Commissioners, for the record. My name is Charles Johnson, but I do hope that you'll have a chance for Mr. Antwistle to relate his information about Senator Harmer and some of the people. Well, we're here about people being appointed to the Human Rights Commission, so it would be probably helpful to us if you spoke about that. Well, the Human Rights Commission is very concerned with the fact that sweeps kill. All these newly appointed or really appointed commissioners are concerned with that issue, but I'm up here because
 the public should know that these new commissioners would welcome them to the Human Rights Commission meeting, which is today. When you all run long, it means I get to the Human Rights Commission meeting late. So these fantastic people who are volunteering their time to serve on the Human Rights Commission would like to have everyone in this room, if they wish, come this afternoon to the Commonwealth Building on 6th Avenue and go up to the city-owned offices on the fifth floor and engage with other citizens who are volunteering,
 to try and give advice and information to the city. Here's somebody who's an expert on this topic. So...
 The Human Rights Commissioners that are named here and continuing ones like Sam, who's also a park ranger, and Dayala Bennett are engaging really on the cutting edge of race relations in this city, interfacing with Don't Shoot Portland and the newly elected NAACP leader. So I want to thank everyone that's on the Human Rights Commission and the time that you put into recruiting that and everyone.
 even encourage you all to drop in occasionally because sometimes the Human Rights Commission has discussions in their public meetings about their level of interaction with the city commissioners. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Director James, good morning. Good morning.
 I hadn't planned on being here. Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, Dante James. Just speaking to the appointment and reappointment of the individuals to the Human Rights Commission, I would just urge that I would urge your vote in the affirmative for all of them. They've been working, at least the ones who have been on the Human Rights Commission, have been working very hard, certainly as it relates to the DOJ settlement and the
 the COAB, we're going to human trafficking issues and CPRC and police community relations. So I think they have, in fact, been doing a good deal of work and pushing the envelope and working hard above and beyond sometimes what we might even be expecting of them. So I would encourage your affirmative vote for their appointment. Thank you. Anyone else? Then second on that motion, please.
 Any further discussion? Roll call on accepting the report, please. Fritz? Many thanks to these wonderful volunteers who put in enormous quantities of hours being an independent voice for citizens. I have in the past...
 dropped in on some of the meetings. However, presence of a city commissioner tends to distract from some of the conversation, and it's really important that the Human Rights Commission be independent and be able to say whatever they want to say, which they do. I agree with Director James that I very much appreciate those who have volunteered for even more time volunteering to serve our citizens by serving on the Community Oversight Advisory Board for the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritzer, I want to echo your comments. And Marcia Suttenberg approached me a while ago saying she had an interest in this position. I'm delighted that she was selected. I think she's going to be a great asset. But I note in the cover sheet that she's replacing Kyle Busse. And Kyle has been a terrific chair.
 He is the first chair since I served on the council who set up a regular check-in with my office and other offices to keep them connected to the work of the commission. He has a full-time day job as a busy civil rights lawyer. In addition to his volunteer service, he met with commissioners, maintained open dialogue. I thought he did a terrific job. I hope Director James we have a chance at some point to thank him for his service.
 um and but we welcome the the new members and particularly i want to welcome marcia suttenberg hi saltzman well i want to thank the new members for signing up for duty and also the reappointed members and uh as commissioner fish just said i'd also like to thank kyle bussey for his uh his outreach to us and for his service as chair hi novik
 I also thank Kyle Bussey for his hard work and appreciate the willingness of these folks to serve. Aye. Hales. You know, I got to talk a little bit last week about how Portland is in some ways different, in some profound ways different from other places, and I think we're all proud of those differences. And one of them is that this very strong reliance on citizens in really demanding volunteer jobs to –
 highlight issues, craft policy, and in many cases actually make site-by-site decisions on the changes of the city. And we think that's normal here. It's actually not normal in the United States. And, in fact, it's much less true in the state of Oregon than it used to be. The state used to rely much more on volunteer commissions here.
 And in many cases, they've drifted to being a little bit more like an advisory board and a little less like a governing or policymaking commission. And we still, with the Planning and Sustainability Commission and the Landmarks Commission and the Design Commission and the Human Rights Commission and so on, we actually try to give our citizens who volunteer the opportunity to really shape things. And that's a...
 That's still a formidable commitment on their part, but I think one of the best things about this process is that not only do we find people who are willing and passionate, but then they actually have power. And I think that's a really important part of who we are as a city, and I want to celebrate that and these folks who are willing to stand up and exercise that power. Thank you very much. Aye. Okay, we're out of the consent calendar and to the regular agenda, and we have item 135.
 Authorize the city attorney to institute legal proceedings against Pabst Brewing Company to recover damages from Portland, Oregon, sign trademark violations, and enjoin future unauthorized use. And if there's no objection pending a potential settlement, I'm going to reschedule this for February 25th. 136.
 Authorize the Director of the Bureau of Development Services to execute a memorandum of agreement relating to Delegated Building Inspection Program and Building Codes Division of the Department of Consumer and Business Services. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I put this on the regular agenda rather than consent because I felt it needed some explanation by experts. Because had anybody called my office, I would have been hard-pressed to give the explanation.
 presentation that you're going to hear. On November 14, 2014, the Building Codes Division adopted a temporary administrative rule adding a requirement that all cities' building inspections programs must enter into a memorandum of agreement with the state.
 This resolution authorizes the Director of the Bureau of Development Service to execute that memorandum of agreement on behalf of the City of Portland once the wording for that agreement has been finalized with the City Attorney's Office and the State Building Code Division. With that, I will turn it over to Director Polskalik.
 Good morning. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Paul Scarlett, Director for Bureau of Development Services. I appreciate the opportunity to share a few words on this memo of agreement between the Bureau of Development Services and the State of Oregon's Building Coast Division. BDS administers and enforces its building inspections program pursuant to state statute. The state building
 Codes Division oversees the city's building inspections program, and BDS submits an operating plan every four years as part of the state requirements for running the building inspections program. This memo of agreement is new. It's the first time, and it was explained to us as a more formal way to create an agreement between every jurisdiction in the state of Oregon and the state's building codes.
 For the most part, the Memo of Agreement simply restates the state law requirements for a billing inspections program, and I'm in support of signing it. However, BDS does have a couple of concerns with the language in the Memo of Agreement requirements.
 that we are addressing in a cover letter including the indemnification provision between the State and the City isn't identical and some of the language in the MOA doesn't accurately reflect
 the state of, the state statute, excuse me, or administrative rule that it is based on, it's in, it paraphrases it, but overall it generally captures the intent and the provisions of the language. I've got with me Tony Garcia, city attorney, that will help to explain, and Nancy Thornton, our code analyst, is also with us and can answer questions. Thank you.
 Good morning, Tony Garcia, and I'm primarily here to answer any questions regarding this memorandum of agreement and to note a few items for the record. This memorandum of agreement is to memorialize the statutory duties and functions imposed on BDS as a part of its assumption and administration and enforcement of its building inspection program.
 The Building Codes Division has requested that this MOA be executed and returned to them by February 15th, that is, after we received an extension. And because this memorandum of agreement contains indemnification provisions between the city and the state, the city council must authorize the director to execute this. And a little more on these indemnification provisions, they're mirrored after what's in the Oregon Constitution and the Oregon Tort Claims Act.
 And they're really setting out what likely is already in common law in that we would probably be primarily liable for any negligence on behalf of a city employee. And this is just putting that into this memorandum of agreement. And also this indemnification provision is not going to hold the city of Portland liable for any negligence that is the fault of Building Codes Division.
 And the attached resolution authorizes Paul to execute this MOA on behalf of the city, and a copy is attached to this resolution. Great. Thank you. Anything to add? Questions? This doesn't have any bearing on fire inspections or the authority of the state fire marshal and Portland Fire and Rescue. Is that correct? That is correct. That's correct. It's building codes division. It's different. Is that the same kind of delegation, or do we have our own authority for fire inspections?
 I mean is that delegated down from the state like the state building code is not sure no that's that a whole different statutory scheme Yeah, okay other questions. Thank you all very much Anyone want to speak on this item if not, then we'll take a roll call on the resolution. Thank you. Thank you very much. I fish Saltzman I know Vic I Thanks
 Okay, item 137. Authorize a contract with 2.inc studio to provide planning, design, and construction administration services for improvements to Beach Park at a not-to-exceed amount of $674,428. And could you also read 139? Mm-hmm.
 139, authorize a contract with Place Studio LLC to provide planning, design, and construction observation services for Gateway Park for a not-to-exceed amount of $708,585. Mr. Chair.
 This is so exciting. These items are to design the beach and gateway parks in East Portland using system development charge dollars. It's really important to recognize that we can only use system development charges which are paid by.
 fees on new development, we can only use those to expand the system and provide more services. We can't use them for maintenance, which is one of the reasons we went to the voters last year to authorize the Fix Our Parks funding part of it. The Beach Park Project addresses a parks deficiency in East Portland by serving 965 new households. And through these contracts, we hope to
 that the economic benefits of the construction accrue to the surrounding community as much as possible through our public involvement plan and a community benefits plan.
 Gateway Urban Park and Plaza will serve an additional 827 Portland households and is envisioned to be East Portland's living room, just like Pioneer Courthouse Square is the downtown Portland living room. So here is Kia Selle, our Portland Parks and Recreation Planning Development and Asset Manager, to give a brief presentation on these two projects.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Kia Selle. I'm the Planning Development Asset Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. As Commissioner Fritz mentioned, I'm here today to request your approval of a contract with 2 Inc. Studio. It's a local women-owned firm for design and construction observation of Beach Park, totaling $674,428. Okay.
 Beach Park is proposed on a 16-acre undeveloped site in the Argy neighborhood of East Portland adjacent to Shaver Elementary School. This part of our community is highly diverse with a large and growing number of young children. Development of the park is anticipated in spring 2017 and will address park deficiency in this area. It will be funded entirely by system development charges, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, which funds growth that increases the capacity of our park system.
 Because of the location of this project and our desire for inclusion, also thank you for Commissioner Fritz for mentioning this, we have a community benefits plan that's now in place for this project. And we think this will particularly benefit minorities, women, small businesses, and East Portland residents. A public advisory committee has already been formed, and the first open house will be held on February 26th.
 All right. Do you remember where the location of that open house is? I don't. Let me ask the project manager. Shaver Elementary. Oh, at Shaver Elementary School, which is right adjacent to Beach Park. The second item, I'm here to request your approval of a contract amendment for emergency structural. Excuse me. No. That's the wrong one. That would be my third item today. The second item is to request your approval of a contract with Place Studio.
 This is a local minority-owned firm for design and construction observation of Gateway Park and Urban Plaza. And this contract will total $708,585. The Gateway Park and Urban Plaza project is proposed on a 3.2-acre vacant site. It's located at the corner of Northeast Halsey Street and 106th Avenue. And as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, it's envisioned to be East Portland's living room.
 It's also intended to catalyze adjacent development on a PDC-owned site that is currently vacant as well. We expect development of the park to be completed in spring 2017, and it will be funded in part with system development charges as well as a generous $1 million contribution by the Portland Development Commission from the Gateway Urban Renewal Area. We also have a community benefits plan in place for this project as well.
 And the Project Advisory Committee has also been formed, and the first open house for this project is going to be held on February 17th. Do we know where that one is? Back tomorrow. It's not that long ago.
 Sacramento Elementary School, which is very close. Thank you. And, Kia, could you just outline the process? This isn't the last time we'll be seeing something about Beech and Gateway Park before council for decision-making. Could you just tell us what the next steps are? Absolutely. So the next steps are once we hire the design team, we will start the design process. But concurrently, we are going to hire a construction manager general contractor, right?
 So right now there is a request for proposal that is out in the community for Beach Park soliciting interest from the contracting community for that project. And we expect to release the RFP or request for proposal for Gateway Park very soon to solicit interest from the contracting community for the construction manager general contractor position.
 So once we receive all of the solicitations in for that request for proposal, we will review those. And then we will be coming to council to request council to authorize the contracts with those contracting firms.
 You'll remember when I came before you a few months ago, we talked about the construction manager general contractor process is a little bit different. We're hiring our contractor at the beginning of the design process instead of at the end of the design process. And so the idea is that the contractor will help us be more efficient with our money and effectively help guide the design.
 And then we will also be coming to you once we have a substantial amount of design completed and the contractor is able to prepare what's called a guaranteed maximum price. And what this effectively is, it's basically the same thing as a bid that you might receive through a low bid process, which is the traditional approach to contracting contracts.
 And so we'll be asking for or requesting your authorization of that guaranteed maximum price. So we have a few more visits before you. And then we will, of course, then start construction and proceed with the project. A question? No. Questions from council for Ms. Selle? Okay. Stand by. I know we have one more item for you, but anyone want to speak on these items? Yes.
 If not, then let's take it. I think Mr. Johnson wants to speak. Oh, sorry. Come on up, Charles. Good morning, Commissioners. I think we would be remiss if we didn't thank Commissioner Fritz for all her hard work on putting us in a better position to improve services at our parks and the voters also. I hope that since the recent homeless count happened, that there'll be some encouragement for 2, Inc. and also the group working with the Gateway Park,
 to be realistic and honest about the fact that all over our city we have homeless people. And if there are not 24-hour facilities, they're going to take care of their business outdoors in the parks, even though the parks are technically closed. So I hope that there will be a way to balance the fact that we don't want to create environments that are going to cause –
 closed hours usage with the fact that we have people in distress all over our cities. But I'm very glad that we found a womanly team. And with regard to, from 2 Inc., with regard to Gateway Park, I hope that the group working there will have a lot of neighborhood engagement from Gateway up to Park Rose for the people who benefit from this new project. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, then let's take a roll call vote on 137. Thank you.
 So the reason these are emergencies is because we just want to get going. And even with the speed that we're moving at, these parks will not be online, will not be opening until 2017. I also want to note and thank Kia and her team for their outreach and inclusion on these two projects.
 As she mentioned, one of the firms is a women-led firm and the other minority. The total percentage is 64.5% minority women emerging small business on the first contract and 63% on the second. And we do have this unique experimental pilot project, including in the request for proposals,
 the requirement that the proposers describe how they're going to use East Portland businesses and East Portland workers as a part of the project. There were many reasons why we did
 projects rather than combining the two. One of them was to break it up to make it so that more small businesses could participate rather than a massive project which only the biggest ones could. So I'm so grateful to the parks team for putting this together and again for my development services team who have been hauling in the system development charges in order so that we can fund these improvements. Thank you very much.
 Commissioner Fritz, I want to thank you for your steadfast commitment to addressing East Portland and underserved areas. I want to acknowledge that the question we often get asked is, where do we find the money to do things at a time when resources are so scarce? I think it's important that the public know that a good chunk of this is systems development charges, which means the benefits of this full market in building permits and construction.
 But that would only be half the answer because Commissioner Fritz has the authority to direct where those monies are spent.
 So one half the equation is we're getting a lot of money in through systems development charges. The second half the equation is she's investing it in targeted places that need assistance. But let's also acknowledge that this council over the years has put general fund, the 2002 levy, and other one-time funding into projects which have allowed us to reach this day. So that's a lot of strategic funding.
 to get to the point where commissioner fritz will be cutting ribbons on new parks in east portland and i can't wait to be there on that day hi saltzman well it's very exciting to see these two parks uh beach and gateway getting getting underway congratulations bye no fake
 I'd particularly like to echo Commissioner Fritz's and Fish's salute to systems development charges. I know that people don't like paying them and development actually causes disruption to people's lives, because there's construction that goes on that interrupts a variety of activities for people who live in the vicinity of the construction.
 but it's new construction that gives us the SDCs. And I really appreciate Commissioner Fritz's commitment to East Portland and her commitment to keep on hauling in those SDCs, as she said. Aye. Hayles. Aye. And Item 139.
 I love it when we have two items to vote on, especially when I have to talk first, because I always think of things that I wish I had said the first time around. Thank you very much to Lauren McGuire also and the entire team at Parks, led by Director Mike Abbate. I'm very glad to hear your endorsements of system development charges, Commissioner Novick. We will be coming to Council.
 sometime this year for an update of the park system development charge. We're looking into the methodology. We currently only charge 75% of what we know to be the new need from new development, and that's a policy choice that I'm going to be asking you to look again at. I also wanted to respond to Mr. Johnson. Every park that I'm in charge of will have a loo, and so we will make sure that people's needs are taken care of.
 And there's probably more, but we've got one more item, so I'll leave it at that for this one. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? I'm very happy to support this, but I'm not going to pass up the opportunity to raise a concern that I have and that remains and that can be partially addressed by the completion of this park. And that is in any large organization, work that doesn't get assigned might not get done.
 And we don't have a Bureau of Public Spaces. We have a Bureau of Parks and Recreation. We have a Bureau of Transportation. And we have a Bureau, in the form of the Portland Development Commission, of Redevelopment.
 Each of them has had a role at times in creating successful public spaces. By those, I mean public gathering places where community life happens, whether those are farmers markets in Lentz or the myriad of events that happen in Pioneer Courthouse Square or the myriad of events that now happen in Director Park.
 And so I've raised this question multiple times. I'm going to continue to raise it because as yet I don't have an answer and I think we collectively don't have an answer. And that is if it is part of a livable city to have public spaces that are successful public spaces, who's in charge of designing and creating them?
 Now, in this case, it's the Parks Bureau. And, in fact, I've had this conversation with Director Abate, and he, in effect, has jumped up and down and said, choose me, choose me, or choose my bureau, rather. And that's a perfectly legitimate choice. And if the commissioner in charge were to propose changing the bureau's title to the Bureau of Parks, Recreation, and Public Spaces, I'd at least entertain that suggestion if it meant more than just a name change. But somebody needs to be in charge of the enterprise of,
 of creating great public spaces. And we've succeeded a few times, if we're honest about it, when we look around at places like O'Brien Square and the, I think, still unnamed park across the street from the convention center. We haven't always succeeded in enlivening those places.
 But it's a really important piece of work. And I think we as a community and we as a city need to figure out how to do it. Let me give you another example while I'm on this riff here, and that is we had a short-term public space created out of the six-lane wide section of Southwest 3rd between Burnside and Ankeny. It was great. It worked. It came from a volunteer group with a shoestring budget that made it happen.
 The question then falls to all of us. Well, so who says I'll make that into a permanent public space? Again, it might be Director Abate and the Parks Bureau. It might be, in some cases, the Fort Worth Development Commission because they have an urban renewal district there. It might be someone else. But it seems to me that the Planning Bureau, the Transportation Bureau, the Parks Bureau, the PDC all have a piece of this community need, and yet we haven't clearly assigned it to anyone.
 Mike, or anyone else. So I want to keep raising that issue. This project is another example to synthesize that kind of focus out of what's now kind of a disconnected set of assignments in city government. PDC is helping with this project. Kia and her team are leading it. We've got great architects under contract to do the work. We can succeed here.
 And by the way, other things have to happen around a public space in order for it to succeed. PDC has got to do a really great job of getting a development on their parcel next door to this park that produces the synergy that we see at a place like Director Park or at Jamison Square.
 So it's not just the Bureau in charge's responsibility to create a great public space. And, in fact, we usually need some nonprofit to be stood up or stand itself up to say, we're in charge of programming in this public space because it doesn't happen on autopilot. So I just want to raise this issue, not that I fear failure in this case. In fact, I think we're set up for success in this case. But because I want to keep highlighting that,
 organizational challenge that we have as a set of bureaus reporting to commissioners and a partial success out there in the community of making great public spaces happen. I think the other part of this question that's maybe imponderable but at least worth debating is how many great public spaces should we have? Should Hollywood have a public square? Should Belmont have a public square? Should Alberta? Should Woodstock?
 don't know and the Planning Bureau has got some responsibility to think about that while we're working on the comp plan but I want to keep highlighting this issue because I think it's another great way for Portland to be a livable city we've had some success and some non success in realizing that vision and as yet we only have a handful of these kind of places in a city of 600,000 people
 Go to Europe, go to most of the rest of the world, and you'll see a much higher dedication of that kind of public space to community life. Will you yield for questions? I sure will. Sorry, after a long speech like that, I should yield anyway. It's a good speech. I'm glad you've highlighted it because it's the first time I've heard you actually express this. But you mentioned the space in front of the convention center. Right. And who actually owns that? I think PDC does. Yes.
 Who? Metro. I think it's Metro. See, there we go. In defense of the Parks Bureau, I think that was Metro. Yes, it's not us. And they used other funds, and it always looked to me like a little bit of a knockoff of one of our other parks. But I would be remiss in this same conversation if we didn't also acknowledge that the last five or six parks that the Bureau has done have won national awards. So the
 And Mike Abate was chosen in part because he is one of the most skilled people in his field in designing parks. So I think the question of council oversight and coordination is always a good issue. And you and I might even disagree a little bit with the current state of our charter. But this bureau has been conspicuously successful in delivering the vision of the council. What I think I hear you saying is,
 Is there a bigger vision for the city that includes this bureau where we have a 30,000 foot look and not just the case by case presentation to council? Correct. And remember that the Parks Bureau has done a great job of delivering these spaces when they're in parks. The street at 3rd and Ankeny is not a park.
 So if we want to assign the work to Mike Abate and to Kia and this team and say, go forth and create plans for great public spaces in land you don't own, that's a possibility. But we haven't done that yet.
 So, I want to raise this question, take this moment as just a privilege to do so, because I think it is something that we're all interested in and that you have a really important role, you and your bureau, Kia, have an important role to play. So again, I'm fairly agnostic about how we assign the work. I take Mike's volunteerism, full-hearted volunteerism, very happily.
 So we may have already answered the question about which bureau is in the lead, but that doesn't mean that they're there by themselves. So, again, for what it's worth, I wanted to get this issue on the record while we create another great public space in a park, but more to come, I hope. Thank you, and thanks for indulging me in this soliloquy. Aye. Good work. And now let's take 138.
 I've been contract with our and H construction company in the amount of one hundred and fifty one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars To complete additional emergency structural repairs to st. John's racket Center. Mr. Fritz Thank you mayor and in response to your riff pick me Okay, I love that Our next meeting
 Again, we are back here to discuss the St. John's Racket Center. I authorized an emergency declaration for a 450,000 construction contract on December 12th of 2014 to allow R&H Construction to undertake emergency structural repairs at the St. John's Racket Center. This is another great public nonprofit partnership, but the asset is owned by Portland Parks and Recreation and the people of Portland.
 This emergency ordinance before you today increases the amount of the construction contract to cover additional needed repair work that was discovered during the initial repair process. Something I relate to because I was having a fairly minor correction done to some structural issues on my house, and it's turned into this major, when you find stuff that's gone rotten, you need to get rid of the rotten stuff and put good stuff in instead. That's the summary of what we're doing at the St. John's Racket Center.
 Keogh will tell you about it in much more technical terms.
 The maintenance has been deferred over several years due to competing demands for our very limited maintenance dollars. We do need to complete what we've started and while we're actually making repairs to correct the other structural challenges that need to be repaired. So the money is coming out of the ongoing major maintenance fund that council allocates every year in the budget. And Keogh will, Sally, our capital projects team manager will give us more details.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Again, my name is Kia Selle. I'm the Planning, Development, and Asset Manager for Portland Parks. So I'm here to request your approval of a contract amendment for emergency structural repairs to the St. John's Racket Center. The amount is $151,250. This will create a total construction contract of $650,000.
 and we are requesting this by emergency ordinance so that we can continue the repair work. For those of you that have participated in construction projects, you'll know that asking your contractor to leave the site, demobilize, and then come back later costs a lot more. So what we've been doing between the time that we found out about this need and the time that we were before you today is we've been having that contractor work on other things.
 So, again, this is so that we can continue our work without delay. We found these repairs during our early renovation efforts that we started in December, and they just simply weren't visible during our pre-construction inspection without really invasive investigation. On one wall, we actually had...
 insulation that we pulled apart somewhat, but we didn't want to rip all of the insulation off the wall and completely damage the wall. On the other side of the wall, we had offices with drywall and other types of improvements. So we simply couldn't get to these inner wall cavities without pulling everything apart, which we did during the renovation that we started in December.
 So we have deferred this maintenance. It's a 1979 building. It's basically a metal building with three tennis courts in the interior and some offices. And the
 The community uses these tennis courts and St. John's, but our partner, our nonprofit partner, Portland Afterschool Tennis and Education, they run their program out of this building. And before we started this renovation work, they literally had buckets collecting water inside the building. The building had really deteriorated to a level where we would either have to stop the program or do the work we're doing today.
 So this nonprofit helps K-12 students by providing tutoring, they provide tennis lessons, they provide nutrition and fitness curriculum, parent education, and then a development program for those kids that really excel at tennis.
 They have invested $80,000 in in-kind donations as well as cash, both into the renovations we're doing today as well as looking to improve the building to better serve their program, which will basically increase the value of the building for us. As Commissioner Fritz mentioned, we are going to fund this work with existing major maintenance funds. Thank you very much. Questions from Ms. Selle? Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, we'll take a roll call on the emergency ordinance. Fritz? Thanks again to Kia and to Dale Cook, our capital projects team manager, and to all of our great staff in Portland Parks and Recreation. Also, our nonprofit partners, the Portland Afterschool Tennis and Education Organization and RNH Construction, who are doing a good job. Aye.
 Fish? And, Kia, I owe you an apology. What I meant to say earlier was that Director Abate and you were selected in part because of your outstanding background in design and management of complex projects. So thank you for your good work. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 I have two complaints that are only tangentially related to this project, but I want to take this opportunity to voice them because I don't think I'll have another opportunity. One is we're talking about St. John's. Dennis Therault, a resident of St. John's, is here, and he's about to betray the city by leaving coverage of City Hall to covering the state legislature. So I want to launch my objection to that.
 Second, I have an issue with the Parks Bureau, again, an unrelated issue, which recently printed a list of 12 broadleaf evergreen street trees you should plant, two of which are magnolias, but none of which are the sugar magnolia celebrated by the Grateful Dead.
 And given the large deadhead community in this city, I think that there's an oversight that should be corrected. I brought it to Director Abate's attention. I now bring it to Commissioner Fritz's attention. Aye. Hales. I'm not going to try to top that. Other than that, it's kind of, it's at least heartening in this case that in two different reports this week of leaking buildings and soggy insulation, we're at least fixing some of it. Aye. Thank you. Okay. Item 140. Thank you.
 Authorize four price agreements not to exceed $500,000 each for on-call civil engineering services in support of Bureau of Environmental Services Capital Improvement Program projects. Second reading, so roll call, please. Fritz? Great work, Commissioner Fish. Aye.
 I want to thank, again, Scott Gibson, James Allison, and the whole team at BES for really pushing the envelope on this. Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, 141, second reading as well. Extend contract with Madison Biosolids, Inc. for biosolids use services for an additional five years for $3,250,000. Roll call, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye.
 I want to thank Greg Char and some very talented people. Greg, Amanda, is sort of the Todd Lofgren of my bureau. And that's one of the highest compliments I can give to someone because there's a lot of moving pieces on this. And he is at that intersection of innovative solutions to dealing with our bureau's needs and partnerships. And this is a good one. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you.
 42. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire additional temporary and permanent rights and amend certain legal descriptions for temporary construction and sewer easements necessary for construction of the Northeast 112th Avenue and Mark Street Local Improvement District project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, the 112th and Marks LID was created to address and make certain sidewalk and culvert improvements on those streets. This ordinance would amend the previous ordinance passed in October 2013. It would authorize PBOT to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights as well as to amend certain legal descriptions of existing temporary construction and storagements necessary for completion of the LID.
 It was found that additional property rights, both permanent and temporary, were needed to construct the culvert improvements as well as the hammerhead needed for fire access. Both areas of additional property rights are located on Northeast 112th, in a segment recently added to the scope of the LID. And it's an emergency because PBOT staff believe it's necessary to acquire possession of the easements by June 1st, 2015, so construction could begin on schedule. And I turn it over to Marty Maloney of PBOT ROW Acquisition to elaborate. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Marty Maloney with the City of Portland right of way. I just wanted to talk a little bit about the proposed ordinance at 112th Avenue and Mark's LID, or 12th Avenue and Mark Street LID Condemnation Ordinance.
 Basically did a good job of talking about it yourself And just wanted to I guess let you guys know that I have spoken to all the property owners out on that are affected by the right away acquisitions and everybody was agreeable to The right away that was necessary If you do have any questions at this time, I'd be more than happy to answer anything. I
 so even though it's we're acquiring this through eminent domain that's okay with the property owners yeah definitely yeah i've talked to them a couple of the property owners we already have actually acquired right away from uh before uh we needed to amend this uh due to finding that we needed a couple extra temporary construction easements due to culverts the culvert replacement and commissioner andrew abby local improvement district administrator and project manager just to very briefly set the context for this um
 When we formed this LID with the blessing of counsel, we deferred the construction of the north end of Northeast 112th Avenue. There used to be a business called Buckaroo ThermoSeal, and it was owned by a gentleman who was not in the best of health, and certainly in 2008, economy was not good, and he was laying off quite a few of his employees. And we just felt that from a financial point of view, we could defer the construction of the north end of 112th Avenue.
 July 23, 2008, he had on top of all those issues, he had a three alarm fire to which the Bureau of Fire and Rescue responded. So the fire bureaus had a real interest in converting what is now a gravel hammerhead behind a locked gate into a public right of way that's paved with a turnaround for fire.
 Happily, that property has been acquired by a new thriving small business in Park Rose called River City Environmental. And they signed an extra work agreement. And they are already busting at the seams in their new space. We're very happy about that. It was an extremely complex negotiation that we weren't able to finalize until November 21st.
 So what this allows us to do is to avoid having to fold that work into a future LID. We're getting ready to go out to bid in a couple of weeks, and we can just fold all of this into our bid package. We just got permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Oregon Division of State Lands last week, and we have an in-water work window of June 15th that we're trying to make. So that's why we have the emergency clause on this ordinance.
 And the other piece of it, the additional temporary construction easements, we've gotten a little bit of feedback, minor changes back from U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and DSL, and we're just making some very minor changes in our construction plans that will be accommodated by the additional TCEs. So the property owners are anxious to get started, and we've already completed the first phase of construction on Mark Street, and we look forward to starting the second phase on 112th Avenue this summer. Okay, any further questions? Okay.
 Thank you both. Anyone want to speak on this item? It's an emergency ordinance, so we'll take a roll call vote then, please. Fritz? Thank you for those helpful explanations and usual good work. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Thank you, Marty, and thank you, Andrew. Aye. Hales? Andrew's program had a tagline. I think it would be, Negotiating Your Way to a Complete City. Thank you, Mayor. We're doing it, so thanks to your good work. Thank you both. Aye. Okay, let's take...
 143. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Metro to develop a preferred alternative package, locally preferred alternative and draft environmental impact statement for the Southwest Corridor Plan and fund the city share of the local partner agency contribution.
 Colleagues, I have an amendment to introduce this morning. Last week, Commissioner Fritz suggested that city staff, metro staff, and Sweeney representatives should talk about the Southwest Corridor Timeline and how to better involve neighborhood associations and coalitions.
 Yesterday, Councillor Stacey, Malou Wilkinson and Noelle Dobson from Metro, Denver Igarta and Theresa Boyle from PBOT, Joan Fredrickson from BPS, and Eric and Ibo of my office met to discuss potential opportunities to address these issues. And I'm happy to come to council today with an amendment that was sent to other council offices late yesterday afternoon.
 The amendment would be to exhibit A to the intergovernmental agreement, specifically Section 3, which is entitled public involvement. After the first sentence, I propose to add these words. Thank you.
 Quote, Detailed technical information will be released to the public no less than 60 days prior to any expected decisions to be made by the Southwest Corridor Steering Committee on a given topic or milestone. Recommendations and reports based on technical information will be released to the public no less than 30 days prior to any expected decisions to be made by the Steering Committee on a given topic or milestone. End quote. End quote.
 Okay. That amendment has been moved. Is there a second? Second. Any further discussion on the amendment? Is that an amendment that Commissioner Yu and Commissioner Fritz have concurred on? Yes. Thank you. Further discussion on that? Anyone want to speak about the amendment? Roll call. Actually. Oh, Roger does. Okay. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Councillors. My name is Roger Averbeck.
 As a volunteer, I serve as the chairperson of Sweeney's, that's Southwest Neighborhoods, Inc. Transportation Committee. We appreciate the opportunity to speak to you today as well as the time and opportunity for our committee and our organization to consider the IGA and request some additional public involvement.
 At the January 28, 2015 City Council meeting, Mary Ann Fitzgerald, who I work closely with, expressed personal concerns about the public involvement portion of the IGA. On February 2, our Transportation Committee agreed.
 which was attended on very short notice by 15 of our 17 neighborhood associations, we met to discuss the IGA and what information should be made publicly available for more meaningful public engagement in the Southwest Corridor process. It's especially important for engaged members of the public to access detailed technical materials well in advance of decision-making, our primary concern.
 So on February 3rd, as Commissioner Novick noted, myself and Mary Ann Fitzgerald met with Metro and city staff and agreed to the following underlying language in my testimony, which Commissioner Novick already read. I don't need to repeat it, but it's in the record now in our testimony as well.
 During the February meeting with Metro and City staff, we discussed the types of technical information that Sweeney expects to receive well in advance of the Southwest Corridor Steering Committee decisions, and there is an attachment to the second page of my testimony. That's what we requested. Thank you.
 And then at the meeting, Metro made some verbal commitments to Sweeney to make information available to the public as soon as possible, as well as in advance of technical workshops, which will be scheduled for late March, early April 2015. And Sweeney does expect that Metro will honor their commitments made on February 3rd, yesterday. Sweeney would also like to request that Commissioner Novick
 the city's current representative on the Southwest corridor steering committee meet with Sweeney leadership to discuss Sweeney comments, concerns and recommendations a week prior to scheduled Southwest corridor steering committee meetings, especially those at which decision-making is expected. And we also ask commissioner Novick and Metro to share the information in the progress report that is scheduled for March 1st with the public.
 And thank you very much for your consideration of these requests. Are there any questions? Thank you, Roger. Thanks for all the effort that you and other Sweeney volunteers put into this and the comp plan and everything else. So I appreciate your detailed interest in the details. Did you get a commitment from Metro that they would meet with you to discuss the technical for your special technical meeting prior to the –
 So that meeting would happen in March or early April. Did they agree to that? We've had a verbal commitment from Metro, and I know their staff is here today, that they will schedule community technical workshops, if that's the correct term, prior to these decision-making milestones, and that they will also provide the technical information in advance of the meetings or the workshops so that we can come prepared to these workshops. Okay.
 And I see Malou Wilkerson from Metro nodding in the background, so I very much appreciate it was a quick turnaround from last week to this week that you've been able to get this degree of specificity as to what's needed. I guess I'll turn to Commissioner Novick. Are you willing to meet with the Sweeney representatives prior to decision-making meetings? Yes.
 Commissioner, I see your neighborhood coalition and raise it, because yesterday Eric and Nebel, my staff, pointed out that since this project extends into downtown, we should also involve neighbors west, northwest in those discussions, if that's okay with you, Roger. We agree with that, and I hope that Metro also engages our neighbors and our communities to the south and west of us to this extent as well. Great result. Thank you. Thanks very much, Roger. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Now let's take a roll call on adopting the amendment to Exhibit A. Fritz? Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for your lots of work for both you and Erica Neville and your staff, as well as the community volunteers and Metro partners. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 I want to take this opportunity to say how very much I appreciate Sweeney's involvement in this project. I mean, this is a critical project in terms of achieving the goals of the Barber Concept Plan, in terms of reducing congestion, in terms of meeting our commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Thank you.
 And we are going to need a lot of citizen support for this project because at some point we're going to need to raise money for a local match for it. And that's probably going to require going to the voters regionally, locally, or a combination. And that means we're going to have to have a lot of citizens on board supporting it. So I very much appreciate that Sweeney is supportive of the overall effort and deeply engaged in making sure that's something we can support. Aye.
 Hayles. Aye. And now to adopt the IGA itself, please. Roll call. Fritz. Mayor Hayles, you spoke earlier about the commissions who do such great volunteer work locally and at the state level. The commissioners for the Human Rights Commission are those that the council appoints.
 Sweeney's volunteers are chosen by the community and it's absolutely phenomenal for both them and in other areas of the city how great expertise we get from folks who Often are the only person who's willing to do a particular job and turn out to be the best person to do a particular Volunteer task. So thank you I agree Commissioner Novick to the Southwest Neighborhoods Inc and to all of our community volunteers who provide us with great advice that
 We pay for a little bit through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to make sure that everybody has the opportunity to give input, and we can always expand on that. We don't pay you for the time that you're putting in this morning, Roger, and I appreciate that. I'm really pleased that with a one-week delay, we were able to reach this agreement. I want to thank my two colleagues for getting together and fixing this.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? I'd like to thank Metro for engaging on this issue and coming to a quick resolution. So thank you, Malou. Thanks to Councillor Stacey. Aye.
 Yeah, nice work. Thank you for getting the community writ large together, including Metro and the city together to make sure this is a valid process. You've got a majority of the Council, of course, who now lives in southwest Portland and two of us who are former Sweeney activists. So to see people putting this kind of time and attention into a really important
 potential change in multiple neighborhoods is exactly what we have in mind when we have neighborhood activism. So as Commissioner Fritz said, Roger, for you and your fellow volunteers, thank you for all the time you're putting in, and I'm glad the process is stretched to meet your expectations. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to 144. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Bureau of Maintenance. Let's see. Do we have a presentation on this? Yes, we do. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 i'm sherry matias from the auditor's office morning i am mike zeller i'm one of the inspectors in the sidewalk department lee munson um from sidewalks also great welcome this is uh this ordinance is for sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city any remonstrances have been pulled from this assessment and are not in this ordinance okay so these were there were there a number that did remonstrate and there were seven
 Those are not included in the ones that remain here in front of us now. Okay. Great. All right. Any questions for the team that have put this package of repairs together? Thank you all very much. Is there anyone here who wants to speak? I show we have three people who signed up. Okay. Let's take that testimony, then we may have more questions for you after that. Annie Neal, Barry Sutton, and Earl J. Eichelberger. Come on up. Welcome. Welcome.
 Good morning. You just need to put your name in the record and have a seat and tell us what you think of this. And I signed up on your little sheet out there. Okay. My name is Earl J. Eichelberger, and I have owned the property on 1261 Northeast 52nd Avenue in Northeast Portland since 1962. The sidewalks were put in in 1930 by Redmond, and a construction crew came out this year and replaced sidewalks that did not need work.
 Not only had I contacted the sidewalk department of the Bureau of Transportation Sidewalk Maintenance Division and had Mr. Correale come out to discuss the business of a little lesser destruction and closing the public right-of-way to do this. And he gave me some pointers on what they call shortcuts. So I went out and bought a big blade, $100 worth, and
 Rented a big machine and then I came in and started working on the sidewalks and of course it was really ran anything but the point is When I didn't get it done on Their schedule they came out and every time I'd come back from helping my buddy or something somewhere, you know No, you know, I find more of white paint all over everything. So as it turned out They had me down for seven different things strong with your sidewalk and I had none of those major things and
 The only thing I had was spalling, and they even marked trip hazards that absolutely, and all my neighbors come by and say, why do they have you tagged out here? Because there's nothing wrong with your sidewalk. So my issue, not only with the idea of putting a lien against my property, and I have paid my taxes, I have kept my place clean, and I haven't been involved in any illicit activity to try to get the money to pay the city for anything, and my taxes are all up to date.
 And I think their measures were unjust, and I wrote them a letter, and I wrote a letter here, too, and I noticed that that lien assessed at $2,207.70 against my property, and it will be against the property that's been free and clear since 1962 that belongs in the estate for my family. And I'm here opposing that, and so I'd like to realize that there's ordinances and so on. But when they come out and do sidewalk work,
 That doesn't need to be done. You walk one block from my house, there's work that needs to be done. You go a half a block over here, there's work that really needs to be done. It's dangerous and all the other stuff. But I think they targeted me because my taxes were paid. It was a nice, clean get in and get out. Nothing wrong with the sidewalks. Everybody used them every day, children, babies, everything else. So that's where I'm at. All right. Well, thank you. Thanks for bringing this to our attention. Thank you. Anyone else that wants to speak? No.
 you want to respond to this is this one of the remonstrances or is it this one it appears to be included in the in the list right yeah i saw one in here at that amount so so we did receive that remonstrance however it um came in after the remonstrance date okay um and that one was referred to the bureau of maintenance for resolution okay so how's that handled
 Well, since I came in after the remonstrance period, I will send a letter to him. But it's in the assessment. It is in the assessment. The work's already been done? The work's been done, yes. Yeah. Okay.
 Can you say that the challenge came in after the date for remonstrances? Can you remind us what the time period is and then how late was this appeal? Yes. So the remonstrances were due on the 27th of January, and this one came in on the 28th of January. One day? Mm-hmm.
 And is there any question in the record as to whether this gentleman got adequate notice? I believe he was notified. Yeah, several times. I think he met with the inspector. We usually send out second notices. There's always a door hanger before the contractor begins work. He actually made contact with the contractor doing the work. Okay, and he hasn't raised a notice issue. But had you received this on the 27th, what options would you have had in response to his remonstrance? I would have taken it out of the assessment. Okay.
 What would be the effect of us, for good cause, waiving the one-day delay and asking you to consider his remonstrance? What consequence does that have to you? We can take out that property owner's assessment, and then we would need to pass the rest on if that's.
 if we can do that. Mayor, this gentleman took the time to come. This is not probably the proper hearing to hear all the issues. I wonder if we could just move to remove this issue from the package, adopt the package, and ask our good friends at the Auditor's Office and Bureau of Maintenance to meet with the gentleman and see if something worked out. Second. Any objection to that?
 I'd just like to ask staff, I mean, does that raise any broader concerns for you? I mean, if we do this, will that worry you that it will create a precedent that people can start missing deadlines with impunity? I can say it's been done in the past. Yes.
 But that's really a question for the owner's office, I think. I can say just during my seven years, every once in a while someone does come before us. Yeah. They claim a hardship. We have, as a matter of courtesy, carved that out and just asked staff to meet. We're not setting a precedent because there is a deadline. And then we're asking them to come back with a recommendation.
 right rather than include it in the res in the remainder where we don't have remonstrance today but to go have that negotiation separately as long as the rest of the um assessments are passed on to second reading that's no problem okay we have a motion we have a motion a second let's take a roll call on uh on on making that amendment to the package
 to remove Mr. Eichelberger's property from the role of those that are being assessed and to ask staff to conduct further discussions with him. Fritz? Moving again that there's a good purpose in having a public hearing so that people can come in and tell the decision makers their concern. And thank you to staff for your agreement of handling this and also what's not been mentioned, all the other properties that you haven't had any remonstrances with. Thank you for getting the work done. Ike?
 Fish? Yes, thank you for your good work. Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Thank you. Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. And then on the remainder of the assessment's roll call. That's the second. Oh, no, that's the second reading. Sorry. Not an emergency item. So that's that over second reading, and we're recessed until 2 p.m., at which point everybody ought to bring a granola bar or something. Well, Mayor, it's scheduled for two hours. You're saying it's going to go beyond two hours? It might be three. Okay.
 Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the July, yeah, February 4th session of the
 Could you call the roll? I think Commissioner Fish will be joining us, but there's others of us who are here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. We've got a
 staff presentation coming shortly and some invited testimony and then obviously quite a few people here that are interested in discussing the West Quadrant Plan. I want to thank everyone in the community and in the city's organizations, both the Planning Bureau and others, for the work so far and for a lot of amazing
 volunteer effort by members of our Planning and Sustainability Commission, some of whom we will hear from today. The focal point of our city and the focal point of a lot of our planning over the last four years and this is a really pivotal piece of work so I'm looking forward to the discussion and to the presentation.
 We're going to hear, as I said, a staff presentation followed by at least one member of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, I know it looks like two of them, and from our county commissioner, Commissioner Jules Bailey, who represents this district.
 and then we'll take public testimony. Because of the number of people that are here, we're going to try to hold public testimony to a two-minute oral statement. I know that's hard, but we've got at least 50 people signed up. So if you can be succinct, please do. Remember that we're also going to hold the record open so that you can submit written testimony, and we do actually read those written testimony pieces that we receive, so you can follow up if you can't get all of your points across in this afternoon's hearing. Okay.
 So again, our goal is to get everyone heard. On that subject, by the way, if you're here representing yourself, you just need to give us your name. If you're here representing a neighborhood organization or some other, obviously let us know that. If you're here as a paid lobbyist, you need to disclose that under our city code. And we try to respect all points of view in this room. So if you agree with someone and want to give some sort of sign of that, please feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand.
 and obviously the reverse is true if you really feel like you need to do that, but we ask that we not make verbal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view in this room so that we as your council get to hear them all.
 So those are the rules of the proceeding. I'll keep it at that and get started with Susan Anderson coming forward along with the rest of her team. And I also, while I do that, want to call on my colleague, Commissioner Saltzman, who has some particular points about the housing elements of this plan. Well, thank you, Mayor. At the outset of this hearing, I wanted to highlight an important part of this resolution that should provide some context for the testimony ahead.
 I know we'll hear about height issues in the central city, as well as transportation and sustainability challenges. But my goal here today as the Portland Housing Commissioner is to make sure that we –
 take some bold and vigorous steps to make sure that we provide for affordable housing in our central city and to do so in a way that will prevent our city from turning into a San Francisco where people on either end of the income scale can live, where you're either very rich or you're very poor, but nowhere in the middle. And my goal, as well as that of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, is,
 as they expressed in their deliberations on this quadrant plan, West Quadrant Plan, is to see that the central city accommodates people of affordable housing stock for people in the 0 to 80% of median income range. And that's something I very much agree with, but I also recognize that we lack
 the financial resources to make that happen and we need to be creative and engage in some creative thinking uh for policy tools that will enable us to get there and I know that the both the the Bureau of Planning and sustainability staff as well as the Portland Housing Bureau staff the mayor staff and my staff and the City Council has signed off on coming up with incentives
 for height or F. A. R. Allowances that are tied directly into creation of more affordable housing stock within the city, either creation of the affordable housing directly by whomever is developing the property or by paying into a housing investment fund, uh,
 for an amount to be determined that will help us in turn generate that affordable housing stock. So this is a very crucial issue. It permeates the West Quadrant Plan. It will permeate the Central City Comprehensive Plan when it finally gets to us someday. But I just want to let people know now, because they can address this issue, that there is language in this resolution that,
 And I'll read that language right there that talks about developing a substantive affordable housing bonus program. In the resolution, it says, be it further resolved, the City Council instructs the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Portland Housing Bureau to include a workable affordable housing bonus for City Council consideration in implementing code for the final Central City 2035 plan.
 So this is really a daunting challenge, but it's a challenge I know that this council is up for. I know we all recognize...
 The need for more affordable housing as does our Planning and Sustainability Commission But we need to actualize we need to activate the tools that will get us there beyond simply Urban renewal money or federal government money or other sources at our disposal So we need to be creative and we're going to be serious and creative about that in the West quadrant and the central city plan Thank you. Thanks very much so see if any other my council colleagues that want to say anything at the outset before we get started and
 And if not, then I'll get you, Carla, to read the item, and we'll start the staff presentation. Item 145, adopt the West Quadrant plan as direction for updating the Central City plan. Thank you very much. Director Anderson. Great. Good afternoon, Council Mayor. Susan Anderson, director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And with me here today is Joe Zender, our chief planner, and Carl Lyle, who is a senior planner and has been the project manager on this project.
 So, as you know, we're updating the Central City Plan because of the size of the plan and the importance of it. We do this once in a generation. It's been 27 years since we've had a new Central City Plan. We broke the plan into manageable pieces. So we broke it into north-northeast, the entire west side, and then also southeast.
 Two years ago, we completed the central city, the overall concept plan and the north-northeast quadrant. Today, we will review for you the highlights of the west side and the west quadrant plan. And in a few months, right on the tail of this, we'll bring in the southeast quadrant plan. At each stage, council adopts the quadrant plans only by resolution, not by ordinance.
 When the southeast quadrant plan is done, we will compile all the pieces together and at that time develop the appropriate zoning that goes along, the zoning code changes that are necessary to implement the plan and to match it. And then we'll come back to you with the entire package, including the code, and you'll adopt all of that by ordinance. So it's important to me, anyways, to note that, again,
 This plan absolutely builds on the success of the 1988 plan. The 88 plan led to the development of a lot of things that we just take for granted, whether it's South Waterfront, whether it's the Pearl District, whether it's the thousands of units of housing that are now in our vibrant downtown, and it retained important industrial areas.
 And it also continues to position Portland as the regional center for innovation, for education, and for exchange. This slide shows what we call the big picture plans. So again, it's not something we do every year. It's something we do every 25 or 30 years from the Portland plan.
 Then comes out the Comprehensive Plan and then the Central City Plan. We anticipate that you will adopt the new Comprehensive Plan this year, and then the Central City Plan will follow with all of its components right after. It will be the first major zoning code package and plan amendment that's based on the new Comprehensive Plan.
 So for today, our goal is just for you to hear about the West Quadrant Plan, to understand, to be able to ask questions. We have a few invited speakers. Andre Baugh, who is the chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Catherine Schultz, who is one of the co-chairs of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee. And then we'll have testimony, as the mayor indicated. Again, the request for today is to listen and have discussion. Thank you.
 and then to adopt a resolution either today or in a couple of weeks to adopt this West Side Plan. If there are any questions about the timeline, then I will turn it over to Joe to do the presentation. OK, thank you. Thanks.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. Today we're here to talk about the west quadrant of the Central City, and it includes all of the Central City west of the Willamette from Pearl District in the north to South Waterfront in the south to Goose Hollow in the west. The Central City 2035, or CC2035, updates the 1988 Central City Plan, which was based on the 1972 Downtown Plan. And the good news is that we found that we can build on the soundness and success of these plans and that...
 Many of the actions that are recommended in CC2035 are to address issues that still remain from those plans, so we're following through. It retains the role of the central city as the economic hub of the region. It calls for more mixed use because we've seen the success of mixed use development in the central city to produce jobs and housing, and it stays the track with more residential development.
 The Central City Plan update also looked at the unique role of the central city in the region and really in the state. It is our most intensely developed center. It is a place that serves and benefits the entire city and region, especially as an employment, cultural, and civic center.
 Also, in our new comprehensive plan, staying with a more dense and intensely developed central city allows us to keep neighborhood centers and our corridor development at a scale that really works better in those settings while we still meet our overall economic vitality and create great places. By 2035, the city overall is expected to grow by 122,000 households and 140,000 jobs.
 The West Quadrant share is 23,000 more households, which almost doubles the amount of residential development in the central city, and about 31,000 more jobs on top of the 130,000 jobs that are already in the whole central city.
 The West Quadrant Plan was developed over a year and a half with extensive public involvement and oversight by a 30-person steering committee. And full details on all of our public involvement and outreaches in Appendix F of the document that was submitted to you.
 And early in the process of developing this plan, we focused on some community charrettes for Goose Hollow, for Chinatown, and for the riverfront, for places where we thought we needed focused attention before we all dived in to really be able to understand community intent in those places.
 So here's what's actually in the plan document that you received. It includes additions to the central citywide policies that you all adopt in 2012. So as we did this plan, we found some of the direction that we were getting when we looked at the West Quadrant was really relevant to the whole city, so we've made those amendments. And then for each of the seven districts that make up the West Quadrant, you have goals, policy, implementing actions in great detail.
 This plan covers a lot of topics, as you can see from that outline of the report and what's in it. And this stakeholder advisory committee worked through all the details of all of those topics. And in the end, they really wanted us to emphasize the plan also has big ideas, part of the market distinction of this plan that they thought was worthy, was the product of the time they devoted to. And I just want to give you two examples to illustrate. First,
 waterfront park and the waterfront. As people looked out to 2035, there was still clear love and commitment for the west side of the water and the waterfront park. This was a signature idea from the 72 plan, and it's still a core element of the west quadrant. The public was very interested in implementing the ideas in our current waterfront park plan. They were interested in updating that plan as well.
 as well. And the West Quadrant added ideas that complement the goals for the waterfront, including finding ways to bring more activity along Nato Parkway, to bring more people and activity to the park on a day-to-day basis, to improve access to the river itself while enhancing habitat within the river, and to promote more year-round activity.
 Another big idea in the plan is called the Green Loop. And so the Green Loop, think of it as a 10-mile urban promenade for walking and biking that invites people to experience Portland's central city in an entirely new way. It's an idea that complements our transit, bike, waterfront path, and street network.
 It links the east side and the west side. That's a longstanding goal of our central city planning. It links central city destinations in a new way. It would be a different kind of recreational destination, kind of an urban trek through the city, safe, green, active, vibrant, and fun for all ages and ability. That's the green loop.
 There are a lot of ideas and issues and goals in Central City 2035. However, we know from the testimony we've received and from what the Planning and Sustainability Commission heard that the maximum height limits in the Central City are a big item of focus and concern. So right now I'd like to just take a moment to give you a little background on how –
 We manage height and building mass in the central city. So in the central city, height is regulated by a specific map in the zoning code. And it's a fairly detailed map. And it includes not just the heights related to how much intensity different parts of the central city are developed, but also has our view corridor analyses. And so that's where you're seeing a lot of the detail that shows up in that map.
 As we talk about height, there's a few background pieces I want to make sure you're aware of. First, to understand our approach to height in the central city, you need to understand our uniquely fine-grained block pattern. In our central city, 40% of the central city area is in public right-of-way because we have these blocks.
 fabulous 200 by 200 foot blocks. That's why the central city seems so walkable. But it also is why it can be difficult to develop at an urban scale in our central city.
 Because we have these 200 by 200 foot blocks, you don't necessarily perceive the canyons of tall buildings that you see in other cities or that you perceive there. Because if you're a pedestrian, every 100 feet, you're never more than 100 feet from a street intersection, which is kind of a window to light and air. But as I said, it also creates challenges for the development of the parcels. Second background fact.
 is that our zoning uses a combination of floor area and height to manage the scale of buildings. And what floor area is is the amount of development that you can build on a particular site. And that's a separate map and a ratio that's in the zoning code. And the principle is this, is that the same amount of floor area can produce a single-height building over an entire block that's shorter,
 Or, if it goes taller, it can squeeze that amount of development onto just a section of the site. This opens up some flexibility for these difficult to develop sites in the central city, as I was referring to. It creates the opportunity, and we see this all over our central city, of mixing scales of buildings.
 it creates opportunities to preserve smaller buildings because the development potential for the whole block can be arranged on just part of the block. It creates the opportunity for open space and plazas. So that combination of floor area and height is an essential part of our system. Third background fact is that
 Floor area height is not the only way that we affect the success of our buildings in the central city. If you need to pay attention to what happens on the ground plane in the public realm, and we have design review, we have zoning code standards, and we have pedestrian design standards that really take a look at that ground floor, which is where most of us experience the central city to begin with. It's where we get the perception of it as vibrant, as vibrant.
 It's comfortable, a safe place, and we really understand the scale. You put those ingredients together, that's how you have successful urban design in the Central City.
 So those are elements that I just wanted to make sure you're aware of. And then there's the principles that we've been using since the 80s to allocate height across the central city. And the first of these principles is that where we have our most intense development, we have taller heights. And in our city, that's in our commercial core in our downtown. And basically the way the pattern works is that the heights and the intensity of development sort of tapers down as you move away from that –
 commercial core. The commercial core and the transit mall have been where we've focused that over the years. We have places that require special attention, and we step down to those to preserve light and air, and those are our parks and open spaces and waterfront, and you'll see that in the zoning map, and you'll see that in our proposal.
 We stepped down to protect view corridors, for instance, from Washington Park to Mount Hood. Those are built into how we allocate height. And we put lower heights on our historic, adopted historic districts to match the character and what we're trying to accomplish those.
 Finally, we also, as you look at the map of the overall central city, taper down the heights and intensity of development as you get to the edges of the central city and make the transition into our single-family neighborhoods.
 Finally, and the Planning and Sustainability Commission was particularly interested in this plan, was that additional height and additional floor area ratio should come in return for public benefits. So they've asked us where we are talking about height or FAR in this to consider it as part of a bonus system, which we intend to bring back to you when we bring back the full plan. Okay. Okay.
 So, within the plan that you're looking at today, it proposes a limited set of height increases as well as a few height reductions. But on the whole, we have not changed height in the central city. We have not changed FAR in a significant way. On this map, you're seeing the places circled. The yellows are places where we've bumped up heights. The blues are places where we've reduced them. You can see a circle around much of the Pearl District where we're allowing more heights there.
 This illustrates a principle that you see in play in a lot of the plan. The community supported Greater Heights there.
 but the way you access those greater heights is that you transfer development rights off of smaller historic and or character buildings so in the pearl that makes a big and small is something they value and if we can create an economic value for that it benefits the ability to preserve those smaller buildings so that's what was reflected in our recommendation for the pearl and we did a similar version for that for centennial mill only there what the record the public benefit will be is enhanced greenway um
 Second, we did increase heights along the expansion of the light rail corridor all the way down to Lincoln Street and that new station. So we're building on that principle that we've always had of greater intensity of development along the light rail line. We propose to decrease heights along the north and west edges of Chinatown, but increase it on a particular set of blocks within Chinatown. I'm going to talk about that in more detail next.
 And finally, the plan proposes to increase heights at the bridgeheads. So let's take a look. If you could just go back to that. What's the rationale for that? Because when you look at the whole waterfront in that section, it seems like there's going to be just those two major bumps. Well, Commissioner, we're going to get to illustrations in a moment, and I'll return to that question, I promise. But the first one of these, we're going to talk about Chinatown, and we're going to talk about the bridgeheads. Okay.
 In Chinatown, the height discussion there centered on the blocks between Cooch and Everett along 4th. So they're shown here in the red square. As I said already, and if you remember that picture of the 88 plan, there was that big red swath that sort of swept up from the central city and went up the transit mall across the steel bridge and over into the Lloyd district. That was assumed to be an extension of our commercial core. What we've
 Now done in this plan is rethought what our expectations are for the area north of Burnside and lowered those heights along Gleason, lowered them along Fifth. But within Chinatown itself, it's a historic district and one where we focused a good deal of attention on trying to incentivize development to help add to the districts in a way that improves its economic viability and the project.
 The plan proposes to explore for these three blocks, increasing the base height from 100 to 150. The principle is, though, to access that additional height, you would need to transfer it off of historic properties within Chinatown. And part of the reason why we think this is viable is that you can shift the height to different parts of the site. So just some illustrations.
 That Block 33, that blue site there, that's between the Goldsmith buildings and the PDC offices along 5th and 4th.
 It's a full surface parking lot now. And our proposal today at 100 feet in the amount of floor area you could build there, demonstrating that principle, you could fill the whole block up. What we're proposing is to consider greater heights, especially on the transit mall side, and a step down along the 4th Avenue side to be able to possibly create a greater incentive for
 or infill development there. And when you look at it from the street level, that's what the sort of current entitlements might look like massing-wise. And here's how you can use the ability to shift height from one part of a site to another to maybe get it to fit into the district better. And as I said, all of this is contingent on a transfer, so it transfers some of the value to existing historic properties.
 Second bridgehead, and this is what Commissioner Fritz was asking about, was Morrison Bridgehead and farther down the Hawthorne Bridgehead.
 Here the principle was looking at these sites, especially the sites here that are shown in blue, or surface lots or underdeveloped parcels today. And as part of wanting to bring more activity to the waterfront on a day-to-day basis, the redevelopment and the more intense development of sites along NATO was thought to be something we should try to aspire to. And we thought additional height in these targeted locations –
 could contribute to the ability to do that. And also there's this premise that these are where the bridges enter the west side. So if you were looking at the pulses of height along our waterfront, we're still maintaining a step down. It's just that we're allowing more height there. The pulses correspond to these gateways into the central city as well.
 So this today, the height all along that section is 75 feet. So it's in the blocks we're talking about are bookmarked between Yamil Historic District and Old Town Historic District. We're proposing on those set of blocks around the ramps to bump up the height to 250, another step behind it to slightly higher. And then it steps up to what it is today in the commercial core, 460 feet.
 Is it envisioned that the off-ramps would be moved? Well, see, that's part of why we're even creating this option, Commissioner, is –
 This next slide Carl's showing is, you know, just showing the massing. This isn't really architecture. It's really hard to develop those sites with the ramps on them. Conceivably, someone could, but it would be unlikely that they would hit this scale if the ramps are still there. Also, though, those ramps are very important, especially for access onto the freeway for the Central East Side. So that's a sort of ongoing debate that we're going to be studying as we complete the plan. This just creates the possibility of potential.
 possibly affording to relocate, making it worthwhile to reconsider the configuration of one of those or both of those ramps and be able to pay for it. The other thing about this, and this goes to a point that the Planning and Sustainability Commission made very strongly, is that additional height here would be tied to a bonus.
 So you'd have to give something to get it, and as a waterfront location, it might have some particular value that can contribute to the affordable housing aspects of the bonus. Are you going to go into more detail about the heights in Old Town, slide 21? We can come back to it, Commissioner. That was all I had on Old Town. You talked about the difference between the 100 feet and 150, but it looked like there's some other changes as well to 250. Oh, yeah. You want to go back to that, Carl? Yeah.
 Yes, that one. So we've got the 100 to the 150, but then there's this corner little block, which is currently 130, which is going up to 250. Okay.
 And then the 250 going to 325. So what the proposal, today the block is 250, and what we're proposing in that hashed area that's on either side of the Chinese garden, that's what the green spot is, we're taking another examination of if our step down to that important public place is adequate to protect people.
 light and air of the Chinese Garden. So what we're saying there is we're going to come back in with a step down around the Chinese Garden to accomplish that objective. And then on the block where it says 130? Right. So if I could jump in. So what we're doing there is actually that would change to 250. And so you have a transition from the office core of 460 to 250 for a half block and then right down into the 75 feet in Skidmore Historic District. So that's what you're seeing on the proposal. Okay.
 And that's really directly in response to many years, really, of conversations with folks on the Historic Landmarks Commission, from which we took the premise that it's less important to step down to the edge of the historic district than it is to maintain an absolutely uniform height at a low level within the historic district.
 If you remember back a few years ago, I don't know if you do, but we talked about looking at increasing heights at some surface parking lot sites at the edge of but within the historic district. And that was very unpopular with the Historic Preservation Committee and the Landmarks Commission. And instead what they asked us to do was say, you know, really outside that historic district boundary, it's much less important to us what happens there. And a stark transition is okay. We actually want to see the place feel very distinctively different once you enter the historic district. So that's responding to that idea. Yeah.
 Thank you. Okay, so that's the two height proposals I wanted to feature, but I want to talk about two neighborhoods as well where we've gotten a lot of testimony. The West End. We are not proposing any height changes to the West End, which are 250 feet today, pretty much south of Salmon, and 325 with bonuses to the north. The West End is built out, and you can see it in this illustration, with a mix of smaller and taller older and new buildings.
 It's the location of some very successful residential infills such as the Elliott Tower. It has a large number of landmark properties which are protected with a demolition review that make sort of redevelopment or the height on those properties somewhat less relevant. And that's what's shown here in the black dots. There's probably more historic landmark eligible properties in the district, but that's just what's designated today.
 The plan does not propose to change heights, but it does carry in that reexamination of how we get to the heights that are in the district. And we're looking at the same approach that we would talk about in the Pearl, where you can transfer off of a shorter building to get to the heights that you want, thereby creating some economic incentive to preserve some of the character buildings.
 The second district I wanted to talk about, but actually back to the Goose Hollow 2, and what you're looking at there too is the darker red buildings today are over 100 feet, and the rest are below 100 feet. Those are existing buildings. Those are existing buildings. So it's that place, and that's part of its character today. Okay.
 Goose Hollow, again, where no height changes are proposed. We spent a good deal of time talking about the area called the Flats, which is along the light rail line on the northeast corner of Goose Hollow. And there, today, heights are up to 250 feet, I believe, more with bonuses. Thanks.
 and up to 75 feet more with bonuses. Also, there's a certain greater heights along Burnside. And you get to the south side of the district, it's 100 feet base plus another 75 feet if you're able to get to the bonuses. And that's predominantly more residential character on the south side of that district. Okay.
 Next. Oh, and then the other thing that you see here on this slide are those dots with the arrows. One of the things, as I said, when we come back to you with the fine-grained height map, we are going to show you the view quarters and how that impacts these particular areas. And we're undergoing a new analysis of all the view quarters, and we're possibly going to be recommending consideration of additional view quarters. Okay.
 Even though we're talking in sort of broad swaps about the heights in this district, it's going to be carved up. It's going to be refined by where we put in those view quarters. And you can see that if we were in at least sort of along the southern section there today. That's when you put a view quarter in what it does to the height map. Same thing's true about the area south along the extension of the transit line. There's a lot of view quarters in there.
 Okay, two more issues. Affordable housing. The Portland plan set a goal of having 15 percent of the housing stock affordable citywide and currently over 30 percent of the housing in the central city is affordable at the 80 percent median family income or less.
 So the PSC set a very ambitious goal that by 2035, or in 2035, we're still going to have 30% of the housing in the central city affordable to 80% MFI or less households. The current city strategy targets affordable housing around opportunity areas, and the notion is that some of our neighborhoods are rich in transit, they're rich in good schools, they're rich in these things that for affordable housing areas,
 residents, adds to likelihood of success and lowers their cost. And the planning commission sort of focused in on the fact that between the concentration of jobs and not just the concentration of jobs in general but the concentration of sort of working class jobs in the central city, concentration of transit, this is a great place to have affordable housing to save households money. So they want to set a more ambitious goal there than they have in the rest of the city.
 And then finally, environmental issues were discussed a great deal at the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and we worked on them closely with Commissioner Houck and with Bob Salinger from the Audubon, and came up at the end of the day with a package that was soundly supported by both of those and by the PSC.
 In reviewing the plan, we've identified two things that we failed to get into the plan. So there is an amendment that we circulated to you today. And we're acknowledging that we have a central citywide target for riverbank enhancement of 12,600 linear feet.
 and that we have a central citywide target for bank restoration sites of at least two or three sites. So with that, we believe that the environmental package is the package that the Planning and Sustainability Commission fully endorsed.
 So as Susan said, we're finishing up the quadrant plans. We're going to then run into writing up the code and bringing all that back to you as the final Central City 2035 plan and implementing code. And with that, I think we're done. So thank you. Thank you. Questions at the outset for staff? Obviously, there may be many more along the way, but.
 After you, Commissioner Pritzker. Thank you. One of the things that you didn't mention is the proposal to CAP 405, and I see that as an action item.
 I'm wondering and I'm interested to hear from the community as to how much of a priority that really is in comparison with the other things. I'm going to need time after today's hearing, and I really appreciate the mayor saying that we're not going to be voting today to take more testimony and such. This is a very important plan. I want to take a lot of time to go through it. I'm going to be checking through all of the items that Portland Parks and Recreation is designated as the lead on for the next two to five years to see can we feasibly do that in our work plan.
 because it's very important to me that we not promise things that actually we're not going to be able to do. So I'd like to hear how much discussion there was of capping 405 as an example. Thank you.
 Okay, on the capping of 405, there was a good deal of discussion. And the premise this time that maybe is distinction from how we've talked about it in the past is it was talked about in sort of a very strategic kind of intervention around a few locations on the 405, primarily often in association with –
 a possible redevelopment at Lincoln High School, if that ever comes to be. But what we discovered when we did the Northeast Quadrant was even ODOT was acknowledging at Broadway and Weidler.
 The most cost-effective solution for them to cover up that trench and to do the changes that they want to do to the freeway was to cap it there, basically. So it seems extraordinary. This is a notion that it could make a big difference for reading the continuity of the central city across the 405 if and when we get to reconstruction of those ramps or reconstruction of those parts of the freeway. We wanted to keep it – the community really wanted to keep it on the table as an option that was considered. Thank you.
 So that is something that I noticed we have reporters covering. I'd be interested to hear from folks in the rest of the city, is that a priority for use of or asks to the federal and state governments? So that's one thing I'm interested in. Another that I'd like to hear community comment on is about the
 Look at choosing Jefferson Street rather than Burnside is the main street from the West End to Goose Hollow. Interested in that. The specifics in some of the zoning proposals we just got done with discussing Block 7. And I see there's a rezoning of the block west of Providence Park to CXD. Wondering how much community conversation there has been about that.
 So I won't go into all of my detailed concerns. I am, however, overall concerned about the relationship to the river and in the policy for that. There isn't the specific language that was directed when we had the concept plan discussion, which was in the resolution, about the step down to the river. And so I, again, want to hear community comments about that.
 You're talking about height and building step down, right? Right. That's in the current comprehensive plan that we have a principle of step down to the river. When you're walking along NATO, it's very clear that we've followed that nicely, and you get the sense of a broad open space and a gradual ramp up to the transit mall, for example. So I want to make sure that that's not lost. And –
 One of the reasons I'm mentioning that now is that this was discussed when we had the hearing in October of 2012, but because it wasn't in the documented concept plan at that time, the specific language wasn't added to the concept plan. It was added to the resolution, and it's not then captured in this document. So I want to make sure when we come back for the comprehensive plan, I see a solid policy with that in it. Good.
 Other questions, things to flag? Commissioner Frisch? Thank you, Mayor. Joe, a slide that you showed us earlier really got my attention in the briefing and tonight, and that's 2035, 30% of all the housing affordable to people making 0% to 80% of median family income. And just to put that in context,
 At 60% of median family income, we're talking about people who make $29,000 a year single, and we're talking about families of four that make $42,000. I think the MFI stuff always seems like an abstraction, so I try to put the face on it. And you can then extrapolate who are the workers and people in our community that need housing that is targeted to them. This will not be the first time the council adopts a grand vision with a commitment that is as bold as that.
 And the last time we had this conversation was courtesy of the mayor and the housing commissioner. We talked about North Northeast Portland, and we talked about the Albina plan, and a generation later, a whole community displaced. And we talked about a huge deficit in affordable housing. So I previewed this question to you before the hearing because I was sincerely interested in getting your response. But why are you confident in this plan?
 that we can reach these lofty goals? And in addition, what does this council have to do to make sure that we reach those goals?
 So even when we discussed this at the Planning and Sustainability Commission, Commissioner, I think we all acknowledged that the means, how you get to that goal, we had not figured out. It wasn't sort of you're not going to find it in that plan. We're working on things like bonuses, but bringing more resources to the table clearly is probably a core part of that, of the ability to do that. Because what we're talking about is over the next 20 years,
 6,900 more units, affordable units in the sub, if we get our 23,000.
 So that's a lot. That's more than we produce today on a regular basis. So it's a resource question in part. And so the commission thought that especially for working poor households, the central city is a great location to be able to be housed, to be able to live, because it saves you a lot of money. It offers a lot of opportunities. So they wanted to mark the distinction of how important they thought it was to include in the central city
 They wanted to mark the distinction that today it's almost 35 percent of the households in the central city are affordable at that level. So we're staying the path. But the specific means were not identified. It's an aspirational big challenge. And I'm sure Commissioner Baugh is going to talk about that, too. So what I would really appreciate as we go through this is that you help us be as prescriptive as possible about what it's going to mean.
 Commissioner Saltzman has put this voluntary bonus plan for affordable housing on the table. We applaud him for doing so, but that's going to be a market-based tool. The council has put in its legislative agenda lifting the preemption on inclusionary zoning. That's a tool, but it doesn't solve the problem. We have some TIF, but the tax increment financing dollars are a declining resource. Short of a miracle, we're not going to get more money from the federal government.
 And so we've got this great big goal, and if we get it right, it's going to go to the question that Dan posed at the beginning about what kind of city we're going to look like in a generation. So it's really big. I think it's safe to say that prior councils have had those good intentions of getting this right.
 but we've fallen a little short sometimes for reasons beyond our control and sometimes because it's just very hard when you're swinging for the fences. And on this plan, I really urge you to be as prescriptive as possible and to lay out for us on a regular basis how we do a check-in and how we measure success. And towards that end, I went back and reread –
 the no net loss policy that the council adopted in 2001. And it's like a walk down memory lane because Dan Saltzman and Eric Sten brought it forward and the mayor voted for it. And it was a wonderful document saying we're going to protect housing in the west, in downtown, but particularly in the west end. One of the things it said was we've got to make sure we preserve 705 units of Section 8 expiring use properties that are at risk.
 this council preserved every goddamn one of them and it was laid out in a document that these two guys put out there and set as a goal and we did it and that that is something to be applauded but it doesn't always happen despite best intentions so i urge you to be as prescriptive as possible and focused about what action items we have to take to get there because the goal is smashing and along that way
 I want to offer just two other observations. We ought to have the debate about whether 80% is where the need is or whether we should cap it at 60%. The no net loss policy said our most urgent need is 0% to 60%. If we're going to lift the ceiling, let's have that debate and let's debate it on the basis of a needs assessment, not on the basis of just conjecture. What's the need?
 And the second thing I want to just offer as an observation, you have a lot of action plans in this plan. We could spend an entire day discussing which action items should get the star first and be the first year or year two through five, and that's obviously not a science. We're going to talk that through. But I'll give you one example where I see a potential values proposition we ought to debate at some point. In the West End Implementation Plan for Housing and Neighborhoods,
 and the West End was the centerpiece of the no net loss policy because we used to have a lot of hotels there that had very low income people and vulnerable properties. You've prioritized creating incentives for the development of family housing over preserving existing affordable housing. I don't know whether that's right. We know that a family housing is more expensive. I'm not sure whether that's where families would choose to live if they had other options. I don't know that. You might. But –
 You might argue that in year one we ought to focus on preserving what we have because the one thing I think we're all concerned about about this plan is that it's going to stimulate development and market forces
 And we know from history that market forces displace poor people. So I would think that preservation, quantifying at-risk building and preserving, ought to come ahead of building family housing, absent some evidence that the family housing market there is robust and we can do it. I might want to preserve what we have because I suspect there's going to be a lot of pressure on the existing stock of affordable housing. And we know it takes an enormous focus to preserve preservation.
 vulnerable properties. And that's embedded throughout. There's zero to 80 and family housing, prioritize ahead of other kinds of housing. I just think that's an important debate, and I hope we can have it, because I think we might want to retweak that one. But really, my big plea is, if we're going to do something different here, we have limited tools at the back end to fix problems. We have the opportunity to get this right and have a downtown unlike any other downtown.
 But we've got to have clear metrics. We have to have clear goals. And the council has to say at the front end, this is not something where in 2035 we're going to have a future council say, gosh, sorry we missed this opportunity. We want to be here in 2035 and say we kept our promise. And we need you to keep us on track. Good point. Thank you very much. Other points or questions at this juncture?
 I have one big vague question, which is, is there any relationship between the decisions we make about building heights and our goals around climate action? Will any of those height-related decisions have any impact at all on our climate actions and goals? Yes.
 In the broad sense, yes, because by having more population near transit and able to take transit will reduce transportation. Transportation is 40 percent of our carbon emissions. In terms of new construction versus old, there's a debate. But in general, people living in smaller spaces in more densely populated,
 arranged buildings, multifamily versus living in single-family spread out are going to use a lot less energy. Good. Great. Thank you all very much. I'm sure we'll have more. Sorry? Excuse me, Mayor. Commissioner Bailey is on the time. Yes, I'm going to call Commissioner Bailey next and then our two representatives of the PSC. So Commissioner Jules Bailey is here on behalf of Multnomah County. Welcome. Mayor, he's been waiting so long he grew a beard. Not that long yet.
 It did go a little gray, though. Just wait. We've been in this job for a while. Yeah. You have to make that comment with five middle-aged people sitting up here doing great. Touche.
 Well, thank you, Mayor and Council, for getting me in here and allowing me to get back for the Home for Everyone Coordinating Board that I know is a priority for you all as well. For the record, my name is Jules Bailey, and I'm here today in support of the West Quadrant Plan and many of the planning goals and the policy objectives that were developed during this process. As you know, Multnomah County Chair Khafouri and I submitted a letter –
 that largely mirrors my comments today so you have the substantive part of my message before you in writing. Portland's west side is a vibrant mix of housing, high-rise office space, innovative transit options, entertainment and art venues, public spaces and parks. And unlike many other cities in the United States, Portland and the metro region have focused our growth inward.
 We believe that many of the successes of our urban area are due to this purposeful planning, and we support the added focus that the West Quadrant Plan will bring to this area. And I think as an illustration, one only need to look at my district in Multnomah County, District 1, to see the effect of some of our land use policies. My district includes the west side of Multnomah County as well as some of inner east side areas.
 And our urban growth boundary has helped to keep farmlands in the rural areas of my district productive and still farming, and the urban areas growing dense and up and accommodating a mix of infill and urban green spaces to keep the city vibrant and livable.
 These choices, and they have been choices, have gotten us here, and they have been deliberate. And as we approach now another decision point, we have an opportunity to think for the future once again and for generations of Portlanders to come. And I have to add, as an urban planning geek, this is a really exciting time.
 Multnomah County shares the city's goal for this area of Portland, to be a healthy, thriving, and sustainable community that provides family-wage jobs, affordable housing, and recreation areas for all members of our community. And I come to you with two particular lenses beyond that conceptual continuation of our forward-thinking land-use planning policies and the urban growth boundary. First, around housing more people in the core area.
 We support the plan's goals to allow for needed future residential development capacity for all income levels. As I mentioned, the Home for Everyone Executive Committee, which is a partnership between cities of Portland and Gresham, Multnomah County, Home Ford, and Meyer Memorial Trust, is committed to providing an urgent and coordinated response to ending homelessness in our city and region.
 Our region's low vacancy rate, increasing rents, and lack of tools to increase the supply of affordable housing makes this work extremely difficult, as you know. Not only is downtown an attractive place to build a wide range of housing options, it is also a great place to wrap around those kinds of housing support services that we need to support families and individuals. In addition...
 Multnomah County owns many public buildings and provides many public services in this project area, and we also receive property taxes from private property in the area. We are working on the site selection for a new and much-needed courthouse and are developing a new health department headquarters that can meet the demands of modernized public health.
 Both of these buildings will be in the West Quadrant for multiple reasons, but buildability and the access to transportation and other amenities are some of the paramount criteria as we look at developing those projects. So in short, we support the plan's goals for population density and maintaining or increasing as appropriate building height.
 And as we grow as a region over the coming decades, we know that well-designed, dense, mixed-use urban communities can promote livability, reduce transportation and housing costs, improve equity, and make our streets safer. And to Commissioner Novick's earlier point, they are also fundamental to our climate responsibilities.
 After the plan is adopted, Multnomah County looks forward to collaborating with the city on city-county priorities in the plan related to transportation, public safety, emergency management, housing and homelessness, and sustainability. And I thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Appreciate your cooperation and coordination with what we're doing. Absolutely. Commissioner, before we lose you, do you have a quick update on the status of the new health department building and a timeline for development?
 Commissioner, I unfortunately don't have that for you right now, but I would be happy. My staff is here, and we'll make sure that you get that update immediately. The other piece that's buried in this plan is Multnomah County has asked for some additional height at the location that the city has made available, Block U2. And could we also get some clarity about why the additional height is necessary? Absolutely. I'll make sure that happens. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks. Thanks.
 Okay, then let's call our two volunteer leaders here. Mr. Baugh, Ms. Schultz, come on up. Thank you both. Keep playing musical chairs for as long as you like. I think we all want to get on with it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. For the record, my name is Catherine Schultz.
 As a co-chair on the West Quadrant Stakeholders Advisory Committee, or SAC, and the vice chair on the Planning and Sustainability Commission, or PSC, I've had the privilege to be deeply involved in the evolution of this plan for the last couple of years. You'll likely hear testimony about the SAC process, so I'd like to provide a little bit of background on that. The SAC was comprised of a diverse group of 33 individuals selected by an application process.
 In addition, there are many individuals who are not formally on the SAC but attended every single meeting and participated by testifying at every single meeting. They all, both the SAC members and those people who came to all of our meetings, dedicated a significant amount of time to the creation of this plan. The SAC process began with the challenge for Mayor Hales to think big, and as Joe outlined, we did.
 The work evolved throughout four phases. We began with a generation of ideas and issues, and then we moved into conceptual development for the entire West Quadrant and on to plan development for the districts within the West Quadrant. We concluded with developing the goals, policies, and actions that are needed to support the plan. A majority of the SAC supported the plan, but there was not unanimous consensus on all parts of it.
 Therefore, the SAC agreed to move the plan forward to the PSC with the minority report, which outlined environmental and building height issues that remained a concern for some of the individuals, and I'll address those next. Regarding the environmental concerns, several members of the SAC did not feel that the plan went far enough in protecting and improving our natural resources.
 This was echoed at the PSC, and it resulted in strengthening of the language around protection of natural resources through higher standards for many items, including green infrastructure, development within the floodplain, and tree canopy targets. Regarding building heights,
 You will hear negative testimony regarding building heights. It should be noted that both the SAC and the PSC listened to thoughtful testimony that led to extensive, informed, meaningful discussions on building height, and both bodies arrived at the exact same conclusion.
 Throughout both the SAC and the PSC deliberations, there were three targeted areas of discussion. Joe outlined them, Old Town Chinatown, the Bridgeheads, and West End. I think it should be noted that there was little to no discussion of the building heights at Goose Hall during the SAC process. In Old Town Chinatown, there is support for greater heights on the three designated blocks. Thank you.
 It was agreed that this is necessary to finally get a very catalytic project moving forward in the district that desperately needs it. That being said, the support came with the caveat that design guidelines for the district be developed and adopted to ensure that the character of the neighborhood is preserved. At the bridgehead, Portland has a longstanding policy of stepping down to the river. So reaction to the idea of taller buildings at the bridgehead kind of raised people's eyebrows.
 But without discussion and deliberation, it was recognized that allowing taller buildings at the bridgeheads will increase the development flexibility in those very hard-to-develop sites. And development on these sites will address numerous plan goals, goals, policy, and actions that call for kind of a renewed participation along the Willamette River Greenway.
 There are very few opportunity sites left within kind of the central and south end of Nido Avenue that allow people to live along our river. And people living along our river's edge will create 24-7 activation. By encouraging development at the bridgeheads, we can increase the potential of this activation happening. Finally, at the west end, this plan does not change building heights at the west end.
 There was much testimony and debate on the request by some members of the West End community to reduce the building heights at the West End, but both the SAC and the PSC supported not changing the heights. The West End is ideally located in the heart of downtown with excellent access to transportation, jobs, schools, and groceries. Decreasing heights would have an effect on this potential density.
 which goes directly against our comprehensive plan goals of supporting and increasing growth around centers that have the infrastructure to support greater density. Aside from these few but important concerns, there was much support, enthusiasm, and agreement for most of the plan. Some highlights of our agreement include activating the Willamette Riverway with a 21st century urban riverfront, embracing zoning tools that increase flexibility and allow more mixing of office, retail, residential, within districts as well as buildings,
 As an architect, I can tell you that while this concept seems pretty basic here in Portland, it's actually pretty revolutionary to many cities and towns. Other areas of agreement include designing our streets with more intention towards the activities that they need to support, creating the green loop that Joe talked about, a signature 10-mile walking and biking parkway, developing effective tools to accommodate growth while preserving historic, cultural, and environmental resources, and developing a new way of living.
 ensuring that underrepresented and underserved populations have access to the benefits of our central city, and last but by no means least, reducing carbon emissions to reinforce our city's place as a model for low-carbon sustainable development.
 Commissioner Fritz regarding the 405 capping, I think the SAC would say we all recognized it was extremely aspirational, but also in the locations that it was proposed, very important for connectivity within the central city to the other parts of the city on the other side of 405. And did you discuss the –
 that there isn't an infinite amount of money in WESH. If we did have additional transportation dollars, should they go to 405, or should they go to other transportation infrastructure elsewhere? We did not necessarily debate how to prioritize at all, not at the SAC level.
 there's still some topic areas that need to be addressed in the plan such as the william greenway parking bonus system and this work will continue and it will come together to in when we complete the central city plan therefore the sac recommends moving this plan forward with approval of the resolution thank you thank you catherine um andre bob playing sustainability chair uh mayor council before you today it's a major component of moving our central city forward
 What you will hear are policies of how our downtown skyline may change and look, the importance of historical preservation, stronger environmental policies, recognition that parts of our downtown districts have unique character and need to be relative to their culture,
 and a reaffirming and elevation of the affordable housing in our central city. And I'm going to recap kind of the deliberations, I think, or the high points, and then I'd like to touch on housing and talk a little more about that. The housing discussion, we recognized there was a need to elevate housing
 in a critical need in our downtown, directing resources, doing business differently, and ensuring that our vulnerable populations had an opportunity to afford to live in our central city. So we've set a goal that's been discussed, the 30% of all housing production,
 And the 0 to 80 percent, and I will talk to that a little bit later about how we look at the 0 to 80 percent. But there's a simple principle that people who work in Portland's core should be able to afford to live in Portland's core. And that's just if you work down here, you should be able to live down here or at least have that opportunity. Height, you heard Catherine talk about height. Okay.
 One of the key components of height, when we looked at height that came out of it, and this is part of the future work, is what can we get from height when we look at the bonus systems and the FARs? So what, in terms of livability components, can we contribute to the downtown from a height discussion? Yeah.
 Especially at the bridgeheads, I don't think it's fair to characterize there is not a real enthusiasm for doing the height, but there was an enthusiasm for taking that height and converting that value to some livability components that may be affordability of housing and other things that contribute to a better downtown. So it wasn't automatic. We wanted a lot of height at the waterfront. It was what can we get out of that height that helped contribute to the downtown, right?
 And that comes through the zoning code and the bonuses and FAR discussions that will come on later. The environment in the Willamette River, again, we weren't happy with what we heard initially. So...
 Catherine has talked about how we've strengthened the policy language added action items and addressed flooding and other impacts but I think that is a Great start to a stronger discussion around the environment in our central city core Third there's an opportunity as we look at the
 the taller buildings down in the historic Chinatown, Japantown historic district. Again, how do we ensure that Joe talked about design standards and how do we ensure that we have part of that was we wanted standards that met the cultural competency, I guess, of that area that said we just didn't want taller buildings. We wanted buildings that were pedestrian friendly, but that also...
 respected the cultural significance of those areas. So that's part of the follow-on work that comes with the height that hopefully gets us buildings that are culturally sensitive to the areas. Redevelopment of parking lots, we had a discussion about that. I think the plan provides us to really develop a strategy going forward of how do we implement those and
 get those active versus just being parking lots in the future. We, I think the SAC had a very vigorous discussion of that, and we had part of that discussion too, but we did not get to zoning them out or anything like that, but really moving forward with some kind of strategy to achieve that ultimately through the plan. So that's really a development.
 And I would say at the end here, it really is now for us to come back with a full city plan that will come back in about a year or so. That's the full city, all the quadrants. And work through some of the bonus systems, some of the zoning codes, and so you have those action items. Yes.
 place to look at a complete plan and so this is a major component moving forward but we still have a lot of work to do and the Planning Commission will come back with a complete plan in the future at that time also minor issues that may need to be addressed through code work can be addressed at that time also specifically to the housing discussion
 Not in front of you today, but coming in front of you a little bit later in another month. We looked at housing and said housing, we bifurcated the 0 to 80. So we have said as a commission, the 0 to 60 should be directed toward funds. Okay.
 That's where the city's funds should go. And the 60 to 80 or 61 to 80 is where alternative tools should go, should be developed, so that actual money the city has, whether it's TIF or whatever type of money, is actually going to the 0 to 60 with the highest need. And then other tools may be used for...
 That's 61 to 80. We also recognize that you need to get a different toolbox and get a lot of tools in the toolbox because you don't have resources today. And what is it going to take? I'm not really sure, but there's a lot of people looking at this problem. I think today there's not only the city has, but there's other committees out there that are nonprofits looking at that.
 what will it take to get more affordable housing in our downtown core and as a commission as the chair of the Commission I think we're committed and I tell you I'm committed to bringing back something to you that says this is how we think we can get there it's going to be a tool box it's not one I don't think there's a crescent wrench in there that solves this problem but I think it's a full toolbox of tools
 that are not only bonuses, but I've talked to PDC about their toolbox, what can we do with them. I want to make sure that we uncover whatever those items are. And we also want to talk about accountability. I think it's important that we examine long-term accountability.
 Are we meeting the goal, and do we need to make other changes? So maybe every two or three years there's a review of how we're doing against the 30 percent and how many units have we produced. And can we take advantage of market forces if they're moving slower or faster from that standpoint based upon our toolkit that we've put together? But I don't know that there's an answer today, and I certainly as a commissioner of the Plain Sustainability and committing to go –
 Work on those answers through we have a comp plan that has a housing component and we will be working there and then we will Be coming back Through the comp plan with that part of the housing plus the central city will be coming back also that has will have a housing component
 Mr. Chairman, can I engage you on that point for a second? First of all, thank you for clarifying the housing goals. In fact, on page 43 of this outstanding document, it does note that
 You have proposed housing affordability at 0 to 80 generally, but you've also been very clear that the public investment, the city's resources, should be focused on 0 to 50. And that's why these new tools in our toolkit, Commissioner Saltzman's proposal for a bonus system that's voluntary, potentially inclusionary zoning and other things,
 So thank you for clarifying that. Under the old no net loss policy, there was a requirement of both an inventory and an annual report of where we stood to the inventory.
 And I think your idea of updating the inventory, and part of that is agreeing on the methodology, because we have a wonderful report from Northwest Pilot Project, but not everybody subscribes to the methodology. So I think, A, establish the baseline methodology, and then, B, do an annual or every other year report and see where we are.
 Because the 30% of total housing is not just prospective. It's not new construction. It's 30% of all the housing that is there in 2035. So I concur that a report with some predictability is a good idea. And then I just offer this sobering observation. The chart that the data that accompanied the 2000 resolution on no net loss
 and the numbers, I got the backup stuff. And just by way of context, in 1978, there were 5,200 affordable units downtown. In 2014, there are 3,200. So there was like an extraordinary amount of energy and effort and intent to protect the housing stock. But we are not more powerful than the marketplace.
 And I think that the more check-ins we build into this and the more intentionality, the better, because we're going to unleash market forces through this exercise that are going to make it harder. I would say two things. First, that-
 What Commissioner Saltzman has proposed through the resolution is kind of the start of that process because we need to get those tools developed first. I mean, it's great to measure, but you've got to have something to measure. And...
 the work that the and when i commit you know the commission we show up to meeting every two weeks but it's really susan and her staff that's working with the housing bureau and community groups to engage in that policy the other side of that and really the follow-on is engaging the development community in an active discussion about what tools
 work, maybe not for them today, but over time. And I think there's examples in Seattle, those past some things, and other cities, Boston, that start to look at how do you bring all those tools together as a city together
 and work with the development community to achieve the goals. And we have to get that private partnership active as we go forward. And that, in part, is part of the solution to me is the private partnerships that we need to bring to the table, along with the public money. And you've also been keeping our feet to the fire about spending urban oil dollars and meeting housing goals, so I appreciate that. One other question, sir.
 There's a proposal to add some additional height to some properties in Old Town Chinatown. And there's one site in particular that's had some fits and starts in trying to get some development going. Once upon a time, I think there was an Awai-Jamaia that was proposed. You're proposing some additional height.
 What's the safeguard to the community that if we give the additional height, the building will fit within the fabric of a historic area? Again, back to my comments about we are looking to put some design guidelines in that would ensure that there's design character consistent with the area where the building is being proposed. And so those pedestrian –
 standards and the design guidelines that Joe had on the screen are what will come that we have future work to do to create that.
 work with the community to say, what are those standards? We don't have those today. These would be an overlay over and above the central city design guidelines that we already have? Yeah. I think that's a very important piece. And would you say that the principal driver of that additional height in that area is making some redevelopment economical or a view about the urban form? Do you want to touch on that a little bit? I'd say it's both.
 So I guess in the interest of saying potential conflict of interest, my firm worked on the Wajimaya project, and I can tell you that it did not pencil out economically without being able to get more volume on the site. I think the city was approached about a pretty substantial investment in that project, and there was a big gap, I remember. Correct. So it's both, but I also think it is very –
 A district or neighborhood with a lot of historic significance, and so paying attention to the details and how a project gets masked up, whether it steps down and how it meets the street, is extremely important.
 other questions other questions thank you both for all the work that you put into this one question uh and this is sort of it's a specific question but it's addressed to the general question of when we adopt an aspirational goal that seems like it would cost some money what are the implications of that um at the specific example looking at is page 99 it says
 create unique urban riverfront with centerpiece at Centennial Mills, develop a uniquely urban riverfront that features an iconic segment of the Greenway Trail with a, quote, jewel, end quote, civic space at Centennial Mills, framed by high-density development along the riverfront.
 Now, I've heard that people have ideas for centennial bills that would cost $40 million, which I don't know whether we have or not. And I'm just curious, if we adopt this, what does that mean? Does that mean that we think that we should spend $40 million in centennial bills, or it just means we'd nice to have a jewel at a low price? Or what would it mean for us to adopt that, in your view? In my view, it means that the city is going to go through a process
 to look at that property and decide how to develop it as a jewel, defining whatever that jewel is. I mean, you know, it's eye of the beholder, but I would say it's just not saying we're going to spend $40 million. It's saying the city's going to go through a process and deliberately try to develop that property and make an intent to do that. Okay.
 or not you actually develop it becomes down to economics, but at least make an attempt to explore the possibility. Commissioner, if you look on page 101, then there are the implementation action items, and that was where I was going before with my comments about whether Portland Parks and Recreation can actually do everything that's been assigned to it. RC7 says explore the possibility of building a public boathouse.
 for Portland Parks and Recreation, and the timeline is two to five years. If we were to do that, if we adopted as is, we would be required to put that into our CIP and start figuring out how to fund it. So I'm very concerned, and I encourage you to go through all of the action items to see, because I want to be realistic about what we can promise and what –
 truly aspiration. And I know we want to get to public testimony, but I just have to frame this because I was on the planning commission when we adopted the North McAdam framework plan, which is somewhat similar to this. There was an action item about explore the potential for a gondola between OHSU and the then North McAdam district. I asked about that as a planning commissioner and response was pretty much, isn't this a lovely idea to think about?
 And then as it came, the tram came into being, I was told, well, you already adopted that. It's in the plan. So, you know, the time to complain was then. So I want to be really clear when we, I think we should take the time to be careful and to be clear about when it's a lovely idea and when it's something that we're actually planning to do.
 Yeah, let me put this in the air for both our later discussion and maybe some reaction now from our two volunteers. But I take my ears are open to these comments about the need to ground what's in these aspirational plans to implementation strategies that can actually work.
 I'm not sure if you're right that just because it's in the plan, it has to go into the CIP when it says explore the possibility of building something. Remember that the 1988 Central City Plan had a dotted line in it that said future urban circulator. That was as detailed as it got. It's now the Portland streetcar.
 So, you know, it's okay, in my opinion, to have some stretch goals and not fully formed visionary ideas in a plan.
 It also is important to know which are which. So I take your point. But, you know, I don't think we should not every item in a 20-year plan should be directly attached to a budget proposal. If it's in the two to five years, though. Well, okay, so maybe it's in the wrong time block. But, you know, over the course of 20 years, some of this stuff will prove to be doable and some of it won't. And, again, I don't want us to be…
 too short term in our thinking about the plant. So maybe it's where it lies in the time scale rather than we have to get specificity about how we're going to fund something in each instance.
 So for what it's worth, I'm sure you've debated these points. Well, just a little bit of perspective from the SAC, I would say that's certainly an example as well as some others where I think we all recognize as a group that more time needed to be put into determining whether it was a good idea or not, as great and aspirational as it sounded. So when we said explore.
 It meant explore it in the next two to five years and then determine if you move forward with it. That was the intent, and maybe it's not clear, and it needs to be made more clear. Yeah, as I've learned with parks, even the exploring part requires staff time in order to do that exploration and a public process to plan for something, and that's not currently in our plans.
 in our plans. And again, because we have to look at what does the city need citywide and where do we dedicate limited resources. So anyway, thank you very much. I really appreciate it. Mr. Fritz, the question you raised reminds me of just a quick personal story. When I was a teenager, my father was very keen on me getting confirmed. And the culmination of this religious process was I'd have to recite the Nicene Creed in front of a lot of people.
 And I expressed to him at the time some misgivings because I was a little unclear about my religious impulses at the time. And he said, well, don't worry about that. Do this now. And then later on, you can decide whether you want to become religious. So it was like there's a window of opportunity to get this out of the way. And then at some point, but I appreciate the colloquy between my colleagues because –
 For example, I would like to, at the appropriate time, make suggestions about maybe moving the sequencing and prioritization. But I think it's also important that we qualify our support for this plan in that, as you suggested, Mayor, it's aspirational. And we want to make sure that there's some things that are very specific. There are other things that are more specific.
 And I think if we're clear about that, we'll give ourselves the room to do our lead, the budgeting of our bureaus and make recommendations and not be necessarily bound by every single aspirational goal in the plan. So I think it's a fantastically important question. One of the things that we got an education about when we started the comp plan was about language. And we've become very deliberate about development.
 explore, recommend and I think it's a great observation that what does explore mean relative to your budgets and so there may be another word that gets you there without having to expend money and we've taken that as we've had a lot of discussions about just a single word and so I
 would encourage you to I think our city attorney had us go through those words of what they meant well thank you both anything else for these two thank you very much for all the time you've invested in this so far thanks all right I think unless there any other issues to discuss now we'll move right into public testimony and Carla if you would your cast your procedural question sure sure
 If any of your colleagues have amendments or ideas throughout this process, is it your intention to collect those after this hearing and to bring them back at a future hearing? I think that would be most orderly. One, we're going to keep the record open, unless it's something that you need to get people to comment on right now. No, I mean, I think the testimony is going to suggest some modifications, as long as we're clear that we can bring them at a subsequent proceeding. Yeah, it's our intention to take testimony,
 close the public hearing, and then allow further time for written testimony to come in and for council to be able to propose amendments. Thank you. Okay. So with that, let's take testimony. Okay. We have about 69 people saying. Okay. Let's plunge in. Okay. With the first three, please come on up. Our Willie Levinson, Craig McConchie, and Wendy Rahm. And they'll be followed by Mary Vogel, Bob Sollinger, and Patricia Gardner. All right.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Just need to give us your name. No need for an address unless you're representing an organization Willie Levinson Human Access Project Address no, I don't need
 I submitted testimony and had a chance to talk with staff from everybody's office, either directly or through email. My comments are, I guess, the most important part of my two pages of comments, which I really hope you guys will have an opportunity to see and consider, is that
 There has been a change with Portland's relationship with the Willamette River, thanks to the Big Pipe Project. First, I'd like to suggest that this is added to the history section of this planning document. It was completely omitted. I think the history section probably would be considered superfluous in a lot of situations, but it guides why people have thought about maybe the Willamette River in the past and what has maybe changed about it.
 We now have among the highest sewer bills in the country. One thing we can point to is that Willamette is now safe for swimming and recreation. I think it's a great message to bring out and
 Specifically around the Big Pipe, I think that planning in the past has really aspired to create a better human connection to the Willamette River, but it has settled for visual access and a lot of opportunities, possibly because if the Willamette was viewed as an open sewer, maybe people would just want to look at it and maybe not get into it.
 Now, it's vetted scientifically safe as long as there's not a combined sewer overflow. Now there's only about four a year in the wintertime rather than 50 to 100. So I'd consider to strengthen the document. It might help if there is an actual definition of public human access versus visual access.
 And one other thought is that really big ideas, oftentimes we can get stuck. I mean, at what point will we be able to do something with the Willamette River? There were seven studies in the last 11 years related to the Willamette River. So how do we start? How do we actually start? What are the first steps? What I would say is that, unsexually, the things that Human Access Project has in mind does not cost $20 million.
 We would like to slowly court the public to fall in love with the Willamette River to allow the big projects to happen. Thank you, Will. Thanks very much. Wendy, welcome. Hi. Thank you. I'm Wendy Rahm, a West End resident. Bill Moyers recently devoted a full program to the immorality of tall towers and the struggle between the moneyed few and our history and livability. Who owns the light on the street? Yes.
 We all know that Portland used to lead. In the 70s and 80s, it stopped urban planners from building freeways through neighborhoods. It's time to stop another 80s policy, that of building tall towers everywhere. Urban planning has evolved beyond tall towers to livability, from top-down planning to street-level planning. It's time to stop and consider our generation's legacy. Are these proposed heights about the emerging dollarocracy?
 We need a fresh look at the West End, not just as a place to build 20-, 30-, and 40-story buildings that encourage demolition for density, but as a place that tells us about us, a historic human-scale area branding Portland as unique. I'm sure you've seen the many travel articles specifically on the West End in flight magazines and in the New York Times.
 There is a distinct character in the West End. Don't destroy the goose that lays the golden egg. The past is present in the West End's over 100 historic buildings, and these should coexist with future economic aspirations and livability.
 The high concentration of West End historic buildings are mostly unprotected today from demolition. If they go one by one, affordable housing and affordable offices will disappear, as well as the stories these buildings tell us.
 us. We are in the middle of Portland's story. Without its beginning, the story will lose its shape and meaning, even its soul. Let international investors build tall towers and leave, and it's no longer our story. Do not let profits be the story in the West End. Too much is at stake.
 One final thought, perhaps these decisions should not be made only by moneyed interests and policy makers. Residents' voices can matter, but there was no West End resident on the SAC. We are not opposed to increasing density.
 Eight-story buildings on the many parking lots will add plenty of density and likely meet goals within a margin of error. I urge you to vote to lower the maximum building heights in the West End to 100 feet. Thank you for listening. Wendy, thank you.
 Do you think that there's not sufficient protection on the existing historic buildings in addition to the height issue itself? I mean, I understand your point on the height issue, but do you think... There are two kinds of existing buildings in the West End. One are actually on the National Register, but the large majority of them are unprotected buildings. And you all have a copy of the inventory that I did a couple years ago. There are over 100 of them.
 And they are not, most of them are not protected at all. And we are seeing that. Because it's not a district and they're not on the register. That's exactly right. And we're seeing them go one by one, very storied buildings, because the Design Commission, of course, doesn't address history. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales. Commissioners, my name is Craig McConnachie. I am here in support of the draft of the West Quadrant Plan and opposed to the granting of a continuance or delay of the hearing. I've been a property and business owner in the Goose Hollow neighborhood for 30 years. I own a building on 15th and Southwest Taylor in which my company, CNR Real Estate Services, operates. I want to see my neighborhood reach its full potential, and I'm convinced that the West Quadrant Plan, as drafted, will achieve this.
 I joined the Goose Hollows Foothills League in September 2011 and participated in the Vision Realization Committee since its inception. This committee was formed specifically to provide input to the board regarding the West Quadrant Plan. I attended 25 out of 33 meetings held. After more than two years of dedicated work, the Goose Hollow Principles document was formulated by the committee and presented to the Board of Directors, which subsequently adopted the Principles Statement.
 A new Goose Hollow Foothills League board was recently elected. They are in disagreement with not only to the content of the Goose Hollow section of the West Quadrant plan, but the process in which the previous board came to endorse the principal's document. I can testify that the Vision Realization Committee, to my knowledge, conducted itself in a thoroughly transparent and open manner.
 encouraging input from all attendees and invited guest speakers. Committee meetings were regularly published and submitted for review by the entire neighborhood association. Committee discussions and decisions were not unduly influenced by developers trying to change zoning in their favor. To the contrary, most of our time was spent discussing how to improve the livability and vitality of the Goose Hollow neighborhood.
 Height limits and flexible zoning were openly discussed, along with view corridors and the desire to encourage the type of development that would benefit the neighborhood. I support the recommendations put forward in the draft West Quadrant Plan. Development has lagged in this neighborhood, and the need for more flexible zoning is very apparent. I oppose the granting of the continuance or delay. Revisiting the goals and objectives at this late date...
 that had been drafted openly and publicly serves to undermine the process that neighborhood associations need to adhere to. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, I think the only continuance, by the way, that we're contemplating at this point is enough time for the council to take in additional comments.
 written testimony and to consider amendments. We're not looking at some unless I haven't heard anything from my colleagues, and I'm not intending any protracted delay in our action on the plan. No one, for example, came to my office and asked for a continuance or delay. What I will tell you is it's a 225-page document, and we're going to have a five-hour hearing. And we sometimes do our best work if we have an interval between the hearing and the final vote because it gives us –
 It gives us a chance to absorb all the testimony. So I concur with what the mayor said. Thank you. There's no other agenda that I'm aware of. Thank you. We try to adopt major policy while we're awake. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next three. The next three are Mary Vogel, Bob Sollinger, and Patricia Gardner. They'll be followed by Brooke Buxbaum, Michael James, and Marion Haynes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Mary, I think you're first. Yes, thank you. And thank you for the opportunity to share my thoughts on the West Quadrant Plan. While I commend the West Quadrant Plan planners for the job they did in putting together a huge amount of very complex material, they made a significant oversight that I beg you to amend.
 As a resident of the West End who spends much of her time thinking about adaptation to climate change, I was utterly dismayed by the lack of implementation actions for the West End under environment. There was only one. This is Portland, Oregon, where we advertise to the world we build green cities.
 And for the major residential area of our downtown, we have only one implementation action for the environment in a plan that takes us through to 2035. Below, I expand on the one and propose a dozen others.
 These ideas are not new. I've been involved in the West Quadrant plan process since the beginning, and I have been blogging on my own website, plangreen.net, since 2009 about improving Portland's downtown. Mm-hmm.
 Some of the actions below build upon actions that were in the urban design items of the West End and surrounding neighborhoods. But even if the concepts are found there, they bear clarification and repetition.
 They include things like locally produced distributed energy. This builds on the first one, the one that was in there of utilizing the brewery blocks district energy system and expanding that. A tree canopy of at least 30%. And I passed along some photos of the...
 Was that actually three minutes? No, it was two. Keep going. Oh, okay. Anyways, of some of the low-income housing that has no trees whatsoever around it.
 Anyway, you can read the 13 items that I propose for implementation actions under the environment section in the West End, page 84. And I'm suggesting you take out the photo of my favorite bike shop, the Bike Gallery downtown, and put in these items on that page. Okay.
 And then we can proudly say to others, we build green cities. Thank you. Thanks, Mary. You know, of course, there are 13 items under the environment goal earlier in the plan on page 54, but they're not specific to the West End. So your point is specifically the West End? Yes, yes. The West End needs its own environmental action items.
 Because, yes, it's even got a performance target for tree canopy, but then no implementing items. So that's a point well made. I also understand that you've been a key proponent of the green loop concept. Yeah, I am. I mean, I was actually amazed to see how many of the concepts from my blogs and, you know, my –
 previous testimonies did end up in the plan. I'm delighted with all of that. Thank you for that particular contribution. I think that's a very key piece of the plan throughout it. And so the mayor, I think, is right that there are pieces throughout. Thank you for your work. Thanks very much. Who's next? Patty? Bob? Bob.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and members of the City Council. My name is Bob Salinger. I'm the Conservation Director for Audubon Society of Portland, and I was also on the Citizen Advisory Committee. I was one of two members, two members representing the environment, that actually submitted a minority report because we felt that the environment in the original draft that went to the PSC was pretty much ignored, and we're very disappointed in that. I will say now that I really appreciate the work that the staff and the PSC have done. I think they came a long way toward addressing many of the concerns we did raise today.
 The plan is vastly improved. I would also say that I think it still has a long way to go on the environment. To some degree, I think we're coasting on our green reputation. There's a lot of good stuff in here. The green loop, the section on Ross Island toward the end, a lot of high-level language about green infrastructure, a lot of very positive things in this plan. But I think when it comes to really visionary new initiatives, kind of what are we going to really do, the detail level –
 for the 21st century to continue our green reputation into the 21st century, I think it's still lacking. Again, some good stuff in here, but some big gaps, too. So I just want to highlight a few of those. Willamette River. There is about five miles of Willamette River in the Central District, and –
 So 10 miles of shore bank, we're aspiring to find two to three restoration sites in that entire stretch of river. That is absolutely anemic. If we're really committing to restoring the river, making it healthy for salmon, helping recover salmon, we've got to do better than two to three sites alone.
 on 10 miles of riverbank. Salmon need a good habitat area about every quarter mile, so we've got to aim a lot higher than that. And one of those sites should be looking at rolling back the seawall at Tom McCall Park. That was talked about a lot. It's something that's been in the plans for a long time. We need to actually think harder about that because it's just a discussion item still. Thank you.
 Green infrastructure, a lot of good high-level language about green infrastructure, but very little specificity, especially at the district scale, very few specifics of what we're going to do in each neighborhood. A couple of things. We need to aim very high on trees. The targets aren't in there still. We need high tree targets. We also should really be considering either a green roof mandate or a green factor mandate. Green factor is something they do in Seattle where you can choose from a menu if you're a developer of green things that you can do on your site. But we've talked about that for a long time. We've gotten rid of the incentives for green roofs.
 It's time to actually green the city top, and we hope that you'll consider actually putting in a decision to move forward with that, not just to consider it going forward. Resiliency in the face of climate change. We'd love to see this plan crosswalk with the climate change action plan to make sure that we're really addressing it. I don't think we are. Again, some high-level language.
 But at a time when we should be moving back from the river, creating wider greenways, what I read in this plan is it is intent to intensify development next to the river. We need to be thinking hard about what the landscape is going to look like in 20, 40, 60 years. Bob, because we are under a time constraint, on the specific areas where you think it still falls short, are you planning to send a follow-up email just with the bullet points? Yes.
 We will. And last one I'm going to say, you know, I'd love for us to think about one thing that really isn't mentioned in this plan, and that is night lighting. A lot of cities are moving away from really lighting up their landscapes. Our city's going the other direction. I see it getting brighter and brighter and more and more glaring. It'd be nice for our kids to be able to look up and see the sky, and I think we ought to be thinking harder about that. Light pollution is a growing issue. Thank you.
 And there, Bob, we did receive some proposed staff amendments just before the hearing. One of them was to change it from two or three restoration sites to at least two or three restoration sites. So that's edging closer. I realize you'd like it to be 20 to 30. Well, when I hear at least two to three, I hear at least two. Okay. So that amendment doesn't— If it's at least two to three, it should be at least three. Okay. Got it. But, no, I think we need to be looking more at, like,
 10 or 15. Maybe we're not going to get them all done, but the mayor talked about being aspirational. We should be aspirational. We shouldn't be anemic. And in this case, we know that's not anywhere near sufficient. There are more opportunities. They're challenging. But if we want the public to have access to the river and we want a healthy river for fish and wildlife,
 and we want resiliency in the face of climate change. We've got to do this, and we've got to try harder. So perhaps Commissioner Fisher's staff and mine from Environmental Services and Parks could look at what are we actually planning to do in terms of restoration projects and get you a number that you might be more than three. And then the other amendment is on page 48 to add the riverbank enhancement target of 12,600 linear feet and specify that the tree targets are still under development.
 So I think in both cases, your concerns have been heard, perhaps not entirely to your satisfaction, but with each iteration, we're getting closer to it. Absolutely. And again, the plan has come a long way since we submitted the minority report. Yeah. I don't know. Is this the same minority report that came about the height issue? No.
 No, no, this is separate from Enviros. And I didn't receive either minority report. So if you could make sure. It went to the planning commission. But we'll send you new comments. That's not germane anymore. They addressed enough of that that those are, and we appreciate that. We would not submit the same report today. Great, thank you. We're on the way.
 Thanks. Thank you. Thanks very much. Hi. Patricia Gardner, Pearl District Neighborhood Association. I sat on the SAC committee, and I'm here to basically testify that it's a great plan and we should move forward on it. And primarily, I've got some data to throw out, which is, you know, the population in Portland region is projected to grow by 300,000 new residents the next 25 years. That's a lot.
 and they are made up, you know, millennials and baby boomers. Everybody wants to live in the central city. And so if we do not allow density to happen in the central city, where is it going to go?
 And so that's the challenge. You know, if you overturn just the existing zoning, which a lot of this is existing zoning, where's it going? And so that's the challenge. And I'll submit my letter. But I did want to – there were some questions that had come up earlier that I've got some answers to that I wanted to follow up with. One, regarding capping, I had the honor of sitting on two –
 steering committees or blue ribbon panels for Mayor Katz regarding capping the freeway. And the last one is the most germane. And that's the one where we looked at the economics of it. And I would really highly recommend you get your hands on it because what we found is that I don't think you guys are going to have to build it. There's a certain point where land is going to be such that it will be cheaper to put a cap over the freeway than it is to buy a city block in the
 in Portland. And so, you know, particularly on either side of it. And so we looked at that cost with developers, with ODOT. Everybody was in the room, and it's a very good report. Nolan Toulon was part
 part of it and that that that is interesting so I'm not sure you're gonna get stuck with the bill so it and if it's if it doesn't say that in the report if it says parks that's maybe something that should be pushed out because there's other opportunities there the other thing is back to that question are you are you bound to do something if it's in the plan and I'm very familiar with a lot of the plans and I remember when there was a river basin
 And I remember when there was an aquarium and none of that came to pass. And so I think you are not going to be bound if you look at the language. And there's definite precedence in the previous plans that this plan is built on that don't bind you to such – to the aspirational things. But it's important to have them in the plans because it is a 25-year-old – 25 vision plan, 25-year. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all.
 Next three are Brooke Buxbaum, Michael James, and Marion Haynes, and they'll be followed by Paul Lipschke, Suzanne Leonard, and Kay Tsurumi. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Go ahead. Good afternoon.
 My name is Brooke Buxbaum. I want to thank you for the opportunity to testify about the West Quadrant plan, and I'm here to say I believe that allowing the plan to go forward with the Rob Dignagian building heights it allows would be a grievous error on the part of the City Council, albeit those building heights are in the present plan. Previous errors should not constitute a precedent.
 My bona fides for this testimony are that I'm currently a resident of northwest Portland, previously lived in the West End for six years, and I'm a citizen who's concerned with preserving what is best and most distinctive about my adopted hometown. Portland isn't Seattle, Vancouver, New York, Shanghai, Chicago, or Dubai, and it certainly shouldn't aspire to emulate them or look to them as models.
 The magic of Portland as a tourist destination, as a magnet to young creatives, as a welcoming community to retirees such as myself, as a home for young families and a simpatico environment for human-scale entrepreneurship lies in its quirkiness. That is that it's not like every other place.
 Its magic lies in its small town yet metropolitan vibe. Its diverse neighborhoods and architecture, its intimacy, its accessibility, and its moderate cost of living. Glass towers reaching to the sky, shutting out life on the street, slick, sterile, homogeneous, expensive, just don't fit.
 Tall towers in the West End would obliterate a historic building stock that is irreplaceable. It would drive up rental and ownership prices. It would be an aesthetic era. It would reduce the sunlight falling on the street, and certainly we don't have enough of that as it is. Towering buildings would destroy the very character that makes Portland, Portland. And with that gone, you really have to ask, why would people choose to come here?
 Why would we want to lose the magic that is Portland? Why would businesses locate here? The central public space in Portland, Pioneer Square, is called the city's living room. Think of what that evokes. Hominess, human scale, inclusiveness, a laid-back tempo. So different and unique compared to all the other cities I know.
 The West End, almost at the doorstep of the living room, should continue to reflect that same character. We need to keep buildings human scale, and we're counting on you to keep Portland Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Michael James, I've been a homeowner in the city of Portland for 18 years, and thank you all for letting us come here. And thank you for what I can see is a very...
 considered study that you guys have already made of this incredible plan. I am here because I think the proposed height limits in the West Quadrant Plan are excessive. Surprise. I hope you will reject them and follow the recommendations in the Northwest District Association's Minority Report by Steve Pinger. I hope you've all read that. I believe that that report clearly outlines the negative socio-economic impacts
 that this West Quadrant Plan contains. I think it will destroy blocks that have livable streetscapes and relatively harmonious heights that now exist in Portland and replace them with blocks where there are scattered adjacent height buildings, some dwarfing others. If you bought a Blue Star donut at the Blue Indigo, or if you walk by the Civic on Burnside, you know that I'm talking about buildings
 Windy streets, streets without sunlight, streets that don't cause us to feel comfortable in Portland. Density can be accomplished with low and medium height buildings like in the central part of Paris, Washington, D.C., and a lot of urban Portland.
 Our city can retain its unique character and be a place where school teachers and fire department folks and normal folks can live, not just those of us who happen to be fortunate and retired and have money. Thank you for your attention to this plan and for the future of Portland. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. My name is Marion Haynes, and I'm the vice president of government relations for the Portland Business Alliance.
 We appreciate this plan's focus on the role of the central city as the economic engine of the region and really applaud the staff for developing strategies to promote private sector investment, housing, job growth, retail activity in this area. Thank you.
 For decades, Portland has made a conscious choice and significant investments to ensure downtown is dense and active. Through developments downtown, through investments in transit and things of that nature, we believe that this plan continues that commitment and that that's the right way to go.
 I'll keep my comments brief and focus on what seems to be one of the larger issues at hand on the heights. We do support the existing heights in the West End and the proposals for height increases in strategic areas identified in the draft, including Bridgeheads and Old Town Chinatown.
 This does support, as I said, our city's longstanding land use planning goals to accommodate growth by developing an existing built environment rather than pushing out at the edges. This is our downtown core that we're talking about, and that's an appropriate place to try to accommodate what is some pretty significant residential and employment growth coming to the city in the future years.
 We've made the investments in light rail and transit. This helps leverage those previous investments that we've already made. And it really helps continue what has made Portland a national model for activating our central city. And we meet with people all the time that want to come in and hear and learn about what we've done.
 So, again, we support the height recommendations and recognize the need when we do that to keep a critical eye on transportation and portal capacity into the city to ensure people can continue to get in and out of our wonderful downtown. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Since you're representing the PBA, I have to ask, on the housing side, do you support the goal of building?
 of 30 percent of the housing in the in the whole quadrant uh targeted to people at zero to eighty
 We haven't taken that up specifically. It's a newer proposal, and so we'll have to get back to you on that specifically. But we have generally supported a number of proposals and the idea of looking at additional tools to support both affordable and workforce housing. So it would be great if you gave us your thoughts on that as well as this question about how do we get there. What are some of the concrete steps you want us to commit to? An important issue. Thank you.
 The next three are Paula Lifshake, Suzanne Leonard, and Kate Tusarami, and they'll be followed by Jackie Peterson, Brian Newman, and Shirley Reckner. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Paula Lifshake, and I am a resident of the West End. Some time ago, I attended a Historic Landmarks Commission meeting where there was a presentation of the historic buildings in the West End.
 I was attracted to this part of Portland to live in because of the human scale and neighborhood feel in a midtown location. Also, I loved the historic buildings and their varied architecture from different eras, as well as some rare single-family homes dating from the time the West End was Portland's first suburb.
 I'm reminded of how Isaac Stern fought to preserve Carnegie Hall, the icon for the performance of classical music in this country. He argued that a new building, no matter how well designed, could not replace the atmosphere of history one feels when hearing a concert in Carnegie. In one's imagination, hearing the overtones of the ghosts of the greatest musicians of all times.
 When friends and family visit me here, they inevitably admire the unique historical and aesthetic aspect of the West End and applaud the efforts being made to preserve it. I understand the city's need to increase densities, but I believe that density can be achieved by buildings of eight stories or less.
 I am not opposed to increased density, but I hope that the city will not accomplish this by allowing building heights of 20, 30, and 40 stories. And I encourage the council to lower these allotted maximum building heights to no more than 100 feet. And I think I beat the bell. Extra credit for that. Thank you. Ms. Lennard, welcome.
 good afternoon mayor and commissioners suzanne crohas lennard co-founder and director of the international making cities livable conference specialist and consultant on social aspects of architecture and urban design i live in the pearl 1030 northwest johnson street i attended almost every meeting of the cc 2035 committee and west quadrant sac as member of the public and spoke at most meetings
 There are major flaws both in the SAC process and in the report. The report's strong promotion of a single vision high-rise development agenda is in conflict with the 2035 concept statement that emphasizes livability, health, equity, and affordability.
 Every year I bring to Portland about 400 mayors, practitioners, and scholars in planning and public health from around the world. They're drawn not only by the IMCL conference, but by their desire to learn from Portland how to make their own cities more healthy and livable.
 Portland's international reputation as a livable city was hard won by Portlanders in the 70s when they rejected the planning behemoths of their day, the Moses Freeway, the high-rise development, and chose instead to emphasize Portland's true strengths, small walkable blocks, human scale, nature, and the public realm, a city that belongs to all, not just to the wealthy. They pulled down a freeway to create Waterfront Park, built Pioneer Square, and improved the city's walkability by creating the streetcar.
 Today we are at another crossroads. Singapore, Hong Kong and the World Bank are promoting the concept of world cities and trying to shame our planners and elected leaders into joining their big boys club. These are cities that are prepared to lie down to have their unique identity and heritage raped by global investors with their high-rise condos. The 250 to 460 foot height limits in the West Quadrant Plan damage the public realm, our common wealth.
 but make investors drool. Committed to high-rise, Singapore and Hong Kong now have the least affordable housing in the world and a deteriorating public realm. When you permit very high-rise buildings, the huge potential profits inflate land prices. This jeopardizes historic buildings, Portland's heritage and historic identity and makes it increasingly difficult to ensure affordable market rate housing.
 And as research clearly demonstrates, high-rise is not suitable for many mothers, children, and elders, i.e., affordable housing. The supposed benefits for all income-level housing do not trickle down. Just look at the statistics for the South Waterfront or the Pearl District.
 What kind of a city do Portlanders want? A pale imitation of Singapore or Vancouver, B.C. that satisfies the global investors or to retain Portland's unique identity, walkability, human scale and affordability for all and its worldwide renown as the most livable city in the U.S.? I ask the council to reject the West Quadrant Plan's height policy and call for a thorough review of heights involving citizens, not just developers, and considering a range of height alternatives. Thank you.
 Suzanne, I wasn't much engaged in the planning process here in the city during that time. I think you might have been when the height limits in the north end of the Pearl were increased. Do you think that was a mistake? Personally, I think it was a mistake because it encourages luxury condos and increases land prices and
 And frankly, I don't think Portland wants to get in that world cities club. I think it's much better to maintain affordability of land and maintain a population of people who actually live here and who have to work here.
 not just to provide opportunities for investments in the sky, as they say. I appreciate you. I respect your point of view as a planner very much, but I'm a little puzzled by this, that we found ourselves at this juncture, because as I understand it, that –
 That increase was requested by the neighborhood on the grounds of architectural diversity that we were too monochromatic in the early phases of the PIRL in terms of the height and scale of the buildings and that the residents of the district, I think it might have been the first time in the history of planning that this happened, but the residents of the district actually lobbied the council in those days to increase the height there. If I got the story wrong, it's because I wasn't here then.
 That's how I've heard it told. That's how I've heard it told, too. But I was not involved in that process, unfortunately. I'm just puzzled by how we could be at that place eight or ten years ago, and we're at this place now. I agree. I'm puzzled myself. Okay. Well, let's continue this dialogue, because I know you've thought a lot about this issue and appreciate it very much.
 Suzanne, I was curious about you talking about Singapore as a place with unaffordable housings. The New York Times had an article last April that actually said that Singapore is the one major world city that has successfully addressed housing affordability. I was wondering if you...
 I want to elaborate on your comments and explain why that's wrong. Well, I will have to look up the references that show that Singapore and Hong Kong are the most unaffordable housing in the world. They have a very special housing policy. Singapore wants everybody to have the opportunity, every Singaporean to have the opportunity to own their own apartment or,
 in Singapore, and they have had a policy now for, what, 50-plus years to develop only high-rise, increasingly higher and higher-rise buildings. They have a lot of social problems that have come along with that, and they also have a problem, for instance, that in order to increase productivity, they have to import buildings.
 you know, bring people in to live in the country, but those people don't get any kind of housing benefits and they are living at a very, very low standard of housing. But I will look into the data and find you the references that show that Singapore and Hong Kong are the two most unaffordable housing, and I'll send it to you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Kay Surumi, and I ask the council to lower the maximum building height to 100 feet or less in the West End and to preserve the historic buildings there. Research has verified that neighborhoods made up of small-scale buildings...
 combined with older buildings, provide two important things. They provide affordable office space and affordable housing. Affordable office space supports locally owned business. What local shop owner can afford to rent in a new 400-foot glass tower? Affordable housing attracts younger residents. They, in turn, increase a bike walk orientation in the city.
 I understand that your goal is to build Portland as a unique, human-scale, pedestrian city with a thriving economy and committed citizens. If this truly is your goal, then the path of wisdom is to limit building heights to 100 feet or less in the West End and to preserve the architectural legacy of the city and the neighborhood. Small-scale buildings and buildings of historical value create livable cities.
 with proud residents and a vibrant entrepreneurial economy. Thank you. On my written statement, I will reference, I have referenced the research that I'm basing this on. Good, thank you. Thank you all very much. Have you given Carla your written statement? I have. Thank you. The next three are Jackie Peterson, Brian Newman, and Shirley Ratner, and they'll be followed by Sharon Whitney,
 Susan Bliss and Burton Francis. That'll work. We'll leave them here. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Jackie Peterson. I'm a professor emerita of history at
 And I'm also representing the Old Town Chinatown Neighborhood Association. I am its secretary on the board. And I'm sorry that neither the chair or the land use chair, Patrick Gortbanker and Sarah Stevenson, could be here, but I'm here to represent them. But I'm also representing myself and both the Asian American community, which has tirelessly spoken before you and the Planning Bureau and the Planning Commission over the last 18 months. Thank you.
 And the letter that you all received today from the Neighborhood Association Board again asks you to take a second look at an amendment that we would like to make in the West Quadrant Plan, which again is focused on the question of heights.
 We are not satisfied that the current recommendation, which targets part of a national historic district, the very center of New Chinatown, Japantown, for heights up to 150 feet west of 4th Avenue. We, again, are willing to acknowledge that the block that has been focused on today by Joe Zender, the catalytic block 33, the parking lot, is a place where we're convinced that maybe, in fact,
 Greater Heights may be useful there, and so we are willing to recommend to you that we would spot zone that particular block. However, we really do feel that heights of 150 feet in that fragile National Historic District are too high. We also urge you to pass immediately the design guidelines not only for the Skidmore Landmark District, but also to create new design guidelines for the New Chinatown-Japantown National Historic Districts.
 Let me sort of step out of this role for just a second, however, to tell you that I recently heard an interesting lecture by Carl Abbott reporting on a study that he and others at PSU are doing about the way in which cities and states grow. I think that 300,000 people in 25 years is actually a very small number.
 I think for those who are aspiring or think we may be in danger of becoming Hong Kong, I think that's absolutely untrue. I think it's unlikely. And it is precisely the fact that we are a small, livable, beautiful city. People want to preserve it. And I think that's probably what's going to happen anyway. A hundred years ago, we doubled and then tripled our population in a decade.
 a projection of 300 000 in 25 years means that we're going to continue to be a small livable walkable city and let's make sure that this council makes that happen thank you thank you jackie
 It's okay. If you could possibly give me a map showing which of the proposed height increases around Skidmore that the Neighborhood Association supports and which ones you don't, that would be really helpful. You have all received the letter which has been endorsed by the entire board of the Neighborhood Association today. Does it have a map in it? No, but I can get you a map. That would be very helpful. Thank you. I just want to make sure that I'm clear on the ones that you support because I'm not as familiar with Block 33 or Block this or Block that. Thank you very much. Anybody else? Okay.
 Thanks, Jackie. Good afternoon. I'm Shirley Rackner. One has only to Google historic preservation and building heights to read about the national debate taking place over historic preservation and scaling down the heights of new buildings across the country. The debate started long ago and has been fought for decades. The Ionic
 iconic Jackie Kennedy Onassis, led the fight to save giant historic buildings such as Grand Central Station, which was to be torn down for a skyscraper office building. And when Lafayette Square was to be destroyed for a tall federal building, she worked to preserve the square. She also led the battle to save Columbus Circle from those who would destroy the landmark for yet another tall building in New York City.
 She defied those who lost track of values beyond how it penciled out. Portland is not Washington, D.C. or New York City, nor am I Jackie Kennedy, obviously. However, I am Shirley Rackner, who has lived here for 49 years and has seen this city grow, prosper, and yet maintain its culture and its niceness forever.
 I believe, just as Jackie Kennedy did, that to retain the city's historic buildings is an imperative. Our West End old brick-and-mortar residents that have been built many years ago created the old neighborhood, which has become my neighborhood. If we do not stop tearing down the buildings that have become important to us, then what will we have left? It is now time for the decision-makers of Portland...
 to decide what side of history will we be on. And I also. Thank you. Shirley, I've been listening to a lot of the testimony today, and one thing that strikes me is almost everyone begins by saying how much they love this city.
 And, Mayor, I'm hoping we can make this an annual hearing. Yeah, that's a good idea. Frankly, it's a refreshing antidote to maybe some counter-messages we get through the media. But, you know, Jackie Kennedy was not successful with all the buildings. In fact, one would argue that the behemoth that got built on the park at the southwest corner of Central Park
 was not consistent with her vision and cast an enormous shadow over the corner of the park. But you have 49 years of distinguished service to our community. So if there are specific buildings that you are especially concerned about, it may not completely fit within this discussion. It may be part of a larger discussion. I hope you will share your view of what are those gems we should keep our eye on as we go through this process. Thank you.
 This plan, fortunately, does not go into the Skidmore district and propose changing height. That's a fight we had a few years ago, and it ended with sort of a draw, and we decided to postpone it.
 But if there are iconic structures that you think are at risk and that we need to be focused on, I hope you will follow up by giving us sort of your list so we can be aware of them as we do our planning. Absolutely. And on the point of what Jackie couldn't say, we do what we can do. Oh, amen. Here's to that. Thank you. Brian, you're next. Thank you.
 good afternoon my name is brian newman i'm the associate vice president for campus planning development and real estate at oregon health and science university on behalf of ohsu we appreciate the time and energy the city staff and the planning and sustainability commission have put into the west quadrant plan the plan before you today does an excellent job of recognizing future challenges and opportunities and sets the stage for future ohsu investments in south waterfront
 and beyond. Investments that will help ensure Oregon residents of all economic backgrounds have access to the highest quality of care, from primary care to highly specialized medical procedures and treatments to clinical trials.
 Over a decade ago, OHSU made an important decision to continue to expand our clinical and research operations in Portland instead of moving those operations or expanding those operations in the suburbs. We recognized at the time the challenges of building in a central location on a brownfield versus a greenfield site, but we're confident that in
 in partnership with the city and pursuing flexibility in our own program, we could achieve the ends that the city of Portland and the community expect of us. We're confident that we've achieved that. And today, the Collaborative Life Sciences Building and the Center for Health and Healing are a testament to that partnership and a sign of more to come. OHSU plans to construct three new buildings in the South Waterfront District, totaling a million square feet over the next four years. I don't have time to speak to all of those investments, but I wanted to give you one example.
 We plan to build an 80-bed guest house for patients and their families who need to be close to OHSU, sometimes for a week and months at a time to pursue life-saving treatment. To be clear, this is not a service that the market provides. Most of these patients aren't able to pay for lodging. A third of them, based on our own modeling, will pay nothing, and the vast majority will pay less than $20 a night. Okay.
 Nonetheless, it's an essential service that we need to provide. So parents can be close to sick children who are at Doernbecher Children's Hospital, or a cancer patient can receive up to three or four weeks of outpatient therapy and be close by. I just use that as one example to show that there's a lot we can and we do do to ensure that vulnerable communities are served.
 Thanks again for this opportunity to support the West Quadrant Plan as it provides a sound framework for all that we do. While our health care providers, educators, and researchers touch lives across the state and beyond, Portland is our home and always will be, and we're excited about creating a future with you.
 Thank you. I think your testimony affirms this, but let me just double check, and that is everyone obviously is very enthusiastic about the Knight Challenge and is committed to making sure that the last mile is completed and that the funds are raised for this amazing upgrading of OHSU. Does the plan as it now stands in draft form accommodate the
 the growth that you expect to occur, including the response that you're likely to make to the night challenge? It does, at least for this planning horizon, it certainly does. And just to be clear, I think we're at about $455 million of that challenge. And the $500 million that OHSU is investing in South Waterfront and this next wave of development is in addition to any of that
 money in addition to the billion-dollar goal that has been set out. But accommodating the cancer center, the research, but also the clinical portion, as well as just expanding our clinical enterprise in South Waterfront, is all accommodated as part of this plan.
 Great. Thank you. Just wanted to make sure we had that on the record, that we're set up for your success, and obviously we're all supportive of it. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Next three, please. Are Sharon Whitney, Susan Bliss, and Burton Francis, and they'll be followed by Richard Rahm, Liam Thornton, and Tracy Prince. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I'm Sharon Whitney, and my comments have been covered brilliantly. What am I supposed to do? And now Commissioner Fish is out of the room because he wants to hear praise for Portland. So do we all. All right. All right. For you. Okay. It's about livability. Okay.
 And it's what people say when they visit Portland. I've heard it from Europeans and Australians and my own friends from different parts of this country. They invariably say, I could live here. And you tell them it rains. And it rains a lot. And they still say it. But I could live here. And I love that.
 I love feeling part of something so special. And I had a lot here about what livability means to me. It's softer than some of the stuff you've heard. But one point I need to make is, when you're looking at a historic building, you have to see it in context. You have to see what's next to it. Because we have some of our wonderful buildings
 Wonderful downtown churches with these spires that look like they're made out of gingerbread are dwarfed by what's next to them. And you can't look at the horizon and even pick those out because of the, I don't know, the clueless building that went in next to them, possibly. Right.
 Anyway, I too am concerned that our quality of life, which is livability, shouldn't be cramped by runaway development. As someone said, we are not Seattle or San Francisco. We're Stumptown. And if you need a model for a good building height, look at the heritage tree on Southwest 10th, which is across from the sculpture court.
 It's an American elm, seven stories tall, over a century old, a vision in every season, and those visitors I'm talking about take lots of pictures of it. Thank you very much. I'm Susan Bliss, and I'm a resident of the West End.
 As a resident of the West End, I believe the Mayor and City Council must hear and consider the points of view of citizen residents regarding the West Quadrant Plan now being proposed. There is strong evidence that this has not happened to date. I am one among a large group of residents who want you, their representatives, to 1. Lower maximum building heights in the West End to 100 feet.
 to delay the City Council vote on said height limits in the current West End plan because the plan is fundamentally flawed both in process and in outcome, especially as regards building heights.
 Three, reconvene a more representative membership of the West Prodrent Stakeholders Advisory Committee to include all categories of stakeholders, specifically residents, who were largely overlooked in favor of developers and architects the first time around. Not a single resident representative from the West End was included.
 Four, allow the new group to revisit sections of the West Quadrant Plan and register their comments before any vote by the City Council takes place. My last words are a repetition. Lower maximum building heights in the West End to 100 feet. Thank you. Thank you. Before I start my comments, Mr. Mayor, I'd like to respond to a question you had, which was about the Pearl.
 If you look at zoning map 510-3, the Pearl is actually three different sections. It's not just one homogenous place. There's the place north of Lovejoy, then there's the place Lovejoy to Hoyt and 405 to the river. And then there's south of Hoyt down to Burnside.
 it's not a homogenous thing. Second thing I would say is be careful about when you're looking to what the residents want or don't want. I think that's dependent if you're relying on the neighborhood association to how democratic the neighborhood association is and how much outreach that neighborhood association has done in terms of funding,
 figuring out what the residents are interested in. And then thirdly, I don't know how many people were actually living north of Lovejoy 15 years ago or something like that. It's a very changing area and a changing demographic.
 So to begin my comments, my name is Burton Francis. I'm one of the founding members of Preserve the Pearl, a group of homeowners that formed in opposition to the Pearl District Neighborhood Association and its failure to keep the residents of our neighborhood informed on issues of development and livability. We're inspired by our west side neighbors in Goose Hollow, and we look forward to the day when our voices of the residents are actually heard.
 The allure of the pearl can be best experienced along 13th Avenue Historical District, where, as we all know, there's brick buildings and early 20th century warehouses, and they've been turned into lofts and framing studios and shops. But any remaining authenticity in this area is fast becoming lost.
 in the pursuit of huge towers and in their design and in their dominating size, which threaten to drown out the last bit of industrial vibe. The authenticity of what the Pearl attracts people with that we as residents enjoy.
 We know that the area of the Pearl north of Lovejoy is pretty much lost to the coming forest of south waterfront-style skyrises, and that goes directly to your query. But the area where most of our group lives, which is described in that zoning map I referred to, is still a low-slung, Soho, funky warehouse sort of area. Not for long, though.
 The current zoning height map in our area is 75 feet without any bonuses, and that's consistent with about the 88 feet height of the brick buildings along 13th Avenue. Under the West Quadrant map, however, our area is due to go to 220 feet. That is a tripling in our neighborhood.
 We in the preserve the Pearl ask that you delay any approval of the West Quadrant plan and at least begin the discussion of density that was never really undertaking seriously in the SAC. And in this request, we support the so-called minority report. We ask, these are my last comments, we ask that the serious discussion be undertaken to determine if the density that's needed to grow Portland in the next 25 years is
 can be achieved with low and mid-rise buildings, at least in those neighborhoods that have not already been overwhelmed by point tower high-rises. Does your group support leaving the height limits in the Pearl neighborhood at their current heights? Yeah, we would support that. But, you know, we want to be realistic. I mean, you know, and I want you to understand, we're not against development. We're not against density. There are, to
 to borrow a phrase from a different part of the world, there are facts on the ground now north of Lovejoy that are pretty hard to ignore. And if that area is going to be designated as a kind of an alphanomega to the south waterfront, I guess that's what's going to happen. But in our neighborhood, which is south of Lovejoy to Hoyt and 405, we desperately would like to retain the integrity of that neighborhood, which also encompasses the 13th Avenue Historic District.
 And in your case, it's by keeping the current height limits, whereas in the West End, the request is to reduce them. Yeah. Am I understanding that correctly? Yeah, the current height limits, yes. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Richard Rahm, Liam Thornton, and Tracy Prince. They'll be followed by Cal Toth, Connie Kirk, and Joan Kavita. Okay, thank you.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Richard Rahm. I've been asked to read a statement by Tom Nielsen, who's unable to attend today. These are his comments. I am a West End resident, former mayor of the City of Salem, a person who has been involved in a great deal of public process around a wide range of issues. I ask you to consider the structure for citizen input on the West Quadrant Plan. A significant component of the 2035 plan will set the parameters for how Portland develops over the next 20 years.
 Despite nominations of very capable and experienced residents of the West End, not one was appointed to the SAC. Birds, represented by the Ottoman Society, had more representation on the SAC than the West End's human residents. The West End is the largely residential component within the Downtown Neighborhood Association, which also contains the Downtown Retail Corps and PSU.
 A planning process which relies on neighborhood associations to represent the will of the residents and businesses within their geographic boundary is only somewhat reasonable in a homogeneous neighborhood with a very sophisticated process of determining the range of sentiments of those who reside and do business in that neighborhood or with an issue on which there is consensus. In an area with diverse interests that comprises downtown neighborhood associations, this is ludicrous.
 with an issue as contentious and potentially problematic as building heights in a residential area, this is a mistake. Recognizing that the process as conducted relied on stakeholders with vested interests, largely but not entirely financial, and did not amply allow for input on building heights, a contentious issue, and that two of the city's own appointed commissions are at odds over the recommendations regarding building heights,
 The issue of building of heights warrants an in-depth study and more precision in application, particularly in the West End. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. I'm Liam Thornton with Langley Investment Properties in Portland, Oregon. I'd like to offer a perspective from someone who recently made the decision to invest in the Goose Hollow neighborhood. We made the decision to invest in the Goose Hollow neighborhood because we believe in the city's long-established vision for a high-density mixed-use facility
 walkable, livable district with accessible transit, consistent with what is shown now in the West Quadrant Plan. Much of the property in Goose Hollow is actually privately owned, not corporately owned, and our purchase of the property was from a private landowner. Moreover, our decision and our purchase price was based on the allowable density and height of that land. In short, land value is based on what you are allowed to do with the property
 and people make land investment decisions based upon the certainty found in the zoning code. For those who are advocating a reduction in building heights, while well-intentioned and strong arguments are made in favor of that, reducing building heights in Goose Hollow or elsewhere in the central city is not without consequence. It does reduce economic value and negatively impacts the private landowner.
 I think it's important to reinforce that the West Quadrant Plan is not proposing or seeking to increase building heights in Goose Hollow. It merely seeks to maintain them at the same level as found in the current and longstanding zoning code. Many of you have talked today about new tools in your toolkit to support public policy objectives given limited funding resources and public funding resources.
 Certainty of the zoning code is fundamental to the attraction of private investment that would support the broader public policy goals contained in the plan.
 Additionally, maintaining existing height limits also avoids reductions in current land values and corresponding reductions in property taxes that would further dilute the already limited public resources needed to achieve the public policy and planning goals discussed here today and contained in the West Quadrant Plan. I'd like to state that we support the West Quadrant Plan. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. I'm Tracy Prince.
 I'm a resident of Goose Hollow, and I'm the newly elected board president of the Goose Hollow Foothills League. We've had a turnover of seven new board members who were endorsed by the Friends of Goose Hollow and swept all open seats. I'm one of those. I speak on behalf of the GHFL board, who discussed their discomfort that they felt with GHFL's representation on the West Quadrant Stakeholders Committee. Thank you.
 especially regarding height limits and removing the required residential overlay. One stakeholder introduced himself as a former GHFL president, but didn't mention that his opinions were not endorsed by the previous or the current board. The official GHFL stakeholder took positions which GHFL minutes show were not endorsed by the board and were simply personal opinions.
 The board is also concerned that view corridors are not adequately protected and that West Quadrant staff and participants have branded the flats, a term that has not been in use in Goose Hollow before the West Quadrant discussions, and then stated that this area needs rebranding by a developer.
 So in front of you, there's the official letter that was unanimously presented by the Goose Hollow Foothills League Board. I don't know if you want me to go step-by-step through our suggested changes. If you've got them here for us, it would be better if you'd let us to go through that later. Exactly. So they address our concerns with representation. We unanimously endorse the Building Height Minority Report and the Environmental Report.
 We request a delay of the vote today because as the new president, I have called, I've heard a lot of people say what Goose Hollow wants on height limits. I'm a little tired of it and I've called for a vote of the membership so that the residents, the members can speak and can vote on height limits, bonuses, and FAR. We were misled during the West Quadrant process. We were told that we could not discuss lowering height limits by planning staff. So we plan to discuss that.
 And then finally, a quick issue is on page 171. This is my personal issue. There's a map problem in this plan. Regardless of what you saw presented by the planning staff today, the map that's in the draft only shows the height limits are only showing the full build-out of every bonus possible on every property on the West Quadrant, as if that is going to happen on every property. That rarely happens that a property gets its full bonus.
 So it seems like, just looking on the map, that it's kind of a deregulation of bonuses. I think in order to make sure everybody understands it's not, that somewhere in this plan should be today's current base height limits. I had to look in another city document to find that information. So I'm asking for the current base heights. Thank you. Thank you. That's a good point. Thank you. All right.
 So, Tracy, just to clarify, the Goose Hollows Foothills League does support changing that block from RHD to CXD as long as it does have the continued residential requirement? Yes. There was discussion about that, and that was unanimous to change it with as long as it has a residential overlay. Okay.
 What most of us don't want to see of the current board is we don't want to see a standalone parking structure. And a residential overlay will require that. We've actually offered the MAC to come and give us that exact proposal that they offered on Block 7 and propose it over on 20th on the lot right here. And we'd go for it. Exactly the same. Bury the parking area.
 And that would support that possible proposal. So we understand that some flexibility is needed, but stripping off the required residential overlay is only good for developers and is not good for the neighborhood. We're a dense urban neighborhood, and we need 24-hour eyes on the ground, which residential development gives. Thank you. And then my second question is, historically, the hollow is the better term? I literally wrote the book on it. I know you did.
 It really drives me crazy. I never heard that term used before. Nick Clark talked about talking to his family who've been in Goose Hollow. His father's been in Goose Hollow since 1938, when he lived there as a child. Bud Clark lived there. So nobody remembers it being called The Flats.
 This was a term that either the participants or the staff of the West Quadrant process started using because maybe they didn't know. It should be called the hollow. The lower elevations at the base of the hills are the hollow. That's the hollow. Thank you. And it really is infuriating to see them putting as a line item that they literally ask a private developer to rebrand us. And that just makes me pretty angry. And also, you asked about the 405. Yes.
 In every iteration, I've been involved with the Goose Hollow Board for almost a decade, off and on, and checking in and out. Every iteration of the board, no matter what our arguments are and how we disagree with each other, we all like the I-405 cap. Yeah, thank you. Potentially what we might do on that is take out the city as the implementers, as was suggested by Patricia Gardner. If somebody else is going to pay for it. I agree. In 10 years, it'll be worth it for a developer to cap that. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next three are Cal Toth, Connie Kirk, and Joan Kavitka, and they will be followed by Robert Wright, Captain Peter Wilcox, and Ruth Ann Barrett. Welcome. Go ahead. Okay. So my name is Cal Toth. I live in Goose Hollow. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to all of you. I have submitted my full testimony since I had to cut quite a few paragraphs out of the one I have right here in front of me.
 I moved to Portland in 2001 from Vancouver, British Columbia, because Portland was and remains to this day a human-scale city. It avoided the vertical sprawl of Vancouver, Seattle, San Francisco, New York, and other cities like that. Over the 20-year period, I watched the neighborhoods of Vancouver
 abutting the city core, False Creek, so it's a little bit like here, False Creek, Yaletown, and Coal Harbor, they're called, rapidly littering the landscape with virtually indistinguishable glass towers, creating skylines similar to those of so-called world cities of the Far East.
 Not surprisingly, Vancouver's embrace of high towers was made possible by land use policies that attracted huge inflows of global monies, mostly from Southeast Asia. Instead of fostering affordable housing and livable neighborhoods in Vancouver, this wave of high-rise construction created a glut of luxury housing for the very wealthy, many of them visitors from other lands,
 and many occupying them only part-time. This oversupply of unaffordable housing has pushed ordinary Vancouver citizens further into less affluent neighborhoods, including the city's downtrodden east side, which is a druggy area. Apparently, taxing empty units has become a challenge and a hot election issue of late.
 There are other ways of achieving density, not just height, as some people have mentioned. I hope we can avoid such problems. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, my name is Connie Kirk. I live in Goose Hollow. Connie, we missed you. Yeah, it's been much too long. Glad to be back. I urge you to vote.
 to lower the height limits in the West Quadrant. You know, throughout the West Quadrant process, there's been an assumption that those who oppose skyscrapers in residential neighborhoods are ignorant of the planning process. You know, on the contrary, many are urban planners, engineers, historic preservationists, and property owners. They're the gatekeepers of unchecked growth, vertical sprawl, and economic disparity. And this love of skyscrapers, it's an enticing apple. But replicating New York and Portland brings risk.
 And having lived in skyscrapers for many years in New York City, I concur completely with Suzanne Leonard's analysis. It really creates a life of atomization. It dilutes civic involvement. Manhattan today has evolved into a playground for those who are wealthy enough to afford high-rise living. But the middle classes and the working poor, they've bottomed out. They have to commute long hours to serve the city's upper classes.
 While I was there, the elderly even had to resort to living in their storage lockers. It's just disgraceful, the elderly living in their storage lockers. Now, I've lived on both sides of the economic aisle, and I just don't want this to happen in Portland. As for the GHFL, it is true, Dr. Prince said they were voted in unanimously, and they were voted in in a landslide by Goose Hollow residents. So when they speak, they do speak for us.
 Also note Dr. Tau's comments on Vancouver, British Columbia. It's a classic example of point tower development, and Vancouver's papers consistently report on this stripping away of history. I would like to leave you with a few final thoughts. Commissioners, you can feel proud that Portland's model is not saturated with point towers. Feel good about that.
 And I leave you also with a report from the BBC News in January 2012. January 12, 2012, Barclays Capital Analysts had this to say.
 Often the world's tallest buildings are simply the edifice of a broader skyscraper building boom, reflecting a widespread misallocation of capital and an impending economic correction. With that, I urge you again to vote to lower the height limits in the West Quadrant, and I thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you.
 I am Joan Kavitka, an involved neighborhood advocate who understands the livability of South Auditorium District. I represent a neighborhood group called SAGE, S-A-G-E, South Auditorium Greenway Environments. We are honored to appear before you today, and we speak as a voice for the hundreds of residents who live downtown, from the Keller Auditorium along the Halpern Open Sequence to the Lee Kelly Sculpture Park.
 Over the past year, we have worked closely with the City of Portland's Bureau of Planning and Sustainability in defining the needs of our historic neighborhood. SAGE appears before you today to endorse the focus on neighborhood livability within Central City 2035 West Quadrant Plan.
 West Quadrant Plan links the insights of 21st century urban planning with the foresight of Portland designers of 50 years ago. Briefly stated, beginning in the 1960s, the renewal of South Auditorium District brought Portland national distinction as a pioneer in urban design that promoted the values of sustainability and livability.
 The creation of super blocks dedicated to tree-line pedestrian paths, cascading waterfalls, hills and valleys, brought daily interaction with nature into the built environment of live, work, and play. Lawrence Halperin's design elements stand out.
 Still today, connect the beauty and harmony of the Willamette River and Cascade Mountains within a freshly imagined urban landscape. Existing tall towers where many of us live do not dwarf nature's aliveness in our neighborhood.
 As development moves forward in the West Quadrant in general and South Auditorium District in particular, we want to remain true to the harmony and balance within our urban environment. In closing, SAGE knows that high density living need not overwhelm us.
 A varied landscape with open spaces and green canopy, diverse building heights, mixed-use functions, and daily encounters with the joys of nature, art, and culture should intertwine. Our conclusion is best summed up by saying SAGE supports urban development in the South Auditorium District that brings the SAGE wisdom of nature into our city planning. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 The next three are Robert Wright, Captain Peter Wilcox, and Ruth Ann Barrett, and they'll be followed by Lynn Grenner and Randy and Tina Wyszynski. Go ahead. Welcome. My name is Robert Wright. My wife and I have lived in the West End since 2006. We returned to the city where we were born, raised, and educated. We are from southeast Portland.
 There are many fine southeast neighborhoods, but we were drawn to the West End with its urban vitality and livability. I am very proud to say that Portland has been a world leader in many things, urban development among them. People are drawn to Portland not only to learn, but to live. Five annual International Making Cities Livable conferences have been held in Portland. Portland has become the model for urban planners from around the world.
 Areas of the West Quadrant, the West End, Goose Hollow, the Pearl, are at or approaching the sweet spot of urban development. The fine balance between urban livability and density. Proposed maximum building heights will upset that balance. Clustered, high-rise residential buildings and livability are most directly at odds.
 There appears to be a school of thought among some city planners that we should copy larger cities with clustered high-rises, rather than lead as one of the most livable cities on the planet. Those involved in the development of the West Quadrant Plan have publicly countered that all new buildings won't be expected to reach the legislated maximums. So, not to worry. This is naive or dishonest. It is a hope, not a plan.
 Other cities have accommodated increased density without resorting to vertical sprawl, with tall, dark canyons that limit street-level access to light and air, becoming gusty wind tunnels on windy days. They have proved that urban density can be increased with mid-rise buildings while preserving historic structures and heritage. If the proposed plan is adopted, city planners will still visit Portland years from now, but then it will be to study the post-mortem of what went wrong.
 Admittedly, the ability to build tall residential buildings packed together would attract and benefit developers and increase the city coffers with higher tax revenue, but that would come at the greater expense of what makes Portland's urban areas attractive and livable. By the time the comprehensive plan is approved and buildings are allowed to the proposed maximum heights, we grayheads will be long gone. Our children and grandchildren will live with the consequences of your planning.
 I strongly urge you to lower maximum building heights in the West Quadrant Plan. Thank you. Mr. Wilcox. Hello. Greetings. I'm Peter Wilcox. I live in northeast Portland. I'm a licensed captain. That's why I'm Captain Peter Wilcox. And I'm also president of Columbia Riverkeeper, although I'm speaking on my own behalf today. I actively participated in the Central Reach and West Quadrant Plan meetings and charrettes.
 And I'd like to give you a briefly visit the current state of the city regarding waterfront, regarding some prior plans, and then also mention some ideas. And I won't get to all of them. As noted in the West Quadrant Plan's executive summary, item number one, the most northern topic generated more shared enthusiasm among participants than activating the Willamette River. That's what I'll talk about mostly. Yet the river activation recommendations in the West Quadrant, and
 and central plants could be considerably bolder and greener and even have a bigger economic impact, in my opinion, and will still leave us behind other urban waterfront cities when we're done with what we have there now.
 The 1998 central plan, city plan called for a network of water taxis. That's a topic I've been interested in for a long time. Some of you know many of those at the hearings who spoke about this are sorry, that already hasn't happened. And then 13 years later in the River Renaissance plan, this was again championed and challenged the city to connect, quote, unquote, new and existing neighborhoods to and across the river through multiple means that included water taxis.
 what can be done about a bolder, greener plan that includes water transport? Here's a few ideas. First, either complete the implementation of the current waterfront park master plan or update it,
 and follow through on those recommendations. Hopefully, either way, a river-connected Portland will emerge using vessels that leave the river cleaner and the city greener behind their small wakes. Second, move up the two existing West Quadrant River Transport actions from six to 20 years for another couple of decades to two to five years, at least the one that studies...
 Third, the Portland Waterfront Alliance is a group that I'm part of that made up of organizations and individuals who spend a disproportionate amount of time looking at the city from the water and its rivers. And we're creating and we'll be sharing a vision, a really bold vision, for activating the downtown waterfront with new placemaking and a river-connected city centered on the James Beard Public Market.
 I have a couple other ideas regarding funding for this and especially on the state of the science restoration that are on my letter. Good. Thank you. Thank you very much. Very much. Thanks. Welcome. Hi. I'm Ruth Ann Barrett, and I'm going to start my presentation by admitting I'm a near nobody. Okay.
 I'm somebody in terms of sustainability. I'm a sustainability advocate. I have a site, earthsairs.tv, and about 10,000 people come to it to hear the voices of sustainability each month. And I'm here because I've been starting a PDX downtown, or I started it three or four years ago, channel on YouTube. And...
 I pretty much do what I like, and I interview people who interest me, and I'm creating some pieces of work around educating our citizens, who, if you remember, the research indicates that we're really quite unaware and clearly not very knowledgeable about the ABCs of government. So here I am, a marketer, and I did something called Spongy Parking Lots.
 And it's a short three minutes. And what it does is talk about, you know, taking the parking lots that surround me, and now I'm going to admit something to everyone. I live in Chinatown. I know you never get to meet people much who live in Chinatown, certainly not in the new Chinatown-Japantown Historical District, which I'm very proud of. But, yes, I'm here. And so one of the things that we have in the area is parking lots galore.
 And they need to be spongy. And one of the interesting things is the quadrant plan, which I think is miraculous, and I have nothing but the highest respect for everyone who contributed to that. But there's also this minority report thing that I got my hands on. And one of the things they talk about is specificity. And you know what?
 In my neighborhood, looking up, if you will, to this plan, which, again, I have the greatest respect for, where is, you know, what we used to call in MBO objectives? How many old buildings, how many abandoned buildings, how many unsafe buildings, and of those, in your five-year action plan or your 35-year action plan, do you intend to restore it?
 That's all I want. I want to know if those three parking lots around me are going to be there for the next 30 years because then I have even more fuel to say we need to make them spongy today. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Appreciate that. And what you'll find, I think, in Portland is almost anybody can propose a good idea and have it get adopted. So thank you. Thank you for the encouragement. Thank you.
 Next three are Lynn Granner, I believe is the last name, and then Randy and Tina Wyszynski. Okay. Sure, sure. Let's go ahead and go with Tim Block now. Okay.
 And then they'll be followed by Michael Mahaffey, Kate Washington, and Improni Boyle. Okay. I think we may be coming down the home stretch, but welcome. Okay. My name is Lynn Grannon, and I represent Oregon NICAY Endowment. We are a nonprofit. I serve on the board, the executive board of the organization.
 We have two projects. One is the Japanese American Historical Plaza that's on the north waterfront, and the other is the Oregon Nikkei Legacy Center, which is on Northwest 2nd. Before I go on, I use the word Nikkei. It refers to anybody of Japanese descent who resides outside of Japan, so that would include Japanese.
 from my immigrant grandparents down to my grandchildren. We are all Nikkei. The Japanese American Historical Plaza was built 25 years ago. It was a vision of one of Portland's greatest visionaries, Bill Naito. And with the help of the community, our Nikkei community, and with the help of Portland City, including the Portland Parks and Rec,
 the Metropolitan Arts Commission, and the Portland Development Commission, we made Bill's vision come to reality. It tells a Nikkei story from Japanese immigrants down through their settlement in Oregon and then their lives through the war time when they were incarcerated through resettlement. And it tells it in...
 through art in bronze etchings and through poetry etched in stone. Bill liked to refer to it as the Bill of Rights Plaza because it evokes for many of us the rights guaranteed to all Americans through the Bill of Rights. And he had those etched in stone, and that's the beginning of the plaza.
 Our other project is the Organike Legacy Center, which is located in Old Town, Chinatown. And many people don't know that prior to May 1942, it was known as Japantown. At that time, it had over 100 businesses, Japanese-owned businesses. And of course, that all ceased to exist after May 1942, when everyone was removed.
 Our legacy center is located in one of the original Japanese businesses. And I'm a retired educator. So what we have are thousands of visitors that have come through both of our projects in the last 20 and 25 years. It is really powerful when we tell the stories of our ancestors and our legacy. And we are in the actual buildings where they worked and they lived.
 And as many people have mentioned, the legacy that we have here in Portland is so important. It's so rich. It's culturally rich. And we hope to be able to preserve this. And I would like to thank the Portland Bureau of Sustainability to go through this process with us and discuss how we can work together and maintain sustainability.
 and the rich history that we have for future generations. We do support the height limit only on block 33. I think there are three areas that were noted in the maps. And we also support the immediate adoption of the nomination for the new
 Chinatown, Japantown National Historic District. And thank you for working with us thus far. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good evening. Hi, I'm Tina, and I'm here testifying on behalf of my husband Randy, who could not be here because he's out of town. So, here we go.
 Hello, councillors and mayor. Thank you very much for the opportunity to appear before you. As a seven-year Goose Hollow resident and former GHFL board member, that's Goose Hollow Foothills League, for more than four years, I am deeply optimistic for the potential that Goose Hollow has as a neighborhood.
 being as close in as we are to one of the most dynamic downtowns in the country with careful planning there is no reason that our neighborhood shouldn't become one of the most desired locations to live work and play in the usa it is convenient historic and diverse i feel confident that if we can focus on the safety livability parkways public spaces availability of retail and family living
 We can achieve that dream. I say this with experience, as I have lived in nearly every quadrant of the city and have been involved in neighborhood associations throughout as well. It is through these experiences that I chose to devote my time to the Goose Hollow cause. I feel it is a diamond in the rough.
 i was very excited to participate in not only the visionary conversations that we were able to have during the past four years through the vrc but as well in through participation in the design charrettes that were held in conjunction with the city of portland the great thing about an open and thorough process is that you can't complain about it once it is completed from past experience done properly which i firmly believe this process was done not only properly but robustly i have seen this process leave some incredible legacies
 and build some great relationships throughout the neighborhood. I must admit that in the beginning, I expected that the city would have its own agenda,
 However, I was pleasantly surprised to read how thoughtful, thorough, and representative the results and recommendations that were recently published were. It is nice to see the results of careful collaboration when all parties are respected and their viewpoints taken into consideration. I am happy to say that the recent study was not only representative of our neighborhood, our entire neighborhood, not just one building. It left me excited to be visionary enough to live in and own a piece of Goose Hollow.
 As a resident and former GHFL board member, I fully support the West Quadrant plan and implementation and the capping of the 405. Thank you. Thank you.
 Anthony, welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Michael Mahaffey, Sustasis Foundation, 742 Southwest Vista Avenue. I'm a practicing urban planner and urban designer, and I also do research and education in sustainable urban development. And many of my good friends and colleagues have been part of developing the West Quadrant Plan. And so nothing I say is meant to impugn their hard work or others throughout this process.
 But as I have shared with staff previously, there is research evidence on tall buildings that shows that they can fuel demolition of historic structures, they can exacerbate economic inequality, they have significant impacts of shading, wind, view, and other factors, and they can degrade the livability of the critical public realm.
 The claim that tall buildings will promote more sustainable development is contradicted by a large and growing body of research over this time. I'd be happy to share more of that with you. I do understand that tall buildings offer attractive profits.
 particularly for affordable housing. That's a goal that I share very much as well. But I think we have to recognize the dangers in this kind of supply-side economic strategy, deregulating so that the wealth will trickle down to the rest of the city and to affordable housing and the other things that we want to do. In many cities around the world, the results of this strategy have been, to put it bluntly, dismaying.
 Some of my own research for the Urban Land Institute has documented how global capital is currently flooding into high-rise projects and profoundly changing the character of cities around the globe. And unfortunately, we are not immune here.
 Up to now, Portland has been a champion of an alternative path to urban economic development, a Jane Jacobs model, if you will, promoting a diversity of people, of businesses, of building types and ages. And I think it's urgent to secure and to build upon this prime economic asset and to maintain our global leadership, for that really is what it is, and not throw that away in a rush to become a pale imitation of some other city we wish we were.
 We are a great city already and to that treasure let us first do no harm. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Okay. How many more do we have left signed up? Sir, are you going to put your testimony in?
 Michael, are you going to leave us a copy of your testimony? Are you going to leave us a copy of your testimony? If you leave your testimony with the clerk. Actually, I have already submitted that to your staff. Everyone, all the council members have, commissioners have copies of those already. I'd be happy to furnish additional information. As long as we've got it in the record, that's fine. Yeah, there's a white paper that actually sets out many of the citations and the sort of evidence-based approach that we're advocating. Thank you. Great, thank you.
 Okay. I believe we have 30 or so more. I don't think that's still true in the room, but how many people still planning to testify? Okay, we're down to a relatively manageable number. Why don't you call them back? We'll take a five-minute break and then come back and try to finish it out. Just a stretch. Stretch break. We've been at it for three hours. Mayor, at 545...
 i have to leave for a water regional water consortium yeah i got an evening too but it looks like we got about 12 people left so i think we're here all your please what is this
 Tracy, how you doing? Thank you.
 .
 Oh yeah, yeah. We found out tonight, it's at the Art Museum. One thing I, they called Mike, Mike, and he went back there and sat down.
 Here's for you. Oh, that's great. I won't be up for a little bit though, right? Right. Oh, you can leave PowerPoint open, because it's in a PowerPoint. I need to get it this way. Oh, okay. Oops. Yeah, it's that very first document. Oh.
 oh
 I've been doing both now for a couple weeks. Are you just trying to put it on the desktop? No. It's on our hard drive. Oh, okay. Thank you. For posterity. Oh, wonderful. Then I don't have to convey it, right? So you have it. Right, and we're going to open it here. Oh, okay, great. Thank you.
 there are only a few slides oh okay oh thank you so much how wonderful so helpful thank you you are ready to roll thank you
 It looked like I was close to the end.
 yeah well you know you don't get up yeah like yeah yeah ok you'll be already thank you thanks yeah and
 yeah yeah I'd like yeah yeah
 Yes. This is my favorite game.
 that's the only not yet all right that's a quorum what that's a quorum okay uh there it is no i don't see a texture you just something about jewels what's that
 Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you. Went to somebody. Okay, folks. Let's get ready to get back to the hearing, folks. Okay.
 Five-minute breaks are very dangerous here because they tend to become longer than five minutes. We'll reconvene in about 30 seconds here. This must be fun tonight. Going to the Caldera fundraiser. Good. That will be fun. Yeah. I really believe in that program. Okay. We'll take up where we left off and call the next three people, please.
 And the next three are Kate Washington, Indrani Boyle, Christine Sorrels. They'll be followed by John Spencer, Daniel Kaven, and David Gold. Come on up. Welcome. Go ahead.
 Good afternoon. My name is Indrani Boyle. I'm an associate campus planner at Portland State University, and I'm here on behalf of our director of campus planning, Jason Franklin, who served on the stakeholder advisory committee but couldn't be here this afternoon. I'm here to express support for the recommended draft West Quadrant plan. The plan emphasizes the continued success of downtown Portland and also improves key areas. The success of PSU is undeniably linked to the success of downtown Portland. I don't think we can pretend otherwise.
 PSU is a major landholder and employer in the central city, and we believe that this plan supports PSU's mission and future growth. Like much of the central city, PSU's growth is becoming more dense and mixed-use. Any new buildings are likely to have a partnership component with either another institution, a nonprofit, a government agency, or part of the private sector.
 And in order to enhance that kind of development, we need the appropriate land use entitlements and infrastructure development. We believe this plan makes that possible. We welcome the levels of density recommended in the plan, which will increase the vibrancy of the university district, may create new opportunities, and also increase private housing development, which serves PSU students. We want to recognize the hard work of staff and the advisory committee,
 And again, we encourage you to adopt the plan. Thanks for your time. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Christine Sorrels. I am a 25-year resident of downtown Portland. I've lived by Portland State, where I attended and where I graduated from. I lived in Imperial Arms in Goose Hollow. I've also lived in Northwest near the Fred Meyer, near Civic Stadium. And I'm currently, as of the last 13 years, living in the Pearl District in
 in Irving Street Lofts, which is part of the Preserve the Pearl area. I'm here on my own behalf, however. So I do support, actually, what he was talking about, however, in terms of the historic part of the Pearl District, which is slowly disappearing, actually more like rapidly disappearing. And it's interesting you're here from Portland. You're representing Portland State. Well, Portland State actually has been known for its urban planning.
 And it's urban planning in terms of how we are, how Portland is right now in terms of its footprint and walkability, livability, and building height restrictions. And on that, when I graduated from Portland State, I had very specific career goals in mind. And I made a conscientious choice to pick a career that I, of course, would enjoy but would give me the greatest chance of being able to remain in Portland.
 I did so because I appreciate the lifestyle and quality of life that this city affords me. A large part of my lifestyle and hence quality of life has much to do with the urban design of the city. Portland State had that influence. I truly enjoy walking around Portland and living here. Key to this sound design is a restriction on building heights.
 In any case, many of us here today are distressed, not about development. In fact, development can have a very positive impact on communities. No, we are distressed over the fact that the West Quadrant Plan, in its current iteration, seeks to eviscerate the identity of Portland. Thank you.
 a city that for the most part currently affords many of us a higher standard of living than we would find in other cities. And this has such a great deal to do with building heights. Thank you again. Thank you. Thanks very much. Can you just tell me how many stories is Irving Street lot? It is 75 feet high. It is seven stories. Thank you. You're welcome. Next, please. John Spencer, Daniel Kaven, David Gold. They'll be followed by Bill Riley, Ted Gilbert, Harvey Black.
 Good evening. You're on first, Mr. Spencer. Good afternoon, Commissioners, and thank you for hosting this event. I'm here representing the Urban Design Panel, which is made up, and the Executive Committee of that panel, which is made up of members from the American Institute of Architects, the American Planning Association,
 and the American Society of Landscape Architects. So it's a multidisciplinary group that gets together a couple times a month and deals with urban design issues in the central city and other parts of Portland and other parts of the region.
 We've been a participant in the planning process through some charrettes that our members have attended. We've hosted some workshops with staff, so we've been involved in the process. And we support the West Quadrant plan, as it's presented to you here, and we support the maximum height limits that are incorporated as part of the plan. I think our group feels that...
 It's important, and there's a whole history of planning in Portland where it's well regulated, but there are allowances for a whole lot of variety of building types and building forms and building shapes and building sizes on our small blocks, including some tall buildings. And we really don't see the recommendations, basically refinements, I believe, of the current height limits as being –
 as being big issues or a threat to the scale and diversity and the livability that a lot of people have been talking about. Excuse me, sir. Could we start the clock on this? Oh, that's all right. Keep going. I'm finished. Since you have two minutes and you represent a lot of people here, what do you say to –
 is at risk with this height. And they've talked about a range of things from demolitions to inequality to vertical sprawl and other things. And you obviously have a very strong view to the contrary. But very briefly, could you comment on that? I think all you have to do is look at the area between the Wells Fargo Bank and the U.S. Bank Tower.
 the height limit the height standards of like 400 and some odd feet between those two buildings have been in place since 1972 and you can pretty much count the number of towers that are even close to the maximum height on on two hands so i think that the scale of development and the scale of growth that's being talked about for this this area um in my mind doesn't conjure up
 the sort of row after row after row of towers that people seem to be implying that this plan would allow. Right. That spine along the transit mall has been pretty much unchanged for 30 years. Right. We've got some written testimony, and we've actually addressed some of the points that have been brought up, so I won't go into that, but you should have a copy of that. Okay. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Evening, I guess. My name is Daniel Kaven, and I am the managing director of William Kaven Architecture and the founder of Kaven & Company, a development company. I speak to you today from the world of architectural optimist and number-crunching hopeful. Specifically, I would like to further elaborate on the height in Old Town Chinatown as I am currently developing a catalytic project in the neighborhood. Thank you.
 i strongly encourage you to raise the height in chinatown proper to 150 feet unencumbered by historic resource transfers 150 feet is the minimum height limit to build a structure that will be enjoyed for generations to come and pencil out in today's economy the current limit of 100 feet simply does not allow for the economy of scale to utilize generational building systems we are in danger portland
 in becoming a city of five over one wood buildings which top out at about 65 feet do not weather well and do not perform as well in an earthquake an international jury assembled this year for the aia portland architecture awards publicly chided the local design community here for the uninspired and homogenized 5 over 1 wood apartment buildings lastly
 i encourage you to seek counsel in discussing the west quadrant plan with teens and 20-somethings speak to those that are going to live with the decisions we make today they are not well represented in this process thank you for your time and consideration thank you
 Hey, our commissioners. My name is David Gold, and I am one of the owners of the Block 33 that's been discussed so much today, commonly known as Jack's Old Town parking lot. I also own part of the ownership teams of the buildings across the street known as Goldsmith Blocks and also the Technology and Arts Block.
 Let me preface my remarks, though, by saying that on a recent trip to Dallas, unfortunately one of the high points of my trip was to see the deck, which is the cover of three blocks of freeway, and it was fabulous. It's been there. Unfortunately, the football game was not the high point. But truly, if you haven't seen it, even Google Map It, it's worth taking the two seconds to look at. I can top that. I got to hear Lyle Lovett sing on that deck. Yeah.
 Okay. So I'm here, I guess, to mainly discuss the height issue. And I think Daniel covered some of my testimony. I want to emphasize that the 100-foot limit is truly a unique mark because it is that in-between. And it dictates the style and the type of construction that you will eventually see or development. Okay.
 I find myself in an interesting situation. I'm not a big fan of surface parking lots, but yet I own a full block. But I also want to do a legacy quality project there. And I think that the 100-foot limit, and I think I've persuaded many of the people in the neighborhood, stakeholders in the neighborhood, that the 150 feet will at least allow the possibility of a truly true quality project.
 I'm not interested in a 5 over 1 project on that block. It may happen, but it wouldn't be me. I wouldn't develop it. Real quickly, I would say that the Uwajimaya, I'm not going to
 say, make a statement that it would have gotten built if there had been 150 feet. There was a lot of other considerations, but it's a good possibility. It was something that we tried to include, but we thought that we couldn't spot zone. We went through it with another developer for office, for housing, could not make anything pencil at the 100-foot limit. The last thing, I'm not sure what the status of the parking lot tax is, but I want to make it clear we were at about a $14 million gap.
 And I don't care how much the tax was on the surface parking, it wouldn't have made any difference. And as the landlord for small retailers, small businesses, I'm talking really small businesses, and small creative office spaces, the first thing those folks ask me is where do I park? And increasing the cost of parking to those folks and their customers is –
 It's just another nail in the coffin down there. So I think we need to keep that parking available, especially as we build new projects and don't require parking for those projects. David, you mentioned that there was a delta of like $14, $15, $16 million, whatever, on the YMI deal. If we went to 150 feet at Block 33, do you have visions for that development that pencil out without public subsidy? Can I go back to Daniel? No. No.
 No, I think that the greatest challenge there is going to be the parking. I mean, I think that there's – we've been talking about which urban renewal area we're going to be in, and that's fine. There's, I think, 6 million in downtown Waterfront. There's more in the River District. But really, the parking is going to be the big hurdle because I'm insistent that the demands of the new building be met –
 Plus the 175 spaces that are currently existing be replaced. So...
 Because I own over 110,000 square feet of office and retail across the street, there's got to be parking for those folks. And, for example, the New Grove Hotel, they're proposing a nine-story building with, I think, 110 units total. No parking. So parking is going to be scarce. And underground parking is unbelievably expensive and does not make very much money. I mean, that's the big problem, particularly being in a location that's near the river.
 Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Next three are Bill Riley, Ted Gilbert, and Harvey Black, and they'll be followed by Gary Kruger, Jim Kilpatrick, and Jamie Anderson. Are those folks still here? Bill Riley, Ted Gilbert. Let's go with Gary Kruger or Jim Kilpatrick. Jamie Anderson, Judy Bell. Okay. Come on up. And why don't you go ahead and start, Mr. Black. Okay.
 All right. I'm Harvey Black, chair of Friends of Goose Hollow LLC. I will not repeat the testimony that was sent to all of you about 10 days, two weeks ago. As others have pointed out, the voice of the individual citizen was not allowed to be heard in the stakeholders committee. My comments will be on how to achieve increased population density while preserving livability.
 We have been successfully living with the urban growth boundary for many years. Its effects have been beneficial in curbing urban sprawl. However, the concept presumes a rising population density within the boundary.
 The U.S. Census of 2010 shows that the Goose Hollow and the Northwest District taken together have the fourth highest population density in Oregon. The rank would have been higher, probably two or three, if the PSU students hadn't been considered as residents for the population. When one travels through Goose Hollow and Northwest Districts, one finds that the majority of the existing buildings are less than 75 feet.
 We advocate limiting height for new construction in these districts to 100 feet, and this will allow a substantial increase in density while maintaining the livability of the area. And then I might note that in the presentation of the West Quadrant Plan, which started this meeting, there was no rationale nor justification for the rising of heights. It was unconstitutional.
 There's no reason. Now, there may be good reasons, which I am not aware of, but we didn't hear any. And I thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks. Good evening. Good afternoon. Good evening. My name is Jamie Anderson, and I've been a resident of the West End for almost eight years, and everybody else has spoken much more eloquently than I am able to, but I
 I wanted to speak my support of lowering the maximum building heights in the West End to 100 feet. Portland has a real history of being progressive and forward-thinking. We've benefited from the foresight and careful planning of previous generations, from the park blocks developed in the 1880s to the esplanades on the Willamette River in the 1990s,
 to public sculpture gardens, to the streetcar, to bicycle lanes. Every effort has been made to enhance the livability of this city. And I am hoping that that same thoughtful planning will continue to the west end. It's a quality of life that is offered by that human-scaled environment.
 and it provides all the neighborhood necessities for area residents and buildings that don't dwarf the older buildings. And that's part of what would continue to make Portland one of the most attractive and livable cities on the West Coast. You are at a point where you will decide the trajectory of our neighborhood's growth. I hope you will look forward and...
 plan appropriate densities and still refer to Portland's past. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Jim Kilpatrick. I am a business owner and a property owner at 17th and Taylor, which is in the Goose Hollow neighborhood. My company has brought people and vitality to a building that had been vacant for many years there.
 In 2005, we moved in with 20 employees. Today, we have 140. My partners and I have invested a great deal of capital into our building in the neighborhood to accommodate that growth. We moved into a drab stucco building with little punched windows. Today, it's a creative open office space with floor-to-ceiling window wall. It's LEED certified, and we've achieved City of Portland sustainability at gold designation. It's a bustling, cool place to work.
 All that's to say that I'm invested and deeply care about the future and character of the Goose Hollow neighborhood. My business partner, Greg Wimmer, served on the neighborhood board for many years to represent our interest in establishing a direction that supported job growth and redevelopment. In that regard, I've studied the West End plan, particularly as it relates to the Goose Hollow neighborhood, and I support it as written.
 The neighborhood process we participated in over the last five years was transparent and did include a diverse representation of the property owners in that area. The new neighborhood board, which advocates for height reduction, does not represent us. The board elections were swept by the residents of a single building and don't speak for most of the business and property owners in the neighborhood. Thank you.
 I urge you to honor the work that the well-intentioned Portlanders on SAC and VRC has done and move forward maintaining the current height limitations that are currently reflected in the West Quadrant Plan. Thank you. Thank you. I would urge the council to carefully consider Michael Mahaffey's documentary submission in this matter. Thank you very much. We will. Thank you all. Okay. Sorry. The next three are Judy Bell,
 Jill Long and Deanna Mullen-Crispin. Looks like you got all three. And then we'll have Debbie Kitchen, Mark Belke, and Mary Veal-Hall, I believe it is. The large. Hi. Is that okay? Yes, go ahead. My name is Judy Bell, and I'm a resident of the West End, and will read a statement by a fellow resident who was unable to attend today. Okay.
 My name is Christine Nielsen. I'm a resident of the West End and past chair of the Elliott Tower Condominium Owners Association. I chose purposely to live in the West End, an area of mixed-use structures evocative of the time when Portland's distinctive neighborhoods were developing around streetcar lines. I value that this is not the glamorous Pearl District or the futuristic South Waterfront. This is a neighborhood in an old-fashioned sense.
 I ask you to consider the treasured history of turn-of-the-century Portland in the West End's existing buildings.
 Should the allowable heights specified in the draft West Quadrant Plan be adopted, the buildings that not only give the neighborhood character, but offer affordable housing to a large number of elderly on fixed incomes, Portland State students, and those of moderate means who work downtown, would over time give way to more costly housing and lead to gentrification. This is a neighborhood that should continue to develop
 to support a balanced mixture of populations across the economic spectrum. What we call the middle class is the least represented in the West End. In order to add new residents that will bring additional vitality to our neighborhood and at the same time protect the character of the neighborhood and continued affordability across the spectrum of incomes, building height must not exceed 80 to 100 feet.
 For those locations in the West End where buildings in excess of 8 to 10 stories might make sense, developers should be required to seek and win a variance, making the case for how the added height will strengthen the area, not degrade it. Ideally, new buildings of 5 to 8 stories should be encouraged. In that way, new development will enhance the fabric of the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 thank you my name is jill long and i'm an attorney with lane powell i'm here today on behalf of our client the multnomah athletic club as a proud member of the goose hollow community for almost 125 years the mac is excited to be here today to testify in support of the west quadrant plan we would like to thank the city the stakeholder advisory committee and the planning and sustainability commission for its diligent and hard work in creating this plan
 Over an 18-month period through multiple public work sessions, public hearings, the MAC has seen the city take a thoughtful and balanced approach to protecting Goose Hollow and promoting reasonable growth in Goose Hollow. In particular, the MAC appreciates the plan's efforts to support the many different components that make up the vibrant Goose Hollow neighborhood. Goose Hollow is a unique urban neighborhood with transit-rich amenities and a true mixed-use character.
 It's made up of a wide variety of uses from business to retail to residential and, of course, to regional destinations, such as Providence Park and the Multnomah Athletic Club. It's a challenge to honor each of those types of uses while still protecting the character of Goose Hollow, but we believe that the proposed West Quadrant Plan does that very successfully. Goose Hollow is a critical component to a healthy central city, and the West Quadrant Plan ensures that it will remain a successful neighborhood for decades to come.
 And the MAC looks forward to being a proud member of Goose Hollow for another 125 years at least. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hello. I'm Deanna Crispin, Mueller Crispin, and I live in the West End. I have four points to make. First, keep Portland Portland. You've heard that quite a bit today. Second, it is a false notion that housing density can only be achieved by high-rises.
 That's just not true. We'll talk about it more. Third, affordable housing is not being addressed in the proposed plan. We've heard about that a lot too. And fourth, citizens and experts were not listened to in this planning process. Keeping Portland Portland. The design principle to shape the skyline
 seems to apply to a person driving a car across the Willamette River, maybe in looking over at the city, but it really has no meaning for someone who's trying to live and work in the city.
 And I might mention that nearly 80% of the West End where I live is zoned for between 250 and not 350, but 460 square feet, which totally contradicts livability goals. Unique neighborhoods are Portland's trump card, and our historic buildings are an essential part of the ambiance that we love. But...
 Although there's a place for tall buildings in Portland, they need to be located strategically, not allowed, willy-nilly everywhere. Second, density. As a teenager, I visited the Cumberland Apartments on the Block, a wonderful four-story building built in 1910.
 and I immediately wanted to live there. The zoning is 50 feet tall. Zoning permits 250. It provides 32 housing units on 0.1 acre. Is this dense housing? I think so. Third point, affordable housing is not being created or preserved in Portland. You've heard that a lot. The plan
 The plan's housing goal is to preserve existing supply and continue to support development of existing housing, but there is nothing in the plan addressing preserving affordable housing and little substance to implement the goal other than developing tools to partner with the private development community. Timeline 2016 to 2021. I just wanted to say one thing about...
 Experts not being listened to, I was particularly disappointed that many well-considered comments by the AIA's Portland Historic Landmark Commission, dated 9-3-14, recommending revisions to the plan were disregarded. Those comments would have reinforced both Green City goals and reuse of existing resources. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Next three are Debbie Kitchen, Mark Velke, and Mary Valera, I believe may be the last name, on Southwest Market. Go ahead, Debbie. Okay. Well, thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for the opportunity to comment today on the West Quadrant Plan. I'm Debbie Kitchen, and I'm testifying on behalf of the Central East Side Industrial Council. Our boards and members are very concerned about some of the language in the West Quadrant Plan that addresses issues
 room possible removal of the or reconfiguration of the west side ramps on the morrison bridge we feel this would be a critical issue for us we have fought very hard to preserve freight movement in and out of our district and we need the west side ramps not only to get access to i-5 but we need it to get access to north 30 or north to highway 30 and points west
 Right now, the Hawthorne Bridge is extremely, not the Hawthorne Bridge, but the Ross Island Bridge is extremely congested. If traffic had to move there or all the traffic had to move up to Broadway Bridge, that would have impacts on a lot of other neighborhood business districts as well, not just the Central East Side. So we're very concerned about those issues.
 The Central Eastside is home to over 17,000 jobs. During the recession, our district was one of the most successful in terms of still growing jobs. We have a number of businesses and products that are made there, including building materials, food products, furniture, coffee, beer, bicycles, machinery, athletic equipment. There's just, you could go on and on.
 Many of these businesses are traded sectors, so they contribute to the economic health of the region, and we need to be able to access our transit system and transportation system in order to get our goods to market. The industrial composition of the district also enhances the opportunity for blue-collar and family wage jobs that contribute to the city's goals for equity.
 So, in short, we went to preserve the ramps on the Morrison Bridge, the west side ramps, in order to ensure that we have efficient freight movement. This is really critical for our district and so that's what I'm here today to talk about.
 Okay, thank you. Did you also, thank you for your testimony, for hanging in there. I know everybody's been very patient taking your turn. There's an item that says explore opportunities to mitigate noise and visual impacts of the Eastside Freeway on Waterfront Park.
 which I would assume might mean some kind of noise barrier on your side of the river? Did you have any conversation about that? I'm not sure. We weren't sure what that means and we didn't feel that that was as important an issue. If it's set up so that there are ways you can do it by resurfacing the bridge.
 that you can have noise reduction. There's ways you can put a little bit higher walls around the lanes that would help with noise mitigation. We don't feel, as long as they didn't decrease the size of the bridge in terms of number of lanes and ability to move, that that was a concern. I'm not sure what...
 measures there might be. So it could be that if we saw more detailed plans that had something to do that impacted the portal capacity for the freeways, then we might have a concern. But some of the measures that people have talked about didn't seem to be a concern for our access of freight and freight movement. Well, that's something that I'll have more information from staff. But I really appreciate you bringing the perspective that what happens in the West
 doesn't stay in the West Quadrant. It doesn't only affect folks in the West Quadrant, right? It affects the whole city, and so you bring an important perspective. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Mary Valente. I'm a resident of the Goose Hollow neighborhood, an architect, and the mother of two young children. And after sitting here today, I might want to add that they will be graduating college, looking for a job, and looking for a home at that time when this plan comes due. So this is very relevant to my family and people of my age group.
 I was a Goose Hollow Foothills League board member from 2009 to 2013, chair of its visioning committee from 2011 to 2013, and was the neighborhood's representative on the West Quadrant Stakeholders Advisory Committee. I am here today to encourage council to approve the recommended draft. Goose Hollow has been working on this draft for more than four years now. The Goose Hollow Vision Realization Committee, established in 2011, sought to bring together a diverse representation of neighborhood stakeholders to craft its vision prior to the Central City 2035 process.
 The work of that committee culminated in a list of neighborhood principals that were incorporated into the draft before you. I'd like to thank the many residents, Goose Hollow board members, neighborhood businesses and representatives from Lincoln High School, the MAC, Hotel Deluxe, the Oregonian and Artist Repertory Theater who served on this committee during that time the principals were drafted.
 In addition, I would like to thank the staff at BPS for their time and attention to the neighborhood. They spent countless hours attending neighborhood meetings, organizing and conducting a neighborhood charrette, open house, and drafting and redrafting district goals and policies to align with the neighborhood vision. The document before you successfully incorporates the aspirations of the Goose Hollow neighborhood and provides for improved livability for its current and future residents.
 The plan envisions a neighborhood main street on Jefferson with a restored Vista Bridge at its terminus, a redeveloped Lincoln High School site with a public green space and community center, a safe and improved Burnside, a vibrant mixed-use center around Providence Park, affordable family and workforce housing, and a cap over 405.
 as a neighborhood we are rightfully excited at the prospects and are ready to start implementing the plan to do so this council can help i would recommend in addition to adoption of this document council considers acting on the following four issues critical to goose hollow and the city at large in the near future first of all lincoln high school the portland public school board has approved a new lincoln to be included on the 2016 bond master planning of the site will begin soon this is a critical piece of property in the goose hollow and the central city at large
 City collaboration with PPS, the neighborhood, and the Lincoln community in the coming months is essential to maximize its potential. And on Burnside, this is the only street in the West Quadrant termed a high crash corridor. The draft is little to improve it, instead referring to adopted council policy favoring a couplet. There was talk about a fallback plan, but nothing has been done. This street is too important to let languish, and council should take action as soon as possible.
 As far as the I-405 cap, yes, this is a big project, but every neighborhood that touches 405 recognized it as a barrier and a source of noise and pollution that detracts from the livability of the city. As the city grows, area over 405 will continue to gain in value. It cannot just continue to be a line item in a long-range plan. And finally, the historic inventory.
 This is very important to Goose Hollow and many other parts of the city. With population growth making our historic structures more vulnerable, this inventory and the methods we use to protect them needs to be revisited and updated as soon as possible. Thank you very much. I appreciate the opportunity. Thank you. Good points. Thank you. Welcome. Good evening, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Mark Velke. I'm a retired Navy veteran of 25 years and a Goose Hollow resident.
 Three months ago, seven new GHFO board members who were endorsed by Friends of Goose Hollow overthrew the old Goose Hollow Foothills League board after they refused to listen to residents' concerns and abandoned their obligation to the neighborhood. For a decade, the Goose Hollow Foothills League board has been dominated by developers and business interests who often held over 50% of board positions, even though they make up only 10% of the membership.
 Developers and business members friendly to developer positions were the dominant voices. They stacked committees and the board with their allies, making it difficult for most residents to be heard. For example, as the minutes show, the Vision Realization Committee was designed by these folks to get around the GHFL Planning Committee. Yet, West Quadrant staff relied heavily on this committee to make decisions for what Goose Hollow wants.
 Residents who disagreed with business members about planning and development were discredited, defamed, shouted down, forced off the board, and have their livelihoods threatened. The residents' removal of developer and business control over Goose Hollow must be addressed since this changes what Goose Hollow wants for the West Quadrant plan. I'm also worried about who the Planning Bureau chose for its Stakeholders Committee.
 You know the Office of Neighborhood Involvement requires neighborhood association board members avoid conflicts of interest. They must disclose any interest they have in a transaction or board decision that may result in a financial gain to them, their businesses, family members, or employers. And they can't be present for or participate in board discussions or votes on decisions that they will gain financially from.
 If the Planning Bureau stuck to the same code of ethics for the so-called stakeholders of the West Quadrant, then a large portion of the committee couldn't have participated. Many of the stakeholders will profit financially if the West Quadrant plan goes their way. The Melbourne Mark Development Company even had two representatives on the Stakeholders Committee. No wonder they voted for unlimited height limits. Meanwhile, not a single resident of the West End was on the Stakeholders Committee.
 Commissioners, I want you to understand that the opinions heard from West Quadrant stakeholders were slandered in favor of developers who stand to gain millions of dollars by steering height limits, FAR bonuses, and zone changes in their favor. I would like you to hold the West Quadrant stakeholders to the same ethical standards that neighborhood board members have. Please give time for the Goose Hollow residents to be heard. We are asking that you delay your vote until Goose Hollow holds its membership vote on height limits February 11th.
 Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Farrell, can I ask a question about this Goose Hollow Foothills League board election? I'm just curious, how many people voted in that election, and how does that compare to the total population of Goose Hollow? If I remember right, there were, I think, around 80 people at the meeting. And if I remember from reading the census, which was several years ago, I think there was around –
 Five to 6,000 people in Goose Hollow. But 80 members at an election, that's huge. I can't even remember the last time, you know, maybe somebody who's been to a few more than me, but that's a huge turnout to get 80 members to show up at a meeting. Typically we get about, you know, 10 or 12, 15, something like that.
 Thank you. Thank you. Can I add one thing with that? Just is that any resident has a vote if they join. So there are obviously other interests besides residents in the neighborhood, too. And so, for example, a theater or somebody else only has one vote, whereas a condominium building or something would have obviously hundreds of votes. Got it. Thank you all. Thanks very much.
 Next three are Wilfred Mueller Crispin, Ken Puckett, and Steve Pinger. What about Terry Chung? Jerry Powell? Oh, well, Terry's here. Sorry. Oops. Okay.
 Terry, sorry. Terry, shall we? That's not you. Okay. Why don't you go ahead and start. Good evening. My name is Wilfred Miller-Crispin. I would like to give testimony in favor of height restrictions to a maximum of 100 feet in the west end. I do live downtown Portland on 10th and Jefferson. We need to revitalize already existing buildings and have further studies before planned adoptions.
 I call it livability for the many rather than the enrichment and ego-building to the few.
 I was born in Germany, just as a background. I grew up in a smallish town near Frankfurt, Germany. My sister used to work there for 45 years, one of the main business streets that Frankfurt has. She used to be very comfortable in that city. Many high-rises went up in between, and she, today, wouldn't set foot there.
 after sundown into Frankfurt because of the increased crime and the discomfort that you get with a city with a lot of high-rises and not much more. So just as a reference, my wife and I moved to downtown Portland.
 in 2008 from an unincorporated Washington County, had half an acre. What attracted us was the openness and variety of the architectural building styles, many of them of historical value, giving the city warmth and character and livability of the downtown area. The city that is walkable, vibrant, and full of life.
 as promoted by Travel Portland. Many of you have noticed how many groups come to Portland, visitors, guests who want to visit Portland as it is today. An increase I noticed over the last 10 years very easily. They're coming here because of what Portland is, not what it might be. I've visited
 Over 65 countries, many cities with high rises, the ones I feel most comfortable in and safe are cities of human scale. For example, I'll take up a second, Dresden, clean slate after World War II, could have been rebuilt in any which way you think of. You go there, they're actually proud that they only have one high rise in a city.
 You go there, you go to St. Petersburg, anywhere in the world, Paris, you feel good because it has a human scale to it. Thank you. Thank you. Jerry, welcome. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, I'm Jerry Powell. I live at 1926 Southwest Madison Street, and you generally know me. I'm a retired planner, and I've been active in my neighborhood for 40 years, working.
 Daniel Burnham said, make no little plans. And in a funny way, this is a little plan. Not because it's small in scale, but because it's a bit timid. The downtown plan, I was actually a participant in the downtown plan in the early 70s, established a pattern for the central city that talked about its scale,
 And I talked about it in a way that attempted to draw people, attract people to it rather than send them away from it. In terms of the visual environment of this place, and this is the capital word or capital P place, very, very important. Anyway, the...
 envelope of downtown was to scale down to the river so that it didn't eclipse the river. It was to scale down to the historic districts so it didn't eclipse them. It was to provide...
 Vision and views and vistas, not only of the town, but from the town. Not just a single pathway from the Rose Garden to Mount Hood, but a view that encompassed the place. The place comes up repeatedly, repeatedly, repeatedly. It is what we are about. If we didn't have the green fringe around downtown, we wouldn't be us. We can't lose that.
 When a building penetrates the skyline, the skyline becomes about that building, not about the place. The Goose Hollow neighborhood is historic. Basically, it's a historic suburb, and it's become an urban place. The scale of that place was clearly the dominant concern when we did a neighborhood plan 20 years ago.
 Stadium station plan is what it's called in the official annals, but it's really the Goose Hollow neighborhood plan. When we did that plan, we very, very consciously planned a certain scale of that place. It wasn't tiny by any means, but it did make certain assumptions about the carrying capacity of the place, how you got into it, how you got out of it. It made some assumptions about what people needed,
 One of the primary principles in that plan, which applies really as well, I think, to what I'm hearing people say about the West End, is that it should be a people place. It should be a place that has housing for families. It should be a place that has housing for all the folks that are in between those two polar opposites that you've heard about being attracted to high-density and high-rise-dominated places.
 So how do you get there? Well, one of the things that you really do have to think about and that I find missing in the plan is an attention to scale elements. What do you do for active recreation, for instance, in the West End or in Goose Hollow? So, John, let me just stop you because I need some clarification. In Goose Hollow, are the heights proposed to be increased? That's a very interesting question because the graphic that exists in the West End,
 Western Quadrant document that you have uses, for instance, 175-foot height for a large part of Goose Hollow. The height limit that's in Title 33, in 33-820, that's wrong, 520, is 100 feet. Where do you get the extra height? It's the boneness limit.
 But this goes back to Tracy's point about have the actual height, not the height with the bonus. Exactly. So are they actually proposing changing the base height or not?
 I don't think you can tell that from the text or from the graphics in the quadrant plan. I'm very relieved to hear you say that because I've been studying it and I couldn't figure it out. Trying to figure out the same thing? Yeah. Okay. That's something that will get clarification. A little piece of history that might help. And I don't think actually there are too many people that knew that the –
 The bonus height that goes through downtown Portland and applies in the vicinity radius of every light rail station was put in place as a citywide effort to encourage development around light rail stations in East County.
 It was totally inapplicable and maybe even counterproductive in the downtown area. What you would like to see is to keep the heights in Goose Hollow the way they are currently in the zoning code? I would like to see the bonus heights removed from the central city plan area, frankly. But as far as the base zone heights? The base zone, I don't have a quarrel with that. Thank you. Two more points. One is there was a question with respect to Jefferson.
 Jefferson is becoming the kind of Main Street that it once aspired to be. We've sort of shook off the problem of having been a federal aid secondary highway and have become again a Main Street. Don't interfere with that. Let the commercial storefront character go.
 go all the way from, well, should I say the museum or the park blocks to the reservoirs. That's really a critical part. The other thing is Burnside. There's an ad hoc group that has been meeting with respect to Burnside. You're all well aware that there is a plan on the city's books still for a couplet on Burnside.
 Goose Hollow has never really wavered from its support for that couplet, and we fear that probably the city has. There have been alternatives offered that never quite passed muster. We can't let Burnside languish as a sort of failed area simply because there's never been any directed action on it. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you for your work. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening. I'm Steve Pinger.
 and i reside at 2669 northwest savior street and believe it or not i was actually in this very room 43 odd years ago for the when the downtown plan was adopted by council a different council it appears to me but different room too turn it around exactly exactly more recently however i
 was a member of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee for the West Quadrant Plan, and I wrote the Minority Report on Building Height Policy. I hope that you've had the opportunity to read through the Minority Report because I feel that in four fairly undense pages, it raises a handful of important questions about current and proposed building height policy. But at heart, the Minority Report is not really about building heights.
 but about what kind of city do we want Portland to become over the next generation. How we manage how tall buildings can be and where they could be built is fundamental to this question and no other factor has the ability to influence the livability of the central city as much as this does. And Portland's livability is truly its greatest asset. Everybody wants to come to live and work in Portland.
 and not because of its exciting skyline, but because of its comfortable scale, the character of its streets and neighborhoods, and its unpretentious buildings and way of life. These qualities are the soul of Portland that I believe we need to be careful to conserve, and that I fear the building height concept of the West Quadrant plan as currently written puts in jeopardy.
 And so my request is that the Council consider adopting the four specific recommendations of the Minority Report along with the West Quadrant Plan. The recommendations do not suggest lowering building heights or any changes in current policy. They are intended to be uncontroversial.
 and simply to establish the framework for a more comprehensive review of this critical area of public policy as the West Quadrant Plan goes forward. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Steve. We appreciate it. Okay. Thank you all. Next three are Ron Paul, Stefan Lewis, and John Czarnecki. Good evening. How about Dwayne Bass? Ron, go ahead while John's getting settled there. Okay.
 Good evening. Ron Paul, director of the James Beard Market. Had I known that we were going this late, I should have brought treats. Yeah, where's the food? Come on now. Smoked salmon. Right. The area of the plan that I want to address is the Morrison Bridgehead, which is the proposed site for the James Beard Market.
 The site is at an urban crossroads, not at an urban cul-de-sac, and it really deserves the kind of flexibility that the plan allows. The purpose of the market is really to enhance the viability of local foods
 for the entire city and create a pipeline for 60 to 70 independent, locally owned, non-franchise food merchants to be able to showcase the bounty that really is growing right outside the urban growth boundary. In the 70s, we created the UGB and we allowed family farms to survive. And survive they did, but often just barely.
 With the development of the market, we have a chance for them to thrive. And that is really the purpose of the integration and the actualization of the rhetoric that we've had in bridging the urban-rural divide. The flexibility that the plan allows really is a testament to the commitment to the rhetoric of the...
 just long-held rhetoric of connecting to the river. We haven't done it. Joe Zender laid out a vision in his presentation four-plus hours ago. Commissioner Fish immediately asked him, how are we going to actualize that?
 Well, let's take some concrete steps, like the market along the riverfront, to bring over a million people a year to the most neglected part of our city. We talk about historic preservation.
 Well, we're preserving three-plus acres of asphalt surface parking lot that have been around since the 50s as a staging area for the Morrison Bridge. We have an opportunity to be more than timid, as the plan has been alluded to. We can be bold, and the Morrison Bridgehead is one of those catalytic opportunities. Thank you. Thank you. Evening, John.
 good evening mayor and commissioners um i'm john czarnicki i'm an architect uh past chair of the portland historic landmarks commission and and also um a past architectural consultant to oregon housing and community services regarding affordable housing um i have a couple of this this testimony uh strongly supports the adoption of the plan
 with the following comments and conditions regarding specific aspects of livability as they apply to the West Quadrant neighborhoods. Mayor, in your State of the City address and in yesterday's OPB interview, you mentioned height, bulk, and setbacks as important qualities of that compatibility. Yes.
 Today, I'd like to address briefly the notion of compatibility and the provision of housing and supportive amenities for genuinely diverse neighborhoods.
 Excuse me. First of all, livability depends on making good neighborhoods. Neighborhoods require support services. Space has not been set aside for public amenities, particularly those for children. This includes parks, schools, and community centers. Reinserting specific language struck from number 17 on page 43 of chapter 4, housing in neighborhoods, would directly support the necessity of family amenities.
 I'm going to read this a little bit. It'll just take a sec here. Here we go.
 It's number 17, housing diversity. Create attractive, dense, high-quality, affordable housing throughout the central city that accommodates a broad range of needs, preferences, and financial capability in terms of different types, tenures, size, costs, and locations. That's great. Here's the sentence that was struck, which would actually greatly increase the impact of housing policy on the city, especially the West Quadrant.
 provide a more diverse stock of housing to support a diversifying central city population that includes housing compatible with the needs of families with children, people with special needs, students, seniors, and the central city workforce.
 I believe that this is important language simply because it deals with more than the simplicity, overly simple aspect of providing so many units of affordable housing. It deals with size. It deals with family type. Adoption of this language puts strength behind the adoption of public amenities that are essential for the making of a good neighborhood.
 The other really has to do with the issues of height and bulk that impact the entire neighborhood's entire quadrant. Policy that limits sprawl and encourages strategic and effective density can help maintain an increased livability. Considerable concerns regarding the ability of new tall buildings to meet complex requirements of the urban and global environment persist and grow. Land use policy that supports that policy
 certainly possible. We need not acquiesce to the allure and questionable value of new tall buildings. With that, I thank you for your stewardship and forward thinking on behalf of us all. Thanks. Thank you, John. Appreciate your comments as always. Thank you. Next three are Duane Betts, Dan Petruschitz, and Fred Leeson.
 We're asking a lot of Carla. What about Wendy? We asked her to introduce Dan Petrusich after John Czarnecki. You know, that's a mouthful. I think Rob Levski or something. What about Wendy Chung? No follow-up needed. And Mary Czarnecki? Go ahead, Dan. Okay. Thank you. I'm Dan Petrusich. I was a member of the West Quadrant Stakeholders Advisory Committee as the representative for the Portland Business Alliance.
 i support adoption of the west quadrant plan the plans the culmination of five years of work by city staff and was well vetted by many portly residents and business owners i'd like to talk about two aspects of the plan today flexible zoning and height limits
 Flexible zoning is not controversial and is a big part of the plan, but the city's learned from experience is that you get more and better development with flexible zoning compared to single-use zoning, i.e. just residential or just commercial. More and better development with a 10-minute neighborhood that you can walk, work, and play in. Pearl District is proof of how flexible zoning works very successfully. You get more of everything. Thank you.
 More residential than a residential-only zoning, more commercial and more retail services. There's been more residential in the last 10 years in the Pearl District than any RX zone. There's been more office built in the Pearl than in the downtown commercial zone. I'd also like to talk for a moment about building heights in the West Quadrant plant. With the urban growth boundary, it's been the policy for the last 40 years to grow up and not out
 Portland's by far the shortest city on the West Coast. Seattle's tallest building is 943 feet. San Francisco's is 850. Los Angeles, 1150. We have only two buildings that are over 500 feet. We have only four buildings, including those two, that are over 400 feet. So we're not a tall city at all by any means.
 The other thing I'd like to back up Ron Paul on is that the Morrison bridgehead, there's virtually no way to use the existing density that's there at the bridgehead without a height increase. It's just not possible. Building up and not out provides for better, slimmer buildings with more natural light and air for its neighbors.
 I support adoption of the plan as recommended by the vast majority of the stakeholders. The other thing I'd like to point out, I heard a lot about World Cities Club, and thanks to the Internet and the devices I carry, I was able to do a little research. We're in no danger of joining the World Cities Club. Let me explain. Our entire office market of 25 million or so square feet could fit –
 It would take seven World Trade Center buildings to fit our entire market into. So you kind of put it in perspective. We're a suburb compared to some of these world city that were mentioned earlier. You know, Singapore's, I checked, building height, 919 feet. Hong Kong, 1,588 feet. Vancouver, B.C., 659 square feet, not square feet. Dubai, 2,500 feet.
 New York one thousand one seven hundred seventy six we're just never gonna be a world cities club we're Portland so thank you so let me make sure I'm sharing your point about the bridge head that because of the limitations of the site there's floor area ratio there's just never gonna get used unless you have more height that's right okay thank you thank you good evening good evening mayor commissioners Carl I have my uh is there a PowerPoint there there is okay
 thank you i'm uh thank you for your service to the city and for letting me speak today i'm wendy chung and i live at 1729 northwest irving i'm not an architect i'm not a planner i don't even live in the west end but i'm testifying today because i work in the west end as a corporate lawyer i've worked in business for 20 years i have an mba so i'm not opposed to business
 I do, however, walk through the West End. I have two children, one who attends Lincoln High School in the West End and one who's in college at University of Oregon. And I'm testifying because I care deeply about historic preservation and I care also about economic vitality of the city in which we live. I'm also here to endorse the Minority Report and the Historic Landmarks Commission letter to the BPS recommending strategic reconsideration of building heights in the West Quadrant.
 So here's the height map for the West Quadrant. You've seen this. And you'll see the 460-foot heights that we've all been talking about throughout this meeting. Just by way of point of reference, the Galleria is 63 feet tall. The Central Library is 38 feet tall. The Crystal Ballroom is 50 feet tall. There are dozens of other significant low- to medium-rise buildings in the West End that are not protected under the code. Commissioner Fish asked for a list of GEMs.
 He doesn't need a list. There's a multi-property listing of historic properties within the downtown area that aren't historic landmarks that are on this chart that Joe Zender presented, but that are at risk because they could be demolished without a type 4 review. The other thing I'd point out is over 100 feet doesn't necessarily equate to 350 or 460 feet. In fact, this building right here, the Elliott, is 266 feet, just to give you a frame of reference.
 Mayor Hales identified three key priorities for Portland in his recent State of the City Address. Neighborhoods, economic opportunity, and public safety. Strategically managing building heights in the West End addresses the first two.
 The National Trust recently issued this report on how smaller buildings and older neighborhoods contribute to urban vitality, confirming that what Jay and Jacob said more than 50 years ago continues to bear out today. Interestingly, the previous testifier talked about San Francisco and Seattle. The three cities they evaluated were Washington, D.C., San Francisco, and Seattle. And they assessed them against 40 economic, social, cultural, and environmental performance metrics. This is what they found.
 First, among other things, that older districts provide affordable space for entrepreneurs of all backgrounds and that older, smaller buildings promote a strong local economy. There are nearly 40% more jobs per square foot and more than double the number of women and minority-owned businesses in older parts of Seattle than in the newer districts. Other studies reach similar conclusions. I grew up working in a family-owned immigrant business that would not have existed but for the availability of affordable commercial space.
 We see the blossoming local economy in the West End today with its many eclectic independent shops that draw visitors from near and far. But as Commissioner Fish talked about market forces, the excessive height headroom motivates large-scale development in this area that threatens to destroy the very thing that makes it so desirable. If we're not building point towers and the zoning is already at 460 feet, what's the harm in lowering them?
 The comp plan gives us a once-in-a-generation opportunity to preserve valuable historic resources and to promote continued economic growth in this special part of our city. Please, before you vote to adopt the West Quadrant Plan, consider strategic reconsideration of the height policy in the West End, as has been proposed elsewhere.
 I also want to add, if I may, just for a second, the one thing that others testified about were bonuses for height that would add or contribute to the community. One thing I would ask, and I raised this in meetings with BPS during the West Quadrant plan process, why not offer some sort of a bonus for cultural benefits?
 revitalization of Chinatown. There are no Chinese people in Chinatown. And I don't see, I understand about motivating affordable housing. I'm all for that. But can we not also inspire Ouija Maya or other Chinese or Japanese businesses to come back to Chinatown? Maybe through a bonus program? I'll just throw that out there. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. Thank you very much. Good evening, Mary. Thank you.
 Hello, Mayor and Commissioners. Mary Czarnecki, New Traditional Architecture. We practice preservation, architecture, and urbanism. We believe that they should be one entity. I'm really happy to see the city explore all these pieces together. The one example I would like to bring out is the city of Vancouver as a model. Okay.
 We had the opportunity to take students from Mexico up to Vancouver, and we saw the downtown as a place that is aging high-rises and brand-new high-rises. But in contrast to that, we were able to go outside of the downtown, new neighborhoods that the premier planner and urbanist Patrick Connan has taken neighborhoods.
 Their challenge was to double the density, and they did that with strategic planning. They did that with infill and other kinds of ways to add low-scale density and mid-rise density on the main streets. In addition, a half-mile new streetcar system that,
 would be less expensive than the subway system. So that that kind of approach to deal with the carbon issue and the flat city is really a great model for Portland to understand and to continue its heritage, appreciation, and great livable place that we are at Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Okay. Was there a Stefan Lewis? I don't know if I called his name or not.
 Thank you. Okay, the next three are Nolan Leinhart, Peggy Moretti, and Roger Leachman. Okay. And then the last three who signed up were Timothy Moore, Jim Winkler, and Simon Jaworski.
 at least a couple of them are here so nolan i think you're on next great good evening evening my name is nolan leinhardt and i live in the pearl district i walk to work in the west end where i'm director of planning and urban design at zgf architects i'm also currently serving as board president for 1000 friends of oregon but i speak tonight only for myself i'm here because i was fortunate to be a member of the west quadrant stakeholder advisory committee and i support the west quadrant plan recommendations
 This was my first time serving on a stakeholder committee with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I found it to be a robust conversation with a diverse range of stakeholders. In my work, I'm engaged with major district planning projects in Denver, San Francisco, and Vancouver, B.C., among other cities. Yesterday, my colleagues and I hosted a delegation from China, and Friday we are hosting plans from Tokyo. These cities seek planning expertise from Portland not because of the ambition of our plans, but because of the proven outcomes, a world-class, thriving, livable urban center.
 It is important to understand that this plan is not a major departure from the way that we have grown since the last central city plan, which laid the framework for the success that I've just described. The existing and proposed height limits in Portland's central city are modest compared with the height limits in most U.S. central cities.
 While it's possible to create density with the uniform application of six- to eight-story buildings, flexibility in height and density across a central city is critical to facilitate population growth in the places that provide access to high-capacity transit, public services, urban amenities, and the region's highest concentration of jobs.
 New limits on growth in the central city will have a dramatic impact on housing affordability throughout the city. Commissioner Fish mentioned the displacement that occurred as a result of the albina plan, and I would caution that this kind of displacement is not going to be stopped with new limitations on development. In fact, it will likely accelerate as it has in San Francisco, a city that is adding 30,000 to 40,000 new jobs a year, but fewer than 7,000 housing units a year. The result is that more central city workers have a long commute from the suburbs.
 Many of the people who have traditionally lived in the Central City and inner Northwest neighborhoods are young professionals, a group that is not well represented among those testifying this evening. I was lucky to live in Goose Hollow when I returned to Portland in 2006, but the cost of a walk-up one-bedroom unit at the edge of the Central City has doubled in the course of the last decade. So young professionals like my 24-year-old cousin get a few roommates and they pack into inner Northeast Portland homes that might otherwise be occupied by families.
 Please consider this demographic as well as future residents not yet here who may never be here if we begin a process of lowering expectations about concentrating growth in the central city. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Hello. Wow, marathon session. I'm Peggy Moretti. I'm Executive Director of Restore Oregon, and Restore Oregon is a nonprofit whose statewide mission is to save Oregon's historic places and promote livable communities.
 We did engage quite a bit in the West Quadrant planning process, particularly focusing on our historic districts. And we do appreciate the thoughtful process and contributions of time and talent through that whole thing. I'm going to just share some, I'm going to try not to repeat things that have been already shared many, many, many times here, but I think we have a, definitely can identify some themes, recurring themes from the testimony tonight. And we definitely share a number of those concerns.
 So I'm going to kind of zero in on a couple of things. First of all, Skidmore Old Town, we very much applaud and heartily support the retention of the 75-foot height limit on this National Landmark District and that the design guidelines appear to be poised for passage that have been long overdue or long put on a back burner.
 And I think now we need to, for that district, really adopt the right policies and incentives to stimulate infill development, the compatible infill development in the Skidmore District, which would certainly include shifting parking from surface lots into structured parking that will support both the historic buildings and that new infill development and help alleviate the need to dig underground parking, which jacks up costs. Okay.
 In Japantown, Chinatown, and we do have two separate historic districts there who have some differences, we actually have one of Oregon's most endangered places in Japantown, Chinatown. That's the Wong Laundry Building, and it is a representation, I think, of a number of properties that are going through demolition by neglect.
 And that district includes such a rich cultural history whose story is not being very well told right now. So as we look at how we kind of get from some of the aspirational, very generally stated goals of the plan, we're hoping we can get down to some specifics that will specifically incentivize the historic preservation and appropriate infill development.
 And we would love to see the city consider, as part of that effort to get into the more granular implementation, that we might want to consider an ordinance that would penalize demolition by neglect, because I do believe there are property owners who are using that strategy to get around demolition review and demolition denial. And, you know, as we potentially raise height limits there, that just creates an increased incentive to engage in demolition by neglect.
 So as we put pressures on the land value underneath the historic properties, we have to be, I think, putting in place counterbalancing incentives for the preservation of the historic properties, or you're going to create an untenable tension between those two things.
 And we would support the Japan Town Chinatown Neighborhood Association recommendations that challenge that idea of boosting the height limit there right along Burnside with the exception of Block 33 where that would seem to be perhaps an appropriate exception. So I just think in general as we look at the West End and all the testimony that has come in today, we have to acknowledge that every time we raise height,
 We are in some ways sealing the doom of historic properties unless there are counterbalancing incentives that will help create some financial weight on that side of the scale for rehabilitation. We appreciate that the city, in that regard, we appreciate the city's support of the Revitalized Main Street Act that Restore Oregon has. It's Senate Bill 565.
 that would create a historic rehabilitation fund, which provides a 25% rebate on the cost of rehabilitation of historic buildings. And we ask you to advocate strongly for it, because we're going to be in a tough fight for that. But interest is definitely mounting in Salem.
 And we would also really urge the city to get serious about incentives for seismic upgrades of our historic buildings. That is often 20 or 25 percent of the cost of rehabilitation, and it is often the stumbling block that is keeping people from moving forward with rehabilitation. And then I have one final personal comment.
 As we densify our city and we jam more and more people per square foot, I think we can definitely challenge assumptions that height does not always create livability. It isn't always the only way to create density.
 And where we do have to go tall, I think it's really time to raise the game, raise our game on design in this city. I don't know how quite we want to tackle that, but I think we need to set some better, higher standards for design that aren't just about doing something that's green and inoffensive.
 we can step it up here so that the new buildings that are going to go in, that are going to create this density, really do continue to tell the story of Portland, that when they live next to historic buildings, they enhance the story of that historic place, and, you know, that create that, you know, keeping Portland Portland, certainly there's a big role for design to play in that going forward. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Vivian.
 My name is Roger Leachman. I'm a resident of Goose Hollow. I live on Southwest Vista. I was just elected in November to the board of the Goose Hollow Foothills League directors. Feelings written, it is a trite but true observation that examples work more forcibly on the mind than precepts.
 and that certainly applies to the examples given by North American building, vis-a-vis, for instance, the precepts galumphing through the pages of the West Quadrants Plan Committee Prose. I was privileged and lucky to be an undergraduate in Philadelphia in the 60s, to see daily from my dorm room Louis Kahn's Medical Research Building, to spend halcyon days downtown where no building could be higher than William Penn's hat,
 on the top of that beautiful city hall. That changed in 1984. Philly sold its birthright for a mess of pottage. Let us not do likewise. From my living room window, I look at 735 St. Clair, 22 stories of architectural tedium, and the ugliest building bar none in Goose Hollow. Completely out of scale and out of character with everything around it. There's no getting rid of it.
 It's much, much easier to get rid of 1890s Victorian houses, of course, as not only Goose Hollow has experienced. My own unit is six stories. I know many of my neighbors, and we socialize and interact. I feel a part of my neighborhood in much the same way as when I was a homeowner in single-family neighborhoods in Virginia and Minnesota.
 Vertical sprawl creates towers of psychological and social isolation. You do not have to be a devotee of Professor Putnam of Harvard to understand that when the social fabric is abraded by isolation and detachment, a sense of community erodes or becomes virtually nonexistent. And exactly that happens in impersonal towers, which become like the infamous projects in Chicago regardless of the income group inhabiting them.
 A trailer park has more community and connectedness.
 When we at the neighborhood and city level, or at state and federal for that matter, we're in the social fabric, we do so at our peril. An irony of this very flawed West Quadrant process and draft is that it has created community among those of us who came together from our different neighborhoods and backgrounds because we care about our neighborhoods and our city, their present and their future. And I think we are not going to cease to struggle and to care.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. And I think we have a couple more still here. The last three who signed up were Timothy Moore, Jim Winkler, and Simon Jaworski. No one else? All right. You two gentlemen get the last word. And thank you for being willing to wait this long to have it. You're welcome. It's a long day. Go ahead. One more companion. Go ahead, please. All right. My name is Simon. And, you know...
 Portland had an original plan back in the turn of the last 20th century where people would work out in the rural areas and I'm sorry, let me say, people would live out in the rural areas and work downtown. I think we should keep that plan because that plan has always worked. It was environmentally sustainable and it was very successful.
 You know, I think people should – Beaverton Round, if you look at the MAX line, Beaverton Round, there's a beautiful condominium out there out in Beaverton. It's right on the MAX station. There's restaurants around it, and it's a direct line to downtown.
 Now, there's vacant land all around there, all around the Max Line. They could build all the 100-, 200-story condos out there. And we don't need any more of this density. We don't need any more housing, especially any more affluent people that are going to change the demographics. Yes?
 You know, they're not going to take transit like they're saying. The northwest neighborhood is a proof of that. Along that streetcar around the Hoyt area, Pearl District, that area is flooded with cars. We've got too much congestion, way too much overcrowding, and it's very bad for the air.
 I like what Commissioner Fish said, and we should preserve what we have downtown.
 The big building that's going up Nordstrom is completely ugly. We need to save the downtown area for business space. That is prime business space for people to go shopping. I love to go shopping downtown, but if you're going to build nothing but residential down, where are people going to shop? I live over on 12th and Clay and...
 The people in my building take a bus all the way to the Winco Shopping Center out in Beaverton because there's no cheap place to shop down other than Safeway. They're not all that cheap. All the rest of the stores like Zupan's, those are for more affluent people. They can't afford it where we have it.
 We don't need any more biking paths. As you can see, biking paths hardly ever get used. It's a big waste of money. I think, like the earlier plan, we need to use more mass transit, build up along the mass transit, build the condominiums and our residential areas like the Kenton neighborhoods and Hollywood districts where it's all residential. Okay, you have an urban both goes around.
 boundary plan. Don't make it in the business district. Make it in already residential districts like for example, the Canton neighborhoods. Build the condominiums out there. Connect them with light rail. Connect them with good bus service. That'll be fine. We can't transit I don't like what Brian says about increasing the campus you know
 the Oregon Health Sciences in Portland. You know, PCC is a good example of that. They took out a much-needed grocery store over in northeast Portland and built their campuses all over it, and there's no place for people to shop or buy groceries or anything and destroyed the neighborhood. Thank you very much. I want you to wrap up.
 Okay, I'm just saying that, you know, there's really no proof that this density really helps economic growth very much. The only thing that really seems to help the growth is mass transit because it helped build the store at downtown Macy's. And, you know, the only way to help mass transit is by increased service. All right, thank you so much. Thank you very much. Okay.
 Okay, sir. Good evening. Yes, good evening. My name is Timothy Moore, and I am a Goose Hollow resident, and I am also a homeowner, middle-income homeowner, and really happy to be part of the community. And I am an avid bicyclist and drive less than 1,000 miles a year because I live in a central Portland place where I have the benefit of being able to walk the things I really appreciate.
 And so I love it here. And I want to acknowledge just a couple things that have been said along the way and move on to some other points. I want to acknowledge the comments from a lot of people. I think that, you know, while...
 There's a lot of controversy around the whole question of building heights and things like that. I'm glad that people are raising the issues. I'm glad that they're speaking up about it. I particularly appreciate what was said by Steve Pinger and Michael Mahaffey from the Urban Land Institute, the evidence-based design approach. I think you guys really have your work cut out for you.
 A little bit more background on me. I was involved in the U.S. Green Building Council since its inception, since 2001, and was part of creating the LEED green building rating system. I have been involved with the neighborhood. I have been involved with the Vision and Realization Committee for three and a half years now, and
 I am currently on the Goose Hollow Foothills League board, although I don't pretend to be speaking for the board at this time. My comments are my own comments. And I've been on that board for a year now. And I just want to say that I...
 From my experience, I felt like the Vision and Realization Committee was a very well-conducted committee, and we came up with a lot of great things. And I'm really excited about, you know, even though I think you guys really have your work cut out for you, and I'm glad people are raising the building height issues, and I think you're going to have to figure out how to balance questions about density, which are important,
 climate issues and, you know, on the other hand, all the issues that have been raised by the concerns about building height. I think there are lots of examples in the world of how density can be achieved with lower building heights. We all, you know, anybody who's been to Copenhagen, Denmark loves the place, and there's hardly a building over seven stories. Now, granted, we have different challenges today that we have to balance with, so that's not the reality that we're faced with today.
 But I want to make some other points that I think are really important and salient. Make them quickly if you can. Yes, I will. Thank you.
 And that is that we created the vision realization committee spent more than two and a half years creating our principles document. And I'm really glad to see that a lot of what the good work that we did, including many residents on that committee, did find its way into the West Quadrant plan. And just to highlight a couple things that I think are important that you guys asked about, one of them is Jefferson Street as a main street. I think that's it.
 That's a naturally evolving thing, much more than 18th. And the planning of the city really needs to not only let that happen, but reinforce it. It's too easy for that to be treated by people with automobiles as a glorified ramp to the Highway 26. I think that the things that Mary Valente brought up about Burnside and improving the crossings of Burnside and not letting Burnside be forgotten, West Burnside, those are really important. And I don't think the plan really...
 it's a timid address of that as well um and the last one is that um i think you guys asked about the cap on 405 and the reconnection of downtown with
 the West, neighborhoods to the West, I think is a huge deal. And, um, and probably it's in a, you know, inappropriate and too expensive to try to cap the whole thing, but doing some strategic caps around Lincoln high school and around the, uh, light rail and things like that may be, uh,
 really valuable, and I don't think the city has to tote the entire thing, the entire bill for that, but I also don't think it makes sense to just wait and see if private development comes up with something. I think that there's a role for the city in encouraging that and making it happen. Thank you. That's all I have to say. Great. Thank you very much. Good evening. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Reza Farhudi. I am a resident of the Pearl District, and like this gentleman here, I also really enjoy living in a central city.
 I want to reiterate a few points that were mentioned earlier in today's testimony. You know, the people who are predisposed to supporting this plan are not represented well in this process, probably because they have day jobs. And, you know, I tried to get here as soon as I could after work just to be able to speak to you tonight. The generational divide...
 From today's testimony, it is very clear. Millennials have shown a clear preference to living in dense, vibrant urban cores with a number of amenities that are inconvenient walking or biking distance, what you may call a 20-minute neighborhood. It's incredibly convenient for people who already live here to want things to stay the same. It takes strong leadership and a bold vision to fight for the future generations who want to live here.
 And it's up to us to ensure that the housing supply and affordability allows them to move here, here as in the central city and not on the fringes of our urban sprawl. And therefore, I urge you to pass the West Quadrant Plan as proposed by city staff and the Stakeholder Advisory Committee. Thank you. Thank you very much. I say please don't support the West Quadrant Plan. Gotcha. Thank you very much.
 Okay. We have staff available, but we also have had a long hearing. So my suggestion is we get staff back up here briefly. Are we going to leave somebody else out? I'm sorry. Just one last one. Okay. Thanks for sticking around to hear us. You bet. Thank you for sticking around yourself. I appreciate it.
 Yes, sorry, didn't mean to knock you off the bottom of the list there. Well, somebody had to leave for their work. So I'm not Tim Block, I'm Tina, but I'm going to be speaking on behalf of Tim Block. He asked me to read a letter he wrote from the Hotel Deluxe. Good afternoon, well, good evening. I'm Tim Block, general manager of the Hotel Deluxe, which is home to Gracie's Restaurant and the Driftwood Room. We are located at Southwest 15th Avenue and Southwest Yam Hill, the area often referred to in Goose Hollow as the Flats.
 Our owner, the owner of the Hotel Deluxe, recently purchased the vacant lot across the street from the hotel on Southwest 15th with the intention of developing it under the zoning and property rights as they currently exist. I was a member of the Goose Hollow Foothills League Vision Realization Committee for several years and regularly attended the monthly meetings. We hosted the monthly meetings of the VRC at the Hotel Deluxe from September 1st
 2012 to february 2014 and we also hosted all of the goose hollow neighborhood charrettes in december of 2012. those gatherings were well attended by goose hollow residents business owners and property owners i fully stand by the open and inclusive nature of the process in both of these meetings and in the results that it yielded there currently is a lack of a robust business community in the goose hollow area particularly on weekends and the hope is that the new plan will encourage the building of new residences
 in the area immediately surrounding the hotel, but really throughout all of Goose Hollow, leading to a better business environment, additional businesses, amenities, maybe some parking, and other things which our guests and our residents may enjoy. I urge you to adopt the West Quadrant plan as proposed. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay. Susan and Carl, why don't you come up? I know Joe will be back in a minute. My suggestion is this, one that we set some dates here, and that is I want to keep the ‑‑ my recommendation is we keep the record open until the 13th to allow people to continue to send in information and perspectives.
 and that we set a date of the 25th for the council to have council deliberations and further response from staff on requests that we're going to make in the meantime.
 The meantime could start now but doesn't need to end now. So if there are things that council members want to put on your to-do list at the moment, we can do that. But we can also follow up by a memorandum to each other and to you after today if we're too tired to remember everything that we want to ask. But for those that are still ready to do so, I want to open the opportunity for that. Thank you.
 Well, I will have a list to give you and have to discuss with you. And you have been very responsive to my request for different kinds of maps and larger maps. I'm still struggling with what's changing. So if I could have some 11 by 17s to show base zone heights across the district and then one that just shows proposed changes. Sure.
 Yep. That would be very helpful. And distribute those to all of us. And that way, that will inform my then suggestions, requests, discussion. And we're happy to come any time that you want us to.
 It's a phenomenal amount of staff work and also community engagement, and thanks to everybody for all of it. The mayor said when he appointed me to the Planning Commission that he expects things to come to council 90% done. I think this is a great example of something which I'm really glad I didn't have to do the 90% of the work because there's a lot of it in here. Exactly. Okay, Commissioner Novick, anything for the moment?
 No, except that I kind of feel compelled to complain about the idea that all anybody seems to care about is height. Well said. Thank you, Steve. I think we needed that.
 Anything that you need to put on the table for us other than, again, I want to make sure that not only the three of us but also that our two colleagues have a chance in the next few days to lob requests to you. My request is that we make sure we copy one another on those requests so that we know what's being asked for and that you distribute information.
 responses to all five members of the council so we can keep this thread going of this discussion. Actually, Mayor, we got scolded by the city attorney that we're not supposed to copy each other on internal emails. So the staff can send it to us, but we're not allowed to send it to all of us. All right. I'm not going to violate the open meetings law. We try to keep public records very open. Therefore, yeah, do distribute your responses to all of us.
 I suggest two things one if it's okay and then we'll send a note out to commission assaultsman and commissioner fish Within a week to get your questions in so that we can make sure that we are doing this Obviously if you have another question after that, we'll be responsive, but just to get this to keep it moving the other is picking a date for a final vote because there's many many interested parties and I would suggest that
 potentially the 25th of February correct that's what I said it's all let's take the 13th for closing the record requests to you in a week and the 25th for council deliberation that will be amendments and probably are likely to be amendments so it's going to be the 25th and the following and the following okay so we would have another public hearing just on the amendments on the 25th of February and then vote on it the first week of March
 Okay. All right. Sure. Okay. Does that work for everybody? Yes. Thank you. So we'll set those dates, and thank you all for your attendance this evening. The hearing is closed, and we are recessed until tomorrow at 5 p.m. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 mm-hmm yeah I just was thinking that too yeah okay
 This is the West End. Right. The West End has 41% of downtown . And it only has 14%. So I think it's . Yeah. 80% or 200%. Yeah. OK. I think it's just going to disappear. Yes. And what's the redevelopable?
 So is this two copies of this now? You know, this actually belongs to me. Oh, okay. I'll see what I get from the time here. If it turns out that I... And I did turn the full map just this much a year ago.
 Yes. One thing that I've been thinking about, we have a no net loss of housing. So when we're moving to commercial, we have to find the housing. I wonder if we could have a no net loss of affordable housing. Yeah.
 Yeah. So then even if, because some of the buildings are historic, some of them are old and nasty and not worth living, right? They should not hold people's things. Yes. But when they're not preserved, we need to make sure that we're not then building fancy and affordable things. Well, they can be fancy, but they have to be affordable. Thank you very much. But interestingly, they're turning, they're now rehabbing some of these older buildings. Yeah. They're kind of medium-sized.
 Commissioner Fish, when he was housing commissioner, did an 11 by 13 project where 11 buildings by the year 2013 that we helped flip to a non-profit from a private owner so that they didn't then become, and it saved hundreds of units.
 So something like that, I think, could be useful, too. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you.
 Yeah. Yeah. I mean, just not exactly. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Thanks. So, let's see, you're saying February 25th after 2 o'clock you're going to go back to the library. Yeah. So, go to the library.