Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, February 1st morning meeting at the Portland City Council. Clerk, would you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Here. Wheeler? Here. Please go ahead and call the first item. Item 87, request of Lightning Super Watchdog PDX to address council regarding Portland Harbor Superfund. Thank you.
 Good morning. Three minutes. Name for the record. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog PDX Malco. One of the first items I'll discuss is, again, on that Portland building. I'm at total disagreement with the previous Mayor Hales on his outrageous $195 million on that property. I understand another $18 million might be proposed to add to that property.
 number. From my position, I would like the City of Portland to put that on the shelf, stop that in process. I want them to purchase where the old courthouse is, demolish that, build a nice brand new building there, do a sale lease back on the Portland building to bring in a tremendous amount of money at this time.
 Throw all those costs of that dog with fleas toward that new investor. They can buy that and take all those costs off the city of Portland's hands. We've got a great building there. Work with Multnomah County and build something very nice there.
 Which will be suitable for the people and the tenants in that building instead of reducing them down into a small little cardboard box. Isn't going to happen. Issue number two, Superfund. I'm taking a strong position against the EPA on this. I agree with everything you've done up to this point, except...
 I want to see any potential responsible party complete in full indemnification, held harmless of any contamination on that river in front of their properties after you negotiate the agreed upon price with them that they're willing to pay.
 Again, I want it to be understood, before they pay you anything, I want agreements with them for full indemnification and be removed from any and all liability to these business owners. At that point, it will fall back.
 on the municipalities, their insurance policies, and also your ability to get a Superfund tax into place. Again, I want to see an aggressive dredging program implemented immediately. I want to see you start dredging that river by July 1st.
 The best time to start dredging, up to middle of October. I want to start seeing you doing something, not talking about this like you've done in the last 15 years, and begin removing contaminated sediment out of that contaminated river, which a lot of people in here...
 Whether you like it or not, may be partially responsible on that list. Again, begin the dredging plan, and that's going to go out for many, many years and continue to work with the EPA. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 88, request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address council regarding free community college and free health care.
 Good morning. Good morning. I was going to go down to Salem today for the first day of the legislature, but because I was going to take an Amtrak train, I was afraid I'd get snowed in and I'd make it back here and I'd have to work tomorrow. So I didn't go to Salem. I have something to say. I've decided something about health care, community colleges, and food stamps. I don't agree with the Trump administration. I think everybody, regardless of their residency status as an Oregon resident, should get food stamps.
 I think they should also get health care. Healthy Kids, for example, does not cover non-Oregon residents. I think it should. I think we should expand the Oregon Health Plan to cover everybody. And I also believe that if you do such things, you may have to ration health care. One of the reasons why is we have super medicine right now that can keep people alive even though they're half dead. And this costs a lot of money. And actually...
 It's something that people need to think about. Machines can keep you alive even though you're probably dead. And that needs to stop. So intrinsically we have medicine now that can do these sort of things and people need to think about it. Are you really alive just because your heart's beating?
 Maybe, too, I think there is a movement to have free community colleges, which I agree. People say that a university is education, but I believe, too, that a community college is better, and so I even believe we should ration education. But what I don't like is whatever I feel is everybody is entitled to these things if they live here. As far as I'm concerned, Mayor Wheeler, if you get sick, you should just go to a hospital and get health care. Just say you're another name.
 You probably have to declare your name because even though you're rich or something, it doesn't matter to me. It's not in everybody's interest for you to die and so to stay alive. You should just say you're a different name. Get health care, right? You shouldn't have to declare your income. You shouldn't have to say you're from Syria. You shouldn't have to say you're from Mexico.
 Now, the reason why you have to declare some sort of identity is you might be allergic to something, and then you go into shock, and then you can sue them. I don't think that should happen. You should really say this name, and this is a characteristic of your body, and they're treating your body so they don't do it wrong. But you should be able to go to a doctor too, and we should work on that. It's like the library. I mean, the libraries, you can get a book, read a book. The purpose of a library is to read a book, not to own the book.
 So that's why 100 years ago we started libraries. And it's the same thing with health care education. But one has to think about rationing. Also, when I go to say I was a Democrat, but now I'm an independent, because my purpose in the legislature, if I go down, there's a talk of Republicans into these things. That's the hard part. They're very frugal. They're into rationing. But I have to convince them they're half the Oregon voters are Republicans. It doesn't do me anything to teach to the choir.
 Okay. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you. We'll see you next time. Next item, please, Carla. 89, request of Chris Sanderson to address council regarding standards for fence construction. Good morning. If you could state your name for the record, please. Three minutes. My name is Christopher Sanderson, and I am the owner of a contracting business called Builder by Bike. We need an emergency shelter meeting. Excuse me.
 Excuse me. It's time now to have all of this addressed. Excuse me. No more people. This is not the right time or the right place. It is the right time. No, it is not. You are treading on other people's ability to be heard. I'm not having a meeting. One moment, sir. Don't go away. I'm not going anywhere, man. I asked the mayor for a meeting. He told us we were going to have a meeting. You know what? I met with you last week. You're going to be great now, man.
 This is everything that we need to happen here. You told us... We're going to call a 10-minute recess. Don't go away. You can... Hands up for houseless! Hands up for houseless! Shelter is life! Shelter is life! Could you turn my mic on? Shelter is life! Shelter is life! I'm sorry. You are excluded. You are excluded from the chambers. Shelter is life! Shelter is life!
 Shelter is life! Water is life! It isn't right. Who excluded me? It's a public meeting. He did not say that out here.
 I get it right. I get it right. Let's see it on the film. It might be legal. Folks, we need to clear the chamber, please. Get it right. Who's he saying? Everybody out. Everybody out. Clear the chamber. We need it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right. Get it right.
 God damn it. He's not getting it to us in writing, so... You'll get a chance. We need a written exclusion. We need a written exclusion. That is the law. No, it's not, but that's okay. Nobody said it. This is a public building. The mayor did say it. We don't make that decision. The mayor does. So when we look at the whole thing, we'll hear the mayor say that? I'm just going to go. Nobody ever heard.
 I feel like a 5'3", 4'4", or a G4S. I'll do it. I'm going to do this. I haven't retained it. It's also illegal to block somebody from being able to film. I need writing. I'm not blocking it. If you're filming, film away. Okay. Well, this guy tried to block my camera. I already did. You're trampling my First Amendment rights. You need to leave the room, so let's leave the room.
 All right, but don't touch anybody in the room. Don't touch anybody, okay? Don't touch anybody. I'm going to make sure he gets out, okay? That's all you're being asked to do. I'll leave it here, man. I think we're coming back. Sure, we're coming back. I'll be taking my back. I will as soon as everyone else leaves. Bye.
 I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I feel like they're in danger. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving until my friends leave. I'm not leaving
 I never got my exclusion in writing though I want the exclusion in writing though
 He never said that we had to leave. Start. He never said that. He did. Melissa, I wouldn't exclude you if he didn't say that. I have that power. I'm really confused. When did he do that? Oh, you're in charge. Listen, I'm not hardly true. You know me better than that. What is your job? What is your job? I mean, this is not necessary. We're trying to fight for the houseless community. I understand that.
 This makes you guys look worse. Let me tell you something, Michael.
 You know me very well, too, Mike. This mayor has gone back on what he told us. Every single one way or the other, we're going to be heard. He has just as much control over this being as peaceful as you guys say you want it to be. And these guys advancing on women half their size and getting in people's faces when we're just trying to fight for the houseless is not peaceful.
 It's not. We're not armed. We had a piece of paper. Why is this guy? I'm just asking. I'll go because my friends are going and I have no backup in a room full of officials. Just wait. This guy advancing on me like he was. All I have is a camera trying to violate my rights to film my rights as a journalist. I don't think you thought if you heard me, I said, I have
 that he put his hand up in front of my camera and advanced in my personal space.
 And I'm being excluded because I was loud and the mayor didn't hear what I wanted to hear what I had to say? So then why am I being kicked out? So I can come back in. Didn't we tell him he wouldn't get anything done until we were heard? Didn't we say? Yeah, you did. I understand.
 And he didn't heed our warnings, did he? And it's time that that council start taking the citizens of this community seriously. We will not be dismissed. When you hear that, you're conspicuously in the face of it. I'm having a conversation with Mike that is calm. All right, I'll be back in. Leave now.
 They only excluded one person. Yeah, they only excluded one guy. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not going to read it for this meeting. I'll start with this afternoon's and just say I'm really sorry we have to do this.
 and have just built it up slowly. You know what? After you've done your presentation, someone may just ask you about your business. Okay. Yeah, thank you. I'll ask you if you have anything. So we are back in session. Mr. Sanderson, if you will be patient for one more minute. I moved away from reading the script because, frankly, I hoped we wouldn't have to, but I've been advised by legal counsel and others that I now need to read this script again
 before every council meeting. It's self-evident, but apparently I have to read it anyway. Before we begin, I want to say a few words regarding council proceedings and maintaining decorum. The purpose of council meetings is to engage with and hear recommendations from the community on the public's business.
 In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the Council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure the process is clear for everyone, both those here and those watching on their computers or TVs, I want to quickly review some public testimony guidelines. My hope is that these details help everyone to feel comfortable and included and also ensure the decorum is maintained.
 During the meeting, there are two opportunities for public participation. Communications, and we're in the middle of that right now. Communications items are the opportunity, an opportunity to briefly speak about any subject. These items are scheduled in advance with the council clerk's office.
 First readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. Public testimony of these items must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you're here representing an organization, please disclose that as well. Individuals will have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated at the meeting.
 When you have 30 seconds left, you'll hear a beep and a yellow light will flash on the box before you. When your time is up, you'll hear four beeps and the red light will flash. I'll need you to conclude your testimony at that time, and if you don't, I will remind you. If you have handouts for us, please do give them to the council clerk.
 and she will distribute them to all of the council members. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimony or during council deliberations, will not be allowed. If that behavior is seen, this guidance serves as notice that anyone disrupting this proceeding may be escorted from council chambers and excluded from city hall.
 If folks would like to show your support or your displeasure for a particular item or comment, please do so with a thumbs up or a thumbs down so that no one is disrupted but we can see your expression. With that, we're sorry that you got interrupted. We thank you for your patience. Mr. Sanderson, you can start from scratch.
 My name is Chris Sanderson, and I run a contracting business called Builder by Bike. I specialize in building sheds, decks, and fences primarily in northeast and southeast Portland. I am here to address the construction of what I term disposable fences around many of the brand-new $800,000 homes here in Portland.
 I will preface my comment by telling you that I am a trail maintainer with the Mount Hood Chapter of the Pacific Crest Trail Association. The section I maintain is eight miles long and runs from the base of Table Mountain to a trail junction near Three Corner Rock on the Washington side of the Columbia River Gorge. Just recently, a three-tenths of a mile section around Birkenfeld Mountain was clear-cut. The visual and environmental impacts from this clear-cut is staggering, frankly.
 I do not know where the full sun harvested wood went, but I think there's a possibility that it may end up as a disposable fence here in Portland. Recently, I worked for a client who lives on the north side of a brand new home located at 4820 Southeast Brooklyn, which was constructed by Morrison Built LLC and sold for over $800,000. What jumped out at me was the poor quality of the fence construction, and here's what's wrong with it.
 Number one, the fence planks are low-grade, 5-eighths-inch thick. Number two, post rail brackets had no hardware securing the rails in place. Number three, the cap rail had two screws securing it in place. Number four, all pressure-treated posts are in contact with dirt. Number five, posts are set at varying lengths between 6 and 8 feet.
 Number six, despite assurances from the developer's project manager, the finished side of the fence faced inward towards the new home and not outward, which is good neighbor courtesy. Number seven, the fence was never sealed for added protection against the elements. And number eight, this is what gets me most, fence rails were constructed with Douglas fir that is intended for interior structural use.
 I give this fence seven years before it rots and needs to be replaced. However, some fences built by our new developers only last five months. In one case, I observed a landscape company tearing out a brand-new fence, constructed similarly to the fence I detailed above, at a home at 3734 Southeast and the Halem, which was constructed by Renaissance Homes.
 Apparently, the new homeowner recognized it as substandard and hired a landscape company to build them a better one. All that wood wasted. I do not know what the solution is to curbing the construction of disposable fences. Certainly, education is a good place to start, and that is the reason why I am here.
 I come here today hoping that my words can make a change. I hope that our developers can seek to construct with long-term solutions in mind. I hope their fencing contractors would aspire to be diligent craftsmen and build well.
 I would hope that my elected officials can eliminate disposable plastic bags. If they can eliminate disposable plastic bags, bags of Fred Meyer, I hope they can eliminate disposable fences in the city of Portland. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Mr. Sanderson. It looked like you had a handout. Is that something we can do?
 Yes, I did provide handouts to the city. Mr. Sanderson, since you spent a little extra time with us this morning, I think we ought to at least give you the opportunity to tell us what your business is. So it's Builder by Bike. Could you tell us what that is? Yes, sir. I'm a general contractor, and I operate primarily by bicycle. I serve southeast and northeast Portland within a two-and-a-half-mile radius of where I live. That's southeast Belmont and southeast Cesar Chavez.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. And I'm sorry I did get a copy of your testimony. I apologize. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Next item, please, Carla. Item 90, request of Jim Wittenberg, RPH, to address council regarding yard apartments, development fees, MACG agreements, and Portland building. Good morning, Jim. My legs get a little bit worse now, so I'll be using one of those motorized carts pretty soon. No hurry. My voice is too, so I don't know.
 first off uh jim wittenberg um i was called early to speak a legend i'd never been called that before i didn't know that i'd reached that status that means you're old and ready to die usually so put an urn up on the on the mantle um first off i uh
 I agree with everything that Lightning said up here. That's a perfect testimony. I wish I was strong enough to give that. The Portland building is a $25 million building. You're going to put $200 million into it right now and another few million in it next year, and then more in the next year, and then $5 million more in the next year. You've got a building that was bad when it was built, and you're trying to keep it together. I don't see how that makes sense.
 I mean, my dad was a builder. My dad was a guy that taught me how to put things together. When things are old, they're old. You've got to deal with them. I mean, you tear down every building in this city right now. Over here, you're putting up a yard and giving them hotel status so they can have a hotel in there, and I'm seeing that come down. I mean, I go up, and I don't understand anything.
 What you're doing, it's like you're throwing money out. Here's a little bit more money here and some there. And it ended up in all of the developers' pockets or the lobbyists. I really wanted to like you guys, but you're making it hard for me now.
 I mean, we grew up in families that conserve money. I mean, I'd like to buy a new coat. This won't fit anymore because I've gained 30 pounds. But I have to wear it because the other one is dirty right now. And I don't want to spend $10 for a cleaning bill.
 But this doesn't fit and it shouldn't be worn. That's the way the Portland building is. It doesn't fit and it shouldn't be around here. But yet you guys are determined to spend millions of dollars that you don't have to spend.
 Don't I don't get it. Why don't you I just happen to see this the other day so the small 80 year old people up here in Northwest Portland letting each other out and the Parking makers vines it gives him a $60 ticket So this 88 year old has to pay and his own little amount. I mean, I I don't understand why
 Where you get off when you can't let somebody off in the street, or you make him walk a book I need to walk three blocks up here today Yeah, now most of the stuff is self-explanatory in here. It's about Getting them the money out of politics as we always talk about what you never do it won't happen You guys are making too much money You know this business is yard thing it's
 If we didn't have 11 a week, this would still be going on right now. The housing bureau would still be charging these people $1,000 a night to stay in this building that we've given. If you ever get some free time, look at what I've given you. There might be something in there you could use. I don't believe yet that you know everything.
 So there might be some pearl of wisdom in this whole thing. Thank you, Jim. I'm going to have to ask you. I know. I've complained to you before. I can't even get started in three minutes. It's a waste of time to come down here. But if I didn't have that, if I didn't have this one thing, oh, would you kindly be quiet? I just, you know, I was a radical once when I was young. Jim, I'm sorry to have to ask you to wrap it up.
 But as you know, you're welcome to come up and talk to me y'all coming to you. Thank you, sir Thank you for being Carla could you please read the next item item 91 request of David Kiff Keith Davis to address Council regarding Civility is a two-way street. It's mr. Davis here. Okay so
 The next item is the consent agenda, Agenda Carla. I'm going to pull item number 94. I'll put that at the end of the regular agenda. Are there any other items that have been pulled? Hearing none, could you please call the roll on all but 94? Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. And if you could please call the next item. Item 97. Aye.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Beaverton and Metro to revise the urban service boundary for the unincorporated areas between the cities of Beaverton and Portland. Great. Good morning. Mayor Wheeler, members of the council, my name is Al Burns. I'm a planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. This is the second of several agreements. Back in June, council adopted a new comprehensive plan map
 Most people regard the map as just a map of permitted land use designations by type and intensity. But it also includes some other features. One of those is what we call our urban services boundary, which is an area outside the city limits for which the city commits itself to provide either existing or future urban services. It also marks the limit of permitted expansions for further annexations. Questions? No questions.
 The, this is, like I said, this is the second agreement. When we put the new comp plan map together, we worked with all our neighboring cities to
 adopting this line on the map was the land use decision, this agreement clarifies what it means and how we will observe it. Basically, the city of Portland agrees not to serve or annex beyond the line, and Beaverton does as well. One of the things that's a little bit different about this agreement is it follows through on a disagreement we had in the 1990s where we couldn't come to a service agreement, and Metro made that decision for us. So this agreement provides...
 minor modifications to the agreement that was made force by Metro in 1997. It provides in some instances that Beaverton may ask, and this or a future council may consider future de-annexations from Portland to Beaverton. The council's not obligated to do that, but the Metro agreement and this agreement would require the council to at least consider those future agreements. Okay.
 The other agreements we will have with the other cities don't seem to have any peculiarities, and if it meets the council's approval, my proposal would be to have those on future consent agreements rather than items that take time. Very good. Any council questions? Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? I didn't have signed up sheets, but there are people who want to testify. And I want to remind people that testimony on regular agenda items has to be germane to the item that is under discussion.
 Please call the first testimony. Thanks, Mr. Burns. You might stick around in case anybody has any follow-up questions. Good morning. Morning. I'm Cedric Wilkins. And about Beaverton and Portland and being annexed, I heard that Donald Trump wants to cut food stamps in Beaverton, so maybe we should make it a part of Portland since I get food stamps. And they will stop doing that. And number two is...
 There's a lot of cutting-edge science done in Beaverton. There's the Oregon Primate Center. Some Russian doctor injects people's stem cells into their brains. That's very controversial here in Portland. But they do it in Beaverton, so again, maybe we should – partners should annex and do modern stem cell research and make sure that Donald Trump doesn't cut food stamps in Beaverton. Thank you. Yes, sir. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Charles Johnson, and –
 In the scope of entering into an intergovernmental agreement with Beaverton and or Metro about the fuzzy, unincorporated areas in between, I think it's very important that the city consider the bigger context of dealing with Beaverton. Beaverton is like an abused spouse and a little bit untrustworthy. Beaverton refuses to get fair taxes from its largest employers.
 Um, so, uh, when we, I don't know the history of intergovernmental relationships between Beaverton and the city of Portland, other than they're happy to send our, their police over here, uh, either as part of the TriMet police or otherwise. But when we talk about de-annexation and stuff like that, I think that it's a little bit disappointing that there's not a clear vision of what the municipal governments in this fuzzy boundary area should look like.
 and how the residents and the small businesses in those areas can be empowered to see Nike and other major employers in Beaverton, our neighbor city, pay fair taxes. So when we deal with Beaverton, let's help them. Let's help them get adequate revenue to sustain their public services and make sure that revenue doesn't fall on ordinary people.
 when there's very high-profit corporations there that could take care of their citizens. Thank you. Thank you, sir. If you could state your name for the record, please. Starstoffer. My concern about this is kind of along the lines of Charles here, but it also concerns the houseless that are going to fall through the cracks during this talks of annexation. And since there is no...
 True municipal government to you know cover this boundary there are several families several individuals that are falling through the cracks because of that as well and this just goes further to show that Portland and Beaverton are have no sustainable plan to combat this issue.
 So I'm thinking that if this is going to be a real discussion, that I would like to challenge the city council and that of Beaverton as well to make sure that they hold that up as a priority during those discussions because those people matter, because houseless lives matter. Thank you. Is there other testimony on this? This is a non-emergency item. It moves to second reading. Carla, if you could please call the next item. Thank you.
 Item 98, accept bid of Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Woodlawn King Alley Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $3,984,902. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. I would like to request a motion to amend the impact statement for this item. There was an error in the awarded bid amount. It should read $3,491,386. So moved. Second. Second.
 On November 22, 2016, three bids were received, and more excavation is the low bidder. The engineer's estimate on this project was $3,843,503. The Bureau of Environmental Services has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing as good.
 The city put forward an aspirational goal for DMW-ESB subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction costs for this project. Moore Excavation identified five divisions of work for subcontracting opportunities with participation at 4.1% or 142%.
 thousand three hundred and twenty eight dollars with work being performed in trucking concrete cutting traffic control and man manhole manufacturing thank you could I take care of the amendment first please is there any further discussion on the amendment could you call the roll Ritz fish I saltzman but you daily I wheeler I so now we're discussing the item is amended
 Is there any further question, Christine, before we go to public testimony? Thank you for your reports. As always, it's very clear. Disadvantaged business enterprise was kind of a new term to me. Can you explain to the folks at home what you told my staff about what is a disadvantaged business enterprise? Sure.
 Sure, Commissioner. The disadvantaged business enterprise is a federal certification. It is still run through the Oregon Certification Office, but it has more stringent requirements to obtain that certification. So most commonly, that certification contains minority businesses and women-owned businesses.
 And so with our subcontractor equity program, we now include disadvantaged business enterprises as part of meeting those contractor goals. I also have a question. Go ahead. I'll take it in turn. Okay. So we've set an aspirational goal. Obviously, that means that it's not required. Do we get any kind of report back on whether that goal was met or what –
 What level they achieved? So, yes, we have the aspirational goal of 20%. More Exclamation is committing to 4.1% on this project. Okay. So this company has been here before and often has a very low participation of minority disadvantaged businesses. Do we know how they're doing with their own internal equity program? Is their workforce diversifying at all?
 I believe Matt Posey is in the audience for more excavation. Come on up, sir. Gary Stevens, I'm sorry. Gary, if you could just state your name for the record, please. Good morning. I'm Gary Stevens. I'm the chief operations manager for more excavation. We've been in business since 1957. We do a lot of work for the city. I've been in this seat before on projects. Okay.
 As Christine mentioned, the aspirational goal of 20% is an aspirational goal. However, you've got to realize that each project that is designed and put out for solicitation varies in design and complexity and what's available for the minority contracting community to bid on. This project, we identified seven areas that could be subcontracted out.
 Out of those, and we go through a solicitation. Are you familiar with the Good Faith Program where we go through? So we go attend the pre-bid meeting. Out of the 20-odd people that attended for the pre-bid meeting, there was only one minority contractor attend, which is not unusual. Right.
 Once we go to the pre-bid meeting, our contract staff solicits, goes through the good faith process, notifies everybody in writing, all the potential minority contractors and non-minority contractors via email. And then we follow up. We take an extra step. We actually call verbally the offices to make sure they're bidding. That has mixed success. Sometimes we get no replies. Sometimes we do.
 But at the end of the day, on bid day, we're getting bids from all contractors, all subcontractors. In this case, out of the seven categories that we identified, we got pricing from all seven categories. But the two categories, and we awarded subcontracting.
 subcontracts to five out of the seven. The two that we did not award to were the cured-in-place lining, the pipe that essentially has the sock and is cured in place rather than open-cutting a trench. You understand, I mean, the normal way is just to open-cut
 take out the existing pipe if needed, put in a new pipe, backfill, traffic control, paving, trucking, and all of that. Where the cured-in-place program is, we essentially access the pipeline from manholes, actually install a sock, if you will, and cure it in place, and that lines the existing pipe and gives additional length of service to the pipe. Well, that one category...
 we received a minority price that was 30% higher, over 200 and some odd thousand, than the other low responsive bidder. And in paving, our price versus minority versus non-minority was 46% higher. So if you're in the bid room the day of the bid, and the bid's due, and you're looking at a $260,000 increase to be able to up the price,
 My fiduciary responsibility is, number one, get the job for the owner of our company and employ our people and give a responsible bid to the city. So we did receive quotes in those other two categories, be it cured-in-place lining and paving, but to the tune of $260,000 additional dollars.
 Well, thank you very much for that extended explanation. It seems to me in reading it that you have maybe even reserved the right to do some of the minority work that you have contracted out by your own company. Is that correct? On the forms we put partial because we ran into the problems, Commissioner, where we've, like for trucking,
 and or flagging where we have contracts and we've committed an amount, but when we schedule those minority contractors, they don't have resources available. Maybe because they're bidding other work to other contractors too. So for that day or those days, they may not have trucks. So we have to supply our own trucks. So that's why we put partial on those contracts.
 So, Mr. Moody, could you, at the end of the project, come back to council and let us know whether, in fact, that was done? My question earlier, though, is what are you doing within your company to diversify your workforce? Do you offer apprenticeships to… Yes. Oh, yes, by all means. And how much of that do you do? We have 20% on our projects. We have 20% apprenticeship for both operators and laborers.
 And more times than not, we exceed that. In fact, I was looking at those reports this morning, and some categories were up over 40% apprenticeship. And how do you find those apprentices? Well, two ways. We see the potential in existing employees that could use additional training and increase their capabilities and,
 So we select those and we promote those to the Northwest Construction College. That's who we have our training through.
 And on the open market, we just solicit for operators, laborers, truck drivers, et cetera. So what is your company doing to diversify your own workforce and to make sure that women and minorities get the opportunity for some of those apprenticeships? We actively solicit and actively solicit for minority employees. Right now, I believe we're at about 12% to 14% minority and about 8% women in our company. Okay.
 So again, you do do a lot of work for the city, and I appreciate that, and you're often the low bidder, which again...
 saves the taxpayers and the ratepayers money. It's also a value that I'm sure you share to try to diversify, particularly construction workforce, because women and minorities are realizing that they are good jobs that pay well. So I do encourage you to continue working within your company, and then I'd like to get a report back on this particular project, if you could keep track of the apprentices, kind of where they came from and their demographics. Yeah, Christy and her group...
 keeps their thumb on us. Very, very good. Thank you. One other thing that we have the potential of adding, there is a service group that was within our company that split off at year end that now is applying as a woman-owned business as an ESB as of January 1st. And if that is successful, the MD&P
 MWESB percentage for this project will be in excess of 40%. Fabulous. Thank you. So we are actively pursuing. And we're also a member of the...
 Northwest Utility Contractors Association, which actively works with Christine and her group on ways to promote minority participations. And we have some things in the mix right now that we're working on. Well, that's terrific. Thank you. Thank you for your time being here this morning to explain. Thank you. If I may just make a couple of thoughts here.
 And I appreciate your being here and answering the questions with specificity. As I hear the broad variation in the bid offers that you've received, I'm wondering if economies of scale have something to do with it. And so we're in sort of a catch-22, where we're trying to build the capacity of minority contractors in Portland. And you understand all the reasons why we want to do that.
 But if we don't help them get to the point where they can actually compete, they're never going to get the job. And so my interest, Christine, and this is a separate conversation maybe but related, I want to know how we're going to work with the PDC and others to make sure that minority contractors can actually get to the point where they can compete based on price. Because I don't want the excuse to always be that, well, they're too expensive.
 If they're too expensive because of economies or access to equipment or whatever else, they're never going to get these projects, and they're never going to be able to participate at the levels that I think they need to. Number two, you mentioned that you did a pretty good job of reaching out to those individuals. You called them. You encouraged them to bid. I'm more interested in why they didn't bid.
 If the opportunity is there, I think it would be interesting to do some post-mortem, but I guess that's what I mean, and find out what it was that prevented them from making the decision to bid in the first place because maybe there's some capacity building there.
 or some preliminary work we need to do with minority contractors so that they are ready to bid when the time comes for a project like this. And finally, I just want to cop to something you said. Did we all understand the difference between whatever it was, the external versus the sleeve thing? I want to be the first to admit, I had no idea what you were talking about until you described it. Okay.
 But it makes sense the way you describe it, and so I appreciate you're not assuming that I know everything about replacing a sewer pipe because I most certainly know nothing about it. So thank you for that. May I make a couple of comments? Yes. You hit on a couple of things. You know, our work is capital intensive, very capital intensive, and it is somewhat restrictive for minorities to work
 be able to do some of our scopes of work, if you will. The low-hanging fruit is flagging, which there's not much capital investment. But then the next step is like trucking. Well, you have to buy trucks or lease trucks. But then when you get into the heavy equipment and that kind of stuff, it's really capital intensive. If you have a vertical structure, like we're participating in the new Multnomah County Courthouse.
 you have a structure, there's more opportunities for minority contractors, if you will, in what we call vertical construction coming out of the ground, be it painting, sheetrock, that kind of stuff. But in our world, it's real limited, and it always has been, and it's been a struggle to gain additional percentage, additional participations. And some of these people might only have one crew, but they're quoting people,
 10 contractors in different projects, if you will. So that becomes an internal capacity problem for them to be able to meet our schedule, our demands. And so it is a challenge for them to be able to
 participate in this heavy construction market. It really is. And I do get that. I'm not in any way saying I don't understand the pressure from the market side and the capital expenditure side and the access to capital side. I just think there's ways we can break that down. Okay. Can I follow up on that? In one moment. I mean, maybe it's through partnerships. And I've seen success. TriMet's done a lot of work where –
 Some of the more established contractors actually partner with smaller minority contractors, and they share equipment, they share services, they share knowledge. And just looking out 25 years at the capital construction industry, somebody once told me sort of off the cuff, do I really want to help and invest in my future competition business?
 the industry and the opportunities are growing at a rapid clip, and frankly, we're going to need more local capacity. Otherwise, we're going to continue to be bringing people from the outside for these projects, and that means we're leaving money on the table that could be going to help lift communities in Portland that have historically not benefited from the wealth generation that these projects provide, and I really want us to rethink how we do that. I think we need to be more intentional.
 Mayor, can I just follow up with Christine for a second? And then Christine has something to say too. Ms. Moody, as I listen to this conversation, I'm reminded that we've actually had some success in the housing area precisely because of some of the points that the Mayor just made. We have major contractors that have formed strategic partnerships with minority businesses and bid as a partnership.
 And the importance of that is that with each of those projects, the minority partner gets to develop capacity and expertise and other things. And I think the success story really is Coloss Construction. Coloss used to be a sub, consistently a sub in lots of projects. Now they are a general contractor. And if you look around the city, the Coloss sign is everywhere, meaning they're now finally competing on a level playing field, and they're getting opportunities. And I wonder...
 In light of the comments you're hearing, we've thought this through in the housing arena, and we now have these partnerships, and we have regular work, which is important. It's not just one-off, because if you're building a business, you have to know that there's lots of opportunity if you're going to expand your payroll. Are there lessons we can learn from how we've addressed housing that could apply to this kind of specialty work, including, as the Mayor suggested, partnerships? Yes.
 Yes, Commissioner. Thank you for bringing that up. I think one thing that we can do that has been successful in housing and can be successful in these types of projects is looking at other types of procurement methods like alternative contracting. We've done it on some of the larger reservoir projects. I think we can look at it on some of the sewer projects. When we have that alternative contracting method and we're not –
 basing everything on lowest bid. It gives the opportunity for contractors like Moore Excavation or other contractors to do that partnership so that they can bring those contractors in and they can actually partner on a project. Well, and let's just, because you said that, the alternative contracting in the reservoir, like the Washington Park Reservoir Project,
 did not result in a hit to the taxpayers. We're still getting competitive bids. What it does allow us to do is on a regular basis work with the contractor to make sure that we hit very high aspirational goals, in fact, aspirational goals that are higher than we normally have in these projects. Okay.
 So and there's opportunities for us to put in with our bid specifications additional points for a Partnering we've done that on some parks projects and and we've had some really good results We're a general contract will partner with a minority contractor And they will take pieces of that project and act both as generals and manage that and that's that capacity building that the mayor was Talking about this question though. Um
 We expect to get a report soon from the Office of Equity in terms of community benefit plans and a new vision for how we do community benefit agreements. Will part of that presentation address some of the issues we're discussing today? Okay.
 I think in part it will address that. I think the other piece that I liked, one of the ideas that the mayor suggested, as far as looking, as Gary was saying, for these types of projects, these sewer projects, there's a large capital outlay in equipment for contractors, right?
 They are minority contractors, have the skill level to do it, and they will invest in that equipment if they know that there's continued work to come on. They can't invest in a $300,000 piece of equipment for one job. And so part of that is, as Gary mentioned, we're partnering with the Underground Utility Contractors Association to figure out about those partnering opportunities. If they know that there's continued work, they will make that investment, but they can't make that kind of investment for jobs.
 job every six to nine months and so those are the types of things that were I like the idea that the sharing of equipment and So it's building that skill level not having to have that minority contractor put that capital outlay out at the very offset
 Well, one thing we do know is that on a regular basis, we have these projects, and whether they're pump stations or sewer rehabilitation or whatever, we have aging infrastructure, and so this is going to happen a lot. And I would encourage you to consider bundling a number of these things, looking at the CIP with the utilities, looking for a sequence of projects that have some common denominators and thinking about how we could bid them precisely to give someone an opportunity to bid for the whole package.
 And it is true that Moore often does our work, and they do excellent work. But, in fact, that presents an opportunity for some continuity of employment. So we look forward to working with the mayor and procurement on that, and we hope that this is also looked at through the community benefit plan update that we're going to get. Great. Any further board questions before we go to testimony? Is there any public testimony on this issue? I do not have a sign-up sheet.
 Is there anybody you'd like to testify? Yes, I would like to. Very good. You can sit down, I think. Thank you. Thank you very much for being here. Thanks for being here. And if you could just state your name for the record, three minutes. Please keep it relevant to this particular item. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. One of the things that I thought about, and I'd like to commend Commissioner Fritz, because she asked a lot of questions that were bugging me also as the presentation progressed.
 There were two things that I thought of. I wish there was an organization that represents minority contractors here today to answer the question that you posed. You know, why is the percentage so low and why do they not bid on these things? Now, we can speculate, but we've always done that.
 And the second thing that struck me is that we're always working in the future. It seems that we never get the job done in the present. You know, it's always going to be better next month. Oh, we're working on it. Oh, we're trying to get some partnerships going here. Well, partnerships are not a new thing.
 Commissioner Fish actually presented what they did in housing. Very simple. When they were building the pyramids, they pardoned it. You know, it's not a new concept. So why aren't we doing it? My third point is, what is the city's responsibility to see on these prime contractors when they subcontract out? Where are you guys on that? You know, you're going to pass this.
 Because you just pass things. That's what you do. Instead of kicking it back and saying, you know what? We need some more research on this. We want to find out. This is a major repair job by a major company. And I'm sure the representative for Moore Inc. is really a nice guy.
 But if we had somebody from the minority community sitting here explaining it to you, I think you would get a better answer. If you ask me about certain things, my biases come through. So we need to hear from the other side. And that's what I would ask you. I don't have a great interest in this one item, but what you said is true. There's a lot of items coming up.
 And you should do better. It's our money, and you guys got to look at it and say, what is this prime contractor doing? How is he doing on minorities? I don't like 8% and 14%. That's not acceptable to me because we have a lot of catching up to do. So 8% and 14% is a disgrace as far as I'm concerned, my opinion. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Star Stauffer. You guys are getting to know me pretty well. I have the same concerns that Joe does, that a bunch of, for, I'm just going to be blunt, white people are sitting around talking about what's best for a minority community without a minority community representative. That's extremely offensive, especially when you're talking about doing work within the same community. Um.
 I'm curious why, if they're having a hard time receiving bids from minority communities who are doing the same type of work,
 Why have they not gone out into those communities and offered a fair, so to speak, a fair to come and hear about the project so that they can introduce their particular companies and glad hand and network and meet up with each other and talk about. The city does. Well, I'm talking these guys specifically, this company. The procurement office does extensive work. Well, they're obviously not doing it enough because at 14%,
 As far as their minority workers go, the number of minorities in this community alone that do that type of work far exceeds that number. So if that's the case, if you are doing these fairs, if you are doing these outreach programs, they're not good enough.
 And you have to readdress how you're communicating with these communities. And the fact of the matter is that these communities are not going to be trusting enough to openly communicate with you on these issues if it's all white people doing the communication. Just like we saw up here today. And I think we all know why that might be.
 So if you want real change, if you really want to increase the minorities on this workforce and in this bidding process and in these projects, then you need to have more minority representatives than just a woman, a white woman sitting up here talking for them. The fact is minorities are tired for white people talking for them. So fix it.
 Thank you. Yes, sir. Good morning. For the record, my name is Charles Bridge Crane Johnson. And I'll try and talk for white people. We created the problem. So we can talk some about ideas we have to fix and then hope that we can do better at getting input from minorities. The city likes to see itself in a leadership position. And as Commissioner Fish noted through the Office of Procurement and probably also with some collaboration from Dante in the Office of Equity and Human Rights,
 There has been some number of hours and outreach work done to improve the minority contracting thing, but I think we haven't really talked about capitalizing on that position. You know, the Northwest, the demographic makeup is different than other parts of the country. And now, while Kshama Sawant in Portland and they're talking about divesting from Wells Fargo, we should also be talking about having a dynamic conversation across the state line
 with our partners all the way up to Seattle, maybe even Vancouver, about how the Northwest is going to implement plans
 including having perhaps trade shows or forums at the Expo Center, or recently this community has voted to put money into the area around Legacy Emanuel Hospital where there was gentrification and displacement. So perhaps Legacy's conference facilities would be glad to have a Northwest-wide conference on equity in business and how minority contractors are getting involved.
 are going to get fair treatment, not just from the state and local governmental jurisdictions, but ways that the city can make sure that not only is Bremmick or another general contractor, I can't remember who's going to get the hundreds of million dollars for the Portland building if we don't stop that, but that those contractors have incentives in as many tax structures as possible. Fees.
 from different bureaus, state things, so that they're always aggressively not just tokenizing things but making sure that the pathways are there for all people of all backgrounds in Portland to learn sustainable living wage careers. And so I think there's a great opportunity for this council to partner with other local and state governments to do some leadership in that area. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there any more testimony on this item?
 Any further discussion from my colleagues? Could I get a motion and a second? Second. And that's to accept the report as amended. Please call the roll. Well, this has been an excellent discussion, and obviously we'll soon be getting the report from the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And I know that Mayor Wheeler is committed to this process and understands how much work has been done and how much work needs to be done with the Equitable Contracting and Procurement Commission.
 There are community organisations that direct to move... I get your title wrong, but... Ms Moody's team does a lot of outreach and a lot of listening, and, of course, we all need to do a lot more of both. So thank you for this excellent discussion. Hi. Hi.
 mich hi well this was a good discussion i want to thank more excavation for providing insights and very solid answers as to how they arrived at their their figures for minority and women participation uh you gave us some really insights i think into how the real world operates and i appreciate that very much hi you daily i wheeler i appreciated this conversation very much and i appreciated the public testimony as well
 We need to find ways to be proactive. One of the people testifying said we have a lot to make up for, and I happen to agree with that. And we're in a building boom right now. This is our opportunity to build up knowledge, on-the-ground experience, and access to capital that is required to be able to compete in what will be one of our top two growth industries in this community in the next 25 years. So I appreciate the comments that were made all around. Thank you.
 The report is accepted. Could you please read the next item? Item 99, authorize a five-year price agreement for purchase of security services for Smart Park garages and the Portland Streetcar Facility for an amount not to exceed $4 million. If there is no objection to this, Commissioner Saltzman is asked that this item be returned to his office. So ordered. The next item, please. Thank you.
 item 100 direct the portland housing bureau to adopt an administrative rulemaking procedure i'm not sure we have any formal presentation this responds to a budget note to make the portland housing bureau administrative rulemaking more consistent with other bureaus and with the transparent and clarified process other bureaus have already created procedures this is the portland housing bureau seeking to do the same
 Commissioner Fritz has been particularly interested in Bureau administrative rule procedures and feels that the entire City Council and not just the Bureau or Commissioner in charge should have some oversight responsibilities so this seeks to do that I don't know if there's any public commentary on this particular item if not Carla could you call the roll oh I'm sorry yes sir Charles Bridge crane Johnson and
 we talked about the situation in rulemaking with other city bureaus, but I think it's important to remember that every bureau is unique, but the housing bureau, their clientele, the people they deal with, the people affected by those rules are in a very unique situation compared to other people. So I hope that I know that, and it's of course complicated between the housing bureau and Home Forward and as things move forward with the new apartment complex coming online,
 But stakeholder is a horrible word. Neighbors and resident input, particularly for the house where you know. I mean, when we have rulemaking for a bureau under Mr. Fish, 99% of our contact with the Water Bureau is a stamp or an electronic payment.
 But rulemaking for the housing is a more critical thing. And so I know that Home Forward has a residence advisory board or council, something like that. So I hope that when we talk about rules, and all rules really, I mean, you know, the rules are for public benefit. So I hope that the city will live up to its reputation, the good part of its reputation, and rulemaking will have –
 a nice public input process just like we're experiencing right here thank you thank you sir any further public testimony um i would like to add on and just specify that while we're discussing those rules i also agree with charles that it should not move forward without intense public input considering that those rules have a direct impact on us the public also
 I would like to urge this council to make sure while they're taking that public input that the minority community is represented during that discussion of the rules. Since the housing issues in this city are more intensely impacting them. So if you're going to...
 open that up and actually, and I urge you and challenge you to please do so unlike the collective bargaining agreement, please, please allow the public to have say in those rules and to have input in those rules and how they're going to come out and be in black and white before you just pass anything through because people's lives are at stake. Thank you. I will be brief. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog PDX.
 I'm very mystified on the fact that the Housing Bureau, none of their representatives are here on such an important item. Did they just forget? Because this is a very important item, not just to them, but to the public, as you can hear.
 I would like to ask this not to be voted on today and push this out at least for another week until we can have representatives, which the public expect to be here, on these type of items, which is regular agenda. This is not consent agenda. This is regular agenda, which we pay these people to hear them speak on these type of items. They are not here. I'm very mystified on this.
 I'm asking for this to be pushed out a week, have them come in, have a discussion, and then vote on it. Thank you. Thank you. And if I could just clarify, this is not the adoption of the rules. This is just authorizing them to commence with the process to create the rules, which would then come back to the council. So the rules have not
 Not at all. They're in the process. This is a resolution for them to commence that process. Right. No, okay, that makes sense. And like I said, my concern is while those rules are being created in the first place, um,
 I referenced the police collective bargaining agreement because, as you all know, we were not allowed to have input on something that directly impacted our lives. So while these rules are being created, the public input, the people who are paying the rents, the fees, the ones that are actually working hard for those dollars have to have their voices heard, especially in the minority community. They will have that opportunity when the rules come back. Awesome. Next. Thank you. Mayor, before we vote on this. Yes. Yes.
 It's my expectation, I just want you to confirm that as the Bureau adopts a rulemaking procedure, they will work with their own advisory bodies? That is correct.
 May you reference that I have had concerns about this kind of process before, but I don't see anything in the proposed rulemaking procedure to alert the council offices of an impending rule, which is what the Human Resources Bureau does when they're going to change an administrative rule. I also have concerns that it gives the director the authority to adopt these rules without even checking with the commissioner in charge.
 You know, let me make this easy. I request, unless there's an objection, I will pull this and I will bring it back for further council discussion with the Director of the Housing Bureau. I have an objection. Good. And I know that there has been some work started because I had suggested that we have a standard procedure throughout the city for administrative roles. Thank you very much. And I want to make sure everybody feels satisfied, so I'm happy to do that. Good. Next item, please.
 Item 101, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Southeast Interceptor Rehabilitation Project, number E10030, for $4,347,967. Commissioner Fish? Well, this is the second reading, Mayor. And in light of the conversation today, this would only authorize us to enter into a contract.
 And so we'll sit down with Christine Moody and see whether any of the issues which were discussed today can be helpful in the next phase of actually identifying a contractor to do this work. So this is the second reading. Very good. Any further council discussion? Clerk, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Okay.
 Item 101-1, appoint Mike Wedall, Ted Labbe, Micah Meskell, and Scott Robinson as members of the Portland Utility Board.
 Any further... Mayor, why don't I take this one? Thank you, Commissioner. So this is a forfeits because we need to act on these appointments in time for the pub to have a full complement as they take up the budget. Melissa Merrill, who is the pub analyst, is here to answer questions. And colleagues, each of you have a memo from Melissa Merrill as part of the packet. And Melissa, the...
 I'm going to turn to you in a second just to give us a brief overview. Obviously, the thing that jumped out to me when I was briefed on this is that we are being asked to appoint four new members. They are all men, and it raises the question about what are our ongoing procedures for doing outreach activities
 How are we putting into place equity and other city goals? What would be the composition of the pub if we were to accept these four nominations? And then I have some closing thoughts. I will say, as I turn it over to our analyst, the independent analyst for the Portland Utility Board, not our analyst,
 that we have some extraordinary nominations here, and I'm particularly pleased that a couple of leaders in our environmental community have offered to step up and serve and provide their expertise. But, Ms. Merrill, would you walk us through the process? And I'm going to ask you some questions about giving us assurance in the future that we do perhaps even a more robust job of doing outreach to people that might consider an appointment to this body. Thank you.
 Of course. Thank you, Commissioner. Melissa Merrill, City Budget Office and Pub Analyst.
 If I could remind the council that back in September, you approved an expansion of the Portland Utility Board to add two new members to the complement of voting members for the board. And we had one resignation this fall. So there are currently three vacancies up for appointment. And we have the sad news of having our co-chair have an excellent opportunity, career opportunity. She'll be leaving in April. Okay.
 So these are four appointments, four recommended appointments from the board for those positions. In September, the pub asked for the support and recommendation of the commissioners and the mayor in recruiting highly qualified candidates.
 And so when we started this recruitment process, I reached out to all of your offices, as well as the directors of the bureaus and the management team, the Office of Equity and Human Rights, the Diversity and Civic Leadership Program, also the ONI Neighborhood List.
 trying to recruit as far and as wide for candidates who wanted to volunteer for positions on the Portland Utility Board. We received 20 applicants in the late fall, early winter. And you have before you the four recommended candidates
 candidates from the board themselves. Why don't you take a moment just to tell us a little bit about each of the four, if you would? Sure. Scott Robinson is a deputy CFO at Metro. He has prior experience with Portland public schools and regulated utilities through his work with Pacific Corp.
 Micah Meskel is currently the conservation field coordinator with the Audubon Society. He has a degree in economics. Mike Weedall has retired from the Bonneville Power Administration, is vice president of energy efficiency, and has experience with several oversight committees. And Ted Labby is a biologist with extensive background in natural resource management, also the owner of Kingfisher Ecological Services, and serves on the board of DAPEI.
 So if we are to act affirmatively – and these are outstanding –
 What it, I think, affirms is that the community is now aware that the Portland Utility Board has real teeth and power and that it has the chance to change the policy and future of our utilities. So we're getting outstanding candidates. I will note, however, that of the 20 people who applied, only three women out of that pool. That's correct. And I will also note that if we are to approve these nominations, which I will recommend,
 The body will be – the new pub will have five women and, by my count, either six or seven men. If we're counting the ex officio members, it will be an even split 7-7. Even split 7-7. One African American, Lee Moore. I guess the point that I want to just put on the table is what we have learned in terms of outreach for boards and commissions and important assignments is that – and even hiring – is that it's critical that the pool –
 that we choose from be as diverse as possible. And that's why we spend a lot of time doing outreach to make sure the pool reflects a lot of different choices, and then we try to pick the best people from that pool. I think we have some work to do on that, and I appreciate the outreach you did to our offices. I would suggest, Mayor, that...
 in anticipation of any future appointments, that we drill down on this and see how we can build on the existing protocols to make sure we have a more diverse pool from which to select in the future. Agreed. Thank you.
 Is there any further board conversation? Is there any public testimony on this? I'm sorry. I apologize, Commissioner Fritz. So I noticed that in the report on page two, there's a list of self-identified attributes of the current members. That's right. And that accounting has only one person. That's right. And...
 civil engineering, equity, financial and capital improvements, and urban planning are the others. Do any of the four address any of those? They all do. They were the four strongest candidates addressing each of those issues. So we will add a background of one in accounting, one in urban planning, two in analysis, and three in equity. We have not yet filled some more for the civil engineering. Okay.
 And what do you mean by three in equity? With the background of the people that the pub has brought to you, three of those have background and experience in equity issues, some of them serving in neighborhood coalitions or in the other work that they've done before, prior work experience. Yeah, offline, I'd love to know what this... Of course. ...the self-described equity involves. Absolutely. Thank you. Very good. Further questions? Sure.
 On public testimony, I'm going to ask on this item and the next item, which is mine, to limit it to one minute because I know a lot of people have to go pretty quickly. One minute? I did not have a sign-in sheet. Yes, sir, because we're getting towards the end of the agenda. I'm not aggravated. I'm not aggravated because the issue is actually very simple. Thank you. Well, it's negatively simple. When you pick up the printed agenda and when you look at the online document, this is not there.
 If you pass this, I will allege in court that you have not given adequate public notice to proceed on this item. It's not here on a piece of paper I just picked up. There's no way for me to look at it. The other issue that I'll use in my minute is that it would be best to make this board...
 self-fulfilling so that, I don't know if that's the process they came through. I guess they did their own search, right? None of you were involved in the candidate selection or screening? We have given them that authority. With a dedicated staff that report only to them. So all we can do is provide advice. I think just in the interest of your highest ethics, when it's nobody could have known about this coming up unless they called and
 Somebody looked at a fresher sheet of paper than this and a fresher thing than the Internet and known that this was going to be an issue. So I really think that the best ethics for this council is to set this off also until next week. Thank you. Yes, I'm Sheldrick Wilkins, and I think this board needs more women. You should advertise it more. I think as long as you're not building additional facilities –
 In other words, you're not building more things. There's no reason why anybody has to have a university degree beyond a board. And their purpose is basically to take input from families and see if they feel comfortable with the existing utilities. Thank you.
 Yet another group of people without a purpose in our color minority representative. I'm sorry, you have to stay. So you guys know it's going to be snowing this week. You please stay to the record. I'm Star Stauffer. Thank you. Which I've testified so many times here today, I don't know why I would have to repeat it. We have to do it forever. So it's going to be snowing this week, and we have houseless out there, and emerging this city to open more warming shelters. It's not going to be snowing.
 Open the Portland building and have something in the works so that more people don't die like that baby did, like those five people did. Open more warming shelters. Raise. Thank you. You guys, we're almost through. We're going to make it today. We're going to make it. Take your recess. You know the drill. He's up for house lift. He's up for house lift. He's up for house lift. Boys, can you hear me? More warming shelters. You sleep in the green.
 I know. And just . Commissioner signed it. They don't care about . I don't care. They're not the ones out there. They don't care. One to one. Warming shelter in St. Joe. All of North Portland. Warming shelter. That dead baby was 10 blocks from my house. That was in my neighborhood. Community brings. Portland police not doing more to get people to warming shelters. Look for them. That's all. That's all.
 Shelter is life! Are we being clean again? Housing is a house, not a privatized shelter. Five people died in 2017 and it's just... ...and millions into the Portland building. ...and some of them have died.
 No, the chamber's closed. Folks, the chamber's closed. The chamber's closed. Can we clear the chambers again? This is what we have to do because... We have to do... It's about to snow. You have a conversation. 24 hours. You tell him. We told him. And here it is in a...
 I would be back. Now it's snowing again and people have to die. This is an urgent issue. Why is this not important enough to be interrupting? I will never stop doing this. Officer kind guy can come. A sergeant kind guy can come in here. It's tear gas and you only want. Still offering no assistance.
 but how come police officers can, I can see them, in their cars, warm and fuzzy, and people are dying, literally, why is this not being discussed? How about this issue? He's the police commissioner. He spends more money tear-gassing us than he does to do anything for the council. If we're going to talk about millions of Portland buildings, we need that to be a permanent shelter for these individuals. If there's no, I can think of millions of Portland buildings, and we're a public chamber. Because I have the most people on the mic right now. What?
 Wapitau is full. But they think it's too expensive. I know people outside don't give a fuck what that place looks like. They don't give a fuck. It's a prison. But guess what? It's warm. It doesn't have snow. I need insurance. Yeah. I can leave. Just stop it. I'm not going to. I'm not going to. I'm not going to. I'm not going to. I'm not going to. I'm not going to. I'm not going to. I'm not going to. I'm not going to. I'm not going to. I'm not going to.
 Who needs to be married when you've got that? Jesus. One hour. The press conference was on a Wednesday. Okay. I'm sorry, Carla, where were we? I totally lost my train of thought.
 So we finished public testimony on the four-fifths agenda, correct? But we did not take the vote. Correct. We have not taken testimony on that item. What is this button at the bottom of my panel? It's like a toggle switch. Security should probably let you know about that button. It's what? Security should let you know about that button. Okay. Good, because I almost toggled it. Were we tested out? No, I was just worried like the building across the street would disappear or something. It's a bartender button.
 Now that would be a market improvement for all of us. So Joe Walsh is walking away saying, I'm behaving myself very well. You know what? He is. He did. He is. Absolutely he is. I love that Joe. He's been, and I thought his testimony was very good today. Yes. Oh, Mr. Lightning was going to speak, but maybe he left.
 All right. We have a quorum. Does anybody object if I just push forward on this? Do we need four if it was a four-fifths? It's four-fifths. It is a four-fifths. That's to get it on the agenda. It's a report, so. On four-fifths, three votes are sufficient.
 Well, okay. Thank you. All right. I'm sorry. I just wanted to ask Commissioner Fish, I know there's a good reason why it had to be done quickly. Could you let us know what that is? Yes, Commissioner Fritz. So that we have a full complement for next week's meeting, and they're beginning their budget process, and we are right now –
 below the number we need to have them perform their duties in a satisfactory way. Yeah, so with the budget, it definitely is essential that you have a four-fifths. And that's why the mayor has brought this as a four-fifths, because it's a mayoral referral to the council. That is exactly why, Commissioner. Could I get a motion and a second to accept the report? Call the roll, please.
 Well, thank you to both the Mayor and Commissioner Fish for thinking about obviously and raising the issues of equity and women being on the board. I know several of these folks and it's a very good cohort to be adding to the pub.
 Fish? Yeah, I want to just build on what Commissioner Fritch just said. When we look at the names and the professional qualifications, and we know a number of these folks from their community work, again, I just want to
 acknowledge that we are blessed to have people of great capacity and deep background choosing to serve on this body, and it will serve our ratepayers well to have such talent. So I'm grateful for all four of them for agreeing to serve, and we will support the work of the pub in doing more outreach in the future. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I agree. These are excellent appointees, and I'm sure they will serve our city well. Aye. Wheeler?
 All right, the report's accepted, and I believe we have one more item, the item that was pulled from the consent agenda.
 Yes. Item 94, authorize a 39-month sublease with Primera Blue Cross for space at 2020 Southwest 4th Avenue, known as CH2M Center, for use by the Bureau of Development Services for approximately $1,645,445. And if I may just jump ahead of you here, the reason I pulled this from the agenda is there has been a –
 handshake agreement amongst members of this council that lease contracts like this in excess of $500,000 would be brought through the regular agenda. I was not aware of that. So my apologies to my colleagues, but here we are on the regular agenda. I'm the property manager in the Bureau of Internal Business Services, and I'm here with the Bureau of Development. I'm sorry.
 I'm sorry, I'm the property manager in the Bureau of Internal Business Services, and I have the Bureau of Development Services staff with me to request council authorize the execution of a 39-month sublease with Primera Blue Cross for space at the CH2M Center through April 30, 2020.
 The Bureau of Development Services is experiencing unprecedented growth in terms of workload and staffing, and the current location at the 1900 building, which is a city co-owned property with Portland State University, is at full capacity. BDS needs to locate as close to the 1900 building as possible because of the working relationship between the teams and the rest of the Bureau. Therefore, BDS desires to sublease 18,652 square feet from Primera Blue Cross,
 at the CH2M Center, where BDS already has a lease of space on the first floor. The annual sublease cost is approximately $519,000 a year, with no annual increases over the 39-month term of the sublease. Funds are available to cover the sublease agreement and are included in BDS's five-year financial forecast. Do you have any questions? We have no questions. Is there any public testimony on this item? No.
 We don't answer questions, but we'll take testimony if you want testimony. One minute, please. Name for the record. Sorry. Thank you for being here. And if you could just stick around for a minute in case there's any follow-up questions. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And in the distraction of the stuff that wasn't on the website and our interruption, I don't have it up. But a 39-month lease and the extenuancy of the construction boom,
 is understandable, but I think that your constituents' confidence in the government would be improved if when we do things like this, or if it was easier to find on the city website, briefings about how much of – I know in the Commonwealth building, for a long term, we've had a long-term lease there. I'm not a big fan, even when the rents are low, of city taxpayer money
 going to rent commercial property. This extenuancy for BDS, and the other thing is I think is maybe if you have any questions that you could address to the panel about how well do the fees of BDS do at addressing the general independence of that bureau in the budget process. I know that's a little bit beyond the scope, but we love that idea. Thank you. If they're going to go ahead with this question.
 lease on 4th Avenue, one thing I will say is that that is prime location to extend some outreach to the houseless community around there. If they're going to do that with such an expensive lease, I challenge them to open up a portion of their space for warming facilities, potential shower facilities for the houseless.
 and other uses in that regard. Or possibly we could, instead of investing more millions and millions of dollars into
 yet more leases and spaces and buildings and whatnot, why don't we just take that money and give it directly to the houseless community and actually do some real outreach there, especially since we have no sustainable programs in that regard as of yet, and it is, again, about to snow and people probably will die from exposure. Oh, for the record, I'm star Black Lives Matter staffer. Thank you very much. Roll call, please.
 Fritz? Well, thank you for staying the entire morning at Pauline Goebel and Deborah Seavitt-Morris and Elshad Hajif. Very much aware of the need for more space, and isn't it wonderful that we have so many construction and other jobs going that we now have, I think, built back to beyond where we were before the recession in terms of development services staff. So thank you very much for all you're doing to try to keep up with this hectic pace. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 Thank you for your work on this issue. I would just like to clarify for the few people that are left here that BDS is largely self-funding. We have 50 vacant positions that we are struggling to fill right now, and we're just slowing down our process of approving permits, including permits on affordable housing.
 We can't take money from BDS and put it into another bureau as far as I know. This space is necessary, and it is below market rate. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. And with that, we're adjourned until 2 p.m. Thank you. All right. Good evening. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, February 1st afternoon session. Carla, could you please call the roll?
 Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udailey. Here. Wheeler. Here. Could you please call the first item? Item 102, accept the City of Portland Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. Mr. Rust, thank you. And if you could state your name for the record, you know how this works. Yes.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. For the record, my name is Ken Rust. I'm the City's Chief Financial Officer and Director of the Bureau of Financial Services, Revenue and Financial Services. Joining me this afternoon is City Comptroller Michelle Kirby, and we will be presenting to you today the City's Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, or CAFR, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2016.
 We will be discussing with you highlights from the CAFR and we'll be presenting you with additional information regarding the city's long-term fiscal health. At this time, I'd like to turn the presentation over to Michelle. Wait a minute. You can't do that. That's what I did to you. Hi, Michelle. I'll take over. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. The preparation of the annual CAFR is quite extensive and it involves input, planning,
 from many of the city's bureaus, the city auditor's office, and our independent auditors, Moss Adams. The accounting division of BRFS has the responsibility of preparing the CAFR, ensuring its accuracy, and working with the auditors throughout the process. Thank you.
 Several of the accounting division team members are here today, and if I may, I'd like to take a moment to recognize them for their hard work and dedication to the project. And this is the accounting division group back here. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 It's important for financial information to be timely in order to be relevant to the readers, and I'm very pleased to be able to report to you that the June 30, 2016 CAFR was published on November 15, which is 135 days after fiscal year end. This marks the earliest CAFR publication in over 10 years.
 It also puts us on track to meet our goal of CAFR 120 as we intend to publish the 2017 report by November 1, 2017, or 120 days after fiscal year end. The CAFR provides a look at the city's finances as of our fiscal year end, June 30th.
 It's prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which are issued by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, known as GASB. The independent auditor's opinion letter is included within the document and informs the reader about the accuracy of the financial information about the report presentation and its compliance with the accounting standards. Unfortunately, this required format,
 and level of detail can make the CAFR very difficult for many to understand. To address this issue, the accounting division looked into alternative ways to provide financial information to the community. A popular report...
 is designed to provide a summary level overview of a government's financial picture in an easy-to-understand format for those who do not need the level of detail found in the CAFR. The accounting division has prepared the city's first PAFR, and it looks like this.
 And to the capper, which looks like you can see the smaller size. The size alone gives you an idea. We hope this will be a useful tool that supplements the more detailed information found in the big capper. We welcome your feedback and thoughts on the report because we want it to be seen as a useful tool to communicate with the community. Her copies were provided to your office last week.
 and the report can be found online with the rest of the city's annual financial reports. So turning our attention back to the CAFR, we'll discuss the highlights of the fiscal year 2015-16 CAFR.
 The good news is that our external auditors gave the city an unmodified or clean opinion and found no weaknesses or deficiencies in the city's accounting processes. In addition, the CAFR complies with state law, fund balances continue to grow, and we received the Government Finance Officers Association's Award for Excellence in Financial Reporting for the 35th consecutive year.
 The not-so-good news is that we continue to see a decline in the city's net position for governmental activities. In fact, the fiscal year 15-16 city net position for governmental activities declined approximately $273 million, which brings it to a negative $1.4 billion. Could you do me a favor and translate that for people who may be watching this?
 We're going to talk a little bit more about that and try to tear that down so it's more understandable to both the council and others who may be listening. Great. Thank you. The negative trend is primarily the result of Gatsby accounting rules for pensions, but there are other factors involved. And I will now turn it over to Ken, back to him, who will provide you with more detailed assessment of the trend and the city's long-term financial health.
 thanks michelle on the on the next chart we show the 10-year trend in net position for the city and you can see we have three lines on that particular chart the blue line represents that position for governmental activities which is primarily composed of the city's general fund and its transportation programs
 Business and activities are shown by the orange line and are primarily comprised of the city's big utilities, water and environmental services. And the green line is simply a summation of those two.
 And you can see on the trend line that there's been a downward trend, particularly on the governmental activities, over the last 10 years. It went negative last year at about $1.2 billion as we implemented the GASB 68 standard for pension accounting, and it increased, as Michelle mentioned, even more this year to about a negative $1.4 billion this year.
 In contrast, the orange line, or the business activities line, has had steady upward progress, representing the investment that those utilities are making in assets and the general continued strengthening of those utilities in terms of their net position. Overall, the trend is down, but it's heavily influenced by the underlying conditions of governmental activities. Thank you.
 So what affects net position, Mayor? You were asking, you know, how do we understand this? And this is something we've been talking with council over the last couple of years. And I put together this chart, factors that affect net position in terms of decreasing it on a gap basis. And really what happens there is when expenses are greater than revenues, it has the effect of driving down our net position.
 So things that can drive down our net position are increases in pensions and other similar kinds of obligations and liabilities, increases in bonds payable with no offsetting assets, and when we have and incur non-cash expenses that contribute to expenses overall exceeding revenues. And I'll talk a little bit more about what that is.
 On the other side of the chart, we have things that can actually increase our net position. And when revenues exceed expenses on a gap basis, that gives rise to increasing net position. So the kinds of things that can contribute there are if we get grant funds to build something, that money comes to us and helps us build an asset, but we don't have a corresponding liability, net position goes up.
 If we fund capital improvements from cash flow, our net position goes up. We're not incurring any debt obligation that offsets that asset. And if we take surplus revenues and just hold on to them or pay down liabilities, that has the effect of increasing our net position. So those are the kinds of dynamics that are in play here that help you understand why would we be in this situation where our net position of governmental activities has declined to $1.4 billion. And what's really driving that primarily
 is FPD&R. There are other things as well, but the three big things that are the contributing factors are FPD&R, urban renewal indebtedness, where we take on the liability, PDC gets the bond proceeds and spends it. We don't tend to get an offsetting asset
 And for those bonds where we've helped finance other activities in the region, we gave Metro $100 million for the convention center expansion, $74 million still sits on our books and records. And in exchange, we're in an intergovernmental agreement that we'll receive resources back, but we have a liability, no asset. And one of the big things that we have seen over the years is that depreciation, which is a non-cash expense, our annual depreciation in governmental activities is about $100 million greater than the annual depreciation in government activities.
 than the capital investment that we make each year, and almost all of that is attributable to transportation, where the amount of depreciation for transportation is about $110 million greater than the investment that they're making on an annual basis. So those are some of the underlying factors that are driving our net position in the direction that it's at. What I did on the next chart, and we talked about it the last couple of years, is
 Because of the way in which we are obligated to measure assets, revenues, and liabilities under GAAP and GASB,
 tends to underestimate or doesn't give us really full credit for some of the unique aspects associated, particularly with FPD&R. And we've had a lot of discussions about FPD&R. FPD&R right now has an unfunded liability of $3.4 billion. So we have that liability on our balance sheet. We're reflecting that in our net position. But we also have a dedicated property tax levy.
 that we use to pay that obligation, the expense of that each and every year. The value of that tax levy that we have on, that the voters approved back in 1948, the value of that on a gap basis is zero.
 but we know that that's how we're going to pay for it we know it's always been sufficient to pay for it in fact we test that regularly to see that if it's adequate to be paid for so if we take that into account that we really have this large liability but we have a corresponding way to pay for it that has a tremendous impact on the way in which we can measure net position we also know that we've issued bonds for renewal and about 25 percent of those monies come back to us in the form of an asset from pdc but
 all of that debt is paid for from a property tax levy associated with urban renewal indebtedness. So it doesn't really create any liability for us in terms of our ability to pay that. We think it's fair to reflect that in our financials and a restating of the net position as well. And I mentioned earlier the convention center bonds where we have an intergovernmental agreement between the city, the county, and Metro where we receive monies from the county to pay debt service on the bonds. It's always been fully adequate to do so. So when you make those adjustments,
 to the GASB net position, you see what we've shown in this particular chart. And what happens is governmental activities over this 10-year period, they're pretty much flat, really not much change in that when you take into some of the things that were not allowed to include on a GAAP-GASB accounting basis. And then when you add to it the orange line, which is the business activities, which is trending upward, you see an overall –
 net position trend that's stable to slightly growing. We think that that's a better reflection of the city's true underlying net position in financial condition. So what does this mean and what should we do? We've had a lot of discussions about this over the last few years is that
 We recognize that GAAP accounting has limitations in terms of accurately assessing financial condition, in our opinion. It tends to focus on liabilities and give us less focus or credit to contractual or other dedicated revenues that we receive over time, like the FPNR levy.
 Without adjusting for non-GAAP items, the net position can lead to focusing on the wrong trend. We certainly are concerned about FPD&R, but because of the way in which it's funded, it really isn't a problem. But if you didn't tear away and tease out some of the things going on here, you would focus all your energy on solving a problem that really doesn't exist.
 and miss the problem that we really have to struggle with, and that is the perennial and consistent underinvestment in infrastructure. That's the more fundamental issue when you tear away the pieces of net position that we should be concerned about that I think we need to focus on, and we've been talking with council about that over the last couple of years and have made some considerable effort to increase the investment that we're making in our infrastructure. We've also been looking at how the most important thing we can do is make decisions that avoid overinvestment.
 short-term and long-term financial impairment, and I'm going to talk a little bit more about that. And one of the tasks I've been assigned to is to try to give the council an idea of what are those longer-term financial issues that we should be concerned about. And last year...
 presented to you the famous little fiscal health snapshot that I know was a way to distill down a lot of complex information in categories that I think you and others have found very useful. And when I started looking at the things that you should be concerned about and be paying attention to, I looked at three general categories of fiscal activity that we should be always watching.
 One are our long-term liabilities, PERS, FPD&R, and other post-employment benefits.
 PERS, as I mentioned last year, concerns me because it is heavily reliant on high levels of investment returns each and every year. We have an unfunded liability with PERS. We expect that that unfunded liability will likely be growing due to things like overturning of the Moro decision, which had the effect of reversing some of the decisions that would have helped save governments like Portland on their pensions.
 But in 2015, earnings were low for the pension fund. It earned about 2.1%. It needs at least 7.5% or more to stay even. This year was better. Probably the only thing that came out of the election was the stock market went nuts in the last quarter of the year.
 and we now ended up with something a little over 7% earnings for the year for PERS. Still didn't hit the requirement of 7.5%, plus the ability for them to pay COLA. So even though that was not a bad year, we know we're going to fall behind. So PERS makes me nervous about its continuing impact on the city. FBDNR, in the contrast, I have...
 I said that currently I think it's in green status. I think it stays in green status. Even though we had some increases in salary costs in a wage settlement, that increased police costs also rolls through to FPD&R pension costs. The most recent levy adequacy study, which was completed about a week ago, simulates potential ranges of cost in real market value property tax growth over a 40-year time period.
 The probability that the levy will be inadequate over that 40 years has declined to only a 2.6% probability. The last time they did it, it was a 4% probability. So FPD&R, if the tax system being stable the way it is, and as long as we have reasonable real market value growth, I don't believe that's something that we need to worry about. We always have to watch it. Our OPEB liabilities year over year actually declined.
 And that's another thing that we continue to watch and monitor because we're on a pay-as-you-go funding system for that. And that's the way we've advised council to proceed with it since we were required to begin reporting that back in, I think, 2008. Okay.
 When we look at infrastructure, we know that there's a lot of different areas that we have to pay attention to. The utilities I feel pretty comfortable with have a stable and secure funding plan. They have a lot of needs in front of them, but I'm confident that they're going to be able to continue making the investment necessary. I think it's cautionary that we should be always watching that, but I'm not as concerned about that particular area of the city's infrastructure assets than I am with certain other areas.
 Transportation is the one that we clearly have the most concern about. It's currently in red status. It stays in red status. We've made some improvements over the last year. We have a gas tax. We have a heavy vehicle surcharge and things like that. That's helpful. But we know that the underinvestment is at least $100 million a year, and those monies are primarily oriented at maintenance. So we know that that's going to be a continuing problem, one that we have to focus on. Can I ask you a question on that, Ken? Certainly. Okay.
 So I get the shortfall as far as sufficiency and resources to maintain the capital assets that we have in place. But this is a fiscal report, and the reality is fiscally we're not going to spend more resource than we have. Okay.
 So when you're talking about the CAFR and the issues that you take up in the CAFR, are you looking at the declining value of the asset? Is that why this is on the report? That's the linkage, Mayor, is that the net position is an indicator that by itself,
 suggest that the city may be in a position where over time it will be less able to continue and maintain the services that it's currently providing. So when we look at what's causing the decline in that position, we tear apart these little elements of it. And one of the areas that we have to pay attention to is the underinvestment in infrastructure. Because going forward, if we don't address that, the ability of that infrastructure to provide the services that we expect
 will decline as well. And so that can lead to further impairment of our ability to provide those services. But is it actually the deterioration of the asset that rises it to the level that it's on the CAFR? I mean, I can think of other services, mental health services in the community, for example, that are not funded to the degree that they need to be
 yet that's not on the CAFR. So is transportation there because of the value of the asset deteriorating, or why does it rise to the level of the, you know, what gets in the CAFR and what doesn't? What's in the, and that's a good question, what's in the CAFR are things that are financial assets and liabilities that were required to record under GAAP GASB. Okay. There are a lot of other things clearly that don't have those kinds of values that we bring onto our financial statement that are important and arguably are even more important.
 But we're looking at those kinds of things that we're required to capture under gap accounting. And what we see there is a consistent underinvestment. And there's a lot of interesting things about transportation. We've had this discussion last year, is that we could spend $100 million on transportation, repaving roads, making them very smooth, but
 but it may not be necessarily a capital investment if it isn't capitalizable it won't it won't help us close that gap between depreciation and capital investment because we have a lot of maintenance things so it i'm not saying that that by itself um is something that is going that we have to focus on and solve completely but it's an indicator and i think the indicator is important about when we have an under investment where does that take us if we if
 The accounting information is useful and instructive, but it doesn't tell you all of what you need to do. But if you follow it to its logical conclusion, you do end up with a significantly poor infrastructure that can't provide services. People can't rely on it to get to and from work. Businesses can't rely on it to get goods and services in and out of the city. And it starts to impair other kinds of things like the ability to –
 grow wealth in the community, and generate resources for other kinds of programs like mental health. Male Speaker 1 And I'm sorry to my colleagues for asking elementary questions. Could you go back to the report? Ugh, take me off that. Can you go back to the dashboard? Male Speaker 1 Yes. Male Speaker 1 So the, okay, good. All right, good, thank you. That's helpful to me. I got it. Thank you. So I have just a question off the,
 Actually, you know what my question is, Ken, so what's your answer? The answer is the utilities are still in yellow status, and we have done some work on the kinds of things and attributes and factors to take into consideration that would move them from yellow to green status, and things like being in regulatory compliance, maintenance of their infrastructure at a certain level,
 rates and charges trending towards inflation, things like that. And generally speaking, you know, BES is getting very close to turning to green status. Water is probably a shade of yellow moving to it. I don't have an orange I can't put in here, so I can't figure out what the right color is. We've been actively lobbying for just a split circle. And I haven't figured out how to do that yet. But just to be clear, because I think it's important when you're in yellow status to
 and you're encouraging us to move towards green, it's important that we identify what are the factors that you're considering. And so maintaining our high credit rating so we can borrow money at low interest rates. Remaining in compliance with all of our regulatory requirements, which of course at least recently has gotten more complicated because we're not sure where the regulatory environment is going in Washington, D.C., and it could go one of a number of ways,
 continuing to invest in replacing aging infrastructure and in resilience, which our rating agencies give us credit for, and that often means rate increases above ordinary inflation. So do we have the political will to continue to do that? And as I understand it, the reason that we're not quite at green is that a number of these factors are variable factors.
 And despite our best efforts, you know, there are some things that are out of our control. So you've given us a yellow and an admonition to continue. Is that fair? That's correct. I'd like to have stretch goals for you, you know. Very good. Okay.
 The last category, we've talked about infrastructure liabilities, the utilities. We have others in the form of parks and housing, which has become a bigger issue than we've had in the past. We've made a lot of progress. We're doing a lot of great work, but we know that the need is great as well. So I'm concerned long-term about our ability to continue to fund at the level necessary, but we have done a lot of good things, and we're going to have to continue to pay attention there. We have legacy liabilities associated with utilities.
 with the Willamette River Superfund site and Columbia River levees, and we're working through that as well. So those are things that we need to pay attention to. And of course, employee costs is the last category. Things that drive our costs up on employee side,
 wages, salaries, health benefits, pension benefits, and where we put people, all contribute to a potential for us to see expenses associated with employees growing faster than our revenues, and that creates problems for us to manage over the long haul. So those are, when I met with you last year, those were the things that I identified as being issues for us to pay attention to, not just short-term, but on the longer term as well. At this point, we don't own any housing. So what kind of housing goes into the...
 the grid here that you assess this on as being red, or whatever it is, orange, yellow? We do own one housing project. That's Headwaters. That's one that was done a number of years ago. And with the new authorization that we received from the voters and also some of the dedication of short-term rental, if we're going to finance and help build housing,
 for a lot of complex reasons we will probably be owners of housing because that type of financing can only be used if we're an owner the housing but we're not just doing it we also have a lot of tax increment resources being devoted to housing that we support the development of affordable housing through more traditional means so the housing thing isn't so much what we own but we know that we have a big need and we know the city is going to be asked to support
 adding resources to meet that need, whether we're the owner or we're contributing that in the form of grant funds to developers that are building affordable housing on our behalf. So that's why I added that into that particular category, because that's an expanding piece of infrastructure for the city. Does the Housing Bureau own the headquarters? Yes.
 Well, the city of Portland knows that. It's managed. I mean, it was a project developed by PDC. It was financed by city general fund-backed revenue bonds, and it's owned by the city of Portland. So does this chart show any Portland Development Commission assets as well? No. And so is that housing that's relatively new, or has that been on before now that we're thinking we have passed the bond and we're going to become an owner of public housing? I believe I had it on there last year as well, Commissioner. I could check that, but –
 It was an issue last year, but I think the issue is becoming bigger is my concern. So paradoxically, the choice that we've made to provide more housing for people who need it then puts our city financial condition into a worse place. Is that correct? I would say that if a worse place in the sense that we've –
 conference I went to last week was the National Federation of Municipal Analysts. So it's a room full of people that just rate bond stuff from municipal governments. And it was a session on distressed credits, which were not one. But I was on a panel called Managing the Divides. A lot of the divisions in communities and across the country were rural-urban, urban-suburban. And they were intrigued what Portland was trying to do. I was talking about, you know, in Portland, we recognize this is a big issue.
 and we're concerned about the impact of inequality and equity in our community and the work we're doing around racial equity planning and trying to make a more deliberate decision about the allocation of resources to deal with some of those divides and housing being a very big piece of that
 When you start to think about that, my scorecard is really financial-oriented, but kind of to what the mayor was saying, there might be a whole bunch of other things that we need to be measuring as well. How are we doing in terms of closing the affordability and housing gap, the income and equity gap, the access to fully formed neighborhoods and parks and things like that?
 those are important metrics that might actually determine the longer-term sustainability and fiscal health of a community, much like these other more traditional financial measures. Because if I was a bond buyer –
 And I had a choice between two bonds, and they're each rated the same. But one community is doing a lot better job at bridging these divides to make the community more resilient, sustainable, and supportive in a place that people want to come, invest, grow wealth, and generate income and tax revenues for the government longer term. Where would I put my money? And so the housing piece is an interesting way to start thinking about, even though we could make that number whatever we want to make, but –
 The more we do there, it might make our community a better place to live long-term, and that has important financial impacts and implications for the city of Portland. Thank you. That's very helpful. And I'm sorry I missed part of that when I stepped outside for a second. Thank you.
 You know, you've referred to the City Lights model, which we use for the head – well, a prior council used for the headwaters. We considered City Lights for Gray's Landing during the recession because we ran out of financing tools, but we decided to go a different route. Most of the housing that we invest in, we don't own. We just have a regulatory agreement. That's correct. I'm sorry. I apologize. I missed your colloquy with Commissioner Fritz. Okay.
 So we're putting a lot of money into housing, but we don't own it. And how is that reflected on our balance sheet? Those assets aren't reflected on our balance sheet, and we don't generally have liabilities associated with that. We grant funds and do things with PDC resources. Now, some of those PDC resources actually are liabilities on our balance sheet. But because we have a tax revenue associated with it, that doesn't really impair us. Now, one of the distinctions, though –
 That's different with housing, and I know Commissioner Sultzman has learned quite a bit about this over the last few months. We've all learned a lot about it, is that the voter-approved GO bonds and also the dedication of short-term rental taxes to maybe support leveraging of financing, if it's backed by the general fund, has the city's general fund credit or unlimited taxing power behind it,
 creates a lending of credit issue under the state constitution and under city charter. It makes it very difficult, I won't say impossible, but so far it's been pretty much impossible, to figure out a way in which we can give monies to developers to develop through some sort of an agreement projects for us,
 without tripping into this lending and credit issue. So hence, we may be actually more directly involved in direct ownership, like the Ellington Apartments. We may just end up owning it and then partnering with Home Forward or someone to help do the management. That's correct. And that then shows up on our balance sheet. Yes. Think of it, we have a liability, we issue bonds, but we have an asset, we have the housing. That's actually good for our...
 It's neutral, at least. It's not negative. Oftentimes we get into these asymmetrical financial decisions where we create the liability, we don't get the asset. We did good things with it, but our net position is hurt by it. So, for example, when we give the county $80-plus million for our contribution to the Selwood Bridge, we're going to finance that with gas tax revenue bonds. That liability is on our balance sheet. The asset is on the county's balance sheet. And so our net position looks worse. Now, is that a bad decision?
 Well, it's a very important asset. It's an important arterial and bridge, and it will be resilient in an earthquake. But it was a good decision for the community, but from a narrow financial standpoint, not necessarily one that makes our balance sheet look better. So those are the kinds of things that we have to be mindful of.
 I'll just quickly finish off here. You know, we've talked with you last year about long-term, fundamentally the city has a math problem, and that's that its expenses are growing faster than revenues. And we have to be mindful of that, that there are things that are going on systemically that we have to pay attention to. And what we're going to have to do to bring that into balance, we have to cut expenses, reduce programs or services, increase revenues or some combination of the above. And you can see that right this year.
 We're in a budget process right now, and we're cutting budgets. But general fund revenues are growing. They're going to be higher than they've ever been.
 And so we already see the tension in that mismatch between the rate of expenditure growth and the rate of revenue growth. And imagine a slowdown in the economy or a recession where we see a decline in those revenues. Those are the kinds of things that we have to be mindful of, because if we don't start thinking about how we are going to try to manage those long-term costs, we will be perennially cutting budgets. And that's something important to think about as you make those budgetary decisions now into the future.
 I just want to summarize where we've been. It's been a long discussion, and I appreciate that opportunity. But, you know, we are happy to present to you the CAFR for fiscal year ending 2016. As Michelle mentioned, it complies with all required accounting standards. We have an unmodified or clean-up in from our outside auditor, and you'll hear more from them this afternoon. Thank you.
 Our budget practices have ensured that the city adopts a balanced budget each year, and we have no audit deficiencies to report. So we're very proud of that. Our current financial position continues to strengthen. Overall fund balance is for the city is over $600 million. The general fund has slightly over $100 million. Thank you.
 We think that making these non-gap adjustments that we talked about, how we look at FPD&R and some of these other things that make our net position look odd, are better ways to really get a sense of the city's real financial position and also understand the kinds of things that we should be paying attention to. We think that that's also more reflective of the fact that the city's a AAA-rated credit and has been that way for 40 years.
 Remember the CAF are simply a snapshot at a point in time. Future challenges can affect the fiscal health of the city, but we've weathered many financial storms. And by developing good practices and policies now and making decisions based on that, we can make sure that we can sustain a strong financial performance for the city and the ability to maintain the services that our citizens depend on on into the future. I hope that answers any questions you may have. Very good. Any questions from the council?
 Carla, is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Would you like to testify? Three minutes. Keep it on point, please. Name for the record. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I believe that in the future, the city will have to cut social services. I believe that the city does things by building things like bridges, roads, infrastructure. But I believe this, that only the federal government and the state government can decide the merits of social programs. Okay.
 and not the city. And I think in the future there'll be a... The schools, for example, will start begging the city for money, and the city will just have to turn away. Again, social services is very hard to say whether you need to hire people to manage that. And there are certain mayors that got over this. I remember Bud Clark, for example, was drafted. He was a Republican by the Democrats because the city of Portland was going in debt to...
 And Mayor Clark actually won re-election and managed to cut the budget and got on the Johnny Carson show. Mayor, I move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Okay.
 Well, thank you once again for a very clear presentation. Always the work of Chief Financial Officer Ken Rust is fabulous. City Controller, Michelle Kirby. I think City Controller is maybe one of my favorite titles for anybody coming to work in the city.
 controlling a lot of money and also making sure that there are controls on that money. This popular financial report is definitely an improvement, a very... an improvement, isn't it? A new thing that's making things much clearer for the population and the neighbours here in Portland. Thank you very much for all your good work.
 I want to echo everything Commissioner Fritz has said, and I very much appreciate the way you're laying out the information and the very clear presentation today. Thank you for your good work. Aye. Mr. Saltzman? Yes, thank you for your good work, and I definitely vote for the popular report. That's great. Aye. Ms. Udaly? Thank you for your work. I'm feeling a little left out because I don't have a copy of the popular report, but I will support it nevertheless.
 enthusiastically supportive. Thank you. This is great. And as you can note, sometimes in government, we tend to write reports for ourselves. And in doing so, we're unintentionally excluding the public who may or may not have CPAs and knowledge of finance and whatnot. And ultimately, it's their city. They face the consequences, for better or worse.
 of how we manage our fiscal situation. So I think this is a really great report, and I appreciate it. Enthusiastic eye. The report is accepted. Carla, could you please read the next item? Item 103, results of financial audit of the city comprehensive annual financial report for fiscal year 2015-16 and related communications. And we have Auditor Paul Caballero here today to help introduce this item.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Good afternoon. For the record, I am City Auditor Mary Hall-Caballero. It is my pleasure today to introduce Jim Lanzarota, a partner in the accounting firm Moss Adams, which conducted the audit of the City's fiscal year 2016 financial statements. I also have the Director of Audit Services from my office, Drummond Kahn.
 The city's financial statements are important resources for community members, taxpayers, investors, and decision makers to understand what fiscal shape the city is in at a moment in time. Once management has prepared the financial statements, federal and Oregon law and city charter require an independent audit be conducted to determine if the public can reasonably be assured that they fairly represent the financial position of the city.
 It is important to note what financial audits don't do. They do not provide opinions on whether the city is spending appropriately, making good decisions, or what the long-term future may hold. We have to rely on other types of assessments to determine the answers to those questions. The city entered into a contract with Moss Adams, a licensed municipal audit firm, to conduct this audit, and my office oversees that contract.
 This arrangement ensures that the outside auditors have an extra measure of independence from the managers whose work is being audited. I'd like to acknowledge Director of Audit Services Drummond Kahn and Principal Management Auditor Fiona Earle for administering the contract and acting as liaisons between the city bureaus and Moss Adams. And I will turn it over to Mr. Lanzarota to walk you through the results. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler, it's nice to see you again. You might remember our years over at Multnomah County. We still perform that audit and just delivered within the last week their audit report. Fantastic. I'm glad to hear it. Fellow commissioners, it's great to come before you. We finished the audit obviously back in November and delivered our reports to management, but the audit doesn't feel done until we get a chance to sit down and go over those results with you.
 Ken and Michelle already let the cat out of the bag, so you already kind of know the juicy stuff, and maybe that's okay. You know, you kind of want those good results, and so I'm here to echo that. So what I'd like to do today is just remind you about what it is you engaged us to do. So we'll talk about the audit process to maybe solidify a little bit your understanding of what that is. Obviously, you want to know the results. I think you know most of the results already, but we'll review that again.
 And there are some required communications from an auditor. So to meet our professional standards in performing an audit, there are communications that we're required to go over with you, and we issued that to you in a letter form that you should have received already, and I'm just going to hit on a couple things that are in that report. And then, of course, I want to answer any questions that you might have about the process. All right, what did you engage us to do?
 So I think you have a pretty good understanding of the audit. A lot of familiar faces here. You've seen me here before giving this report, but one new face at least. And so I like to break the audit down for you into about five phases. There's like five phases to what we're doing.
 The first one is that financial statement audit. So is this document accurate? Does it accurately reflect the balances at year end and the results of all those financial transactions that you entered into for the year? And within that, there are several entities here. So not only do you have the city, but included in here is the Portland Development Commission, that their financials get rolled into yours. We do the audit of PDC.
 FPD&R was mentioned by Ken several times. There's a separate financial statement for the activity that runs through that pension trust fund. We audit that activity. And then there's also hydro. You have a fund here of the city that records certain power operations, and we do a separate audit and issue a report on that.
 All right, so there's a financial statement piece. Also, I think you have a pretty good understanding of the audit. I mean, that's the independent verification of the information that's here. It's looking at invoices and source documents and talking directly to your bank and the
 who holds the funds, cash and investments here at the city. But a second phase is looking at internal controls. Ken already mentioned that. Michelle mentioned that, that we didn't find any findings there. I'll talk about that. But in...
 In putting this together, we have an obligation to look at those checks and balances that management uses to be sure that you're collecting accurate information here. If there are weaknesses in those controls and processes, through your external audit, we have an obligation to inform you of those weaknesses.
 A third phase is that since you're an Oregon municipal corporation, the state says, auditors of Oregon MuniCorps, you need to test certain state legal compliance. And there's seven or eight areas that we look at. Probably the one that takes the most time is your compliance with local budget law. So that whole process you go through of putting your budget together, informing the public, holding public hearings...
 and then how you administer that budget during the year, there's a lot of state laws that cover that process. So we do the testing to determine if you met all of those appropriate state laws. That's just one area. There's public purchasing. There's where you put the cash and investments at the city. Do those meet requirements? Insurance, programs funded from outside sources. Like I said, there's about seven or eight areas. And we issue a report.
 Well, we issue a report anyway, but that would identify any noncompliance.
 A fourth phase of your audit is testing federal grant programs. So the city is very proactive in writing grants and bringing resources into the community that weren't generated here. Anytime you are involved in federal grants, there are compliance requirements associated with that. And so the federal government said, hey, auditors of governmental entities, if you're interested
 if your client is receiving federal grants, we want you to do some additional compliance testing and then reporting if we identify noncompliance with any specific requirements to those grant programs. And so we did that work and issued some reports there. Thank you.
 And then finally, a fifth phase. I've mentioned this before. You have a phenomenal staff here that got glad that you had a chance to recognize their efforts. You put this document together. So in Oregon, there's about 1,700 governments, I believe, that
 issue financial statements to the state, and it's the minority of them that have the ability to have that qualified staff on board with the technical knowledge to put this document together. And you're very fortunate to have some very highly educated and qualified people that know how to do that.
 What do the other jurisdictions do that don't have stuff to do? Yeah, good question. So what a lot of them do is ask their auditor to actually prepare that document. And our firm, although we do some like that, our preference is not to do it because it kind of puts us in that awkward position where we end up auditing our own work.
 So an auditor has to have enough comfort that even though their client isn't preparing the document, they have enough knowledge to take responsibility for it. And if we're not preparing it, we don't have to go through the hoops to make that assessment. So some of our clients, where they don't audit, they'll engage a third party to come in. So sometimes there's a couple CPA firms in the mix. Someone prepares.
 someone else audits. And that's another way to address that. So that's another item there. So that fifth phase for us is really just the technical review. We don't have to prepare it, but obviously we want to make sure that it meets all the requirements that
 All right, there's the audit. So the results. Well, you already kind of know most of the results. Clean opinion is what we call it in layman's terms. Unmodified is the technical term. So basically, as a result of the work we performed, we came to a conclusion that this accurately reflects those balances and transactions, and it contains the required disclosures under governmental accounting standards. So very good job there. All right.
 Also, it was mentioned already on the internal control front, we did not identify any significant deficiencies in the internal controls. We had some best practice observations along the way with management, but clearly nothing that rose to the level that we would be required to report to you in a written form.
 On state legal compliance, again, no findings there. Our report is on page 332 of the CAFR, and there is one comment in there that you'll note that identifies a couple funds that ended with negative fund balances
 That's not a noncompliance issue, but the state says, hey, if there are some funds back there that have negative fund balances, please point that out. And actually, you point that out in the footnotes already. So management highlighted that, and we did as well in that report.
 On the federal grant front, we ended up testing five of your grant programs, five of the larger grant programs. The city received a total of $36 million of federal grants last year.
 And there's a schedule in here that shows all of the grants that we tested. They actually totaled $84 million. The difference are some loan programs that you have outstanding. So you have a lot of housing-related loan programs and so forth. There was $58 million there. So the total of what you received in cash plus the loans outstanding come to $84. That was the pot that we chose programs to test.
 A couple things to note about that. We have to make an assessment of whether the city is a low-risk or a high-risk oddity, and you want to be low-risk.
 If you're high risk, that means that we've identified problems in the past or management has had experienced some issues in the past. Maybe they haven't filed reports timely with the federal government, for example. And we were able to determine that you're a low risk oddity. You've had a number of years of good findings from your federal grants. And so that's clearly where you want to be.
 And in all of our testing of the five grant programs, there were no findings. So no noncompliance was identified, and we found the appropriate internal controls that were utilized to help you meet the compliance requirements for those grants. So excellent result on your federal audit. Okay, some required communications, and then clearly want to open it up for any questions that you might have.
 So we issued a letter to you which has the different topics that we're required to cover. And again, I don't want to go over all of those, but I thought there were a couple just that most boards want to hear about. One is, geez, did we meet the timelines?
 Michelle, your city controller mentioned how you moved up the timeline for issuance of your financial statements you're our star client this year because most of our clients incurred challenges which actually delayed their process the city was one of the few that actually got it done quicker so you took two weeks off of the process I can remember not that long ago just barely getting the report issued before the year ended
 and you moved it up to the middle of December and then to December 1st, now November 15, and you have plans to move it up to November 1st. And that's excellent. For our large governmental clients, they really struggle to meet that kind of a time frame.
 So hats off to your crew for the work that they did, which enabled them to meet that timeframe. And I'm really proud of Michelle. I know she's going to present at a governmental conference coming up and hopefully share with other finance officers the great things that you did, which enabled you to hit that timeframe.
 Another thing that our boards like to hear is, did we find any audit adjustments? Were there any errors that required an adjustment to these numbers? And I'm pleased to report to you that we did not identify any errors that existed where we went back to management to tell them, hey, you need to post a correction here.
 Not only that, but we have an obligation to tell you if there are past adjustments. So these are the errors that are not material, but are they something you'd want to know about? And there were two. So we did identify two errors in these financials.
 One of them I would attribute to just how excited your staff is about getting the numbers. Oregon PERS, you mentioned a little bit about this new pension accounting, and Oregon PERS publishes information that's necessary for you to post your portion of that plan, and they posted numbers initially that were incorrect.
 And they were only on the state's website for about a week before that error was identified. And your crew went out and grabbed that report as soon as it was posted and ended up using those numbers instead of the revised report that came out later. So there was an error that existed in your pension expense report.
 There's also an identification of a landfill. The city took over responsibility for a landfill, and there are some post-closure care costs that you will incur. And the accounting standards require that you book that liability as you're accepting waste into that landfill. And that's...
 obligation had not been recognized in your financial statements in prior years. So the net effect of those two entries was only about $2.7 million, which was clearly immaterial to your financial statements.
 Another thing that boards like to hear about is, did we have any difficulties? You know, when we're asking questions, were we getting funny responses? Were they withholding information? Did we feel awkward about any of that? And we didn't experience anything like that. I'd say we have a very professional relationship with finance staff. I think we have spirited discussions about how to do things correctly, and those are all positive discussions, so no difficulties. Thanks.
 And then finally, any disagreements. I mean, are they pushing an accounting treatment that is not supported by the accounting standards, or were they pushing us in any direction in terms of audit procedures? And we did not have any disagreements with your staff. Again, some spirited discussions about how to apply the accounting standards, all very positive experiences.
 I feel like I'm talking 900 miles an hour. But let me rest there and just ask if you have any particular questions, or can I shed some light on the audit process? Jim, I have a couple of questions. Yes. First, for the benefit of our two newest members, how many years have you presented this audit –
 to counsel? Good question. You know, we used to not present to you, believe it or not. When we first had the contract, there were several years. I think when your predecessor, LaVon Griffith
 Vlad? Valade. I want to say Vlad. She, I think, instituted the process where we come before you and deliver the results. So there were a couple years under her leadership where we came and delivered this report to you, and then the time that Mary's been here, we've delivered this report to you. About how many years have you been performing this function for the city? Since probably 2006, I think, 2005, 2006. Okay.
 Over 10 years? Yes. And so that's, I think, important context because my recollection is in past presentations, you have flagged issues relating to grant programs and some internal control. Yes. So, yes.
 In light of the fact that you have issued an unmodified, clean opinion, what is your conclusion, therefore? Yeah, well, good questions. And I believe in the letter that we issued to you, there is a section at the very end that may comment on past opinions.
 comments from audits. In any time that we've identified internal control weaknesses, we've come to management with some suggestions for improvements.
 And they've made improvements. So all of those issues that have been identified in prior years have been resolved as a result of changes made to internal controls or processes to where those are now resolved and are not issues any longer. And it's probably been a couple years. I think you've had some clean results from – so you've probably gone a couple years without findings from us in terms of internal control weaknesses. Right.
 Same with the grants programs. Jim, my second question is what we have been advised is that by applying governmental accounting standards, we have the opportunity to compare our financial condition against peer cities. And the theory is you create a uniform set of standards and see where we stack up.
 But the takeaway I get every year from Ken's presentation is that few cities have a pay-as-you-go pension system like ours that we call FPD&R. And so we often get into this discussion about, well, if we apply the government standards, you would reach one conclusion. If you adjust for the fact that we have a unique system fully secured against the assets of the city, you might see a different view.
 Would you give us your best guidance as to how to look at that question? Well, I appreciate Ken's report to you. So this is the second year that I've heard Ken come before you and talk about these long-term obligations. And he's instituted this green light, red light, yellow light way of looking at it, which I think is fantastic. And so there's a couple ways that you can look at this. One is pure cash flow.
 So can we pay these obligations when the time comes? And I think that's what Ken's trying to help you with.
 Do we have the cash flow to meet these obligations? And I think what he's telling you, at least for FPD&R, is that you do. So you have this, and I appreciate that you evaluate that property tax every, I don't think it's every year, but about every two years I think you go out and the evaluation is over a 40-year period of time. There's an evaluation of what do we look like? Is there a chance that we won't have enough property taxed?
 So one way of looking at it is, do we have the cash to meet the obligation? And I think Ken's steering you there. A second way of looking at it, though, is more of this kind of intergenerational equity. I think we've used that term in reporting to you. The reality is that your employees earn the right to those benefits as they provide a service for the city, and we didn't put money aside for that.
 So the issue is that there's a benefit provided to the community in prior years, a benefit that's been earned, but the city hasn't funded it yet. So the actual funding is going to come from future generations. So another way that's maybe not on the positive side is you've incurred that cost already. You haven't withheld the revenues to pay for it. So a future generation has to pay not only a current cost, but some they're going to have to,
 cover that legacy cost, I think is the term that Ken used. So there's an intergenerational equity issue that exists. And, but I think you've approached that too, because you've changed the system. Every police and fire person hired after, is it 2006, I think, is now going into Oregon PERS, and you're funding that on a current basis.
 So your issue is with everyone that was hired prior to 2006. There's a legacy cost there that will take you, I don't know, it's 20 or 25 years, I think, to work through. I liked Ken's predecessor called it the pig in the python.
 what will happen if this legacy obligation, imagine it working through the Python, there's going to be a period of time where 20 years of that generation is going to pay that legacy cost plus the current cost. Thank you. I'm wondering if you offhand can remember what the five federal grants were that you looked into. Let's see. Oh, it's not in here, is it?
 And if you don't, that's all right. You can just get back to me. I'm just interested in that particular accident. You know, it's not in here. It's in the single audit report, which was issued separately. And I don't think Sheila's here either. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 I'm sorry, I can't hear what you're saying. There's a link in Exhibit A of your documents. It will take you to the thing. All right, thank you. I don't have that committed to memory, so I apologize. We'll have another one then. Do you happen to remember where is our new landfill? I didn't know we bought a landfill. Yeah, it's kind of a sledge pond. Yeah, yeah. It's for disposal of solids at your wastewater treatment plant. Oh, thank you. Yeah. All right.
 Just across the slough, and we saw a diagram, I think, last week or this week, because we came with a change order, and it's where we treat the solids under the sun, and now we're actually removing legacy solids to make room for new solids. I didn't realize that that was a new thing. That's great. I thought she was going a different direction. I thought she was going to ask you to tell us where those grants were, because under one interpretation of some recent –
 executive orders we may not have as much federal money coming to the city in which case we're gonna ask for a discount in the next audit you well and you will get that because if you have fewer funds there's a fewer lesser effort required to do that audit work yeah any further board conversation entertain a motion in a second to accept the report so moved their discussion
 I should have asked, is there any public testimony on this item of the audit? Please call the roll. Well, thank you. Once again, it's very clear and clearly stated, and I appreciate the explanations as well as the work. Thank you.
 Jim, I also want to compliment you for the subliminal advertising that is included in your statement. Because I notice on page five it says as follows, auditor independence in fact and appearance is essential so the public may justifiably perceive the audit process. We will treat that as testimony for the matter that follows in the next time certain. I've had the benefit of,
 of being in this chair during the last eight years when you've made these presentations. And you do a superb job. And there were a number of years where you identified things which were of some concern to the council. And I think the most important thing for me is that you've gotten full, that you've had no resistance from management and that the recommendations that you've made have been embraced by the city.
 We'll always make mistakes. The question is, will we correct them? And you present a very complicated subject very clearly to this body, and I appreciate very much your work and the auditor's office work on this annual exercise. Thank you, sir. I might just comment on that. I probably should have said this earlier, but, you know, when we do these audits, it's oftentimes where people don't want to hear from auditors. If we have a finding or, you know, there's kind of that –
 And I guess our experience here with the city has never been like that. They have a true philosophy of trying to improve. And so they embrace, I think, our observations and recommendations, and it's been a great experience in that regard. Thank you, sir. Aye. Thank you. Aye. Hugh Daly. Thanks. Aye. Wheeler. It's a rare day when our fiscal team gets –
 called out and I appreciate Ken the work you did, the work your team did we have a lot of
 the finance team that was recognized earlier in this chamber. And we recognize other employees when they step up to the plate and work longer hours so they can get something done more quickly and more effectively. So I really want to appreciate that and acknowledge it. The finance team doesn't always get the recognition they deserve, but they're an important partner for all of the work that we do up here. So when you're saying nice things to us about this audit, it's really them and their hard work.
 I also want to applaud the managers who are directly related to some of these recommendations. I listen very carefully for how managers respond to the kinds of issues that are raised in these reports, and I couldn't be more pleased with the kind of feedback that I have heard.
 And I want to thank you for your thoroughness. It's really, you know, I had nothing to do with this. I'm inheriting what appears to be a pretty clean audit situation. I think that's a good thing as far as government accountability and transparency. So again, I'm an enthusiastic aye. The report is accepted. The next item is a time certain, so why don't we take about a 10-minute break
 and auditor uh ho kabira if you wouldn't mind could i speak to you for just a moment to walk through what i think the process is going to be thank you we're in recess okay let's see all right thank you everybody we are back in session this is the wednesday february 1st continuation of the 2 p.m city council meeting if the clerk would please call the next item
 Item 104, place a measure on the May 16, 2017 ballot to amend city charter provisions to protect auditors' independence. Very good. Now, before we invite the auditor and her team up, I'd like to just set out what I think is the process this afternoon. I'd like to get some head nods on this. First of all,
 I'd like to bring to your attention that there are three documents that we have. We have Exhibit A, which is the consensus replacement amendment that takes into account all of the council amendments that were put forward during last week's prior discussion.
 We also have a second page that includes two proposed auditor amendments that I will ask to be included in a moment. We also have an extensive matrix list.
 that lays out all of the competing amendments as well as those that were already included. It basically lays out all the amendments that have been proposed up to this point, and I'll be using that as the basis of discussion for the amendments itself. So first, I'd like to move forward.
 The substitution consensus amendment, Exhibit A. Could I get a second? Second. It's actually, there was a change in it that I had asked. I didn't put it as a formal motion. So it's right on the front page. The salary, we had that discussion last week about including effective January 1st, 2019, the salary of the auditor shall be the same as the city commissioner's.
 Commissioner, may I make a suggestion? If we place the substitute, the consensus substitute on the table, and it's now been moved and seconded, then as we go through the auditor's matrix, I think we understand you will flag that and we'll have the discussion with the auditor. Thank you. Yes, and I will make a special effort to remember that as well. The auditor has further requested that I move –
 and seek a second on two other proposed amendments that you have before you. I'll second them. Thank you, Auditor's Proposed Amendment No. 2 and Auditor's Proposed Amendment No. 3.
 At this point, I will remind people that there is no public testimony today. We already had the public testimony at the last meeting, so the record is closed. We heard public testimony as well as received written testimony on this item. So this is a continuation of the resolution process to move the auditor's proposal to the May ballot. So with the question. Yes, sir. I'm curious why Exhibit A is labeled a consensus replacement. Okay.
 There have been no vote on amendments yet, and my amendment's not part of the consensus replacement. So how is this a consensus if my amendment isn't part of it? So I believe – How does it earn the title of consensus? Right. Well, my understanding is that these are the –
 there was agreement between the City Council and the auditor on these. There was no conflict between the council and the auditor. So this, Mayor, is a substitute, and it is our intention then to propose amendments to it. Correct. And that would include Commissioner Saltzman's amendment. Correct. And Commissioner Fritz's amendment, and the auditor has proposed two amendments. Exclusive of those amendments,
 This now incorporates the changes that the council has not, that is, there's not in controversy with that is correct. Okay. Thank you. Um, so with that, I will invite the auditor and her team up. And what I would propose is we go through the amendments as listed on the matrix. Some of these amendments are already included in the consensus document. And, um, at the end of,
 the discussion on each of the proposed amendments. We'll vote on the amendments. Then we'll take a final vote on the resolution as amended. Does that work for everybody? Yes, I do believe we need to add Commissioner Saltzman's amendment because it's not in the current amendments. We will have that opportunity because it is in the matrix as one of the proposed amendments that we will have a vote on today. So we will have that opportunity.
 But it was not agreed to by the auditor, and therefore it is not in this substitute consensus amendment. Does that work for everybody? Good. Just track the name consensus. That probably works. It should work. Very good. Okay. So first off, the first item was Mayor No. 1. These have already been included. I'm withdrawing Mayor No. 1. Which is about collective bargaining. People may not have to... Sorry. Thank you. Okay.
 Fish number one is up next. Commissioner Fish. Madam Auditor, it's my understanding that this is in the substitute that you have presented before us, correct? Correct. So I withdraw my amendment. Commissioner Fish withdraws fish number one. Next up is fish number two on behalf of the Auditor. I will defer to Commissioner Fritz on this. Thank you. There was a discussion last week about whether this makes it more clear that
 that the salary of the auditor shall be the same that it is right now. I'm afraid that by saying it should be in 2019, it implies that the salary of the auditor could be anything up until that point, either lower or higher than the salary of a commissioner. So I would just like to say the salary shall be the same as the city commissioner. So the commissioner has moved the inclusion of a date specific. Is there a second?
 Second for discussion purposes. Second for discussion purposes. Why don't we go ahead and have the discussion. I'd ask to turn to the auditor. Madam Auditor, I understand the issue that Commissioner Fritz has raised, and I guess her point is if we strike the language effective January 1, 2019, the status quo reverts, which is that your salary would remain the same as a city commissioner. What do you believe is the advantage of –
 of making this effective in a future year? I strictly was trying to make it clear that even though the language without the date is what the status quo is, that this was just my understanding of this is the way you would do something in a charter to label the effective date that something would start officially as a charter provision.
 My read, and I'm just giving you my sense, is that if the Charter says the salary of the auditor shall be the same as a city commissioner, and if this exchange, this discussion creates a legislative history that you are and will continue to have the same salary, my only concern is the effective date might give someone a belief that it wasn't currently the law. Right. It is not in Charter?
 currently. I think it says currently that you set my salary. And so it just happens that in practice it is set the same as yours. And so this just, as charter language makes it, gives it a start date that it would have the force of charter behind it. It does not have the force of charter behind it today. Why wouldn't we want that to start right away?
 i think this is just an expression to the public that this is not about the auditor sitting in the office today and that it is intended to be for the auditor who has the next term so can i turn to counsel for a second because i think you see where we're going on this council and the the intent of the council and the auditor is to clarify is to make clear that the auditor's salary shall be the same as a commissioner
 Does the effective date language add or detract from that? So it gets at two different things. The language where it says that the salary shall be fixed the same as a city commissioner puts into the charter the practice that is currently followed, that the auditor's salary is set and is currently the same as a city commissioner. The...
 The clause at the beginning if it were to be included effective January 1st 2019 gets at a different concern which is as the auditor expressed the charter change would not go into effect until the term of the next auditor election cycle so it would not go into effect until
 So it avoids a potential question that could arise of, is this changing the salary of the auditor during the term, the current term of the elected official? The answer is that that's only a problem.
 from an ethics standpoint if the auditor was participating in the election changing her salary during her term that's not really a problem that's presented because this is being sent out to the voters for approval and therefore that ethical question is potentially one of
 academic interest but is not a legal problem. So it's not necessary, but if it's the auditor's preference that that be the case, then that would be something to include. Mayor, I'm agnostic on this. Do you have a view one way or another?
 I think we've had legal advice that says that it doesn't add or subtract. The legal advice we're getting is it doesn't matter, but the reality is we're not setting the auditor's salary here. What we're doing is we're referring it to the voters for them to be able to decide. And the question will be asked repeatedly over the course –
 the discussion leading up to the vote is this something the auditor is doing that potentially rises to self-dealing and Having been in a similar situation previous. I understand why the auditor would want this included Well on that basis then I would move my amendment. Is there a second? There's a motion and a second Is there any further? council discussion on this issue madam auditor I
 No, I just want to clarify that the date will be in your motion. Okay. Please call the roll on the amendment. Fritz. No, I think we were doing the charter. It's just the Constitution for the next 100 years, and so having an effective date in there seems to be unnecessarily complicating it. No. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is included. Okay.
 The next is Fish, number three, on behalf of the League of Women Voters. Just to clarify, 2506A, the administrative authority, it's my understanding this is already included in the substitute amendment. 2506G is not. Commissioner Fish? Yes.
 Yes, I withdraw the 2-506G. 2-506G is withdrawn? Without a substitute. I'm not offering it, no. So I thought I got a memo from the League of Women Voters saying that this, that they, I don't understand what's happened here. The auditor has accepted the first part of the,
 Well, let's turn to the auditor. What now is in the substitute? In the consensus draft is 2-506A, and we have, at the request of the League of Women Voters, removed the word policies and practices. So that's the rulemaking provision.
 The League also wanted 2-506G, and I thought that that was redundant to Commissioner Fish's Amendment No. 1, which has a public comment and notice provision. And so I was objecting to the need to form a committee to go over rules together.
 Because I think that the public comment piece will get at that. And so to be clear, when this was brought to my attention, I thought the most compelling part of the suggestion was clarifying reasonable public notice and opportunity to comment and public participation. And that's been agreed to in the substitute. Right. I thought that was a great suggestion by the League. So that has been agreed to in substitution.
 absent an agreement with the auditor, I've just decided to withdraw the amendment, the other portion. Saltzman number one. Dan? I mean, Commissioner, sorry. Oh, this is my one amendment. Yes. Yeah, so as I said last week, I have no issue with the ombudsman. I think the ombudsman does great work. My opposition really is a size of government thing. I don't believe we should be locking into the charter, which is our constitution, as Commissioner Fritz just said,
 a position or and the office that goes with it uh i i feel that that should be a discretionary uh i mean it should be it should not be locked into our charter because i just believe a few positions are mentioned in our charter and i don't believe the ombudsman rises to the level of being locked into the charter i have no qualm whatsoever with the work of the ombudsman and the good work in this case that she is currently doing but past ombudsman as well it's just a size of government issue for me so i would urge adoption
 I move the amendment, Mayor. Is there a second? Second. There's a motion and a second. Further discussion? Carla, can you please call the roll? Great. I do appreciate the work that has been done to amend the Ombudsman's section. I agree with Commissioner Saltzman that...
 It's not necessary. We did hear a lot of testimony, however, that the public wants to have it there. And we did amend... The auditor has agreed to an amendment that says specifically that the ombudsman may investigate within the office of auditor, since we had the concern from the community that the ombudsman might not be able to investigate in the independent police review. So with that change, I think it's...
 It's good for now and hopefully we'll be having a full charter commission in a few years that can take another look at it. Aye. Am I? Just a minute. She is knowing. I'm knowing, yes. She is knowing. Correct. All right. Thank you.
 Commissioner Saltzman, I appreciate you bringing this issue forward, and we've had a chance to have a good discussion with the public, and I'm not persuaded that it should be taken from the proposal before us, but I appreciate your position and the conversation we've had. No. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? No. Wheeler? No. The amendment fails. Fritz, number one?
 This is on the qualifications. Commissioner Fritz? And this was an either-or match, so I withdraw this particular one and instead move 1B. Fritz has withdrawn item number 1. 1A. I'm sorry, 1... And I'm...
 Oh, and I'm actually amending 1B. After discussions with the auditor, she's very concerned about not limiting when the assessments have to happen. And so I'd like to withdraw the last line. These assessments shall occur in the third year of an auditor's term. But the rest of the...
 Section would remain, and it says that the auditor shall periodically conduct, but not less than every four years, organizational efficiency and compliance assessments, the results of which shall be made public. And then I believe the auditor, yeah, we have in there also the auditor may contract with outside service providers to conduct the assessments. So I will second Commissioner Fritz's Amendment 1B. I'm now just a little confused. The auditor's proposed amendment 1B,
 here as well. Can you and the auditor explain to us if we now have a consensus amendment or if there are two amendments? I believe we do have a consensus amendment, which would be my alternative. Right, the right-hand column rather than the left. Then I second the auditor's
 which has been approved by Commissioner Fritz. And just a question, Madam Auditor. The last sentence that says may contract with outside service providers, would they not always be outside service providers if they're investigating within your office? After we had some of our conversations, after the work session I went back to the Secretary of State's office and they do a combination of internal review as the work goes along and then period.
 periodically they bring in an outside or an external reviewer to come in and look at their work. So it's a combination of peer review and external audits. And so we thought that was a good model. And also where they use some outside expertise is when they were setting up their procedures and their way they do human resources and procurement around those areas. And so we thought that was a better model instead of
 having the whole thing always having to go out and contract. We thought that we could have some savings by doing the hybrid like they do. Well, yeah, to be clear, though, that the point of this amendment was to make sure that there is somebody, it's not the council who's overseeing what the auditor does. It needs to be somebody who's not the auditor overseeing what the auditor does. So do you think your last sentence...
 Increases the likelihood of that or decreases it? I think that the plan is to do both, to not expend funds we don't need to spend on outside expertise and to reserve that when we have enough procurements or enough human resources
 work, that then we would have people come in from the outside and review that work to make sure that we're in compliance with our policies and procedures and state and federal law. Well, to be clear, I hope that they will.
 every four years audit would naturally include somebody from outside giving an opinion on the work. Right, and I believe that we had made the language that the auditor shall periodically do this, and so at some point in a term, the auditor would be required by charter to do that.
 And then those documents would need to be made public. That's also in the language. And I had not noticed that you had deleted the contract periodically with outside service providers. So that really actually materially changes the point of the amendment. I was focused on the last... What you and I had discussions about was when it should happen, and yet this amendment that I'm seeing now...
 doesn't seem to ensure that there's always an outside audit of something in the auditor's office every four years. May I ask a clarifying question of the auditor? Because you referenced, you raised the question about efficiencies and cost.
 Is it your concern here that if you are required to use an outside service provider, that you may be incurring a cost that the council will not factor into your budget? I think that I am trying to apply –
 some common sense to the scale of work we do in my office and to follow the model of the Secretary of State's office where they have some internal peer review procedures and we've gotten their documentation about how they do that. And then also periodically bring in an outside set of eyes to look at what our internal procedures and our peer review procedures are. Okay.
 and then to provide some assurance that we're on the right track and we're doing what we're supposed to be doing. And so it's a combination of providing accountability to the public as well as not incurring a bunch of expenses at dollar amounts that I don't think would be appropriate for the scale of the contracts and the hiring that we do. But to be clear, there is –
 Commissioner Fritz and you have reached agreement on the concept and on the frequency. Now we are just debating whether it should be conducted by an outside provider or some combination of inside or outside. Am I correct? Right. And I believe we could get at some of that through the rulemaking. From my perspective, no, that's really not. I'm just trying to make sure I understand. I was just trying to highlight what I understood is the divide. And now that question is for us to decide. I see. Thank you.
 And I'll turn, once again, if I could, to the mayor, the former treasurer, to ask if you have a strong view on this. I don't have a strong view because I still don't understand the divide. So I'd like clarity on that. The first part of the amendment here says the auditor shall periodically conduct, but not less than every four years, organizational efficiency and compliance assessments, the results of which shall be made public. What is being proposed here is the addition of the –
 contract periodically with outside service providers to conduct.
 I don't understand what the substantive difference is. So may I take a shot at it? Yes, please. If you look at the left-hand column, this is what I thought we were discussing and which I had the conversation, and I thought that the only change that the auditor wanted, which I agreed to, was that when these assessments should happen. The sentence above that says, the auditor shall contract periodically, but no less than every four years, with outside service providers to conduct organizational efficiency and compliance assessments, the result of which shall be made public.
 So my intent was if we are giving a future auditor absolute independence,
 And the public and the council, perhaps in future years, will need somebody who's not us to say, how is it going within the auditor's office? Yeah, that makes sense. You know, in the Treasury, we had internal auditors. Of course, we had external auditors, just as the city does. And we heard from our external auditors earlier today. But the internal auditors also have an audit committee.
 that is a public engagement process. It's full of people who are really smart. They understand the importance of internal audits. And they don't report to the treasurer. They report to the public. And so maybe that's one possibility, as long as we're having this debate. But I see what the commissioner is trying to say. I would just say that it's –
 My intent to use a combination of those things we are and have been following the model of the Secretary of State's office. I would not understand why we'd want to put in charter that we had to use external reviews if
 the scope of the work that we're doing in any given year, does it rise to the level of paying someone extra money? To do that, when we can provide the documentation and show the peer review, make that available to the public, I would say that if somebody did have concerns about that, that we could at that point go and have an external review come in at the request of the public. But it would be in the term because we are required now to,
 by the language in here to do this in the auditor's term, that in my mind, the common sense way to go forward would be to have a combination of those things.
 I know that you have the purest of intentions. We're talking about future auditors who might look at this as a little kingdom or queendom where they have absolute control over the budget, they have absolute control over administrative rules, everything else. I, as a citizen, would want to have somebody other than the auditor saying it's going well or it's not going so well. Can I make a suggestion? For me, I appreciate that this issue has been framed, and I appreciate that
 We're also making sure that those reviews are made public, and because this, in effect, becomes another check and balance. I think now we have a good faith question, or perhaps disagreement, about what blend of outside and inside services and how prescriptive we have to be.
 We have before us, first and seconded, the right-hand column provision. Mayor, I suggest we test to see the council appetite on this, and if it fails in a vote, then we come back and amend it. But before we get to the vote, I have one more question. So if I'm reading this correctly, and I want to make certain that I am.
 If I look at how this is written, and let's include for the moment, for the purposes of discussion, Commissioner Fritz's contract periodically with outside service providers to conduct. It's my understanding the way this reads now is there would be at least one external audit every four years, plus the auditor would have the ability to conduct organizational audits beyond that.
 Is that a correct reading? That's not the correct reading of what we're just about to vote on because the auditor's motion does not have any requirement for an outside review. Right, because the auditors... Mayor, to achieve that end, what you just said, you would need to bring a motion to...
 Remove the deletion in the middle of the amendment that's on the table so that, to your point, there would be at least a requirement every four years for an external, and the auditor would then have the authority to use a balance of inside and outside for other reviews. Very good. Okay, so let's – Actually, that is exactly my amendment on the left-hand column without the last sentence in yellow. If I may, could I clarify what this terminology means on a certain level? Sure.
 The proposal, as we originally discussed it at the work session and at the hearing last week, was that to achieve some administrative independence that we have procurement, human resources, and the budget office who come in and do various checks on the auditor's office. We're removing those checks, and we're replacing them with independent sources of checks.
 And so, for example, if we do four procurements a year, which is what we do on average, that we have some...
 around our budget, we have things that are identified in code that we're supposed to be doing, and if we're going to continue to use the council as the local contract review board. And so there are ways that the public can understand what we're doing and see this as a way
 in ways that they haven't now because we're going to be making this material public. So right now, if the procurement or HR are looking at our decision-making on a transactional basis, they're looking at the front end, we're going to continue to do those front-end checks, but we're also going to have an external review periodically, and that will also be made public. And so my only hesitation about...
 Having it be in the charter that we have to use outside service providers on any sort of regularity, that was my concern. I think that if we could find a way that we would do it once in an auditor's term would be fine. Well, that's why I removed the last sentence. But there does need to be some kind of outside review, objective review. Otherwise, the auditor is not reviewed by anybody. Yeah.
 Like I said, if we do a contract, we come to you as the local contractor. So there are checks that exist. And so if it is that you want to make the outside assessments in charter required... With the understanding that a subsequent budget request may take into account the fact that you've been required to do that, and you would give us the opportunity to...
 determine whether you need additional funds to perform that function. It would be my expectation, as long as I have the honor of serving on this body, that if we are requiring you to do something like that, that you have sufficient funds to do it. They don't compete against other programs of your department. So, Mayor, I think, do we have consensus on this now? Well, let's call the question. So this would be auditor two. As amended or not? As amended. So the auditor side, the right-hand side? Correct. Okay.
 Unless, you know, it's at the will of my colleagues. What would you like to do first? Well, if it's the auditors as amended, I think technically that reverts back to the Fritz Amendment. I'm happy to start with either. I mean, let's take the temperature and see where we are. I'd really like to vote on the amendments I proposed minus the list. Okay, so we already have. And we're on the Fritz Amendment, which requires an outside audit.
 since we're about to vote on that. Can you live with that? My objection to Commissioner Fritz's wording was that the assessments have, that they shall occur in the third year. I think that that is overly prescriptive for charter language. So Commissioner Fritz? That's what I've said. We'll remove that. If we remove that from Fritz 1B, are you agnostic on us proceeding with this?
 Well, I would also say that in hers, it requires that the auditor shall contract. Correct, every four years. So I would think that that would be something that we wouldn't want to order a contractual relationship in charter for this kind of review. There's no other review. Your alternate language was shall periodically conduct, but not unless every four years without the contract language.
 would not be outside. I mean, the audits that we are used to here are things that we look through as a means to do things better. The other way of doing audits is to look to see if there's anything the matter, and that's something that the public needs to have once during each auditor's term because we're not experts. I view conduct...
 conduct and contract is functionally the equivalent with the with the distinction that Contract matches up better with outside service providers and with the understanding that that's within your discretion. So then Commissioner Fritz is if with the last sentence withdrawn, I think get that Concern good and to be slightly annoying but to do this properly Can I please get a motion in a second on the amendment to the amendment? I?
 which is the withdrawal of the last section of 1B. And a second? Second. Can I, is there any further board discussion on the amendment to the amendment? Hearing none, call the roll on the amendment to the amendment 1B. My understanding is we're voting on my version without the last sentence. Not yet. Not yet. We're getting there. This is one step up the hill. Would you like to tell me what I should verse on this? Aye. Aye. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Aye.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. And we already have a motion and a second on 1B as amended. Any further discussion on this item as amended? Can you call the roll, please? Point of clarification. Yes, sir. You're voting on the language set forth on the left-hand column. The left-hand side. Fritz 1B as amended. As amended to remove the language in yellow. In the last line. Right. And we just...
 And we've already passed the amendment to the amendments. We've stricken the last line. Now the question on the table is Amendment 1B as amended. And that's the language that's being voted on. Thank you, colleagues. Especially you. See how much I trust you, Commissioner Fixer. I ask you in public what I should vote, and you tell me. It's very helpful. I'm going to put that in my hip pocket. I appreciate this conversation, and it is important.
 It is completely consistent with the collaborative way in which the auditor's office and the council have approached this project, and I appreciate that. Aye. Bultzman. Aye. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Thank you. So the FRITZ 1B has been approved. FRITZ number 2, 2505, pertaining to the budget. Shall I introduce this? On the right.
 Yes, so this is a similarly complicated one. This is about the budget, and the auditor has provided some very helpful revisions to the language, just clarifying how the budget gets done. There's also an addition of a carryover proposal, which will be the subject of a second motion. Commissioner Tomek, yes. Would you move the auditor's three?
 I move the auditor's 2-505. And I will second it. Mayor, I might just comment. The changes that the auditor has incorporated reflect testimony we received and some concerns that were raised, and in my view, greatly strengthened the provision towards making clear that the council and the mayor have the final say on the auditor's budget. And so I appreciate those changes. Very good.
 I understand there is now an amendment. Someone's going to offer an amendment to this amendment. But do we vote on it first before I amend it? No, for the amendment now. You have to bring the amendment to the amendment first. Okay, so then I also propose that we delete the line that says the auditor's budget may include carryover of any unused funds from year to year as provided by state law. Is there a second? You're deleting it?
 So she is moving that we delete the following sentence. The auditor's budget may include carryover of any unused funds from year to year as provided by state law. So it has been moved and seconded. Again, this is an amendment to an amendment. Madam Auditor? Yes. I view this as an important element in addressing the organizational impairments that are related to the budget process, and which we've discussed before.
 It essentially removes the opportunity for the budget office, which we audit, to have influence over the auditor's budget. The overall section in the proposal is in – I mean, the carryover is in keeping with the overall goal of creating a dialogue among the six elected officials about the auditor's budget. It's about mutual respect for our separate and distinct responsibilities.
 In the current process, the auditor's unspent funds at the end of the fiscal year are returned to the general fund. What I am proposing is that these funds remain available to the auditor's office. That would mean that the auditor would have access to a reserve of funds to address unforeseen expenses or to save for a future priority. Your fiduciary obligation is met so long as the funds are spent as originally approved for personnel or materials and services. Okay.
 My obligation to manage the affairs of the auditor's office can be met without having to ask permission for funds on a case-by-case basis. Because of the commission form of government, it is always true that the auditor is asking permission from officials who have competing priorities they'd like to fund, and the auditor has no champion or vote in the budget process. Let me use a recent example to illustrate how I would have used carryover funds had I been able to.
 An employee in independent police review received a voicemail message in which the caller threatened to blow his head off. The caller then walked into IPR. He appeared to the investigators to be unwell, as you'd expect this unnerved the employees who share space with the council clerk's office. A security review a few months prior to this incident indicated that physical buffers needed to be added to the counters in IPR and the council clerk's office.
 They cost more than was available to me in my budget. It was an unforeseen expense, and I did not get permission to access maintenance funding through facilities. I did not get permission during the budget monitoring process because the buffers were not a priority. I now have lost track of the status of this request, which I believe has been consumed by a larger conversation about security for this building.
 Consequently, my employees are as exposed to the danger today as they were six months ago when this occurred. I am unable to tell them when or if to expect the buffers. Had I had access to a reserve of funds for unforeseen expenses like this, they would not be waiting for the small measure of protection that they fully deserve. The ability to carry over funds does not mean that the mayor and council lose control over them.
 They can be factored into subsequent appropriations or used for other purposes should you decide that they are not necessary for the duties and responsibilities of the auditor's office. While the annual sums would likely be small in overall budget terms, we estimate that would be between $100,000 to $200,000, and probably that number would be going down given that we're undergoing some cut years.
 They would provide a measure of management control that is important to the independence of the auditor. I'd be interested in the sense of the council before we move on this, because we have a couple of options, just of my colleagues. So the only other place that I know of in the charter where any elected official has control over any amount of money by him or herself is the $5,000 that the mayor has allocated
 authority to spend at will. I know. So, all of us have the same challenge that if something happens within our offices, we need to put it forward and have the discussion. As I said at the hearing,
 Half of all unspent money that goes back to the general fund is used on critical infrastructure maintenance. And we just heard from the reporting that we have huge deficits in infrastructure maintenance that need to be funded.
 and so the auditor would have the same ability like any of the rest of the elected officials to ask for a carryover with a specified purpose, and the council then would, acting in its capacity as the budget committee by state law, can approve that. This amendment essentially takes away the amendment I had in the first place, just puts it in a different place, and I believe it's equally confusing for folks. Mr. Saltzman?
 Mayor? So I asked the Budget Office about this provision, and what they told me is whether if that line is included, it doesn't materially change the current budget process, the reason being that it says May. And so it still makes clear that the final authority rests with the Budget Committee, which is the City Council. But here's the balance I think we're trying to strike here. The balance is...
 So operationally, I believe the auditor is correct that historically the numbers have been relatively small. And longer term, the question is if there's the implication in charter that the city council does not control those funds, the concern is the auditor essentially becomes a super agency if those savings start to add up.
 at a time when the city could actually be needing funds for other purposes. And we are given the legal authority as the budget committee for the city. We're still responsible for the budget overall and making tough decisions about how to balance competing interests. If that provision is stricken, it also doesn't materially change the current procedure. It is still this committee's responsibility to allocate resources.
 Mayor, if I may, while I agree with you that you always retain responsibility for the budget, in my mind it doesn't give the auditor any sort of super control over those funds. I think what it does is change the presumption that they're automatically going back into the general fund into a process where the auditor's office is the only office in the city that does not have a champion or a vote.
 and trying to compete and fight for funds in that process, I think it starts the conversation presuming that the funds reside in the auditor's office. If the auditor can make the case to you and to the council that we need those funds for a specific purpose or for an unforeseen expense. Right. Well, there's two solutions I see to this mini stalemate, if I can call it that.
 uh solution number one is to put a limit and it could be a percentage of allocatable budget so that it doesn't just keep growing in perpetuity and i think that would alleviate some of the concerns that you're hearing from fellow commissioners alternatively number two we could be very explicit in ad language that clarifies the city council's role vis-a-vis the overall budget and it seems like either of those options but madam order let me i i think
 I'm intrigued by one of the alternatives the mayor has proposed, although I think as a percentage it becomes subject to interpretation. And because this is the charter, I would in its place suggest, given history, that I would just post as an alternative that we cap
 We set a hard cap of $100,000 so that we're clear that it is in keeping with historical norms and is not designed to set up an unlimited kitty. If we were to keep the language in here, it's clear to me that we can essentially –
 treat that as a credit against your budget request to avoid you getting a windfall. So that's how we would address it through the budget process. If you carry over $100,000 and you ask for a million, we get to say you've already got $100,000 towards the million, and so it's form over substance. Okay.
 Commissioner Fritz raises, I think, an important point that ending fund balances currently now revert to a process where half the money is then allocated to major maintenance. That's a new policy, and she was the champion of that policy.
 On the other hand, the money here is the minimus. And so I guess the question I would ask you is, what do you think of the idea of capping it at a certain amount like $100,000? You know, I'm going to introduce Sarah Landis, who does the budget for our office, to talk. She's a little more familiar with the year-over-year kinds of – And before we get to that, I want to give Commissioner Udaly, if she wants to chime in. Everybody else got their opportunity. I want to make sure she has an opportunity as well. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm feeling torn on this issue. I feel that Commissioner Fritz has brought up valid issues, and the auditor has as well. But I don't... I'm not seeing how these various solutions ultimately are functionally different. I guess the cap, obviously. But is it my understanding that we could say, yes, you can keep...
 Keep the funds, but we may decide to just take them back anyway? Could I just intervene? My understanding is that by state law, the council is the budget authority and that we can't bind future councils. So if it says in the charter any number, 100,000, or even, you know, the whole, as it suddenly reads, that is intending to be binding on future councils, which is against state budget law. So I would really prefer to just...
 As I said, we are going to have another process in a few years to look at this again. I would suggest we want to see how it works out, have the conversations, and if necessary, we can put something in later. I'm trying to do this on the fly with picking a number. The number for the past five years has averaged almost half a million dollars a year. There is one additional safety valve we could put on the table, which is it is the prerogative of any of us, all six elected officials.
 to request that a certain amount of money be encumbered for a particular purpose. Now, we do that in a formal way if there's a pending contract or a pending liability or whatever, we encumber it. It would certainly be my expectation that if the auditor said that there was a purpose towards –
 there was a need for carryover funds that met a health and safety security issue or the like, that that would simply be resolved by her communicating with the mayor that need and the mayor agreeing with the budget office that it would be encumbered for that purpose, that we could then sort it out in the budget process later, but so as not to deprive you of those funds for something you need right away. Mayor, do you agree with that? I agree with that.
 And that is my goal, essentially, is because we can't foresee everything. And the IPR example is the perfect one where I had no alternative. And so I think that that's what we're trying to get at with this language, is that it just continues the dialogue. So we have – Madam Motor, let me make a suggestion, because we have gotten to consensus on just about everything here. And my – would you consider accepting –
 auditor three with the amendment that we delete the carryover language based on the record we've just created. That's that makes clear that, um, if there is carryover funds, which you need for a particular purpose, uh, you would be accorded the same courtesies as other members of this body to approach the mayor and the budget office for an encumbrance, and then we'll work that out through rulemaking to, to, to, to make sure it's embedded in our X, our understanding, um,
 and then test drive that to see if it works for you. I think that that is one way to go forward, and also you will recall that I would like to continue a conversation about a pilot project, and we could continue these conversations in that avenue as well. I think you're hearing the commitment of this body to be flexible and creative in meeting your goal, but...
 I think the trade winds seem to be blowing in favor of deleting, so I would first give you the opportunity to agree to a friendly amendment to delete that sentence. Thank you.
 If you would. If we could hopefully continue the conversation. So, Mayor, now that we have a concurrence of the auditor, why don't we take up the amendment to delete it and then adopt the amendment? Yeah, this is an amendment to the amendment to delete the sentence. The auditor's budget may include carryover of any unused funds from year to year as provided by state law. Any further conversation, please call the roll call. Well, thanks to all six elected officials for this important discussion. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Daly? Aye. Wheeler? So Auditor 3 is the amendment to the amendment has been approved. Now we're to the main motion, which is Auditor 3 as amended. Any further discussion on Auditor 3 as amended? Madam Auditor, any further discussion on this item? Carla, please call the roll on Amendment Auditor 3 as amended. Okay.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. And just to make sure we're doing the paperwork correctly, I assume then, Commissioner Fritz, you have withdrawn Fritz number two. Yes. That is correct. So Fritz number two is withdrawn. Next up are Fritz number three through five, and it's been brought to my attention that there has been consensus...
 Between you and the auditor in the substitution language under Exhibit A. Yes, I'm very happy that the auditor and I were able to work out something that says very clearly that the compensation system established by the charter change and by the auditor will generally follow the classified services for the rest of the year.
 city employees okay so we have now withdrawn a number of event amendments we have passed a number of amendments we have amended uh amendments uh at this point i would like to propose we take a 10-minute break to digest this and i'd like to have a conversation uh with the auditor if i could
 And assuming that we continue as we're doing, we will come back and then we will vote on the main motion as amended. So we'll take about a ten-minute break. Yes, Commissioner. Just a quick point of clarification. Yes. So the three through five version that the auditor and I agreed on is part of the main document now? Very good. Thank you. Thank you for that clarification, Commissioner. Thank you. Thank you. A little more amendment? No.
 I think that's in... Mr Handelman is talking about the last amendment. I believe that's in the consensus version that the officer... Yes, it was. I think maybe you didn't... We weren't hearing at the beginning, Mr Handelman, that we did include in the shared version that the Ombudsman may investigate the Office of the Auditor. So we added to Ombudsman D...
 that the ombudsman can investigate any bureau, whatever, including the office of the auditor. And thank you for bringing that to our attention last week. That's probably the hardest. Here he is. Yes, sir. The auditor is going to have the final word, and then we're going to have a lady. All right, here we are again. Thank you.
 We're about to take a vote also. I want to clarify, first of all, there was some question as to whether the ballot title would need to be amended. I am advised that it does not, that the ballot title that we have here is good. What we're going to be doing is voting on a resolution to refer...
 about refer out a ballot title with revised with a revised exhibit as approved previously by the council and proceedings Until now before we get to that point first of all I'm going to ask if there's any further discussion on the main motion as amended and If not, I'm gonna turn it over to the auditor and then we will take our vote Is there any further discussion at this point madam auditor? I would just like to I
 say how much I appreciate the conversations that we've had over the last few weeks about the auditor's office. You may know more about my office than you ever thought you would in these conversations. And I would like to affirm to the mayor and to commissioner you daily that I do not spend much time in this chamber. And I look forward to going back to the days when I don't spend a lot of time in this chamber and you may not believe me, but it's true. But I really appreciate all of the collaboration and the conversation that
 I would like to acknowledge the work of City Ombudsman Margie Sollinger, who has shouldered this responsibility for months now. She's, I'm sure, looking forward to going back to her day job.
 And I'd also like to acknowledge my predecessors, Jewel Lansing, Gary Blackmer, and LaVon Griffin-Vallade, who have been a source of wise counsel through this process. And I think there were times when I thought it wasn't going to work out, and so they were very supportive and encouraging to keep going. And I also want to acknowledge the people who came to this chamber last week in great numbers. I was very surprised by that.
 And 27 people signed up to testify, and it's a charter amendment about the auditor's office. And so that very much surprised me, and I'm very appreciative to them as well. So thank you all very much. Thank you very much. And with that, Carla, could you please call the roll? All right.
 Well, thank you. And if I might make, as I'm voting, I'd like to make a request if the wonderful ombudsman could do one final thing for us and put together all of the amendments that we did today and get the subversion back tomorrow as soon as possible. We do have another council session tomorrow afternoon. So if it turns out that in the confusion, I want to make sure that we all agree on all the backwards and forwards. So I'd really appreciate that. Commissioner Fritz, if I may, the clerk is going to overtake a process. Yep.
 with the Ombudsman to go through the testimony line by line and make sure that it's accurately reflected and we'll make sure that all members of the City Council have access to that. And if possible, by tomorrow afternoon, in case we do have to do any kind of clarifications. Margie says we can do it. Thank you very much. I greatly appreciate the auditor and the previous auditors who came in for the hearing and all of the folks who...
 scrambled very quickly to give a lot of in-depth testimony, especially the League of Women Voters and Portland Copwatch. All of the discussion has greatly improved the Charter Amendment. I do feel...
 in some ways regretful that there wasn't time for a full community process. For instance, you look at the Independent Police Review and other aspects of the Auditor's Office. However, this amendment at this point is one which I do believe is appropriate to ask the voters with a yes or no on the proposal as amended. So thank you to everybody for your good work on this. Thank you.
 Colleagues, Madam Auditor, last week I made an extensive statement on the record as to why I strongly support this effort to strengthen the independence of the auditor's office and why I believe this is a singularly important reform effort. And I put it in the context of a number of other reform efforts that I have observed or witnessed or participated in over the last eight years, and I think it deserves to be in the first tier of all of them.
 So I will not repeat myself. I have some thank yous and an acknowledgment. First, I want to thank the auditor and her staff for the way they engaged the council on this fairly complicated subject. And I cannot remember a time when we had a more collaborative exercise among colleagues. And there are six elected officials on this side of the river.
 and we are all independently elected, and we each deserve to be treated with respect that goes to the office. And I believe we have modeled behavior through this exercise that I think can be a standard for how we engage on future issues. So I thank the auditor and her team. I want to thank Margie Sollinger for her work, and she has spent a lot of time working out the detail work.
 And now she can go back to doing her day job. But it has been an absolute pleasure working with you on this, and I thank you for your service. I want to echo what Commissioner Fritz said to thank League of Women Voters, Copwatch, and all the neighborhood folks and everyone who came in and helped us get it right.
 A special thank you to my friend Debbie Iona, who I think presented to us a very good idea, which will be reflected not only in the referral but in subsequent rulemaking when we discuss how the public will be engaged going forward. And I thank Debbie for that. I want to thank all my colleagues, but in particular I want to thank the two newest members of the Council.
 You know, it has not been a very eventful month, and I don't want them to get the wrong impression about what it is to serve in city government, because sometimes we actually have, you know, crises that we have to deal with and complex matters. So we hope you've not been lulled into a false sense of complacency, but with all seriousness –
 So I've been on this body for eight years, and the last month has given me a great sense of hope for this body and the way in which we will, as a governing body, lead moving forward. And I particularly appreciate what our two newest members of the council have brought to the dynamics and chemistry of this body.
 I want to thank Jim Blackwood in my office and Sonia Schmansky for all the work they did. And each of us have staff people who've worked diligently on this, and they have been particularly great. I want to just say, close by saying on a personal level, it was a thrill to have Jewel Lansing here. I mean, she literally wrote the book, and she had a very strong view that she shared with us, and it was a memorable moment.
 But I also want to acknowledge another leader in our community who was particularly strong in the advocacy that she brought to this effort with me, and that's former Governor Barbara Roberts. Governor Roberts reached out to me and offered a perspective as a former Secretary of State about how important this work was and how strongly she supported this referral. Thank you.
 And I believe she is our most esteemed elected official, past or present, and I took very seriously the concerns that she raised, and I thank her for being my friend and mentor and role model. Today we are now voting on a very important referral, and if passed, we will all have an opportunity to support that referral that goes to the voters, which I will do enthusiastically, and then assuming it passes, we'll come back and do some rulemaking and collectively commit to making this work.
 I'm very proud to cast an aye vote today, and thank you. Saltzman. Well, I appreciate, Auditor, your dogged determination as of about probably going back at least six, seven months to bring these charter amendments to fruition today, or at least to the next point, next stage of getting them before the voters.
 uh i think you've had a clear vision of how to make your office more independent and you have pursued that and i appreciate that and although i may have disagreed on some of the details and how to what to do but i have a fundamental respect for the job you've done and also our ombudsman as well in helping to craft these proposals before us today and i'll particularly want to recognize the mayor's office i think the mayor's office worked with the auditor to really i think help get these amendments to the point where we are
 voting on them today and I want to acknowledge that as well. So pleased to support these and I hope the voters will say aye on whatever day in May that is. Aye. Jamie? I was pleased to be part of this process. It was very helpful for me as a newcomer to deepen my understanding of our form of government as well as the function of the auditor's office.
 I'm excited to get to vote yes on this referral. I'm almost assuming that it's happening now, though, so I need to moderate my enthusiasm here. I'm also looking forward to the public perhaps learning more about the function of the auditor's office and hopefully seeing the office put into the proper place in our governmental structure.
 as well as being able to reassure the public that we are being held accountable. We will miss you, Madam Auditor. Please don't be a stranger. We learn.
 Well, let me add my thanks to the record. This is obviously, I will use the word historic. This is an historic moment. It's not every day that we refer such a significant charter amendment to the voters, and it's one I obviously heartily support. This, Madam Auditor, is what I think is an excellent example in demonstrating that leadership
 and consensus building go hand in hand. And I think you and your team did a phenomenal job in terms of making that happen over the previous weeks. As everybody knows, government accountability is under siege.
 And we're looking for ways to give the public confidence that this body is, in fact, an accountable body. And I believe the independence of the auditor is critical to making sure that the public has the confidence that there is somebody watching the watchers, which effectively is what we have here. And I think it's a very appropriate function and a necessary function.
 I also want to thank the auditor's team. There are a lot of people in this city hall and in the other buildings around town that work very, very hard. Their work is often unheralded. We heard today from a number of accountants who worked really long hours to get our financial audit in order. The financial auditor described the city of Portland as a model client. I think he even said a star client.
 which is a pretty remarkable thing for a financial auditor to say.
 I absolutely want to thank your team, because I know there are a lot of people who worked long and hard behind the scenes, answered tons of questions, worked with us on revisions and different ideas. The Ombudsman, Margie, you did just a tremendous job here, and I want to add my thanks to my fellow commissioners. I agree with Commissioner Fish. It was exciting to see four former auditors. This is a function that sometimes doesn't get...
 The acclaim it deserves, it's not held up in the spotlight like other elected positions often are, but it is fundamental to our democracy. And so I think whatever we have done, whatever we can do to strengthen that function is critically important. I agree with the auditor. I was actually surprised how many people came to testify, and they weren't just testifying publicly.
 uh half-heartedly people came and really poured their heart and their soul into their testimony and it was fact-based as we'd expect testimony around an auditor function to be but nearly all of them used the word accountability at some point during their testimony and i want to underscore that
 I'd like to thank others throughout the city, the budget office, the legal team, the Office of Management and Finance. A lot of people worked very hard with us, with the auditor and others. In my own office, while everybody touched this at some point, Kristen Dennis, who's here in the room today, she put Henry Kissinger to shame in terms of shuttle diplomacy. Thank you.
 And I want to thank you, Kristen, for the long hours and the hard work you put in. And again, I want to thank the auditor and her team for being very, very responsive to the back and forth that was established over this process. I want to remind everybody that this is one of those things where we on the city council don't get the last word, nor does the auditor.
 get the last word on this issue. This now is going to be referred to the voters, and it's up to the voters to decide whether or not this is something that they want to include in the charter for the city of Portland. I obviously will be encouraging that they do, but that is their determination. And so in that regard, I wish this the best of luck. I am an enthusiastic aye, and with that the resolution is adopted as amended. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thanks, colleagues. We are now adjourned.