Council will please come to order. Clerk, would you please call the roll? Ritz. Here. Fish. Here. Gossman. Here. Novick. Hales. Welcome, everybody. As the president of the council, I will be standing in the shoes of the mayor who is homesick, and he sends his regrets. And I also, on behalf of the council, want to extend our thoughts and prayers to Commissioner Novick and his family, and we're thinking of him during this meeting.
 difficult period in their life, and we hope he's back with us next week. We have some formalities I need to take care of, and we have a lot of wonderful things on the agenda today, and I just found out about half an hour ago that I'm in charge. So I'm going to ask that you bear with me, and together we'll get through this agenda, but there's a lot of really cool things we're going to be celebrating today.
 i want to start as is our tradition by laying out the rules of the body the purpose of council meetings is to orderly consider the public's business preservation of order and decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before the council the public as always is welcome to attend and participate during the meetings there will be time limited opportunities for public comment on various agenda items
 Although citizens can sign up for communications, public testimony on a council calendar item must address the item being considered. Please state your name for the record. You do not need to give us your address, and you do not need to address me as the president of the council in your comments. If you are a lobbyist, please disclose the information at the start of your testimony. If you are here representing an organization, I ask that you please disclose that as well.
 Unless otherwise informed, each community member will have three minutes to speak in front of the council. At two minutes and 30 seconds, you'll start to hear an annoying beep, and a light will flash on the box in front of you. At three minutes, you'll hear four beeps, and the lights will start flashing like crazy. And that will remind you that it's time to stop and make way for the next person who's signed up.
 We ask that you respect the time limits, mostly because if we don't, we cut into the time of other people that have taken time out of their busy days to come join us, and that's just not fair. Please give any handouts that you have to the council clerk to be distributed. The only exception we make to that rule is if we have an honored guest that wants to give something directly to the council. And please, once again, we ask that you only testify as to matters at hand.
 Council rules and procedures seek to preserve the public order and to ensure that Council's deliberations proceed efficiently and that all who want to participate get to be heard. Conduct that disrupts the meetings, for example, shouting during another person's presentation or interrupting testimony, will not be allowed. Please show your support or displeasure with your hands by waving thumbs up, thumbs down.
 And this is technically a warning that anyone disrupting this proceeding may be escorted from council chambers and excluded from the balance of the hearing. Lastly, if needed, council will take a break at 12 or 1230, depending on the schedule. I don't think we'll need to do that today. I hope we get through the morning agenda. But I will announce when the meeting will reconvene before we take any break. So with that formal housekeeping done...
 Before we take communications, we have some honored guest colleagues. And I would ask Mayor Shiro, Mayor Mr. Yasihoko Toda, and his entourage to come forward and take a seat. This is a delegation from the town of Yashio.
 and forgive my pronunciation, Shilaoi in Hokkaido Prefecture, Japan. They're visiting us. They're a 12-person delegation led by their distinguished mayor. As you know, colleagues, the city of Sapporo, Japan, has been Portland's sister city since 1959 for the last 59 years. We are very pleased that Portland State University,
 One of our leading public institutions is facilitating these international exchanges. We hope that they will build relationships and trust and commerce between our two great cities. The purpose of the visit is to develop collaborative relationships with PSU and the Native American community in Portland and those who are actively engaged with the Native American communities.
 The town of Shiro has a population of 18,000. It has received some national awards for the way it is run, including grants for revitalizing the town and the region. And the city, like the rest of the prefecture of Hokkaido, was populated by the Ainu people of the First Nations.
 With that, I will turn it over to our honored guest. Mr. Mayor, welcome. Shiraoi Town, Mayor, my name is Todai Yasuhiko. Portland is a wonderful city. I came here to study. I've been in this town only for two days, but I believe I've observed that the city of Portland is a really nice place.
 Thank you very much for giving us an opportunity to speak with you. I just heard that Mayor Harris is sick at home, so we hope his quick recovery. Could we ask your delegation to stand, and we'll suspend the rules, and we'll welcome them with a Portland cheer. Let's welcome our friends.
 thank you thank you mayor thank you for honoring us with your presence mayor thank you sir thank you very much okay another round of applause for our family
 Thank you, honored guests. I hope you'll stay as long as you'd like, and I hope you enjoy the rest of your stay in the Rose City. We have four people who signed up for council communications. Would you please call item number 99? 99, request of David Keith Davis to address council regarding activist civil rights violations. Mr. Davis, are you here? So...
 I'm David Keith Davis. I'm with Fight the Sweeps Portland. I'm a founding member of Fight the Sweeps Portland and also the founder of Multnomah County Cop Watch. Today I've come in front of you guys to discuss some matters. You guys supposedly have a homeless state of emergency in this town, yet people like me who go out and document the ongoing sweeps
 are actually falsely being charged with interference just for simply documenting these sweeps that are ongoing. On January 7th, I received charges of interference, and it looks like Officer Dave Sanders and the other officers involved in this sweep that happened right across from Bud Clark's common gave out...
 For other people that were homeless campers, similar charges. I'm not going to name their names out of respect for them, but I could provide you with documents of all this. There's three people that were charged with interference, four people charged with unlawfully erecting permanent or temporary structures on public property or public right-of-ways,
 for people given disorderly conduct charges. So basically, you know, freedom of speech is disorderly conduct or interference with the police in this town. In such a, you know, supposedly liberal town, the war on journalists is pretty big in this town, you know. I was arrested here.
 On November 25th, we're trying to document the arrest of a mentally ill man in crisis who repeatedly called out for medical attention over 20 times. And Amanda Fritz was here. She's a registered psychiatric nurse. Instead of calling the behavioral health unit.
 Other professionals, the police were called, and they acted in a very unprofessional manner. And Barry Joe Stahl, a man that is mentally ill, that was in crisis mode, was thrown in jail, and he still remains in jail. So, you know, I have two criminal charges, one for this arrest here.
 in council chambers on November 25th. You guys still haven't released the full surveillance footage to my lawyers, which shows that I didn't touch your little G4S security goon, that he actually touched me and tackled me unprovoked when I was doing nothing but filming. So you guys are criminally charging journalists
 and beating up mentally ill men. And one of these homeless people that got these charges is actually a schizophrenic. So that's a real good job you guys are doing for this homeless state of emergency. And, you know, there is a Department of Justice settlement against the city, you know. Maybe you guys might want to actually start. Mr. Davis, I'm going to warn you. Maybe you guys might actually want to start. It's my turn.
 Maybe you guys might actually want to start protecting the mentally ill people instead of just beating on them. Okay? Mr. Davis, thank you for your testimony. Yeah, so why don't you guys do your job better because you're obviously very bad at it. Mr. Davis, please take your seat. I'm very bad at it. And you'll be warned against future disruptions. I'm actually leaving because I can't handle the stench in here. Would you please call item number 100? Okay.
 item 100 request of marianne schwab to address council regarding brownfields marianne welcome thank you we just need your name and you have a full three minutes thank you for the record my name is marianne schwab i'm community advocate and have been for a number of years and today i'd like to address my concerns over the 910 acre brownfields and those not noted
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm pleased knowing that the City of Portland's Office of Governmental Relations, Martha Pellegrino's team, is actively lobbying the legislatures to approve House Bill 4084. It would enable local government to provide a temporary tax abatement if...
 An owner who did not cause the contamination cleans it up. Surely that does not include homeowners like me who stepped up to repair the BDS-approved developers-by-right coupling of sewers back in 1908.
 Soon I'll be addressing a newly elected mayor as we citizens fight to protect Hayden Island and fight to stop Pembina-type factories at Terminal 6 from becoming brownfields. First time around, I want to know if Pembina agreed to accept the liability for any health, medical, and environmental effects of damage to persons or environment, and if Pembina agreed to a bond or fund that could be used –
 should their operation result in a brownfield or other damage? I believe these questions need to be answered by any new industry moving to groundfields.
 Recently, I read the Portland brownfield assessment summary findings. This guy really upset me. It's estimated that there are approximately 910 brownfields located in commercial industry areas of Portland. I'm guessing this probably is an accurate account of larger industry sites but likely undercounts the smaller commercial sites like vacant lots on Division, Hawthorne, Belmont, Stark Streets that were once covered.
 covered with a gas station or a dry cleaner or an auto repair shop or a print store. Also of concern to me is BDS State and TriMet brownfields not included in the BPAS within the inner southeast neighborhoods. And there's three. Number one, TriMet surplus property located at Southeast 17th and Powell had been earmarked for green space and possible community use as part of the Orange Line. However, in order for the Brooklyn neighborhood to sign a lease...
 Sewell's attorneys, I'll clarify that, refused to do that because of perceived liability issues surrounding lead and petroleum residues in the soil too great for a public health risk. Yes, despite that fact, TriMet agreed to clean up the soil to residential standards. Members of the BCA were disappointed. Understandably, they were disappointed. For clarification, we do not have a paid attorney.
 And we have a pro bono attorney for legal advice. And the problem was that the current order, and I forget which, demanded a liability for environmental redemiation. The liability could bankrupt us if the second anything happened. The State Department has scattered properties along the Esplanade that continue to be vacant and contaminated, with exception to the property located southeast
 Third Avenue and Harrison Street. It's my understanding DEQ who tests found two contaminated areas. Mark Lehman is rendering avoided placing ART due to tents over those areas. Three, at least I forget the many brownfields on my side yard, no pun intended, for anyone selling property. My neighbor reported prior to selling. Mary Ann, we're a little over. If you could just wrap up. We do have your submission, and the good news is brownfields is a top priority in our legislative agenda thanks in part to your advocacy.
 One more sentence. I beg your indulgence. In closing, my highest priority, protecting the Wham-O-Property RH1 Zone 1.31 open field facing Southeast Forest and Morrison Street at Wham-O, until the Parks Bureau finds available resources, I'd like to see dogs running in the open field rather than a CM3 industrial complex. Leave us in 10 years or so with another brownfield. Thank you. Mary Ann Schwab, thank you very much.
 Sue, would you please read Council Item 101? 101, request of Catherine Wilson to address Council regarding saving Terminal 1 for a film studio. Are you Ms. Wilson? No, I am not. My name is Cindy Rhodes. Catherine Wilson is en route from Eugene and is in traffic as we speak. She will be here. So our rule is that the person who signs up testifies when she arrives. I will give her the courtesy of three minutes. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 uh carla would you please read uh council item 102 102 request of reverend margaret has been hepzeban to address council regarding justice reverend are you here okay take your time welcome that christian no i'm only kidding so hello uh commissioner fritz uh he's hoping to make a mention about ride to care total disaster so hopefully you'll
 allow me an appointment to maybe share some of this. Reverend, if you could just put your name in the record and you have three minutes. I'm Reverend Margaret Hepsibon, and I live in Lake Oswego in Clackamas County, but I have lived in Multnomah County, graduated from Warner Pacific College. I'm an ordained prophetess and commissioned by God to speak to this nation, to our leaders. I am American. I care about us and the prosperity of our future.
 Future generations in our nation, I am being attacked and hunted down by the KKK. My son, Sebastian, was killed in Milwaukee, found dead, 34 years old in the bed, just dead at 34 years old. Coroner said that it was natural causes. This has come forth prophetically now, so I want you to understand, Commissioner Fish, I've been patient. He died on the day of the Haiti earthquake. That was 2010.
 and so and if god told me okay no more talk about that it's water under the bridge i would do so but he did bring this up just a few days before i was scheduled to speak so and then he's been speaking to other concerns of your council so what i'm trying to say is i'm only saying what he's saying and i want to hurry i want to make an open statement against the kkk i want i'm
 hate crimes abolished. I want their activities to stop in our nation. They're on the rise, and they're ingrained at our doctors, at our hospitals, at our kids' schools. They're hunting my other son Nick down. There was a threat on CNN from the wildlife refuge people that held up the building against my son. They said they're going to kill him.
 Okay, I need help on these. I want an appointment after this. Three minutes is in no way equitable for these issues. My son, Sebastian, killed by the KKK, pretty sure. Judge Mary South Wyatt separated him from me for no reason. I didn't speak to him for a year, and when I saw him, he was dead. Anthony Johnson, Lake Oswego, rented from me and my shelter in Lake Oswego.
 and he was taken to the hospital and dead two days later. He was wearing diapers when he came to me about 40 years old, bleeding from his rectum and having a best friend named Attorney Tom Grief from Salem. So these things are unheard of, and they've got to stop. And so what happens, Commissioner Fish and the rest of you,
 Uh, when, when these kinds of injustices continue, then we have ecological judgment. So God is with us. He loves us. He loves you all. He loves us. You know, he's a good God. He's not warring. He's not ISIS, et cetera. And, uh, so what, um,
 See, wildlife refuge, I want to get the justice with this Judge Mary South Wyatt, why she wouldn't allow me to speak to my son for a year, and then I saw him dead in Canby, why was his body brought to Canby?
 Former President George Bush. Hey, one sentence. Former President Judge Bush made a comment about my daughter being accosted in her teens on his state of address. He says, Jeb Bush is never, there's never another Bush to sit on any office in this nation. They are done. Okay? And that's Jeremiah 3317. And I don't know why he's even allowed to make money in any campaign. I have to ask you to stop right there, Commissioner Fritz. Right.
 Reverend, thank you for bringing these to our attention. I'm so sorry for your loss. Rachel Wiggins on the mayor's staff is right here. He's in charge of the police and public safety. So if you could follow up with her. You mentioned at the beginning there was something that you wanted my attention on. Could you just... A right to care. There's a lot going on with that that lends toward the aggressive and just a lot of...
 unclear but intentional purposes of not getting people to the doctors or aggravating them on the way or driving fast. I have a brain concussion, so if you remember the last time I was here. Yeah, so that is something that after you've talked with Rachel and the mayor's staff, she can take you to Commissioner Novick's office. He's in charge of transportation, and he's the one who could look into those concerns for you. Thank you very much for bringing them to our attention. Thank you very much, ma'am.
 It's Reverend Margaret, not ma'am. Reverend Margaret. If you want to say Ambassador Margaret, you can. And I'm just telling you, I don't want to see floods and all these things happening and earthquakes because before the Lord, for he cometh, he cometh to judge. He will judge his people in righteousness and with his truth. So military, CIA, NSA, they've got to stop. Ambassador Margaret, thank you. Thank you for talking. We're now going to move to the consent agenda. Okay.
 Two items. I have two items that have been pulled, 106, 107. Sue, any others? I do not have others. Hearing none, let's vote on the consent. Oh, Commissioner Fish, we need four people present for consent, so we'll need to take each of them separately. But the 106 we needed to pull up before the time service. With that objection. Could we pull 109 because that's the only emergency item?
 And then we could vote on consent? Yeah. We need four present. Oh, for consent, just in general, even if they're not emergencies. Colleagues, we'll hold the consent until –
 right after the time certain after the time certainly right with the exception of number 106 the appointees are here without objection we're going to hear 106 right now just ahead of the time certain would you please read 106 106 appoint becky hunter paul pappas and angel chesime to the portland commission on disability for terms to expire february 2 2019. we have a ms pappas mr pappas and ms hunter with us
 Welcome, come forward if you would. Thank you both for agreeing to serve on the Portland Commission on Disability and
 It's the courtesy of the House to give our nominees a chance just to introduce themselves. So, Ms. Hunter, we'll start with you. Okay. My name's Becky Hunter, and it's an honor to be considered to participate in PCOT. I'm hoping, with my background, to bring some level of sophistication to the commission in the advisory role to the council.
 My name is Paul Pappas. I live in the southeast Portland neighborhood of Richmond. I have been in Portland five years. I'm a 20-year retired member of the Naval Services of the United States. And my primary motive is that we have a wonderful transportation system in Portland. I'm not knocking it. My primary motive for wanting to get more involved with the disabled community is –
 transportation issue and I had to speak of this with in the absence of Commissioner Novick but we have a horrible sidewalk problem throughout the city of Portland and the bottleneck is over enforcement we have a code that would work if it were enforced
 And I'm trying to propose, and I've talked to Becky about this and others, I've been talking about it for about two years. People are getting tired of hearing me, so that's why I applied for the commission, whereby the members of the community of disabled people, especially mobility issues, can help the city. There has to be a way we can help the city do its job, and that's what I want to do. Colleagues, questions or comments? Yes.
 Can I have a motion to accept the report? So moved. Second. Sue, would you please call the roll?
 Well, the Portland Commission on Disability has become renowned as one of our great, not only advocacy commissions, but also giving us wonderful advice. I know of Commissioner Novick here. He would acknowledge the work that was done during the transportation for hire discussions. And now that Nicole Chiron, who was the original founder of the commission, is going to be returning to staff it in the Office of Equity and Human Rights, I know that you're going to do even greater things. So it's going to be a lot of work. I really appreciate your opportunity
 your willingness to serve the citizens of Portland in this capacity. Aye. Yes. This is a very important assignment, and in the past year we've made progress on many fronts, including most recently, thanks to Commissioner Fritz, we've moved to accept a standard on closed captioning, which leads the nation. So this is an assignment where your work is going to translate into real change in our community. Thank you both for your service. Aye. Thank you. Rossman. Thank you very much for your willingness to serve. Aye. Aye.
 Welcome. I guess you're going to go down now and be sworn in. Yeah, thank you. Thank you so much. We're now going to move to our time certain, and we're joined today by some extraordinarily talented young people from our community we're going to hear from. Sue, would you please read time certain number 103? 103, kids experience bull run. With that, Briggy, would you please come forward with our special guest, and I'll make some introductory comments.
 Colleagues, the next item combines three of my passions, public art, STEAM education, and the Bull Run Watershed. Portlanders know that our water is special, and it inspires a sense of pride. When I travel to other cities and turn on the tap, I know how lucky we are to have access to clean, safe, and reliable drinking water. And when you visit the source, the Bull Run Watershed, you feel a very special connection to our drinking water.
 Last fall, the Water Bureau invited fourth graders from Boise Elliott Humboldt School to the Bull Run for a tour that focused on their senses. When they returned to their classroom, they captured their impressions in art. The art is now on display here in City Hall Atrium, and I encourage each of you to visit the exhibit today or any time this month. And I visited it recently, and I have to say congratulations to all the artists who shared their wonderfully creative work with us.
 In essence, these students that are joining us today are Bull Run Watershed Ambassadors. Their art brings their experiences from inside the watershed back to their school, to their families, to their community, and ultimately to each of us. To tell us more about the exhibit, I'd like to welcome some special guests. The Water Bureau's own Briggy Thomas, a 2013 Spirit of Portland winner. Kendra Yaw, a fourth grader at Boise Elliott Humboldt School.
 Excuse me, Kendra's teacher. I look like a fourth grader. A very mature Kendra, y'all, I might add. No, Kendra's inspired, hardworking, and dedicated teacher at Boise Elliott Humboldt School, and we're joined by dozens of our Bull Run Watershed ambassadors. Welcome to all the young people, and Briggy, take it away. Thank you, Commissioner Fish and the rest of City Council for giving us the opportunity to address you today. Is this too feedbacky? Yeah. Okay. If I stand back.
 We have some technology issues, chronic. Should I just move over? I think it would be better to use the other one. Sure. It just slides down, Briggy. You don't have to move. Yeah. Turn that on, too. And we've got a video running. Testing. Okay, there we go. So, again, my name is Briggy Thomas, and I run the – Is the video running or not? Yeah. Okay, sorry. It's just to give people a sense of what the kids did out on their trip to Bull Run.
 I run the Water Bureau's education program, and in my job I have the privilege of taking thousands of people to visit the Bull Run watershed as part of our tour program. We bring between 1,500 and 2,000 students and members of the public to the Bull Run each year. On a Bull Run tour, we teach visitors about water quality, engineering, history, forest ecology, stewardship, and more.
 By providing community members with an educational opportunity to visit these important public resources that are otherwise closed to the public, we cultivate a citizenry that is better informed about its drinking water system. With this increased awareness, we promote trust in the management of these public resources and maintain support for the closed watershed that protects our drinking water. But a key ingredient that makes meeting these goals possible is that these visits to Bull Run are memorable.
 A visitor might remember smelling the fresh, cool air in the old-growth forest, or marveling at the natural beauty of the lake or the river, or feeling the satisfaction of testing the turbidity of the reservoir water all by herself, or experiencing shaky legs after the thrill of walking down 250 stairs on the face of a concrete dam.
 We count on these powerful sensory experiences to carry a visitor's memories with them for years to come. So we thought, why not do a tour with students that would focus specifically on capturing those sensory experiences through art? When we began designing the project, we approached a natural partner. Boise Elliott Humboldt Pre-K-8 is a STEAM school in North Portland. STEAM means that there's a STEM focus at the school, which is an acronym for Science, Technology, Engineering, and Maths.
 But adding the A to STEM to make STEAM means that they also prioritize a more right-brain topic, art. This made Boise LA at Humboldt the perfect fit for a project that sought to modify what is typically a science and engineering-focused field trip so that it would draw out and highlight the senses and ultimately capture students' impressions through art.
 we provided some stem related activities for these students at their school prior to the field trip and then designed a unique tour that would allow the fourth graders to experience the watershed through their five senses sight smell sound touch and yes even taste
 Students took a silent walk through the forest. They made audio recordings inside the dam. They practiced something called photo yoga. They tasted oxalis, an edible plant. Then they returned to their classrooms and created the work currently on display in the atrium here at City Hall. I think you will agree that the students have beautifully communicated their experiences through very artistic images and really thoughtful words.
 We're so grateful for this partnership with Boise Yellowhead Humboldt School. Many thanks to the classroom teachers, art teachers, STEM coordinators, and community partners who were directly involved. They were a pleasure to work with. I'd like the teachers, Bridget Smith, Amy Havens, and Jenny Gonzalez, and Kendra Yao to please stand up. Let's suspend the rules and give our teachers a round of applause.
 And thank you to the Water Bureau team who worked hard to make things happen on our end. And a very special thank you to all of the fourth graders for all the effort and care that they put into translating their Bull Run impressions for all of us to enjoy. I'm pleased to pass the mic to one of our partners, Boise Elliott Humboldt's K-5 art teacher, Kendra Yeo.
 Hello, I'm Kendra Yao, a K-5 visual art teacher at Boise Elliott Humboldt School. This partnership with the Portland Water Bureau has added value to our curriculum by focusing our collaborative efforts into an immersive, important, and local experience. We're a very diverse community in the rapidly changing Boise neighborhood of North Portland.
 Our teaching practice is centered on a framework of rigor, relevance, and relationship, and I'm very proud of our ongoing equity work and how it merges with our focus as a STEAM school. Our students, like all young people, are extraordinarily curious. They want to try things that adults would normally do and have authentic responsibilities and see what it feels like to make something that's important for their community.
 As an art teacher, my first impression of the watershed was its stark contrast with our everyday reality in a bustling pre-K-8 building. The temperature was cooler, sounds were a bit muffled, and also sharpened. I knew that the sheer immensity of the reservoir and the quiet calm of the forest, and even the dark isolation inside the dam would be inspiring. And I also knew that our focused looking and sensing would enrich the experience for the students.
 I knew that it could bring us closer to national art standards that address essential questions. How does making art attune people to their surroundings? How do people contribute to awareness and understanding of their lives and the lives of their communities through art making?
 Becoming photographers on this trip, students were challenged to literally see a place from a new perspective. They were not allowed to take the typical snapshots and selfies, but instead they had to capture a slug's eye view, a bear's eye view, or even a clump of moss's eye view in the watershed forest. They were challenged to hunt for light, moisture, and texture. Most of our awesome camera habits were developed with guidance from our professional artist friend, Julie Keith,
 and my colleague, Nicole Pennancello, who even went along on one of the class's visits. I should also note that Julie Keefe, in addition to being an award-winning photographer, is the city's arts laureate. So the young people got to hang with a very important person. That is true. And when we returned to the classroom, I worked with students to create abstract watercolors from our knowledge of how water behaves.
 And then for two classes, we tried reflective landscape paintings based on our memory and imagination of Bull Run at other times of day and year. And all students eventually were forced to select their one single favorite piece of photo documentation from their visit, and they were most proud of these images.
 And finally today, what we're about to experience as our exhibition opens in the atrium is the ultimate culminating experience for them. What I hope my amazing fourth graders in this room with me is that you can see how our dots are connected, that what happens on our field trips and in our classrooms so clearly connects to our community and to stewardship of our land and resources. This moment is for you to educate your families and even complete strangers with what you communicated through art.
 documentation, and reflection. You get to see how your work will resonate through others eyes and that you will always have this ability as you continue through to college and your careers. On behalf of the teachers and students we would like to thank the Portland Water Bureau for this partnership and Commissioner Nick Fish, Mayor Charlie Hales, and the entirely Portland City Council for the opportunity to share our students work.
 We hope you will visit our students' art exhibit in the City Hall atrium. And now we'd like to have four of our students share in their own voice a little about their experience with you. Sue, could we switch off the video? Absolutely. Are you going to introduce them or are they going to introduce themselves? They're going to introduce themselves. Young people, come forward. Welcome. We're honored to have you here today. Who wants to start? I'm just going to start. All you have to do is give us your name and speak into the mic and you're among friends.
 Hello, my name is Malin, and this is my speech. When I went to Bull Run, I felt like I was a part of a special group, or I was an important person. I love Bull Run because even though people do work there, it's not overrun by machines and other things like that. It still has its main wildlife. My personal favorite part of Bull Run was going inside the dam. It was dark, but amazing to go through.
 the dam even if there wasn't much to see. It was like a sewer. We weren't allowed to take pictures so we recorded our voices. I remember hearing some water dripping so me and my teacher recorded it with the voice recorder. We also got to go into a forest with our shoes off. You might think the floor was rough but it was actually very smooth. I felt like I was special because I was one of the persons who got to go to Bull Run. Thank you very much. Welcome.
 My name is Mia, and today I will be talking about my experience at Bullhorn Watershed. It was a long bus ride, but it was worth it. It was quiet, the air was cold and refreshing. It was like a walk on the beach. It was a huge honor to be trusted around our drinking water. My favorite part was around... Oh, sorry. My favorite part was when we took pictures. We took pictures of moths...
 trees, plants, and all that kind of stuff. I really enjoyed Bull Run. It was so peaceful. I was really scared when we had to walk down all those steps. We got to walk with our shoes and socks off. It felt mushy and moist, and nothing harmful was on the ground. It was soft, although your feet did get a little dirty.
 We got to eat a plant called oxalis. It was sort of tangy. I liked that. That was my awesome field trip at Bull Run Watershed. Thank you very much. Young man, welcome. My name is Zimani. When we went to the Bull Run Watershed, I was very happy and excited. When we got there, it was really hot. We ate lunch on the deck, and the scenery there was wonderful.
 There were trees all around the dam and a huge lake of water separating it all. We walked down 250 flights of stairs. I was really scared I was going to fall. And then when one of the teachers dropped their phone and climbed down, it really worried me. After we got all the way back up, a lot of us were really tired and our feet were burning. And luckily after that,
 was when we took our shoes and socks off. And we walked through this path, and there was a tree with a lot of holes in it that we were wondering about. It was really confusing, so we decided to study it. Some of us took pictures of it. Some of us did not. And then we went down. Once we got to the end of the path, we had this little hut kind of thing that we went inside. And we saw a tree that looked like it was burned hundreds of years ago. It was all black, and there was only a stump left.
 Afterwards, we were done with that. We went back to the path and started taking pictures. There was this humongous tree branch about the size of this table, humongous, round, with holes all in it. It looked like it had some kind of design through it with white paint. Thank you very much. Briggy, slide the thing down if you would. It moves.
 Welcome. Hi, my name is Marshawn. My impression of Bull Run Watershed was wow, because it was so big. When we got down there to see it, how I captured it in my artwork was that it reminded me about the time we always go fishing, because I love fishing. The reason it reminded...
 meet up that is because we walked up all what walked up and down all of those step stairs to the dam and we saw the different types of water on both sides of the dam one thing i forgot to add was the scenery because it was so beautiful that i just want to stay there it took my breath away what a great job let's give them a round of applause for their
 Before they go, I just want to say first, you guys did a terrific job. And we have a lot of people who testify before us. And, Commissioners, I don't remember the last time we had young people who were such great ambassadors before the Council. And on TV, in front of all these people, you guys were great. Two things I just want to share with you. The Bull Run, when it's in capacity, has 19 billion gallons of water.
 it's the largest water supply in the state and we can use about 11 billion of those gallons that's drinking water but the other thing that you probably learned on your trip is that we're the only system in america that delivers the water unfiltered so we don't filter that water and that's why you know every once in a while when you turn on your tap the water might have a little color in it that actually might be some of those leaves that you saw that were on the lake
 that then colored the water. So we're so proud of you for taking time out to go explore the Bull Run. And let's see if my colleagues want to say anything. Thank you, President Fish. So I had heard that the students at Boise Elliott Humboldt are amongst the best in the city. And I can see why. Is that true? Absolutely. You are not only good speakers, you are good readers, and you are good listeners. And your teachers and your parents must be very proud of you.
 Twenty-two years ago, my oldest son was in fourth grade, and I worked with staff in the Bureau of Environmental Services and got a grant, and we were able to take the Bull Run tour. I want to thank Ivy Francis and Patrice Mango and Lynn Vandekamp, and I've never forgotten those people who helped us set that up.
 For me, it's a once-in-a-lifetime experience. It's not a tourist thing where you get to go to Cannon Beach every time you are able to do so. It's a very, very special thing. We cannot have a whole lot of people going to the Bull Run. So you've had an experience that a lot of people in Portland will never have. And it's really special. I've always remembered that. I want to thank Commissioner Randy Leonard, who was the champion for this program that Commissioner Fish has now taken on.
 I was particularly moved when you're talking about walking barefoot through the forest. And it reminds me that people have lived in this area since time immemorial, that Native peoples were here walking through the forest and taking care of them before Portland was Portland, Stumptown was Stumptown. And so you've had an experience that goes back generations or even thousands of years of walking through that very special place.
 And I hope you will always remember it for the rest of your life. That son who was in fourth grade 22 years ago is now a social studies teacher at Westview High School in Beaverton. And so I hope that some of you go on to be teachers, to do great things, and maybe even to be elected officials who might be choosing to fund programs like this. Because it does take money to hire the bus, to program.
 to provide the staff, and that's the taxpayers, the ratepayers of Portland, investing in you because you are worth it and you are our future, and we are so looking forward to seeing what you do with all of these experiences that you had in the bull run. Thank you so much for coming to share, and thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you. And now we'll hear from the only engineer, professional engineer on the council, Dan Saltzman. Dan? I have to correct. I'm not a professional engineer. I'm trained as an engineer. Okay.
 Thank you very much. All your vivid memories of your trip to Bull Run remind me that I toured Bull Run before you were all born, you know, about 15 years ago. And it just reminds me that I want to go back and cherish all the things that you saw. I didn't get a chance to walk barefoot in the forest. Yeah. So I want to go back and...
 relive all the vivid memories that you've brought to us today. So thank you for that, and I look forward to seeing your art downstairs. Great. Briggy, before we wrap up, I just can sense the teachers, and we have some parents here, and we have all these young people in a STEAM program. Let me share a little secret. We got a briefing last year that said that a lot of people working for the city of Portland are going to retire in the next 10 years.
 And we have people in very important positions at the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services who are going to be retiring. And that means that as these young people finish up high school and get ready to go to college, we'll be looking for the next generation of leaders at the city in good jobs that require a background in exactly the skill set that you're learning in school right now.
 So for those of you who took the tour and are thinking maybe someday you might want to work for the city at the Water Bureau, the Bureau of Environmental Services, start thinking about maybe an internship in high school. And remember, by staying in school and doing well and learning these skills, you will have the potential someday of possibly working for the city. And maybe you'll be taking people on one of these tours. So keep that in mind.
 Riggi, you want to wrap us up? Great. Yeah, we would like to invite council to join us on the third floor in front of the mural for a quick photograph with the fourth grade students, if you're able. And then we invite everyone who's able to meet us for a reception in the City Hall atrium to meet the artists and see their work. Thank you so much. Without objection, the council will take a five-minute recess. Thank you, President.
 Amazing, scary, and it was not a good time. Without objection, we're going to take something out of order. I understand Catherine Wilson is here. Sue, would you read 101 again? 101, request of Catherine Wilson to address council regarding saving Terminal 1 for a film studio. Catherine Wilson, come on forward. Sorry, you got stuck apparently on I-5. And we do have your hand.
 Thank you so much. Okay, I want to just thank you guys for letting me do this. And if I'm talking too loud, let me know. I can't hear anything. I've got a head cold from grim. My name is Catherine Wilson, and I wanted to say hello to you all, and I want to thank you today for hearing me speak.
 And I am a sixth-generation Oregonian who's worked in Oregon film for 47 years. My husband and I, he's on Grimm, have commuted to Portland for 42 years and have worked on nearly every major motion picture and television show and series shot here since then, about 50 of them. You can imagine how much change we've seen in Portland since the early 70s.
 especially looking through a camera lens as a location scout or trying to get films here. Every time a period era of neighborhood gets gentrified, we feel we lost a location, possibly a film and jobs. But there is a solution. The solution to this is a film studio. And many people have tried to create one here because our industry really needs it.
 I've tried for a year now to save Terminal 1 for this reason and was told by an office that they liked the plan, but it wouldn't fly with the state regarding the zoning. Only then to be told by a state representative that that wasn't true and to talk to a specific someone else on this council who didn't return my inquiries. I know you are busy people. You work so hard.
 but perhaps it can still be saved, and you can save it, Terminal 1, because it fits incredibly well with Goal 1 of your plan. In all fairness, part of the problem in my original proposal was having a film academy teaching young people the industry in an HI overlay studio zone. So I've now prioritized the plan to be solely for an industrial studio, as we can continue to mentor young people elsewhere and on location to meet most or all of Goal 1's other criteria.
 So please, as an Oregon pioneer filmmaker, and in the name of my ancestors, I beseech you to look seven generations into the future regarding Terminal 1, inarguably the last great place for a film studio in Portland. I beseech you to put the land in a land bank and river bank for future generations and stop the sale of it in March for the following reasons. A, it is on the river and being sold.
 to the highest bidder, which we all know can be problematic in the long run. Two, it's 400 feet from a new residential development. It is in a Northwest 23rd filmmaker's beloved quadrant. The restaurant's everything. A film studio is industrial but also transitional, as opposed to a fracking gas shipping port, for example.
 See, it is perfect as is for a film studio, and its old growth clear for a building is irreplaceable. You know better than I do the huge amount of rent money films can pay to rent the other buildings in town you own. They would pay a lot more for this one because it would save them hours of labor and gas costs and the environment to have everything in one place, including boats.
 And last but not least, the beauty of Terminal 1 is that it has incredible light exposure and it's possible to shoot period films without overhead wires. We can also save valuable city structures from demolition by moving them onto the site to create a back lot village and also take advantage of the breathtaking river view of Portland's incredible bridges. We can create much needed center for our widespread film. I have to ask you to close. First, thank you very much for coming.
 Two, I apologize if you have not received responses to your inquiries. Since the property falls within the Bureau of Environmental Services portfolio and since it is currently being marketed as surplus property and it's also in an industrial overlay so there are some complications, what I will commit to you is we'll give you a response to your proposal.
 I personally, as someone who was at the Grimm celebration of the 100th episode, I hear you loud and clear about the value of having a sound studio. There are some land use and legal reasons as to why this may not be possible.
 work, but I don't want to prejudge it. I want to get you a thoughtful response. And for those of you who don't know the location that Ms. Wilson is referring to, it's the temporary home now of Tracktown, and it's where the track, which is going to be moved to the convention center for the big event in March or April, is currently housed. It is a magnificent structure, and it is something like 16 acres of prime industrial land.
 We'll take a look at your proposal and get your response again I apologize if you if you have felt you have it we haven't been responsive Miss also, thank you for taking the time to get here from Eugene and to give you Wow Thank you. I want to just do a public service announcement if you're not sure which Commissioner or City Bureau is responsible for a particular question or comment or request and
 You can always email cityinfo at portlandoregon.gov or call 503-823-4000. That's the Information and Referral Service in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. They are absolutely fantastic at finding the right office to take care of things. So if you don't get a response from a
 a commissioner's office or even before that, email cityinfo at portlandoregon.gov and they will find you the right person. I'm glad you came here today. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Sue, we've got two time certins remaining. We're a little behind schedule. Let's start with time certain item number 104. 104, accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer. Welcome. Who wants to kick this off?
 I will, and I'm sorry that we're not as cute as fourth graders, but we do have an information point. That's a hard act to follow. Good morning. I'm Jen Clodius. I am a senior management analyst with the Office of Management and Finance, and I'm staff support for the Technology Oversight Committee. With me are Jeff Baer, the director of the Bureau of Technology Services, and Ken Neubauer, Commissioner Fish's representative to the TOC.
 We're here to present the report for the TOC's quarter from October to December 2015. Move the mic a little closer if you would. It slides. Just want to make sure we can all hear you. Thank you. This is the quarterly report from October through December 2015. As you know, you each have appointed a member to the TOC. The other members are Josh Mitchell, Wilf Pinfold, Diana Garcia, and Colleen Gadbois.
 We're going to project the dashboards that you have in front of you. Each dashboard contains information from the project management staff and from the quality assurance contractors and from the TOC. Please note that the TOC did not meet in December, so the dashboards you see are as of the November meeting. However, Jeff is going to give you the update through January so that you'll have the current information.
 Jeff. Thank you. Thank you, Jen. Commissioner Fish, members of city council, Jeff Baer with the Bureau of Technology Services. And I do want to provide a few brief comments on several updates to the report that you do have in front of you, which covers that 90-day period from October through December. And let's see which one we've got up first. I tapped this up first. I tapped. So I'll follow in the same order as the report is. Okay.
 I want to give a brief summary of some of the activity that has happened on ITAP specifically. And even though you'll see these are still in red with the scope, schedule, and budget, there does continue to be a lot of activity and progress being made through this project
 And it's moved past the initial demonstration phase, which was to pursue, and we are in this process of pursuing another review period over the next three to five months to really monitor and gauge the vendor's ability to manage the various work streams that are going forward. And I think this is one of the more critical periods of time that we're going to be pursuing to really determine the project level of work that can occur and can be done.
 be sustained over a much longer period of time and will come to a decision point at the close of that demonstration period. And I know Paul Scarlett from Bureau of Development Services and his team are here, and I know that they'll provide a lot more detail about the current progress that's being made, so I'll reserve comments for that on the ITAP. I'll turn it over to Ken Newbauer. Great. Thank you, Jeff. Hello, Commissioners. My name is Ken Newbauer, and I'm here to present the Technology Oversight Committee's quarterly report for October to December.
 the first project is the information technology advancement project also known as itap this project develops a paperless permit and case management process and allows complete online access to the permitting and case review services some of the projects deliverables include digitizing and online access of historical permits and property information implementation of updated permit and case review information management system online case and permit applications and review services
 mobile online access for field staff and implementation of an automated queuing system the toc from a status perspective the toc continues to have concerns around all aspects of the project duration budget scope and overall performance some of the accomplishments of this particular quarter was the project team continues to work on amending contracts and remedy contract gaps and re-baseline the project at the 60-day period of the 90-day phase the land use 2 module is on schedule but other modules are slipping
 Some of the upcoming milestones for the next quarter were rebaselining the project and pursuing a big bang full scope delivery with not to exceed date of November 2018. Again, risk concerns and comments from the TOC. As I noted earlier, the TOC continues to be concerned about all aspects of the project. As you can see from our dashboard, every component of this project is red, and we did not see any change in sight. Jeff? No, for the comments. Okay.
 The next project is the lien accounting system. The lien accounting system is used to record and manage assessments and liens for the city, as required by city charter and Oregon state law. The application was written in old programming language and was the last remaining application on the mainframe, which was scheduled to be decommissioned by July 1, 2015.
 Because of the tight timeline and resource constraints, the decision was made to rewrite the existing application using a more modern programming language and transferring it to a Microsoft Windows platform. The status of this project is complete. The accomplishments for the quarter were the application was launched, was transitioned from project to management and operations.
 There are no upcoming milestones. And under the risk, comments, and concerns, while the project was several months late and over budget, it has completed and the mainframe has been decommissioned. Major accomplishment. And I would just add one note about following Ken's comment that we did go live in October. All systems were cut over. It is operating as we intended it to be. And as Ken noted, we've actually decommissioned the mainframe and moved it off of the data center, so it's actually off the premise. Okay.
 Thank you, Jeff. The next project is the Payment Card Industry, PCI, Payment Gateway Project. Description of this project is the city is required to meet payment card industry and data security standards as part of the merchant service contract, which is required by card networks, Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discovery, so on and so on.
 At the time, the city did not meet those standards and was required to remediate the card processing environment or adopt other means of processing card payments to enable the city to be compliant by December 31st of 2015. At the time this quarterly report was inked, the TOC had minor concerns about the project's deadline. However, we saw significant progress which enabled us to be encouraged. Accomplishments of that quarter were the gateway was 98% complete by mid-November,
 Elevon PenPad solution was deployed, and Treasury and Elevon were providing training. The upcoming milestones were to complete the policy and procedures documentation and complete the project. And under risk and concerns, the TOC saw a high level of commitment at all levels to mitigate issues and to complete the project on the target date.
 yeah we're providing just a couple more updates on that as of today all pci car holder data has been removed from the city networks and systems and the payment gateway migration has been completing completed and all the remaining transactions have been encrypted so it's our opinion that as of the end of december on december 31st that the city is in a pci compliance status
 and we are simply waiting the attestation from the external auditor reports to confirm our compliance status. And I will say that on January 15th, we did receive the attestation of compliance for the Parks Bureau. I'm going to hold. Do you want us to hold comments until you've gone through the whole report? Is that easier? Let's do that. Let's work through the report, and then we'll have some comments. Thank you. Congratulations, Jeff. The next in the last project is the VersaCAD Computer-Aided Dispatch VCAD Hardware Refresh Project.
 The VCAT system is operated by the City of Portland's Bureau of Emergency Communications, BOAC, and is used by public safety agencies throughout Multnomah County to connect the community and emergency services responders.
 It's past due for a lifecycle replacement of the system's underlining hardware. The VCAD Hardware Refresh Project updates the system's hardware environment in a manner that meets BOAC business requirements, VTS support requirements, and aligns with the vendor's recommended technical specifications. In this quarter, the TOC accepted this project for oversight. Their major accomplishments were our initial report.
 and the technical teams are working with the vendor to prepare the new VCAD development environment. Upcoming milestones for the next quarter were to install and configure the development environment. Under risk and concerns, while the schedule is short, the TOC believes there is little risk even if there is some slippage for this particular project. Thank you.
 And a couple of updates on the VCAT hardware refresh is that some of the major developments this past quarter have occurred, and the development environment has been completed, tested, and approved and signed off by the city. And we are pursuing developing the production environment along with the training development environment and also disaster recovery so that when we do cut over, we have a failover system in place for those critical public safety systems. That's all.
 thank you very much i think we're going to have a few questions and then we'll have more to follow if i could just take a moment to address the pci payment gateway first of all i have first-hand experience as to what a tremendous achievement this was and uh since there were a handful of bureaus that created more challenges than others i just want to thank the team thank you for tremendous work and it was also a challenge i think to do communications with the public because
 We were required to meet an industry standard even though there was no existing threat to the data. That was a hard message to get out to the public that there was no clear and present danger but there was a new standard we had to meet and therefore we had to make these changes. One casualty of the process was we had to discontinue auto pay until this was complete. Do you have a sense, Jeff?
 as to when we might be able to, let's say at the Water Bureau, offer our customers auto-pay again? We're still working through that process. I know one of the systems that we're looking at implementing is this software called Invoice Cloud for bill presentment and payment. And so we're still working through that process. I don't have a defined date. I can get you something to use specifically on that once we get a little bit closer. Well, it turns out we had, I forget the number, like 30,000, 40,000 customers who –
 used AutoPay. We probably heard from just about all of them. And we are very eager to migrate them back to AutoPay because it is a convenience that a lot of our customers like. So congratulations, though, for successfully completing the underlying task, and we look forward to working with you to get AutoPay back up and running. Colleagues? MR. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, as always, for your good work. MR. Do you have other people here who? MS. There are folks here to talk about ITAP, if you have questions.
 I don't see any. So let's see if there's anyone here to testify. Who? Charles Johnson signed up to testify. Mr. Johnson, the floor is yours. Good morning, Commissioners. It was interesting to hear this presentation in this latest version without so much agony over the permitting ITAP prom, although I do think it would be good to –
 just to have read out some of the total expenditures and the exact number of months or years we're behind on that project. More interest to me is the hardware changes for the 911 center and seeing if there's any way that that can be accelerated and partnered with the recently reviewed plan to give us 911 by text plans
 and a little bit of talk about why we think we can track that program, text 911, more quickly than this complete hardware update. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else like to be heard on this report? Hearing none, can I get a motion to accept the report? So moved. Second. Sue, would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 Well, thank you for this report and for the independent oversight. Thank you for staff and development services, Commissioner Saltzman. I know you're continuing to diligently work on the challenges of the ITAP project. It's very interesting to me to see a hardware update for the Versaterm computer-aided dispatch system, which, of course, I oversaw the complete renewal of that system when I was in charge of emergency communications. Thank you.
 And sure enough, it turns out, in fact, it is four years later, and many of us have updated our own computers in the last four years, and the technology just continues to change. So I know if Commissioner Novick were here, he would thank Lisa Turley and her team in BOAC for their diligence in making sure that the emergency system in
 Portland and deeper the entire Multnomah County continues to serve the needs of our citizens. I particularly want to thank staff in Parks and in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement involved in taking in money for permits and other things. I know that there's been an entire city team working on the payment card industry standards as well as the people in the Office of Management and Finance and so congratulations everybody for a non-story that in fact we did it very well and we got it done on time
 Thanks to all. Aye. Ms. I was very proud to partner with Dan a number of years ago in creating the Technology Oversight Committee. And this, as Commissioner Fritz reminded us recently when we were discussing oversight of the Portland building, this has become the model for engaging community members with particular expertise in helping us do oversight. And this, I think, has become the model.
 In fact, it's such a good model that I recently admonished another group and asked them if they would use the color coding, because the color coding actually makes it a lot easier to follow and practice. Thank you for your good work. And just to put a human face on this, again, the Water Bureau reaches a lot of people through their systems. We were heavily impacted by the technology protocols. We are urging as many customers as possible to move to monthly billing.
 and I hope everyone here who has not already signed up for monthly billing does so. And let me just put it this way. I was able to sign up for monthly billing, and if I can do it, I really believe anyone can do it. And the beauty of monthly billing is you, instead of getting a bill every three months and experiencing sticker shock, you pay your utility bill the way you pay all your other utility bills on a monthly basis, and you track usage.
 But there's been some changes in how you enter information. The amazing thing is after all this technology upgrade and compliance work, our system is now easier to navigate. And I can't say that that always happens when we have these dicey technology issues. Actually, I think it's become easier and more intuitive.
 So thank you for that on behalf of all the Water Bureau customers. Thank you to Ken Neuber, Neuber, Neuber, excuse me, who is an expert in technology issues working at the standard. And thanks to all the other citizen committee members for their time and commitment to this process. Aye. Thank you.
 Well, I just want to add my thanks to the committee members. We do very much appreciate your work, even when it's incisive and painful sometimes to hear. But that's what you're there for, and that's what we're here to hear. So thank you very much. Bye. Thank you all.
 I'm pleased to announce that we're only five minutes, actually, yeah, we're only ten minutes behind the next Time Certain. Commissioner Fritz was chairing this meeting. We'd be exactly on time. Sue, would you please read Time Certain, item number 105? 105, accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $500,000 from the National Park Service for the Thomas Cully Park Project. Commissioner Amanda Fritz. Thank you, President Fish. Thank you.
 And good morning, everybody. Thank you for joining us. Just three years ago, City Council was asked to accept a memorandum of understanding between Portland Parks and Recreation and Verde.
 That executed agreement and the partnership it defines promises to transform a once parks deficient area through significant investment. We are excited that 407 households without current access to a park or natural area will have access to Thomas Cully Park once it opens. Of course, we haven't yet determined that it's actually going to be named Thomas Cully Park. There will be a naming process, but it's a very good working name, and it might well end up being the name.
 This award recognizes the crucial role that our partnership with Verde has played in leveraging public dollars with private investment and community building, all of which are essential in moving this project forward. So I am introducing this award.
 amendment which an amendment to the ordinance which eliminates language in two places which was a remnant from a 2014 ordinance do we have that substitute already distributed on the Tuesday memo yeah I believe it was I believe it's a technical amendment not a substantive change is there a second sue would you please call the roll Ritz yes hi awesome
 Thank you. As Commissioner Fish said, there's no substantive change in the ordinance. And we are hearing this as an emergency ordinance. We can't vote on it today because of the absence of two colleagues, but we'll vote on it as soon as we get four members of the council. And I know that others will be watching so that they can vote.
 So welcome Portland Parks and Recreation's Deputy Director Warren Jimenez, Verde's Executive Director Alan Ippolito, Grace Stratton from Commissioner Wyden's office, and I'm going to get this, Jujit Nagra.
 And you and I met at the wonderful Muslim Educational Trust event. And you're from Senator Merkley's office. Thank you very much for joining us, all of you. Warren? Great. Well, thank you, Commissioner.
 I'm Warren Jimenez, Deputy Director of Parks, and it's a pleasure being here today. And I think appropriate that two former parks commissioners and our current parks commissioners here on this item, I believe each of you played a role in this project from acquisition to someday opening this park. And so it's exciting to be here to talk about this partnership in front of you.
 So just to give you a quick reminder on the project ahead of us, and a lot of work has gone into making this park project a reality. And this really shows the strength of partnership and an excellent demonstration about the community coming together on this. Thank you.
 At Your Direction, we built this partnership together. Verde is continuing to leverage and be a really critical community partner in this, going out, playing the role of fundraiser to organizer to being project designer in construction. In 2012, like you mentioned before, Commissioner, Council,
 brought forward the partnership between Parks and Verde. And that agreement established the project scope and then the shared responsibility of how we work together to making this project a reality. In fact, Verde is bringing together the strength of the community through more than 20 community groups that are working together to actively participate in the park design. And that process is ongoing. Thank you.
 If you recall, part of the Parks Vision 2020 establishes that a significant amount of investment was needed to bring equitable access to northeast Portland. Our work with this park will provide access to an additional over 400 households in the Cully neighborhood, continuing to close those gaps in our system that is much needed for access for our community.
 Through this partnership and agreement between Parks and Verde, Verde set some ambitious goals for targeting business participation in project design and construction. Because of this partnership, Thomas Culley Park will be designed by the community, built by the community, and enjoyed by the community for generations to come. And I'd like to turn it over to Alan. Alan. Thank you. All right. Well, thank you very much for having us here today as partners
 I would like to say, as Ray Espana would say, it's a blessing to be with you. There are many things to celebrate about this project today, community involvement, youth education, economic opportunity, and, of course, environmental good. On the subject of the moment, funding, I'm very happy to share with you that Verde and our partners, we've secured over $6 million to date from cash and in-kind sources, raising nearly $1 million.
 $2 million a year with support from public, foundation, and for-profit sources. System development charge funding announced by Commissioner Fritz in February of 2014 has had a major impact on the project and is the largest award made to Cully Park by any funder.
 The state of Oregon, who has also made a different award to the project, with the involvement of Citi and Verde, submitted an application to the National Park Service. We were successful securing $500,000 from that source, one of only two grantees nationally to receive the maximum award. And so we're here today to ask council to formally accept that grant award so we can leverage these funds towards several park features.
 We're also very excited, and I do want to share with you our excitement of our expanded work with the Portland Parks Foundation, which has selected Cully Park as one of its two priority projects for its major donor campaign. And lastly, and importantly, upcoming, we believe we have a real opportunity in front of us to secure significant and discretionary public investments to complete the fundraising projects.
 And we look forward to working arm-in-arm with our partners at PARCS to secure these from local, regional, and state sources. So thank you very much for this opportunity today. It's my pleasure to introduce Grace Stratton. Could I just have you switch because I don't think we have any more slides? Yes.
 Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Grace Stratton. I'm a field representative for U.S. Senator Ron Wyden. Senator Wyden could not be here today, but I am here on his behalf to express his support for the Thomas Coley Park project. And I also personally want to note what a pleasure it's been working with the City of Portland Parks and Recreation Department, as well as Verde and all the other partners on this project. So without further ado, I'd like to read a letter from Senator Wyden.
 dear mayor hales and city commissioners while i could not be here with you today i did not want to miss the opportunity to express my strong support for the thomas coley park development the new park will benefit the community and offer unique approaches to promoting neighborhood growth and sustainability i was proud to support the city of portland's application for the land water conservation fund grant through the national park service and was thrilled when they received it last spring
 Coley Park not only provides better access to natural recreational areas in a neighborhood that has none, it also creates living wage jobs and offers educational opportunities for families and children. For Oregonians, protecting and creating natural areas in our own backyard is a priority, and the LWCF is a critical tool for providing access to such areas. That's why I continue to support the LWCF and ensure that access to recreation and natural areas is expanded and protected.
 I want to commend the City of Portland, Verde, and all the partners who are helping this park become a reality. As you know, the grant process is highly competitive, and your success is a testament to this great partnership. Thank you again for the opportunity to share my support of Thomas Cooley Park and keep up the great work. Sincerely, Ron Wyden.
 Thank you. Grace, I just wanted to note for the record, I think we were first introduced to you when you were Grace Neal, and you were a Rose Festival ambassador. Is that correct? Yes, that is true. How long ago was that? I was a queen in 2006, and the name change is very recent. But you kept the grace, which is very important to me because that was my grandmother's name. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I appreciate that. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. I'd like to see you again, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you.
 So Senator Merkley also couldn't be here with us, but he sends his regrets. For me, as a congressional staffer, a number of items come across my desk, right? And it's so rewarding to see some of these projects actually come to fruition. And it's been wonderful working with the City of Portland and the Parks Department as well to ensure that this project is seen through completion. And so without further ado... Could you put your name in the record and teach me how to say it again? You know, let me just give you the two-step right now. All right. Jacques Gide. Okay.
 That's all. Two syllables, not too bad, you know. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. From Senator Merkley. Congratulations to the Cooley community for being awarded a National Park Service Federal Grant Award. I was pleased to help support the Let Us Build Cooley Park Coalition that initiated the fundraising campaign, as well as the work that so many community partners are doing to revitalize the Cooley neighborhood.
 This grant will support the long-standing needs of this neighbourhood for community engagement and will improve the quality of life for families, as well as create a better future for the entire Northeast Portland community. The new gathering garden, playground, walking trail, overlooks, youth soccer field and habitat restoration make this park a hub for the community. The community also has remained committed to supporting the local economy and has intentionally hired local workers to design and build the park.
 Congratulations again, and thank you for your tireless commitment to revive and maintain your community. As Portland's largest neighborhood, this grant is not only important to the Cooley community, it's a significant award to our region. Best wishes as you move forward with this important project. All my best, U.S. Senator Jeffrey A. Merkley. Let's also acknowledge that John L. Bell is here from the Senator's office. Welcome.
 Yeah, and I'd also like to acknowledge Tara Solson, who is here from Representative Blumenauer's office, is here today as well. So clearly this is a demonstration of federal support, state support, and Verde has been front and center kind of leading the charge and pulling together partnerships. And it's been a great partnership working together. And I just want to thank Alan for all the hard work that he's done.
 and it takes a parks team as well. And I know, Commissioner, you're going to think some specifics there too. But it's been a great partnership. We're here to answer any questions you might have. Colleagues? Just one comment. As we celebrate this remarkable achievement, I learned just this week that we lost two trailer parks in Cully that were sold. And so it's a constant struggle, one step forward, one step backwards. And I wish we had a more robust tool.
 to preserve that particular class of affordable housing in our community because in this current market, it's particularly vulnerable. We just don't have a great tool. But congratulations. And when you said that Verde in this application was one of only a handful accepted nationally, I guess my reaction was, why am I not surprised? Congratulations for just your relentless pursuit of this goal.
 Yes, I just realized we're not voting today. We usually speak when we vote, so I just wanted to say great work, very impressive fundraising, Alan and Verde, and it's really nice to have some federal dollars. And thanks to our congressional delegation for bringing home the bacon. That's a big grant, the maximum, I guess, awarded. So thank you very much. I'm sure there were some invisible hands behind the scenes in securing that grant for us. Thank you.
 And thanks to the representatives of our two distinguished senators for taking time to join us. It means a lot to this council for you to be here. Half a million dollars is a lot of money. The amount of money that Verde has already secured with many partners is hugely significant, and it's a great testimony to this different way that we're doing this park. So thank you to Senator Merkley, Senator Wyden, and Representative Blumenau, and particularly for you for taking the time to be here today. That's wonderful.
 special for us. We have 30 other funders of this project. So a great team, including Oregon Parks and Recreation Department, Multnomah County, the Portland Bureau of Transportation, Maya Memorial Trust, and the Collins Foundation. And I wanted to particularly thank not only Alan and his team, but also Shelly Hunter, Travis Rubal, Warren Jimenez, and Pooja Bhatt in my office, who's now our parks liaison. So it's,
 One of the reasons it's really great to be the Parks Commissioner, despite some of our challenges, that we wish we could do this, the entire thing tomorrow, and we wish we could do it all over the city and indeed all over the region, all over the country, people need parks. So it's a model for how to get things done, but it's not easy and it's one step at a time. And this half a million dollars is a significant step. Thank you so much. And Commissioner Fritz, thank you for championing.
 Parks Equity on the east side. This is another feather in your cap. We're going to hold this over, but I didn't ask, Sue, if anyone signed up to testify. I was going to mention that. We have one testifier, Charles Johnson. Mr. Johnson, do you have something to add? Thank you, Commissioners, and thank you for representatives from the congressional and senatorial offices.
 A half million dollars is an important amount of money for Cully Park, or whatever we named the park in the Cully neighborhood. But a half million dollars in a city that, as Commissioner Fish noted, is having a housing crisis, is losing low-income affordable housing, is not a significant money. A half million dollars...
 is only the payroll for five of the 40 city attorneys. So I hope that while these energetic and committed young people that work on the senators' staff and Earl Blumenhauer's staff are here, we will redouble our efforts to wrench from the hands of the federal government every penny we can possibly find to move Portlanders off the streets so they don't have to sleep in this beautiful new park. Thank you.
 Thank you, Charles. Anyone else would like to be heard? So this matter will be held over until next week, Commissioner? We may be able to do it tomorrow if we have four tomorrow, but we'll see. So let's tentatively hold this over, Sue, until tomorrow, and then we'll make a decision at that time. Thank you very much. Sue, let's pick up the remaining item pulled from the consent agenda, which is a second reading, item number 107.
 107 establish the city budget office as the city bureau responsible for managing the percent for art program uh please call the roll fritz hi fish hi salesman hi excuse me that one was pulled do you know why it was pulled well hold for vote because we didn't have the we didn't have the four oh so we're just going to work through all of this and said now correct yeah basically all of the consent is pulled today but we just we're just voting on the two why aren't we voting on 108
 Because that's the instructions I was given. Yeah, 108 would be good. That's the second reading we could take. All right. And 109 has been asked to be continued to February 10th. Okay, so I'm going to follow the instructions of my colleagues. Let's take, if you could read 108 and we'll take a vote.
 108, authorize a grant agreement to Portland State University in the amount of $51,766 in fiscal year 2015-16 for use by Portland State University Institute on Aging for the Age-Friendly Portland Initiative. The second reading, vote only. Gritz? Commissioner Fish and I are both very happy to authorize this since we worked very hard in the fall adjustments. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And I think it's worth noting that we are a city that takes great pride in being designated an age-friendly city.
 We're a city that adopted an age-friendly action plan. We're a city that has designated PSU as a key partner in implementing it. And after years in which our partner provided services on a volunteer basis, this modest grant allows us to fund some of the work we've asked them to do on our behalf. I think there are such things as good grants and bad grants. I think this clearly qualifies as a good grant with a key partner.
 I'm pleased to vote aye. Balsman? Aye. I believe we can do 110 as well. That's a resolution. Would you please read 109? And I understand that's been returned to Steve's office.
 Oh, right. It will be on next week. You just read it and then we'll get it? Yes. 109, apply for a grant from the Oregon Office of Emergency Management in the amount of $30,000 for the implementation of a collector application, a damage assessment tool. That will be held over. Without objection, we'll hold that over for next week. Sue, would you please read item number 110?
 110, authorize the Portland Bureau of Transportation to submit an application to Smart Cities Challenge Grant to the U.S. Department of Transportation to implement a mobility marketplace. This is a fairly straightforward matter. Is there anything you'd like to add? Just that the application is due tomorrow. And my name is Kyle Chizik from the Bureau of Transportation, for the record. And we appreciate the council's support on this item. Thank you very much. Sue, anyone sign up to testify on this? No.
 I did not have a sheet out. Let's take it to a roll call vote, please. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Thanks very much. We're now moving to our regular agenda, and we're on pretty good time here. Sue, could you please read item number 111? 111, proclaim Thursday, February 4th to be Venture Portland Day in Portland. Thank you.
 I am very pleased as the council liaison to Venture Portland to sponsor this item today, and we're going to ask Heather Hale, Executive Director of Venture Portland, and Brian Alfano, Board Chair, to come forward, and I just have a few introductory remarks. This past Sunday, the 31st, was the 30th anniversary of Venture Portland. As my colleagues know, Venture Portland is successful.
 the nonprofit group that the city contracts with that provides support and advocacy on behalf of our 50 neighborhood business districts. Our 50 neighborhood business districts throughout the city are the hub of our small business economy. A couple of statistics that Heather has ingrained in my head.
 Over 95% of the businesses that are located within our 50 signature business districts employ five or fewer employees. So we are talking about the essence of our local economy, small businesses serving the local economy. And second, what we know is that when we shop local and we support our neighborhood small businesses, 70 cents on the dollar stays home.
 And that doesn't happen when we go online and purchase products that are neither taxed nor have a physical presence here. So we are very proud to be a city that has such a strong and dynamic small business community. And we're grateful to Venture Portland for being the ambassadors for those 50 neighborhood districts that run from 23rd Street all the way to Park Rose and in between. And in particular for their focus this past year in building capacity with our friends east of 82nd.
 So with that, I'm going to recognize Heather, and then after your remarks, I'll read the proclamation. Excellent. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good morning, Commissioner Saltzman, Commissioner Fritz. We appreciate you having us here. My name is Brian Alfano. I'm the volunteer president of the board at Venture Portland. Earlier this week, Venture Portland officially turned 30, so we're here for fun today. Thank you.
 On January 31st, 1986, a small group of volunteers representing 10 neighborhood business districts incorporated the Alliance of Portland Neighborhood Business Associations. Just a few years later in 1993, the organization started its partnership with the city, and what a beautiful relationship it's been since. In the three decades since our founding, that small group of dedicated business owners have
 grew into a powerful economic engine made up of 50 business districts containing 19,200 businesses and providing 267,000 jobs. 98% of Portland's neighborhood businesses have five or few employers. As those dedicated business owners know, in Portland, small really is big.
 Venture Portland has promoted these critical commercial corridors and supported the dedicated volunteers that manage them with training, technical assistance, and grants. In fact, over the last 20 years, Venture Portland invested more than $1.25 million in business district growth, leveraging an additional $3.4 million in private business district investment.
 As president, I know firsthand that the strength of this organization –
 It's about passion and dedication and starting something because you believe that your idea is the idea. It's about a vision for our city that business owners, residents, and elected officials share, a vision that celebrates the individualism and distinct flavor that makes Portland, Portland. It's the knowledge that our diverse neighborhoods and unique views make up the very fabric that binds our city together.
 The business of Portland is about more than business. It's about building capacity to build the city, growing the economy to grow prosperity, and connecting capital, creativity, and community. Yes, the business of Portland is about a lot more than just business. It's about growing business and connecting neighborhoods and making more out of the business districts we call home.
 The same entrepreneurial spirit and commitment to community that created this organization still drives Venture Portland. As you well know, we are the only entity in Portland that works exclusively at the district level, making us the support system for all of the city's 50 neighborhood business districts. As we move together into our fourth decade,
 I am excited about the opportunities ahead of us to continue strengthening Portland and the business districts we all care so deeply about. Our year-long celebration kicks off this week with a variety of activities I hope you and your offices will participate in. First up is our 30th birthday party, which is called Celebrate Our City. This is tomorrow evening.
 With more than 200 small business owners and business district supporters confirmed to attend, the party promises to be a festive and fabulous, especially if you aren't there, but we hope you are. I also encourage you to take part in our selfie challenge. For the next 10 weeks, we're encouraging Portlanders to take a selfie of their favorite neighborhood businesses and post them online. Thank you.
 and use the hashtag PDXLoveSmall, which you might remember from the past couple of years. We'll give out prizes for the best and most creative photos, and I'm confident you could all be contenders. So get out there and use your social media. Venture Portland means business, and so do all of you. So I'm going to turn this over to Heather to discuss our current accomplishments and future plans. Thank you.
 Good morning, Commissioners. As Brian said, I'm Heather Hale, and I'm the Executive Director of Venture Portland, and thrilled to be here with you this morning. The following brief overview is going to provide a snapshot of Venture Portland's work over the last 18 months. After four years of sustained growth, we once again expanded access to our capacity building services. We
 We increased participation in our training and technical assistance program with almost 700 business district leaders from 48 districts attending one of 47 different trainings that cover everything from the legal responsibilities of nonprofit officers to how to best comply with Portland's new Ban the Box ordinance.
 to asset mapping in diverse and rapidly changing neighborhoods. However, we continued to transition needed resources to technical assistance, addressing over the last 18 months 635 individual district-specific requests from neighborhood business districts. That's a doubling of the amount of technical assistance requests that we've handled in a very short 18 months.
 That in-depth assistance helped neighborhood business districts successfully manage major leadership transitions and enabled districts like Central Eastside and Williams to effectively manage significant development and changes to their business mix and demographics in these diverse and rapidly evolving districts.
 We provided almost 3,500 hours of training and technical assistance.
 And in just the first six months of this fiscal year, FY15-16, we've already provided 110% of the amount of technical assistance that we provided to business districts in the entire fiscal year of 13-14. We are clearly in need, and our services are really working well for our districts.
 We continued our grants program, expanding access to funding, awarding $91,000 to business districts for 32 individual projects.
 Altogether, those projects leveraged $275,000 in additional private investment, a more than three to one match. And of note, 30% of all grant funding went to business districts in East Portland.
 Our dollars helped fund projects like Division Clinton's rebranding. This came out of the great streetscape improvements that PBOT and BES did on the street in 2014, resulted in a new website and map, and helped them increase their membership 117% over six months.
 Mississippi, we helped them revitalize their holiday promotion. They produced this winter a passport that on just Mississippi Avenue in a three-week period drove 2,500 individual purchases in those neighborhood businesses and almost more importantly generated $6,000 in a charitable contribution from the business district to the Boise Elliott Neighborhood School.
 We helped Montevilla revitalize their street fair. It had gone on hiatus for several years, and not only were they able to bring it back this last year, but they were able to secure a first-time street closure. They were so successful in this event, thanks to PBOT's help with that street closure, that they brought 10,000 people out to this street fair, making it the largest East Portland event.
 And then Woodstock also launched an innovative program called Woodstock Gives Back in September. This was a coordinated day of giving for the business district in which 32 businesses partnered with 28 individual charities and raised almost $20,000 in about six hours for each of those community-based organizations.
 Without this seed funding from our grants program, these incredible events with their charitable and community focus would not have been possible. The overwhelming majority of neighborhood businesses are neighborhood-based, which means that they are truly the power in Portland's economy. All year, but especially during the holiday season, Venture Portland ensures cash registers ring citywide.
 We continued our partnership with Little Boxes this year, and in 16 shopping hours on Black Friday and Small Business Saturday, we incentivized 22,500 store visits, which is a 23% increase over holiday 2014. And we generated almost $450,000 in retail sales, a 35% increase over the previous year.
 And then the Golden Ticket program in Multnomah Village and Hillsdale continues to be a huge financial juggernaut for those two districts, having generated more than $4 million over the last three holiday seasons.
 But it's not just about the revenue that's raised in businesses. It's also the revenue that Venture Portland has raised. We brought in over the last year almost $450,000 in leverage from the grant that we received from city council.
 We also partnered with city council on a variety of things helping you all and your bureau directors to connect directly with business district leaders and business owners. Helping BES and PBOT mitigate the impact of construction on business districts. We hosted several mixed use zoning and transportation system planning forums for
 for BPS and PBOT, and coordinating with a full baker's dozen of city bureaus under Commissioner Fish's leadership, we helped to streamline the street fare permit process. I have to say, one of my favorite events that you hosted was when we had to deliver the bad news to a local small business that there would be some disruption on the street in front of their business and some jackhammering and replacing pipes
 And their business was renting out these spaces where people got into like a saline solution where they were seeking peace. Flotation tanks. Flotation tanks where they were looking for peace and quiet and escape from the world. Total sensory deprivation. It was not well received. Sensory deprivation. The idea of having all this work in front of the business was not well received. And one of the things we learned is that they had peak hours.
 so there was a time when we were able to change the work schedule so that we weren't interfering with their peak hours an example of what it means to have those coffees in the neighborhoods and engage local businesses and customize the work schedule so we don't unduly interfere with their work exactly thank you commissioner it's exactly that kind of partnership that helps to keep neighborhood businesses in business while the city continues to do its work
 We also partnered closely in supporting neighborhood economic development efforts, including the NPI and Main Street programs, helped to increase sustainability at work certified businesses, and Venture Portland itself became an age-friendly certified business this year as well.
 Last, but certainly not least, I want to recognize Venture Portland's exceptional volunteers, many of whom are here with us today. I'm going to ask them to stand up. In the last 18 months, our board contributed 2,455 volunteer hours to Venture Portland. That's equal to .77 FTE, or 31 hours a week.
 That's on top of the efforts of Venture Portland's very small but mighty staff. I'm now going to ask the team to stand up as well. It is this group that makes all of this work possible.
 And Heather, I ask you to make sure that the Office of Neighborhood Involvement knows about all of your volunteer hours, both in the business associations and what you just described. I'm pretty sure that we would be number one in the country on volunteering if we just reported our hours. Awesome. Thank you very much. Absolutely. We'd be happy to do that. Is it possible to put the board members' names into the record? I see Ann Sanderson from Woodstock. Could we just go around and just have everyone state their name? Starting with you, Ann. I'm Randy Dinella from the Miller.
 Bill Freeze, Division of Clemson. Terry Hart. The Redditor, Hillsdale. Stop. Go ahead. Adrian Sweetwater. Go ahead. Marina Martinez, Board of Hawthorne and staff. And this is the next slide. Jacob Falkenberg. Let's suspend the rules and give our friends a round of applause. Thank you for joining us. Thank you for your great work.
 So briefly, we've covered our past, we've covered our present. I want to talk a little bit about our future and the way that we're piloting innovative solutions in our neighborhoods. A year ago, you invested additional resources in Venture Portland to launch a pilot project supporting six East Portland business districts.
 This catalytic effort had three short-term goals, 10 to 20 percent increases in membership, volunteerism or leadership, and revenue in these targeted districts. And I'm thrilled to say that after one quarter or 90 days into this project, we have exceeded all of our expectations.
 Membership increased 21% across all six participating districts.
 Volunteerism, meaning the number of people that are serving on these East Portland Business District boards increased 23%. We added nine brand new board members to these districts and more, a third of them are people of color. We've lined up a number of additional volunteers that will be joining boards as they go through their election process in the next nine months.
 And finally, we're well on our way to meeting our goals to increase revenue not only for the business associations, but also for neighborhood businesses. So how did we do it? We had three components to the program. The first is dedicated staffing. You just met Adrian, Brad, and Marina, who are each working 10 hours a week in one of these six East Portland districts.
 We also provided some dedicated grant funding to these districts to help them launch catalytic projects. And finally, we increased the amount of technical assistance dedicated to these East Portland districts. And in particular, I'm incredibly proud of the effort that we've done to help these districts set diversity benchmarks.
 to bring not only their membership but also their leadership in line with not only the business mix in their district but also the demographic profiles of their East Portland districts.
 We analyzed almost 3,000 individual points of data, analyzing businesses against nine different diversity parameters and volunteers against 18 different diversity parameters, and helped districts set goals that I am confident they'll be able to meet over the rest of this coming year.
 So what does it really mean? I've thrown a lot of numbers at you, but I want to put a little bit of a personal touch on that. 82nd Avenue launched their new website. It is a multilingual site. They also targeted, they are the single largest district in the city, five miles wide, five miles long. They targeted some specific nodes in their district that they're going to be focusing their effort on.
 Later this month, they're launching the first in a series of quarterly business mixers. And be on the lookout because this summer they'll be launching a passport-style event called Around the World in 82 Dishes, highlighting the incredibly diverse array of excellent food in the district. Thank you.
 Foster Area also launched a new website and a quarterly business mixer, and for the first time, a tree lighting arrived in East Portland. They hosted a winter tree lighting in Laurelwood Park and had more than 200 attendees come to this outstanding family-friendly event.
 They also had a 30% increase in members of their board, including a representative of the Portland Mercado, the largest destination business on Foster Road.
 Gateway celebrate excuse me Gateway revitalized its holiday celebration this winter has also they have the second largest district in East Portland targeted some specific district nodes to focus on and be on the lookout for a brand new event from them in May in conjunction with National Small Business Week called Gateway Celebrate Small
 Montevilla East Tabor launched a brand new event trick-or-treat on Gleason Street there's your photo Commissioner fish this is called it's just I'm getting you know this is competing time or equal time
 Exactly. This was designed to specifically tie in some of the minority-owned businesses on Gleason Street to create a family-friendly event where kids and families could trick-or-treat in these businesses. And by the way, in this picture, the woman on the left runs a restaurant and makes gluten-free product that she then sells to the New Seasons.
 The woman on the right is the branch manager of U.S. Bank that manages the small business accounts of a lot of the businesses up and down that street. So it's a terrific story. We just walked up and down and visited with businesses and heard some great stories. Thank you.
 This event helped one of the pizza places on Gleason Street have their single largest day of business in their entire operational history, with almost a 30% increase on normal sales directly attributed to this event.
 Midway led the pack with its membership and its volunteer increases. Both have gone like gangbusters. They also targeted some district nodes, revitalized their recent holiday party. And next week on Wednesday, while you all are in session, they will be kicking off their brand new quarterly business mixer called Business for Breakfast.
 And last but not least, Park Rose launched two brand new holiday events. The first was called Trunk or Treat. It was in the parking lot of Park Rose High School on Halloween, and despite the
 25 million gallons of water that fell from our sky during this event, they still had 700 kids and families attend and trick or treat with businesses sponsoring having candy in their car trunks.
 It's probably a lot more pleasant in the rain than trudging around neighborhoods one by one. Yes, I think that worked out very well. Three hundred million gallons of water went through our system on Halloween. It was the all-time record. Eclipsed two weeks later by a new record, 450 million gallons of water going through our system. They were both what we call hundred-year storms.
 And Dan? Eric's still laughing. The big pipe worked. It held. And it just goes to show that with all that water, this was truly a community-driven event that also had some incredible business results.
 Burgerville provided coupons to folks who braved the rain and came out in addition to candy, and they had the single largest one-day coupon redemption in the company's history following the event, which was great and really a revenue generator for them. And then finally, over the holidays...
 the Christmas holidays, Parkrose partnered with The Grotto, which has 60,000 visitors go through it each year and is one of the destination businesses or destinations of Parkrose. And they partnered with them on a holiday promotion to get people encouraged to shop locally in Portland.
 So it's working, and we are hoping that in partnership with you over this coming year, we'll be able to continue our momentum in East Portland and explore expanding this innovative program into North Portland. The issues facing North Portland districts are not exactly the same as those in East Portland.
 However, what you have in North Portland is startup business associations. They have the targeted ones that we're recommending have all been in place for five years or fewer. And in that time, their district has gone through massive change and is dealing with historic gentrification issues.
 this last 30 years has been an exceptional ride we are incredibly pleased to have been able to partner with all of you and we hope that you will continue to celebrate with us as we go through the next 12 months of our diamond year thank you
 Colleagues, why don't I go ahead and read the proclamation that the mayor has issued, and then if I could beg your indulgence, we'll take a picture with our friends. Just make a remark before you do that. Thank you so much. It's great to hear.
 when you get city funding and you're asked to do things, to come back and tell us what you did and to bring so many members who I'm sure are taking time from their small businesses to be here today. I very much appreciate that. I won't be able to join you tomorrow night. I had previously committed to the Madison High School Rebels. They have a group called...
 They have a group at Madison High School called the Rebels, which is anti-tobacco, and they're having an event in the park to make sure that people remember about our smoke-free parks. So I will be diligently probably picking up cigarette butts in the rain while you're having a good time at the Melody Ballroom. The rain is a glass to you. I will be thinking of you. Thank you, Commissioner. Well, thank you. It's very impressive what you've done and what you're doing and how you're growing.
 And I'm pleased to say that this holiday season I invest, spent all my gift dollars locally. Excellent. Thank you, Commissioner. Heather, thanks to you and your stellar team for all your great work. Brian, you've been the board chair for now how long? This is my third and final year. Well, you've done a wonderful job. You've really been a model board chair. Thank you for your service. Thank you. Thanks to the other board members that are here and representatives of our other districts.
 I know the mayor wanted to be here. He's sick at home, but no doubt he's listening. And I have the great honor of reading the following proclamation that the city of Portland has issued today. Whereas 30 years ago, a small group of visionary neighborhood business owners came together to create an organization to strengthen the more than 50 neighborhood business districts in Portland...
 and whereas neighborhood business districts serve the diverse communities that surround them produce a wide variety of high quality goods and services drive portland's local economy and contribute to the city's goals of healthy connected neighborhoods and whereas venture portland works with neighborhood business districts to host 200 public events each year drawing more than 1 million visitors and strengthening portland's unique identity
 And whereas Venture Portland, in partnership with the city, has invested $1.25 million in business districts, funding 468 projects and leveraging nearly $4 million in additional private investment. And whereas Venture Portland provides almost 2,000 hours of training and technical assistance to neighborhood business districts each year,
 And whereas Venture Portland has strengthened connections between neighborhood business, business districts, and city bureaus, helping ensure that the city that works truly works for local businesses. And whereas Venture Portland's passionate volunteer leadership is made up of representatives from every business district who collectively contribute more than 1,700 volunteer hours each year. Wow.
 And whereas on January 31st, Venture Portland celebrated 30 years of supporting neighborhood businesses and business districts, now therefore I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim Thursday, February 4th to be Venture Portland Day in Portland and to encourage all residents to observe this day. Let's have a round of applause. And can we get a picture with everybody, including our guests?
 I am, right? Everybody, come on in. Hi. Are you joining us? We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. We'll get in here. One, two, three. Venture Portland Day. One, two, three. Venture Portland Day.
 Thank you, Betsy. All right. Thank you all. Congratulations. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow night. Good job. We're having our party on Saturday night if you want to come. We're going to do a lot of work. Congratulations all. Thank you. Can you send me a PDF of your appointment? What a day, actually. Distinguished, honored guests from Japan, kids from Boise, humble celebration of 30 years of excellence with Venture Portland.
 And we have a few other items that we need to work through before we break for lunch. Carla would, excuse me, Sue, would you please read item number 112? 112, accept bid of Stellar J Corporation for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Stormwater Pump Station 2 West for $615,000. And we'll welcome Christine Moody, our Chief Procurement Officer, to walk us through this one.
 Good morning, Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Stellar J Corporation. The engineer's estimate on this project was $880,700. $880,700. On November 12th. Wait a second. What? This is uncanny. Every time the mayor's not here, you come in with a bid under the estimate.
 And then he comes the following week and says, why aren't we getting more bids under the estimate? So we'll have to remind him. I have a few items for you this morning. We're not done yet. We'll see. So on November 12, 2015, four bids were received, and seller J is the low bidder at $615,000. The city identified two divisions of work as potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities.
 MWESB participation on this project is at 6.2% in the areas of concrete cutting and hauling services. I will turn this back over to Council if there are any questions. And Scott Gibson from BES is here as well. Alex? That's an unusually low percentage of minority women emerging small businesses in this contract.
 Is there a particular reason for that? Are the subcontracted work things that don't tend to get minority and women businesses in them? Actually, I think that there is a representative from the contractor here in the audience. Come forward, sir. We have some aspirational goals that we set, and sometimes we exceed them, sometimes we're below. Okay.
 I think the council would like to know what are the unique challenges, if any, with respect to this contract. All you have to do is put your name in the record. Okay. My name is Jeff Carlson, the general manager of Stellar J Corporation. This one did have some unique challenges as far as reaching the aspirational goal of 35% on this job. We identified trucking and saw cutting as the two specific components of the work that could be, that will be subcontracted as MWESB.
 The total amount that we identified as being able to achieve is $48,000 of the $615,000. We have electrical, micropiles, painting, concrete, structural, bypass pumping, site piping, earthwork that we found that we did not get coverage from the MWESP firms.
 Post-bid, we see that we can – we believe that there's another $20,000 in asphalt paving that we believe that we can get subcontracted to MWESB firms and intend on doing so. Let me just anticipate at least what one of my colleagues will say. If you are successful on that particular component, would you please – Christine, would you report back to us?
 whether that additional increment is contracted out? Yes, I will. That could be just an email to the council. Commissioner Fraser. I really appreciate that, and this is an ongoing conversation that we have at council. Obviously we want to make sure that when we have public dollars going out of the door that all members of our community have a chance to participate
 benefit from that and get good jobs from it. Tell me about the equity and diversity initiatives within your company since you're doing so much of the work yourselves. What are you doing to try to encourage women and minorities to get jobs in your company? Well, currently we have ongoing internship opportunities with local universities. We're going down to OSU this Thursday, Friday, to do an internship presentation.
 encouraging both minority and women in our industry to join our firm. One of our project managers is a graduate from OSU, a woman, Katie Kasky, works for us. She's currently working as assistant project manager at the Tualatin Valley Water District Project in Ridgewood, and I see her continuing as a project manager with our company.
 Great. Yeah, I appreciate that because it's not only about – it is partly about the minority and women-owned businesses, but making sure that we all are thoughtful about how we're hiring. And I'm glad to hear you going down to Oregon State. Thank you very much. Other questions from colleagues? Sue, did anyone sign up?
 I did not have a sheet out. Anyone want to be heard on this? I'll take a motion to accept the procurement report. So moved. Second. Sue, would you please read the roll? Prince. Thank you for taking the time to be here. Aye. Absolutely. Fish. Aye. Ossman. I appreciate you being here. Aye. It passes. Congratulations. Sue, would you please read item number 113,
 Accept bid of Emory & Sons Construction Group for the 2016 Local Improvement Districts Project for $580,812. Christine Moody.
 Christine Moody, Procurement Services. We have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Emory & Sons Construction. The engineer's estimate on this project was $500,000. On December 22, 2015, four bids were received, and Emory & Sons is the low bidder at $580,812, which is 16.8% over the engineer's estimate.
 The city identified nine divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. MWESB subcontracting participation is at 44.6%, with work being performed in traffic sign installation, concrete cutting, electrical hauling, and traffic control. I'll turn this over to Andrew Abbey if you have any questions for him regarding the project. Colleagues?
 Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. I passed out some testimony from Jonathan Mollison of beam development. We do have the Burnside Bridgehead, which is rapidly nearing completion of construction. They're quite anxious to have a new street serving that development. So we've been on a pretty aggressive design and construction timeline to meet that.
 So this is right in line, keeping on schedule to make sure there's a street serving the Burnside Bridgehead. So my recommendation is that council award this contract today. Thank you very much. Sue, anyone sign up to testify? And I did not have a seat out. Anyone wish to be heard on this matter? If not, can I have a motion to adopt the procurement report? So moved. Second. Moved and seconded. Sue, please call the roll. It's interesting, and thank you for your question.
 Participation on this one, too, and your great work increasing the minority women small business percentage to 44%.
 It's interesting, one of the divisions of work is hauling services, which is getting over 50 – almost $50,000, whereas the previous one, hauling services, was getting $14,000 for a similar-sized contract. So obviously the company here is making greater effort, and I really appreciate that. Hi. Yes.
 the report is adopted. Thank you. Sue, would you please read item number 114? Authorize a four-year participating agreement for facilities maintenance, repairs, and operating supplies with WW Granger, Inc. for contractual total not to exceed $4 million. We don't have the required four votes for members of the council to
 adopt this as an emergency ordinance. So we'll have a presentation, take testimony, and we'll continue this until tomorrow. Or I would be fine for next week with second reading as well. It doesn't really have to be an emergency? It doesn't have to be. We have a current contract in place. Why don't we just continue it as an emergency until next week? We'll put our regular agenda. And Christine Moody, if you'll make your presentation. Okay. Okay.
 City bureaus purchase maintenance, repair operations, and electrical supplies on a routine basis. Items such as hand tools, safety, and cleaning supplies are typically bought through an MRO&E contract.
 The National Joint Powers Association, the NJPA, is an organization that facilitates the cooperative contracts at the national level. NJPA advertised an RFP for facilities maintenance, repair, and operating supplies. Through this RFP process, a contract was awarded to W.W. Granger,
 As allowed for in City Code 5.33, the city may participate in an interstate cooperative procurement after posting a public notice of the intent to use that cooperative procurement. A notice was posted on December 15, 2015, and no response was received. So what you have before you is an ordinance recommending the authorization of a participating agreement to W.W. Granger on a cooperative contract for a four-year not to exceed amount of $4 million.
 i'll turn this back over to council if you have questions and it would be all right with you if this were not a
 Going to go into effect from 30 days. It doesn't really need to be an emergency. Commissioner Fish, the reason I mentioned that is I believe we don't have four next week either. So we could just pass it to second reading and then. And then if necessary, we could take the emergency clause off. Well, we could take the emergency clause off now and then it passes to second reading and just gets passed. That would be fine with us as well. I'll entertain a motion. Move that we remove the emergency clause. Thank you, Procurement Officer Moody. A second. Sue, please call the roll.
 chris hi fish hi self smith this matter proceeds to a second reading next week we have two second readings uh back to back uh sue would you please read 115 and then 116. 115 authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the fanno basin pressure line system upgrade project number e10599 for an estimated total of one million one hundred seventy three thousand
 Chris? Aye. Fish? Thanks to Scott Gibson and the team for their presentation and their good work. Aye. Salzman? Aye. Matter passes. Item 116, authorize the use of the cooperative procurement method to enter into a contract with Wolfwater Resources, Inc. in the amount of $459,445 for the Sandy River Engineered Long Jam Project. Chris? Aye. Warren?
 I love this project and the idea that we're actually constructing what normally beavers would put in the Sandy River in order to enhance habitat pursuant to a federal regulatory permit is a great story. And I appreciated Eddie Campbell's presentation last week. Aye. Aye. And that passes. We have one more item, and that is item number 117.
 117 assess property for sidewalk repair for the portland bureau of transportation who's here for this good afternoon gosh good still good morning morning i'll kick it over to you i'm sherry matias from the auditor's office i'm mike zeller i'm a sidewalk inspector with maintenance uh lee munson from people welcome this ordinance is for sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city any remonstrances have been pulled from this assessment and are not in this ordinance
 That's the most efficient presentation I've heard. Are you giving back the remaining 14 minutes of your presentation? Questions or comments, colleagues? Does anyone wish to be heard on this? Hearing none, this will go to a second reading next week. Thank you very much. I really appreciate you being here in case we had questions. Thank you very much. Colleagues, that concludes our morning agenda items. We have one time certain this afternoon at 2 o'clock, and council is adjourned. Very much so.
 Sue, would you call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome. We have two items this afternoon. First, Mayor Hales sends his regrets. He is home sick, and we wish him a speedy recovery. And Commissioner Novick has a family matter he's addressing, and we wish him Godspeed. We have two items this afternoon, and without objection, I'm going to ask...
 We have a four-fifths item, which is something that gets put on late in the game if four members of Council so deem it appropriate. And we have a time certain. If I can indulge our honored guests, I'd ask Sue if you would, without objection, read the four-fifths item, and I'll recognize Commissioner Saltzman.
 Item 118 dash 1 assert the city's intent to engage in a fair deliberative data-driven community discussion a potentially a potential enabling ordinances resulting from the potential removal of The preemption on inclusionary housing in the 2016 state legislative agenda Session quite a mouthful Commissioner Dan Saltzman. Thank you. Mr. President. I
 uh the city's number one priority in the legislative session that just convened on monday is to lift the ban on inclusionary housing or also known as inclusionary zoning i've been working very closely with our government relations staff and the sponsor of the senate bill to lift this preemption senator michael dembro and that senate bill is 1533 to assist him in moving this legislation forward in salem
 Last week, Senator Dembrow and myself had a meeting with local developers to learn of their concerns about implementation of inclusionary housing if we get the ban lifted. And I'm pleased to say that many developers are now supporting lifting the ban on inclusionary housing. But they do have some concerns about the implementation of such a policy by cities if that ban is lifted.
 And in particular, with respect to Portland, there are concerns about how we will engage the development community in the process and that we consider the impact of the impending changes that we have on the table in a holistic manner, that we look at issues around linkage fees, around FAR bonus incentives, as well as inclusionary housing, and that we consider those all together.
 And so we have a resolution here that is in response to a request by Senator Dembrow to put the city council on the record that during any consideration by the city of inclusionary housing, that we would engage in a community-wide data-driven discussion that would include the development community as well as affordable housing experts and advocates, and further, that a panel of housing experts...
 with representation from the development community, would be expected to advise the council throughout the discussion of an inclusionary housing ordinance. So I do want to thank Senator Michael Dembrow. I would like to read the resolution. I want to thank Senator Michael Dembrow for his leadership. I particularly want to thank Sarah Zahn of Gurning-Easlin Development and Dyke Dame of Williams and Dame.
 Sarah and Dyke are down in Salem as we speak, lobbying senators to support Michael Dembrow's bill. So if I may just read the resolution. And due to what President Fish was saying, we can't actually vote on it today, but I wanted to at least get the text of the resolution out into the public record. It reads, whereas the city of Portland is committed to meeting its growth needs in terms of households and employment over the next 20 years,
 Portland and over the next 20 years Portland is projected to add approximately 260,000 new residents and 140,000 new jobs whereas the city of Portland is committed to enacting policies that will meet its need for quality affordable homes for a growing and socio-economically diverse population and to help ensure equitable access to housing whereas the city of Portland in its 2016 legislative agenda
 has prioritized lifting the statewide preemption on inclusionary housing ordinances, whereas Portland rental costs have increased an average of 8 to 9 percent, or roughly $100 per month, over the previous year. Similarly, for for-sale units, prices have increased by 32 percent, or roughly $75,000 from the market's low point in 2011. As a result, it is increasingly difficult for working families
 to live in neighborhoods close to their employment and where their children attend school, whereas an inclusionary housing ordinance would provide an affordable housing tool that links the production of affordable housing to the production of market-rate housing. Inclusionary housing policies reduce affordable housing by requiring new residential developments to include a certain percentage of affordable housing units, whereas if the legislature were to lift the preemption on inclusionary housing,
 in the 2016 session, it would allow City Council to comprehensively consider the use of the tool, while it also considers its comprehensive plan, incentive zoning, and linkage fee proposal. Now, therefore, be it resolved, if the Oregon State Legislature lifts the statewide preemption on inclusionary housing ordinances, the City of Portland would consider the use of an inclusionary housing ordinance to create affordable housing
 within new market rate residential developments and be it further resolved during the consideration of any inclusionary housing ordinance, the City of Portland would engage in a community-wide data-driven discussion that would include but would not be limited to members of the development community as well as affordable housing experts and advocates. A panel of housing experts with representation from the development community would be expected to advise the Council throughout the discussion
 of an inclusionary housing ordinance and be it further resolved, all discussions regarding an inclusionary housing ordinance would be grounded with consideration of the city's needs to meet its comprehensive growth goals. So as I said, we will vote on this the next opportunity we have the requisite number of council members here to do this. But I know that's very important to many senators
 who are considering lifting the inclusionary housing ban that all cities including portland commit to doing it fairly and you know having a fair process where all voices are heard in crafting the inclusionary housing ordinance so thank you mr president for that mr francis you want to say something no i had a process suggestion but i don't think that's going to work either so we're pretty much shut down by our attorneys and our clerk well the charter i think comes into it too
 thank you dan and um i'm i'm pleased that the council has made this our number one legislative uh goal in this short session and in our breakfast recently with our legislative partners we i thought were very clear that we would not consider this short session a success unless the preemption was lifted and to those who doubt that there's a compelling need to address this now um
 As Dan noted at the breakfast, you have to focus, all you have to know is three numbers. In the last three years, the private sector has added close to 23,000 private units in our city. Less than 3% are affordable under any definition you want to use, and over 85% are actually classified as luxury rentals.
 And we cannot afford to wait another year to have a tool that allows us to build in a modest amount of affordability into new development. So thank you very much, Dan, for your leadership. And this matter will be continued until next week? Do we have four people next week? Well.
 We'll have to consult with the city attorney, but the way I interpret it, next week it will be on the regular agenda. It will be, you know, plenty of announcement, and so three votes. Shrewd reading of the charter. We'll double-check that. But we'll confirm that. Let's put it on the Wednesday agenda. We can always move it if necessary. You can get it added to tomorrow's agenda without it being a full fifth? No, I cannot do that. So then my process suggestion does come into play that perhaps –
 because it has to be the same four people that put it on as vote on it. So we may need to refile it, do another four-fifths tomorrow when the mayor is here, in case Commissioner Novick's out next week. Okay, that's a good idea. Thanks. We'll be giving college credit to those of you who are here for your civics class, and now democracy in action. The matter is continued until next week. Thank you. Sue, would you please read the time certain?
 item 118 accept the first annual report of the north and northeast neighborhood housing strategy oversight committee commissioner dan saltzman thank you mr president uh one year one year ago the portland housing bureau came before us to present a set of strategies that would begin to address the ongoing displacement of long-time residents from the historic neighborhoods of north and northeast portland the result of a seven-month-long community process
 The North Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy was developed with the input of more than 450 community members, as well as dozens of faith leaders and community leaders. It began with the question of how to invest $20 million, an additional $20 million of housing money in urban renewal, to have the greatest community impact. But beyond dollars and cents, the strategy would also have to answer another question,
 and that is, how will this plan be any different than all those that have come before it? The plan outlines investments in home repair programs to help homeowners retain their homes. It included plans for the development of rental apartments that families on modest incomes would be able to afford. It proposed strategies to help more community members achieve the dream of homeownership, and it established a goal of giving longtime residents
 those already displaced or facing displacement, a first priority for these opportunities through what is known as a preference policy. We established a mechanism for transparency and accountability to the community itself, and that is the oversight committee, made up of community members and formed and charged by the city council with the role of overseeing the implementation of the strategy, including the investment of the $20 million to the city council.
 and the development of the associated programming and policies, and to report to city council annually. And today is their first annual report to us about how the Portland Housing Bureau and its contractors are accomplishing the goals in the strategy or how we're not accomplishing the goals. Since June, the committee, I'm sorry, the oversight committee has met five times to hear updates from housing bureau staff and partners and to ask the tough questions necessary
 to ensure the highest level of equity and transparency. Approximately 400 community members have attended these public meetings to date. As I said, today the Oversight Committee makes its first report to the City Council, evaluating the progress of the City, the Housing Bureau, and its partners toward our shared goals in this first year.
 So we are joined by three distinguished members of the committee, and I'd like to invite them up as I announce them. They are Bishop Stephen Holt, Portland native. Bishop Holt is the committee chair, as well as the senior pastor, Kingdom Nation Church, where he has served the community for 20 years. Bishop Holt works to achieve lasting social change for the community by facilitating partnerships with public agencies, organizations,
 as exemplified by his involvement in the North Northeast Strategy Plan, from its exception. Dr. Lisa Bates, we're also very pleased to have Lisa Bates here. She is an associate professor and director of the Center for Urban Studies in the Toulon School of Urban Studies and Planning at Portland State University. Her research examines housing policy and planning with a focus on social justice and issues of institutionalized racism in policy design and implementation,
 and she is engaged in a variety of planning and policy efforts from new orleans to chicago to portland and she was most recently awarded the 2016 dale prize from cal poly pomona for excellence in urban and regional planning congratulations and our final committee member is virgie ruiz virgie has ties to the local community going back to world war ii when her parents first came to portland from mississippi
 She's a graduate of Boise Elementary, Washington High School, and Portland State University, and today she works at Self-Enhancement Inc. So thank you all for being here, and Bishop Holt, we'll turn it over to you. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman.
 Commissioner Fritz and President of the Council, it's good for us to be together and to talk about what is a significant moment, I think, in the history of our city. I won't go through the background. I think you addressed that. But just to make sure that for the sake of those who are in the audience to talk about what the oversight committee's charge is, I want to be clear on that.
 The North and Northeast Portland Housing Strategies Oversight Committee is created with the responsibility of three major areas. To advise on and review program proposals and plan development. To monitor the implementation of policy and programming and associated outcomes.
 and then to advise the housing director and housing commissioner on progress issues and concerns associated with the North Northeast housing strategy. Now, this is a brand-new activity. It's something that was put in place to specifically assist making sure that promises made became promises kept. What would be different this time? And so the oversight committee was put in place. In light of that, you can anticipate with anything new challenges in the process.
 One of the things that we did and thought was valuable was to make sure that this was an open community process. And so our meetings have been held in the community. We've held them in the community and we've held them in the evenings so that individuals who are most impacted can come and hear what has transpired. It's been a significant contribution that way, I think.
 Let me identify the people who are on this committee. Myself, I chair it. Felicia Tripp, who is the director, deputy director of Portland Housing Center.
 Dr. T. Allen Bethel, who is the senior pastor of Maranatha Church. Of course, Ms. Virgie, who is a community representative or community member. Dr. Lisa Bates, who, as you've already said, is associate professor at Portland State University. Katrina Holland, who is a community member. Lorenzo Poe, who has...
 been very involved in a variety of areas, but is now the Chief Equity and Diversity Officer of Portland Public Schools. Sarah Zahn from Girding Eaglin, a developer here. Orlando Williams, an owner of Black-owned business. Lisa Faust, who is the Senior Vice President of Pacific Continental Bank. Thought it was important to have a group of representatives that could look at the issues from a variety of angles so as to give us the best
 viewpoint on what we do in relationship to the oversight committee. Now, after the seven-month process happened and the community was involved in determining what best areas, what were the needs, what were the concerns for the initial $20 million that had been allocated, there were roughly four areas identified. I'm going to talk about those areas. Preventing displacement,
 creating new homeowners and developing new homes, creating rental homes, and then our preference policy or land banking or land acquisition. So I'm going to talk about what we actually did in the last few months. And the monies that I talk about are reflected specifically on what has been done. It does not reflect all of the $20 million, but it reflects what has been done in the last six months or so.
 The first one, in preventing displacement. What you have and what you see are the number of people who have received grants and loans, specifically for home repair. So number 18 for loans, north-northeast. Number 12, that number represents loans from the general fund. And then five, loans that happen in ICURA or the interstate. Give me the acronym. ICURA.
 Regular TIF allocation, but I'm trying to remember the name. Interstate or renewal area. Thank you very much. And then 41, that number represents total people who received grants from the general fund. Again, preventing displacement home repairs, how it breaks down, 84%, roughly African American, 25% or 12% white, and then 2% and 2% other, those who received the funding.
 And that's for grants, and this is for loans, the breakdown of those who received loans and what areas they lived in, where those dollars came from. Now, this slide represents home repair and how home repair money was awarded. The purple...
 Houses are the general fund people who received help from general fund monies. The blue houses are those who received help from grant money, and the pink houses are those who received money from the tax increment financing.
 So as we looked at and were engaged in making sure that the dollars being allocated were going to the arenas that had been identified, the other portion of that is strategies around homeownership. So what's going to happen to help create new homeownership? What's going to happen to help invest in homeowners?
 $5 million was allocated or set aside for this particular area. And this is, I think, $5 million has been determined in its allocation. And I think here's a process or here's an example where the process being new runs into challenges. A distinct and separate group was compiled to look at a home ownership strategy.
 And after that meeting or after a series of meetings and determining ways to allocate the funds, it would have been helpful for once the decisions had come to suggesting points for that to then come back to the oversight committee, for the oversight committee to have a view over what was recommended by the subcommittee so that decisions, information could be made. I think that as we go forward, I think we'll be better in our process because now that it's in place, we will – yeah. Yeah.
 I think, have a system that can work. And so the allocation that's reflected was determined by the Portland Housing Bureau, but not determined by the oversight, if that makes sense. And what is AAH? That is the acronym for the African American Alliance for Home Ownership. Thank you. I knew I was leaving out an A. Can I ask just a technical question? On page four of your report,
 you have the strategy and you have a column called Homes Created or Households Assisted. Is that the goal or are those the numbers of people impacted through these investments? Which? Are you looking at this? Yeah. Yeah, that's the goal. That's the goal. That's the overall goal. So do we have data on the number of homeowners –
 Homes created or households assisted yet, or is that still in the pipeline? That's the funds that have just been awarded through the RFP. I see. So we have not done any development. Okay. And from the RFP, could we back out how many units, how many homes we hope to impact off of this investment? I mean, I'm just saying, I think at some point it's easier for us to track people and homes than aggregate dollars because the dollars don't tell the story.
 Anyway, we don't need that right now, but I think it would be interesting to track how many people now are homeowners, how many homes are built, not just dollars. Absolutely. Absolutely. Agreed. So we talk about rental houses. I'm just talking about what we've done at this point or what has transpired from the Oversight Committee's perspective. Creating rental homes, which was to redevelop one or more additional properties either owned by PHB, the county, or other partners.
 One of the sites that was identified was the Grant, what has been historically known as the Grant Warehouse site. It's on MLK between Cook and Ivy. And there will be 81 units that are going in, 81 affordable rental units that will be going in on that site.
 And then in fall, there was a, the fall of 2015, a notice of fund availability for additional TIF money. And two sites will be identified for that, and that's what's called the King Park site, Rosa Parks and MLK, and then the Port City Development site, which is identified. We'll talk a little more about the Grant Warehouse site.
 There will be 8,000 square feet of commercial space, 1,400 square feet of community room. And the exciting thing for me is that this is, the intent is this will be a family-supporting rental unit. So 31 bedrooms, 35 two-bedrooms, 16 three-bedrooms, and part of our conversation is to whether or not they can actually get four-bedroom units in it.
 And then the partners that are involved, the people who were selected, PCRI, Girding-Eadlin, Colas Construction, Carlton Hart Architect. And so one of the other aspects that's exciting for us as the Oversight Committee is that it's really reflective of community partners, stakeholders, and involving them in the process. It's very important. And then I think probably the –
 The thing that we're most excited about that we were able to accomplish and begin to implement and looking at how to implement is the preference policy. And we'll talk more around that preference policy, but to give you an overview, the city urban renewal has marginalized and displaced historic residents of north and northeast Portland. Future city actions should mitigate marginalized or displacing community members. And it's designed to give preference to marginalized families with historic roots in north and northeast Portland.
 It is probably one of the most significant actions to say that what has transpired historically matters, and we want to do something different about it going forward. So that's extremely important. It will apply to rental housing and homeownership programs in North and Northeast Portland. Preference policies affect the order of the list of services, not program eligibility. Again, more will be elaborated in a moment. And then...
 The Housing Bureau programming is for low- and moderate-income households. That means under 60% of MFI? I think it means up to 80%, but 60% are under, yes. What ownership is that banking? The challenges we faced were land banking. Again, we'll talk more about that, but I'm going to explain land banking briefly. It simply means securing property in advance.
 to purchase property that hasn't been developed or can be redeveloped or repurposed or secured for that future use. To this point, the Oversight Committee's knowledge of what's transpired in regard to that is minimal. And that's a major concern because, as you know, every day,
 in the state of Portland, property values are continuing to climb. So it's something that we must do. Next steps then, and I didn't give an opportunity for Virgie, so Sister Virgie, Miss Virgie, I'd like you to just kind of share the process from your perspective as a community member and being on the Oversight Committee. Thank you very much for your time and investment in this. Thank you. My name is Virgie Ruiz. Thank you.
 and I'm a community member, and I currently live in the neighborhood and have grown up in the neighborhood and have been educated in the city. And being a part of the oversight committee has been a wonderful experience for me, allowing me to come to the public meetings that have been offered to hear what our community residents would like to see and would like to be able to return home again.
 and to see this committee come together to formulate and to come up with preference policy and other important ideas to help bring this to pass and even obtain additional funds to support the programs has been a dream come true.
 And I've learned quite a bit, and I'm still learning as a part of this committee, what it takes to have a city involved and what it takes to help people that are in need, and especially with affordable housing. It's one of the things that has caused a lot of cities in this country to...
 fall apart and to cause problems in the city. But I believe Portland is taking the right initiative in getting a group like this oversight committee together, people that are knowledgeable and even people such as myself that I'm learning about the process to be able to participate and do something in a positive way to help improve things for this city. I think this is a great city and it can
 have a good legacy by participating as it is participating now and continues to participate and support and to be able to bring back affordable housing so people can indeed live in the city, they can work in the city where their jobs are, children can be educated in their communities and back into the schools and see some benefits
 wonderful things happen for our community residents. I was looking recently at Jefferson High School, who has done a wonderful job in graduating students. And that used to be our primary high school where our students went to.
 I'm hoping by the return of residents to this inner city area, they'll be able to benefit, go to college, and be able to be successful in life. And those are the things that I've found to be very valuable, and I don't mind coming and giving my time and attend meetings to be supportive of it. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Dr. Bates, you're going to talk about our next steps. So some of these are our own next steps and other sort of expectations that we have for what we'll be hearing about and learning about. First, in land banking, our report to the Bureau and our expectation from the Bureau is to see a plan and a strategy developed and to have our oversight function as we move into land banking.
 Land banking was added as part of this $20 million allocation because of our recognition, many community-based organizations and housing organizations' recognition of the top speed at which the market is moving, that it's really critical to take land off the market now so that it can be used in combination with other subsidies to develop affordable housing.
 and as the bishop mentioned, it's something that does not seem to have gotten off to a very quick start. We've heard very little about it, although originally it was supposed to begin, the implementation was supposed to begin immediately. So we're expecting to see more from the Bureau in terms of a strategy for what kinds of properties it is seeking to acquire and how they would be matched up with housing, whether multifamily or single-family development.
 a strategy screen for acquiring land, surplus land from other bureaus, and some kind of process for engaging with other government entities or the school districts, other owners of land, public sector owners of land in the area, so that we can get to the urgency that is needed around that strategy.
 On the preference policy, again, a group that had a small subgroup working closely with Bureau staff, particularly Matt Schaubold, to develop this. And I think as a member of that committee, I would like to really commend that effort, not only for taking the time to craft a very careful policy, but also to take the time to
 think about how to communicate about it into the community, to community members, it's a complicated thing. And so we will be, we're looking forward to the implementation of that as a really significant achievement, to a rollout of some outreach and additional communications, partnership with community-based organizations, and an online tool for people to be able to look at their ranking on that preference policy.
 that will be getting ready for the homeownership down payment assistance funds that we just recently learned about being allocated and will be a really important part of this strategy of both keeping people in place and helping people to move back.
 Thirdly? Before you move on from that, thank you, Dr. Bates. I'm very impressed with the preference policy. It's really exciting. Could you, for folks at home, just give a quick rundown about some of the factors that would get you points in the preference policy? Sure. The preference policy is developed to give a higher ranking to those whose own
 own family experience includes displacement due to previous or ongoing actions by the City of Portland. So, for example, if you are a family member, a grandparent or parent or yourself who appears on the list of homes that were taken by eminent domain or condemned by the city in order to do urban renewal actions in the past, that would be a problem.
 priority ranking, and then following from that top priority, having, again, a grandparent, a parent, or yourself who has lived in the areas that were designated as urban renewal areas over time. And it's a policy that will apply both to families or households who still live inside the study area and may be at risk of being displaced, as well as to those who have already moved away because of affordability concerns.
 So it's entirely based on the history of having lived in the area.
 Regardless of race. That's right. So having been affected by these historical actions, policy actions. Right. And since there are, unfortunately, many more people who fall into those categories than we have funds for, how will you deal – what's the proposal for dealing with if you have 100 applications that all have the same rank and you can only fund 50 of them? How will that be decided? Right.
 Well, that will be deeply challenging. I mean, I think that is a reality across all of these programs are not going to be sufficient to meet the need. There's all the other kinds of screenings that a tenant, for example, would have to go through that may sort households out.
 Beyond the preference policy, of course, there's basic income eligibility. But I think at the end of the day, there are many more households who are struggling with affordability, who have been affected by past policy, and who would like to come back than these funds could house. So it will be important for me to know how many are in excess of what we can provide because it's
 Again, I think this is a wonderful program. The other thing I'd like to offer is that we have recently dealt with a similar – well, it's not really similar, but it's with a lot of applicants all wanting a fair process when ranked the same in the marijuana program. And we came up with a lottery system that may or may not be helpful to you. I'd be happy to share what we have piloted to see if it might be helpful to you because it's just so hard when there's so many deserving families involved
 There just is no way to choose between them. So I'd be happy to give any input because it's really exciting, the work that you're doing. It's groundbreaking. As you started off, Bishop Holt, it's not been done before, and it's correcting what we've done in the past. So thank you so much for all of your work. Sorry, I interrupted you, Dr. Bates. Sorry. Actually, I have a follow-up question off that. And then is Director Krieger going to – is he available to testify afterwards? Sure. Because I'd like to have –
 This question of land banking has been coming up over and over again, and I'd very much like to know what are some of our tools.
 Because as has been noted, the clock is ticking and we're getting – I mean, we have nonprofit developers coming to us saying we need bridge money to acquire and hold some land ahead of us even determining whether we can fund a project. It's a bit of a catch-22 because if we don't acquire the dirt, we can never have the conversation about whether we can actually fund it. And I'm not sure our toolkit is as robust as it could be, so I'd be interested in knowing what those strategies are.
 for you is on the question of a preference policy, recognizing that federal law is very unsettled, and with this Supreme Court and their view of stare decisis, it could become even more unsettled. Has a preference policy been tested somewhere in the country under the Fair Housing Act? Do we know whether there has been a fair housing screen challenge guidance? I don't think so. I'm sorry? No.
 Okay. So just, I mean, it's still a factor because the person that doesn't get the unit is still going to have a claim if they choose under federal law, and how that gets framed and how it's adjudicated is going to be, we may end up being the test case of how that gets worked out. So fair enough.
 I'm not an attorney, but I'll feel optimistic because the Supreme Court has recently reaffirmed the disparate impact test for fair housing. We have the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing rules have been propagated by the federal government that allows for a conversation about how we achieve fairer,
 those goals and I think that this work is very much informed by and guided by the values of fair housing, but I am not an attorney. And it has been vetted by the city attorney? It has been vetted very thoroughly and we have had many engagements with the city attorney's office on the policy development committee and then of course with staff, extensive contact with the city attorney's office.
 Okay, so thirdly, moving into 2016, we're anticipating the allocation of the TIF-LIFT fund, which will also, you know, include programming that the Oversight Committee will look at, perhaps expanding into the North Portland area with additional membership.
 And I think as we look at goals, something which the committee has recognized in terms of how this money would be spent, what kinds of programming, that the Bureau hosted a series of very, I think, very successful, very well-attended public forums, both in the North Northeast area, as well as in East Portland, where many folks have already been displaced to, to talk about priorities, needs, priorities.
 And there's really rich information there with which to develop the kinds of new programming or responses or tools with this TIFLIF money that can respond to additional challenges besides the programming that the Bureau offers.
 is already rolling out with this additional $20 million. So we would hope to see the Bureau go back to the information from those forums to look for gaps and potential areas for addressing issues with this additional TIF lift. I just want to make sure. So by TIF lift, you're talking about the additional money the policy council and BDC made to increase the housing set-aside from 30% to 45%? Yes. Okay.
 Thank you for that clarification. I just want to make sure. As you can see, there's a lot of work to do. One of the things we're also doing is a collaborative effort with the Portland Development Commission and looking kind of at a strategy for a best practice approach. How does economic development support housing development? How does housing support economic development? How can we partner to utilize the dollars that are
 involved in the TIF lift as well as the monies associated with Portland Development Commission's oversight for economic development. So how can we partner and leverage these dollars to have the biggest impact and the best impact with a good strategy? So that's part of what we're working at. And then another piece, which is really my passion –
 is the education and support for families who will be returning. The neighborhood has changed. It's a different environment. So how do we create a net of support that acclimates, re-acclimates, affirms and supports the family needs of those families who are returning? What can we do for the community that presently exists, that's grown up around in these last couple of years that no longer look like or may not necessarily value what once was?
 to help to as much as possible get in front of potential tensions and help create and foster a healthy family or healthy communities. And then the further opportunities, you already talked about inclusionary zoning. Super excited about hearing that. The screening criteria, how we do all the things that we're doing, and then city displacement mitigation strategies. There's a lot of work to do. There's a lot of work to do. We've been at this now for...
 six months, and our intent is to, over the next year, meet every other month. Again, continue to meet in the community, continue to make it available for community members to give feedback and be engaged in the process.
 That is? So your meetings are now being covered by Channel 30? They're being covered by Channel 30. That's right. I don't know. Get the word out. Absolutely. Bishop, can I go back to something you said earlier? Yeah. You mentioned collaboration between PDC and the Neighborhood Economic Development Committee and the housing dollar. So let's go back in time. One of the things that caused me some heartburn when we grabbed the $20 million
 was we took it out of economic development. We took it out of a hard-earned economic development pot that the community had fought for. So what we were doing is shifting from one pot to another. So it was, in effect, it came at a cost. The idea of using the new TIF allocation more dynamically to connect to jobs I think is extremely important. So I applaud that for being a priority. And I guess the question is, who's at the table on that discussion?
 Because we hear lots of interesting ideas from a thematic district to attracting certain kinds of businesses to investing in existing businesses. There's some people that would like to see storefront improvement grants. Others would like to see seed capital, which is the challenge for a lot of emerging entrepreneurs. There's a ton of good ideas. Who's at the table having that conversation? Well, it is a new process.
 And the people that are at the table are the NED, the Neighborhood Economic Development Leadership Team of PDC, which is similar to the Oversight Committee for the Portland Housing Bureau and the Oversight Committee. So we've come together to begin this dialogue together.
 And part of the dialogue is to assist the NED with the process of how to engage community and hear the voices, hear those thoughts, those strategies, and those ideas. So we're early in our phase, early in our stage of how we're going to do what we do, but those are the players that are at the table at the moment.
 And do you have another panel? No, that's it. If you want Director Krieger to come up and answer questions. I'm sure we probably have people that want to testify. Sue, how many people have signed up to testify? Two people. Let's do this. Let's go to the community testimony first because there may be other issues that are raised. And then, Director Krieger, would you come back with Bishop Holt and answer any questions that we have? Thank you very much. Thank you all. Will Danny Bell and Joe Levesque please come up? Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello. Mr. Bell, we'll start with you. We just need your name, and you have three minutes, sir. Three minutes. Okay. My name is Danny A. Bell. My family has been here since the 1930s, the railroad people. My father came here immediately during the Second World War. My mother was here when he landed. He married the girl next door.
 My parents were very active in various activities in the community. One of them was zoning on Martin Luther King, where they were trying to zone it for business, and they kept it as a housing. I have over 30, 40, well, close to 48 years as a community activist, starting with Eugene McCarthy and his national campaign, X, Y, Z. Okay, that's that. I would like to applaud those who have been working on this.
 I'm a small businessman, have been a small businessman. One of the reasons I'm here is the gentleman that owns Step Above Clothing encouraged me to come here. And I'm very concerned if there will be a wedding between small business entrepreneurs. It's very difficult, even with the mandate for small business loans to jump through all the hoops.
 And oftentimes, what I've seen, and I have to preface it, also contracted and worked on the Martin Luther King economic survey about seven years ago and did a bunch of interviews with notables, such as Bernie Foster, Roy J., et cetera. Oftentimes, this becomes a scenario like, let's see, is this a play I just saw? Yeah, I saw a play somewhere. It eludes me, but this becomes a scenario of,
 middle-class sociabilities and sensibilities. Some people are X'd out, some people are engaged. I'm very encouraged to see that there are new players here, but as the concerns for small business people, people who have historically been here, that it becomes like the Count of Monte Cristo, if you've ever seen that play. There's two tiers.
 One tier is excluded at the expense of the other tier. When I worked on the economic survey, there were comments made by people that were very well recognized. Well, the people are ignorant. They're ignorant here in Portland. They're black ignorance. I was like, these are the people that are supposed to be advancing our interests. How much time do I have on the three minutes? We have about 30 seconds.
 Okay, so that's the major impression I'd like to say. I'd like to want again to say this is very encouraging. This is something brand new. But if you really want to embrace those and the whole horizon, you have to open your mind. And when you open your mind, you have to have new players and a new criteria. And I look forward to getting some more data so I can be a little bit more specific. Thank you and have a good day. Thank you, Mr. Bell. Welcome, sir.
 old entrepreneur. And yeah, my name is Joe Levesque. I'm an old builder, developer. I could spend hours, I got three minutes here, I could spend hours talking about this stuff. There's a lot of bad stuff going on in our country and people aren't even talking about it. When it comes to affordable housing, that's my background. Without going on an ego trip with you, I built homes for over 200,000 people. That's a lot of people. Generate over $200 million in tax-free revenue or tax revenue.
 that's nothing to be ashamed of then i i'm from the state of new hampshire live free or die i was brought up with that stuff with a hunting gun with a rifle walking through the woods then when i got out of the army i went to california it was a golden state oh i felt like an eagle free i could do anything when you're in your 20s you you know you can do anything and i did i did a few things now california is a bankrupt state
 I've been to a state of Washington on some of this stuff. I've been to public meetings before. They're not listening to me. You guys are not listening to me. You guys have committees. Let me tell you about the biggest committee I ever had between my two ears. When you have a committee, 80% of the people on there are there for legal reasons. 15% are prima donnas. And the other 5% is for wisdom. That's why I don't like to deal with committees. I've got solutions here.
 I've got solutions to problems. I can talk for hours. I get a little nervous here talking in public like this. But there are solutions out there. I want to help people. I'm not trying to. I'm not greedy. I've made a lot of. I've got solutions to a major problem. You heard about the old foreclosure fiasco back in 2008, the underwater mortgages. I had solutions to those problems. And right now what I'm trying to do, and I've made several multimillion dollar pledge donations.
 Not my money, but it's from the funds generated from this program. It would help the universities, it would help the schools, it would help the non-profits, the 501c3s. But the money, now there's two conditions to the pledges. I want them to write a letter to Washington State University to have them look into the program. If the program works, what do we have to do to make it work? If I didn't think it could work, I wouldn't make that condition.
 Now, if it can't work, I want them to tell me why it can't. Listen, when it comes to affordable housing, let me tell you something about affordable housing. I've got one second. I've got two seconds. I'll give you a couple more seconds. There's five things you need to build affordable housing, five. Land, loan, build, sell. Land, loan, build, and sell, that's basically it. But you need five laws. How much do you want to borrow? What do you have for collateral? Okay.
 How are you going to pay it back? Who are you? What's in it for the bank? That's basically it. That's the place I was brought up in. It's still the same thing. And I'm running over time here, and I'm sorry. Sir, thank you for your time, and thank you for your service in the war. I would strongly encourage you to go to a PHAC meeting or one of the follow-up meetings. It sounds like you have a lot of passion around this issue, and I hope you will sit down with some of the oversight committees and share that with them.
 Yeah, as long as there's not too many committees. I hear you. I hear you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to invite Director Krieger to come forward. I think we might have some questions. Do we have anybody from the Portland Development Commission here also? I don't think so.
 I'd like some follow-up to the first testifier's question about small businesses. It seems like the preference policy that this committee has developed may be very helpful in guiding Portland Development Commission in their allocation of their small business loans. So if you could make sure that they hear about that, I think that would be helpful. Thank you.
 Thank you. Jillian Detwale is here from the Mayor's office, and she'll make sure that's passed along. Thank you. Director Krieger, welcome. Let's start with any comments you'd like to share based on the testimony, and then I think we may have some follow-up questions. Well, I'm very proud to be part of the implementation of this strategy, although I was not a witness to its formation. I met with Bishop Holt my first week on the job, and I had participated, actually, the
 The first day I started, August 10th, was the review panel for the grant warehouse funding, which ultimately led to the selection of PCRI and Gertie Nettlen. And so I hit the ground running, and north and northeast Portland was a priority from the very beginning, and it remains a strong priority.
 and with the good support of the Oversight Committee by PHB staff, I've intersected when necessary with the policy development and program development activities, including the Oversight Committee's work on the preference policy. I would like to say that having operated a housing authority in California
 two states that HUD enables housing authorities to establish local preferences for the management of their waiting lists. So the fair housing implications of a preference policy in this geographic area is not that much different. For instance, a housing authority would often prioritize victims to domestic violence as a priority so they don't have to wait years to get housing placement. They're in a panic situation. They need to
 to get away from their abuser. So Vancouver Housing Authority, which I operated for some 16 years, provided a local preference for victims of domestic violence. We also provided a local preference for people displaced due to the actions of...
 of the City of Vancouver, in this case demolition and redevelopment of downtown property. Let's just be clear, though. I'm not aware under federal law that's a protected class. So there may be a preference, but I was getting at the protected class issue. Right. And in this instance, it will be administered in a colorblind manner. The scoring happens to relate to geography, not to ethnicity or race, although people were –
 there were obviously communities of color in that geography. So I'm pretty confident. I'm a board member of a group called the Housing Development Law Institute, which is a national institute based in Washington, D.C., that deals with fair housing law. And while I'm not a lawyer, I work with a lot of lawyers on this very issue. So I think it's been vetted quite well, and we've gotten good guidance from the Office of the City Attorney who attended each of these meetings.
 Dr. Krieger, can I ask this general area of land banking because it's coming up a lot. We heard from some advocates in Cully that there's some land they want to acquire. They need some bridge loans and other things to acquire the land. And if they don't acquire the land, they forever lose the opportunity to develop it. And it strikes me that it raises at least two problems for us.
 One is, what flexible tools do we have to provide in a nimble way short-term financing, bridge financing, other things to acquire land even if we don't end up being the primary developer? And second, how do we administer such a program? I mean, other than being opportunistic, which I would certainly in this market be more receptive to being opportunistic because I don't think we have –
 We don't have six months to just sort of, you know, deliberate. What are some of the flexible sources of money, and how can we structure it in a way that we can seize the moment, even if it turns out at some point we don't choose to be – it doesn't meet our criteria for future development? Well, I think it's worth mentioning that the –
 interstate urban renewal area has more money in it than any other active open urban renewal area. So we're actually better suited in north and northeast Portland, especially in the URA, than we are in Cully, for instance, which is not in an urban renewal area.
 So, as you might expect, I spent a lot of my time thinking about the 85 percent of the city that's not in an urban renewal area. And the budget that Commissioner Saltzman and I transmitted on Monday of this week does contemplate the securitization of the short-term rental revenue, the transient lodging tax to generate a $14 million sum of money. In the housing investment fund? It would go directly to the housing investment fund, which would then be used to acquire sites. Yes.
 preferably outside of URAs, although we could do bridge financing for sites in URAs and then repay ourselves with TIF, tax increment financing.
 So the bigger issue, I think, is one of just real estate dynamics. We have made offers on properties. It is a frothy and very volatile market. And one of our challenges as a public entity is we have to underwrite projects based on appraisal.
 and we have made offers, full money offers, within 48 hours of a site coming to our attention, which we have now been outbid by many offers in excess of the appraised value. That puts a challenge upon us, which is, you know,
 we do not want to overpay for a site with public funds. Therefore, we need either sites that have not hit the market and are therefore bid up by speculative pressures or who are owned by entities that have a social
 agenda or social conscience. We are seeking those in different ways. We have been working with buyers brokers that would bring us properties that are not currently listed. We'd be happy to pay them a listing. We do not currently have an exclusive relationship, so any buyers brokers that might be listening in on this conversation, we'd be happy to do business with them. And then we have reached out to both institutional and private owners in north and northeast Portland that have
 property that is currently vacant or underutilized. That includes the bureaus. You know, we're talking with the other sister institutions within Portland City government. So the Housing Investment Fund was where we would go first to acquire sites from the Parks Bureau, perhaps the Bureau of Environmental Services or the Water Bureau. And then the securitization of the short-term rental revenue will give us quite a lot more money to work with.
 Javier Mina is Assistant Director for the Bureau and as you may know, he was a Wells Fargo banker before he was hired by the city. Javier is my point person on these land negotiations and I can say that when he brings a site to me, we make a decision usually within the same working day about how best to proceed. We're not over analyzing or overthinking these issues.
 And I respect Bishop Holt's point about needing to know what's going on so that there is a sense of movement and a sense of ownership in the strategy. Are we – and I thank you for that very thoughtful answer. I think I understood most of it. Are we –
 Are we – is implicit in what you're saying that we're constrained with using TIF in terms of what we can and can't do? Because I'm imagining a third category, an in-between. So you're talking about the Bureau acquiring dirt and then packaging it with other tools and ANOFA and finding a private developer. That's the traditional way we've done it. That's very important. But I'm thinking about another model, which is –
 PCRI, Habitat, someone comes to you and says, we've worked out a deal on a piece of property, which probably they're going to get a better price than we will. That's why we use third parties to buy natural areas and parks because when someone says the government's the other side, we end up paying a premium. They've got a deal, but their bank doesn't, they're missing some gap money, some this, some that. Are we able to fill that niche
 to help our partners acquire dirt, even if we have to at some point ask them to repay it. Thank you, President of the Chamber of Council. Yes, we are. We actually just finished an agreement with NOAA.
 that is specifically for that purpose. NOAA has a land banking fund that they have not, the past couple of years have not been utilized to a great extent. As you recall, NOAA is a nonprofit affordable housing lender for the state. A key partner when we did the preservation. Most definitely. And so they used this fund during the preservation process. Okay.
 So they have not been using this fund over the last couple years. And as you may recall, last fiscal year, the Bureau received a million dollars of general fund for housing development, which we were not able to be able to fund any projects. So we are using those million dollars to fund.
 add to that fund, and what that does, it has made those funds, those resources flexible for nonprofit or for-profit borrowers and lowered those costs associated with the acquisition of property, and it gives them four years to identify development resources for that land that they purchased.
 So could we, when you come before us later, Director Krieger, to talk about the budget and about your priorities that you and Commissioner Saltzman have set forth, could we carve out a few minutes to talk about what are the pots of money that are available for this flexible purpose? A combination of, you know, 108 loan money, CDBG, TIFT.
 HIF, the Housing Investment Fund, and just give us a little primer on what dollars are really flexible and can be used for land banking. Because I fear that once upon a time, people like Mr. Gray, for example, gave that legacy gift to...
 to Habitat. Habitat during a recession bought huge tracts in East Portland, developed. That's a unique circumstance. Timing, the market was good. Other development failed, so they were able to buy it. A source of funds to be able to acquire the land. That door is closing.
 And it does seem to me that we're going to have enough of a challenge financing projects. We sure as heck better make sure we've got dirt to build on. And that's where I want to make sure you have as much flexibility. I want to work with Dan to make sure you have as much flexibility in your toolkit to acquire opportunistically land, even if we don't own it, even if we're just providing some kind of bridge financing.
 We stand ready to mobilize all the resources available to us. The idea of using the Network for Affordable Housing as the intermediary is actually much more nimble, much more agile. It's flexible.
 2% money for four years, so it's interest only on the loan balance for a four-year period of time, with the idea being that it would not be a long-term hold. It would just be sufficient for the period of time to get permits. And then we would essentially replace it with permanent financing or whatever gap financing is needed, along with HUD or other bank debt, to make a project feasible. So that money will recycle. And NOAA, of course, we're approving the program, so NOAA doesn't have to take each parcel before the city council for approval.
 I think that's an excellent way for us to respond quickly to opportunities. I think at the end of the day, you want to make sure that each of those projects is bankable so you don't have a large amount
 of land that is waiting for permanent takeout financing. And that's a bit of an art, not entirely science. Particularly because people are being forced to pay above market to acquire dirt. So it throws our performance out of whack. Indeed. Indeed. Thank you, sir. Absolutely. Thank you. Other questions or comments from council? Is there anyone else who's present who has not had a chance to testify who would like to? No.
 Seeing none, I'll entertain a motion to accept the report. So moved. Second. It has been moved and second. Sue, would you please call the roll? Thanks. Well, this just shows what happens when you put large quantities of money into the hands of good citizens who come up with strategies on how to spend it in the best interest of the community. Thank you, Bishop Holt, for your leadership of the committee, but thank you, everybody who's been involved in this.
 As I look around this chamber, there are so many stalwarts of affordable housing and of champions from North and Northeast Portland in the room here, all here maybe to listen, maybe just to support, but all deeply engaged in this process. And that's what it takes to come up with a plan that begins to correct some of the wrongs of the past. And I'm very, very impressed. As I said, I will look
 to duplicating this in the Portland Development Commission and perhaps in some of our other projects. It's probably a little early to declare success yet, but it's certainly an amazing start, and I am very pleased that you took the time to come to give a detailed report to council and all the community support
 We do have many challenges for affordable housing, for home ownership, for displacement, a wide range of housing challenges, which certainly the seven years that I've been on the council, we've tripled the housing budget. We have done...
 what we thought we could, the most we thought we could do at the time. And now we're doing even more under the leadership of First Commissioner Fish and now Commissioner Saltzman. And it's about, it's all of us. And so some of the folks who are writing into us saying, well, what are you doing about housing? What are you doing about displacement? What are you doing about these injustices?
 we are working together and it cannot be done by just your committee. It cannot be done by just the housing bureau, just the city, just the county. It's all of us. And if you...
 before you write me an email asking what I'm doing, just know that I'm going to write you back and say, what are you doing? Because it's about all of us, and it's about much more than just firing off an email once in a while. It's about doing the due diligence like the committee has been doing, meetings and evening meetings, and making sure that they're televised and that community members feel welcome in the places that they're held. There's a whole range of things that you have addressed so thoughtfully, and I'm very grateful. Hi. Yes, sure.
 I'm sorry, Mayor Hales is not here. He may be actually at home watching TV. Who knows? But he and Dan launched this initiative. I'm sorry he's not here to see the fruits of year one. A lot of really innovative thinking has come out of this, and I'm pleased to receive the report and have this discussion. Some are going to say, well, $20 million doesn't get as much.
 That's true. But for the people who are benefited by this $20 million, it's a new start. Their lives are improved. The reality is the bigger storm out there is that we're hundreds of millions of dollars short in terms of the money we need to really address the need. We're backsliding on the focus of 030. We have major candidates running for federal office, for presidency, in fact, who said they'd abolish HUD. We have some structural problems in terms of affordability.
 And we have a ton of fairly affluent people moving to our city that are causing, ironically, huge problems in the marketplace because they're bidding up properties and displacing everyone else. That said, we can't control the big storms, but we can make progress on a neighborhood by neighborhood, block by block. And I think there's a lot of good thinking here and great community oversight. And for that, I'm grateful, Bishop Holt, to you and the committee.
 thank you dan and mayor hales thank you director krieger who in his short stint here has really made a difference i'm pleased to accept the report aye well i also wanted to recognize mayor hales because he was really the the genesis for the whole notion of dedicating 20 million dollars in additional urban renewal dollars specifically to go towards affordable housing production and anti-displacement activities
 So thank you, Mayor Hales. I want to also thank the members of the North Northeast Oversight Committee, who we've entrusted with coming up with the policies and the programs to make this real, to increase affordable housing production in the North Northeast area, to provide anti-displacement activities and funding, and to look at things like a preference policy to provide people the ability to move
 live or live again in the North Northeast Portland area. I want to recognize many key staff who have and Bishop Holt, thank you for your capable leadership from day one of the North Northeast Oversight Committee and to all the committee members. I know you've worked very hard and I'll thank you in advance because there's still a lot more work to do.
 But I also want to recognize many key people at the Portland Housing Bureau. Leslie Goodloe has been with this process from the start. She won't let go of it, which is okay, because she is born and raised in the neighborhood, too, so she cares very much. She's the second member of the Rose Festival royal family who was here today. That's right. Grace was here earlier. Yeah. Yeah.
 Matthew Chabot, who has really done a masterful job in helping the committee to figure out the preference policy and to do it in a way that will withstand legal challenges but will also make a difference in having people come back to the neighborhood or stay in the neighborhood.
 And I appreciate all the hard work he's done. And for fun, he helps the district, school district's boundary review committee make their decisions. Javier Mena, the assistant director. Latimia Clayton. Michelle DePass. Andrea Matthiessen. Martha Calhoun. And on my staff, Shannon Callahan and Tia Williams. So thank you all for the work you've done and for the work that remains. Bye.
 Reports adopted. Thank you all. We're adjourned.