Next item, please, will be regular agenda item 101. Appoint new members Taji Chesamit and Jamari Etherly and alternate member Thabiti Lewis to the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing. Colleagues, the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing continues to do outstanding work in and it's done so for well over a year now. Most recently, the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing forwarded two recommendations to me and the Portland Police Bureau with suggestions for how to improve procedural justice and implementation of a body camera pilot program. These reflect thoughtful work and dedication by the PSAP on important issues and will carefully review and respond to all of these recommendations. PSAP also made recommended appointments of new members at its most recent meeting I attended, and PSAP suggested immediate appointment of two outstanding young adults to the committee. The first candidate is Taji Chesmet, a senior at Dolla Sal North Catholic High School, who has served on the Multnomah Youth Commission and as a youth representative on the City of Portland's 3.96 Code Change Committee. The second candidate is Jamari Etherly, a senior at Benson Polytechnic High School, who is very involved with Word is Bond as a community ambassador, and who is also a dedicated athlete in the sport of boxing. As you know, PSAP is comprised of a group of dedicated and diverse community members who devote considerable time, effort, energy, and attention to improving police services and engagement with the community in Portland. We're very pleased that the two co-chairs, Laquiana Jury and Andrew Colick, are with us today to update the council report on PSAP status and activities. I'm happy now to invite Laquiana and Andrew to give their presentation. Welcome. Thank you both for being here. Thanks all for being here. Laquiana, I'm going to do this for your mom. Fix your collar. This part over here? The other side, yeah. Thank you. All right, there you go. Yeah. I'll tell my mom that she appreciates that. Now you're lucky. Your mom's going to be a good boy, right? The only reason mine is appropriate is because my mother is visiting. So somebody has already told me about it this morning, Commissioner. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and thank you to the Council for your support for the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing and PSAP. We really have a lot of folks to thank for our work over the last 18 months. That includes not only you, but many members of the Portland Police Bureau, including Chief Resch, who was at our last meeting, and who's expressed her continued willingness and, dare I say, excitement to continue the work that they've done with us We've also had great meetings with, including public meetings with the President of the PPA, the Portland Police Association, Darrell Turner, so we thank you for his work with us. We have a tremendous staff that supports us day in and day out. And last but certainly not least, we have had so many meetings, and Lachiana will talk about this, with community groups and other individuals, thought leaders. of every stripe from across the community who are sharing their wisdom with us. Because it's really not about us, the 13 of us on the committee, talking to the people of the city of Portland. It's really figuring out a way to get all of their wisdom and transmit that back to the city and the police bureau. And that continues to be our goal. So I'm going to hand it over to Lachiana, who's going to talk a little bit more about our community engagement efforts to date. Yeah, so thank you for having us. I just want to quickly start just separating that I'm speaking on behalf of PSEP and my lead as a co-chair, not on Word is Bond or any other efforts that I'm engaged in in the community. Just want to start with our successes. Where does, excuse me, where is mine? Right where I said that. PSAP is doing extremely well right now. We, for the first time in a number of months, have 13 members, all of our seats filled. You're going to hear from our youth in a little bit. We actually have three youth sitting on the council right now. The document only requires two, but we were able to add three, and I think that just speaks to the level of engagement that we're bringing forward. And I really want to frame the community engagement effort. I think it goes a little bit under the radar. And it includes a number of different things. You know, the piece that a lot of folks have been focusing on is people coming to the meetings. But that's just part of the community engagement that happens with PSEP. It includes events that we attend. It includes one-on-one meetings. We went through and cataloged all of our. our meetings that our members attended outside of our monthly meeting and it averaged out to three meetings per committee member. So our members are out there, they're in the community, so it's not just what we're seeing at the meetings, but it involves many other things and I just want to highlight that as we're framing this discussion around community engagement. We'll talk about that a little more in the challenges of, as one of the things of how do we get more folks to there, to our meetings, but our Our mentality right now is that we have to go meet the community where they're at. A lot of these members are coming from disenfranchised communities, communities with working mothers and fathers that aren't able to devote three hours to sit at another meeting. So our efforts involve getting out to them and also producing results that speak to the issues that are most important to them. Some of the other community engagement things we've done working with PPB on the community engagement plan, made recommendations for that during our first year, including the Truth and Reconciliation Act. recommendation which is something that Chief Rush has talked about and that's really the start of this process of healing because until we rectify and really come to terms with what's happened in the past it's really hard to move forward and say let's just turn over a new leaf without really acknowledging the hurt and trauma that was caused in the past so from a community engagement perspective that's really where we're at with that right now want to turn over now to our recommendations, things that we've just done. Mayor Wheeler, you just mentioned the procedural justice recommendation. Really proud of how that came together and the input that we got. We talked to members of PPB. We talked to community members at our subcommittee meetings. And that's PSAP's first policy recommendation that we've produced. A lot of our other recommendations have been either plans or they're recommendations for various things, but I think this is a really unique opportunity for Chief Resch to take in the perceptions of the community as a police bureau. They're only able to see what they're able to see from their perspective and so that's where we can assist and complement the work that they're already doing through the efforts of the settlement agreement and a lot of the steps they've taken by adding in that community voice to all of that. And so this recommendation, I believe, would radically change how police and community members interact in a stop or a search. I hear daily from the youth I work with and from community members that a lot of times when they're stopped or when they're searched, they don't know the officer's name who's searching them. They don't know if they even have to be detained or what the reason for the stop was. And so this recommendation, if implemented... We would change that by giving more voice to the community members. It's one of the things that Chief Outlaw had championed, and I know Chief Rush wants to continue on that progress. So we're really keen to see her take this seriously and implement this as a recommendation from our body. The other one we just passed in January was our body camera recommendation. It's not an endorsement of body cameras, but it is a set of guidelines from a number of community meetings that we had to help shape a future body camera project, if that does, in fact, take place. And we'll be talking tomorrow more about that. I'll turn it back over to Andrew now to talk about facial recognition and then we'll touch briefly on the youth survey. Yeah, in addition to... One second, Andrew. Sure. I had a question. Thank you. Thank you. I just want to take this opportunity to tell you how much I appreciate your service on this committee. The work that you've done and of course I hear from the community a lot. I want to be clear, I had no confidence in this committee at all. I didn't believe that this was going to be a committee that really was going to dig into the hard questions around policing, that this committee would have the ability to push back against certified smart people who think they know better what policing should look like in the city of Portland. And I want to take this opportunity to say I was absolutely, totally wrong. The work that you are doing is revolutionary. Thank you. The fact that you are engaging with young people where they are and making sure that their voices are centered in every conversation you have. I've watched you facilitate. You and I have had conversations. You and I have met. But I just need to, on a public record, say that I was totally wrong. And the work that you're doing is really going to make a difference in the city of Portland. And I want to thank you very much for your service. Appreciate that, Commissioner. Yeah, that means a lot. And we recognize that we are standing on the shoulders of folks who have been in this community for generations who have done this work, whether it's the Mental Health Alliance or the Abilita Ministerial Alliance that brought the initial lawsuit and countless others. So we're trying to do our little part. but we appreciate that vote of competence and we'll try not to let you down. A couple other things in addition to the policy notes that Lachiana mentioned. We've tried to engage the community through events but also through surveys and the like. So Commissioner Hardison, you joined us, headlined our event on facial recognition technology. We were also joined by the ACLU of Oregon, the Urban League, the Business Alliance, many others. Again, showing what we're trying to do for outreach in the community. So thank you for attending that, and we look forward to additional forums like that. Our youth subcommittee is engaged with Portland Public Schools on a survey, which, again, is a great... tool to use to see what it is that youth care about in this arena and how we can go about tackling it. So they should be issuing that survey either in the first quarter or shortly thereafter. So we're excited about that as well. That's all. Yes, the last piece is a youth survey. So the youth subcommittee is one of our four subcommittees that's up and working right now. And they are working on a survey to, as Barry said, we're centering youth voice, but there's even more that can be dug up and pulled into youth. into these conversations. So they're busy working on that. And with the addition of two new youth on the committee, I believe that will be strengthened. I don't know if we want to hear from them now. Do we want to? Yeah, so I'm going to turn it over to them. I'll just say that we just, added both their seats in January at January's meeting it brings our committee back up to fully being fully staffed both of these young men have done incredible work already in the community outside of being on on PSAP and so I think this is just another step in their leadership journeys and also a step for us as a as a committee to get more lived experience and authentic voices on our on our committee so I will turn it over to them welcome Thank you so much Commissioner. Thank you Mayor Wheeler. Like mentioned by Lachiana, my name is Tachi Josimet and I am a recently appointed member of PSAP and hopefully will be sworn in today I believe. And I just wanted to share my amazing and excitement for what's going to be happening as a new member of youth PSAP and so we can really continue to move move the work forward on the youth subcommittee and continue to work the forward having youth voice on this committee is very Pivotal to understanding perspectives that are missed from adults But also seen from the experiences that I'm bringing from my own work that I do in my nonprofit called youth educating police Really just expanding the work I'm doing there along with being able to participate on peace up on will be extremely exciting to see how we can connect the two works and how we can continue to grow community engagement like mentioned by our co-chairs. So I'm very excited today to be here and thank you so much for this opportunity. Hi, I'm Jamari Ethelwee. I'm glad to be a part of PSAP and from my work with the word is bond throughout the summer and school year, it's been helping, it helped me like help break barriers between like law enforcement and the youth of color and I wanted to be a part of PCEF so I can bring give like the kids that I represent in like communities a color of voice commissioners thank you both to the new PCEF members I'm curious whether or not When you bring issues to the committee, does it feel like the committee is really listening to those issues and digging into them, and you feel like they want to do something about those concerns? Yes, because at the last meeting that I went to, they said, they really touched on bringing more people in and more of the kids into. And with having youth members on the board, it's going to help bring the youth into the program and help them get involved. I believe there's some definite intentionality along with the community engagement piece that's been bringing and I also think that having the young people on this committee will be able to bring a lot more perspective. Got to give a lot of kudos to Lakhiana and his attempts to bring some of his word as bond and previous students but there's a sort of different perspective that young people specifically can bring to get our own peers to the room and have our own perspectives heard and I think throughout the time when I was able to participate in this meeting along with getting the youth survey initially just like see our insights before it was published to the public was really cool to see how they wanted to just engage this population without sort of already already getting that question or pushback from young people to get in the room and it was great to have a lot of opportunity to public comment on each of the recommendations and there's some really good insights from adults and youth alike on how we can you know make sure this work is intentionally reaching all as many communities and a lot of those disenfranchised communities like mentioned by Lachiana before so yes I think this is well what I appreciate is I think because of Lachiana's background with word is bond. He understands how to engage young people at a really deep level. The other thing that I appreciate is your ability to not be silenced by information that adults may not want to hear. I've observed, read some articles and actually observed some dialogue and interactions and was so impressed with your ability to hold your ground and say this is what the committee thinks and this is what the committee recommends because it's not your job. if people don't take your recommendations, but it's certainly your job to make sure that we know exactly what the community wants and expects from your work. So I, it takes a lot of courage to do that and it's rare to find young people willing to just say, I don't care if you like it, here it is. So thank you very much for that. I'm grateful. Lots of love today, I tell you. Yeah, it's all good. What's going on? Is this all a dream? I'm going to wake up and I'll be yelling at the mayor. Moving on. Moving right on. All right, so this is a report. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. I have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty and a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further discussion? No. Please call the roll. Fritz? Thank you very much for your willingness to serve. This is a very significant community volunteer opportunity and I really appreciate all the work that's been done. It is satisfying to know that we are making progress and the Department of Justice is Having as we move towards substantial compliance, I know there's still some discussion about that and still more work to do as we continue to be monitored. But I really credit Mayor Wheeler and his staff, particularly Nicole Grant and Robert King for their support and also the Office of Equity and Human Rights and their support of the committee. Aye.
 Hardesty. I think I may have said all the gushy things that I want to say. Let me just say that continue to build The committee to continue to do the work that you're doing and do not hesitate to reach out if there's something me or my office can do to support your efforts. I vote aye. Udaly? Can we turn that off? Yeah, if you can hit that lock in. It's the big one. There you go. Thanks. She'll call back. Well, I want to thank you for your work on this committee. I shared some of Commissioner Hardesty's concerns. The DOJ settlement has been one of the most complicated and frustrating issues that I've dealt with since coming to City Council. I want to especially thank the youth. members for stepping up. These are not meetings that a lot of adults would want to be involved in. So I commend you and also Taji, it's always exciting to see you again. I really appreciate your service on NYC and the Code Change Committee and This is meaningful work. This isn't school. You know, you're contributing real, meaningful, valuable perspective to this committee. And that's really exciting. I can't wait to see what happens and what you guys do next. Because I know you're both seniors and you might be moving on sometime soon. I vote aye. We do, but... Well, thank you all. I'm very, very grateful for the work that PSEP has done to provide community oversight of the DOJ settlement agreement and the compliance officers reporting and also to contribute to the development of PPB's community engagement plan. It's worth underscoring again that although the city is now determined to be in substantial compliance with the United States Department of Justice settlement agreement, we are far from done. There's a lot of work yet to be done. And I am very happy that PSAP is taking up the call in a very meaningful way. PSUP is from my perspective functioning extremely well and I believe it's going to play an important role well beyond the life of the settlement agreement. And it's going to continue to help both the city and the Portland Police Bureau to engage with the community on all manner of issues that are of critical importance. So I'm very happy to support this obviously, but I also want to acknowledge some people who are not here today, many of whom played an important role. Chief Outlaw was deeply committed to the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing, as is Chief Resch, and you saw that I'm sure in her presentation to you last week. I do want to acknowledge also somebody who is here, Jared Hager, who doesn't get much credit. He's here today. He's representing the United States Department of Justice, and I want to thank him for his insight and input and support. Tracy Reeve, our city attorney, spends a considerable amount of time on this. The Office of Equity and Human Rights has been deeply engaged. I also want to thank Robert King and Nicole Grant for their continued work on my team to keep the process moving forward. Of course, my Chief of Staff, Kristin Dennis. But most importantly, I want to thank you. The pay is not good. as Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Udailey said, this is real business and it is serious business. And you've gone all in on it, and you've provided the level of maturity and respect and dedication that this important set of issues deserves. And it is worth noting, colleagues, that these two young men not only had to make the case in an interview process, they actually had to do the interview process in public in an open meeting in front of the entire world. And I was impressed with both of them beyond belief. So we're lucky to have them stepping forward as well as our alternate. I'm very happy to vote aye. The report is accepted. Continue good work. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Would you like a picture with us? always that was the right answer I was waiting for him to go for one Andrew's always the diplomat there Thank you. I don't know, I guess he should really walk in here. Right there. I like it, I like it. We should get over here too. Yeah, I feel good in there. Hi, how are you? Good, how are you? All right. I just want you to tell me, I just want to start a station. I got to tell you, I love that. Thank you so much. Good job. Amazing. I love him, man. What? Can't she just call her? It's just a phone line. Yeah. Well, how did he get this? I assume he got this. Oh, nice to see you. Thank you. Okay. You're back on. Good.
 Okay. All right. Oh, this one. Where is this? Carlos, Commissioner Fritz joined us by phone today. I believe she is online. Commissioner Fritz? Oh, okay. Commissioner Fritz, are you there? Is her mic on? Yeah. Commissioner Fritz, are you there? Yeah. Why don't we start and do all the preliminary stuff and then we'll ask again. All right. Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday morning, February 5th, 2020 session of the Portland City Council. Good morning, Carla. Please call the roll. Good morning. Fritz? Here. Hello. Hardesty. Here.
 Udailey.
 Here.
 Wheeler.
 Here. We usually read a script allowing Commissioner Fritz to speak. Does anybody have any objections to Commissioner Fritz participating by phone? No. No objections. Good. We'll now hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much, Carla. First up is communications. I understand the first individual may... Next item, and we are exactly spot on time. Item number 91, time certain, 1045. Proclaim February 5th, 2020 to be World Read Aloud Day. Thank you. Colleagues, thank you for being here today and thank you to everyone who's here today and sharing information about World Read Aloud Day, the Children's Book Bank, and Smart Reading. Reading is a critical gateway skill for children and I'm pleased that Portland is joining millions of people around the globe to bring attention and awareness to this very important event. A community's investment in early literacy is one that yields immense returns. Developing early literacy skills helps pave the way to improved education for all students, higher literacy and graduation rates, and of course, stronger communities. Today we have Afreda Davis, Program Director for Smart Reading. We have Apollonia Quayle, who's the Volunteer Manager at the Children's Book Bank, and Jessica Bowersox, who's the Communications Director at Smart. Thank you for joining us. We appreciate it. Thank you for having us. All right, so good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Morning. And commissioners. Thank you for having us today to talk about the importance of reading in children's lives in a celebration of World Read Aloud Day. My name is Afridah Davis, and I'm the program director of Smart Reading, a statewide children's literacy nonprofit organization based here in Portland. I've worked to serve with youth over the past decade in a variety of capacities, and working at SMART has brought me the greatest joy. My love for books was gifted to me by my mother, a strong black woman who knew the importance of developing the love of reading in her children. Books became my best friend and my solace through the hardest times of my childhood, adolescence, and my young adult years. As a foster child who was later deployed to Iraq as an armed service member, books were how I escaped the traumatic environments that I was in. Books help me to make sense of the world around me, and it's a true privilege that I get to return that gift to kids today through my work at Smart Reading. I'd like to tell you a little bit about our organization. We provide two critical ingredients for literacy and learning success, one-on-one reading and access to books. We care about reading because we know it's a gateway skill for kids, and without that skill kids are less likely to graduate high school, find employment, or successfully avoid other hardships throughout their lives. Lower literacy rates don't just hurt individual children, they hurt us all. They impact the future health and prosperity of our community. Based on the ODE assessment data from last year, about 45% of all third graders in Portland public schools weren't meeting state reading benchmarks. For students of color, students learning English, and those experiencing poverty or homelessness, the numbers are far more bleak. This is not acceptable and our community can and needs to help solve these issues. Literacy is not just our education system's challenge, but one for local community, businesses, foundations, congregations, and neighbors. The proverb says it takes a village to raise a child, and that's why we do our work at Smart Reading, and why we're here today to bring awareness to the critical responsibility to support kids and to build brighter futures through reading. Thank you for supporting World Read Aloud Day and helping us to get that message out that reading matters. By helping thousands of children build confidence, literacy skills, and a love of reading in their own neighborhoods, we can reduce the negative rippling effects of literacy and help children realize their full potential. Thank you. Thank you. Awesome. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, thank you for having us here today to talk about the importance of early literacy and World Read Aloud Day. I'm Apollonia Quali, and I'm the volunteer manager for the Children's Book Bank, and I've also volunteered at SMART as a coordinator for the past five years. It's no wonder I've ended up with so involved in early literacy as an adult, given how important books were to me as a child. I moved around a lot and books were my first friends. They gave me a sense of home and belonging when I didn't have that in my daily life. Now as a parent of two children, I've experienced the magic of books through their eyes. They have two very different experiences with learning how to read, and my involvement with SMART and with the Children's Book Bank prepared me to advocate for them and to help them find success with reading and to see themselves as readers today. To share a bit about the Children's Book Bank, we're a non-profit organization with a mission to fill children's homes with beautiful, engaging books. And we focus on services on children experiencing poverty, as 61% of families living in poverty lack books at home. Academically, children growing up in homes without books are on average three years behind children with books in their home. This year, we'll give away 122,000 books to kids throughout Multnomah County from preschool to eighth grade. with a strong emphasis on providing books that really represent the diverse world that we're living in, and books that represent characters of color, LGBTQ representation, and children of all abilities. We often partner with SMART to work together to bring the gift of books and literacy to kids. In fact, at a special World Read Aloud Day celebration in Hillsboro, we're going to be giving 620 books, enough books to serve every single student throughout the school. Thank you again for providing space to celebrate today. Reading is a fundamental skill that opens doors and opportunities and choices for children. And it's important that we support all kids in mastering this essential skill. I encourage our community to celebrate World Read Aloud today and every day of the year. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you so much for taking the time to hear from us today about the importance of early literacy. My name is Jessica Bowersox, and I'm the Communications Director at Smart Reading, and I've also been a Smart Volunteer for 10 years. You've heard a bit about our organization already from Afrida, but I'd like to share a couple additional points as well. So this year in the Portland metro area, we have about 1,600 volunteers who are going to help us read with 3,300 students across the area and about 100 sites. and we'll also give these children 40,000 books throughout the course of the school year. Statewide, we have 5,000 volunteers who help us do this work in just about every community across the state, and we will serve 11,000 students across Oregon this year. I wanted to share that recently we learned that Smart Reading has been named a program of distinction by Generations United, which is a D.C.-based advocacy group that works with intergenerational programs. And SMART is one of only two organizations in Oregon to receive this designation, the other being Bridge Meadows. We measure our impact by inviting feedback from volunteers, educators that we work with, and families we serve throughout the course of each year. And based on that, we know that 88% of kids in our program show improvement in their confidence in reading skills. 83% of kids in our program show improved social and emotional skills. And 93% of families with children in our program say that their children benefited significantly from the engagement in smart reading. Importantly, reading with children isn't just about the literacy skills, it's an opportunity to create some wonderful relationships. I will never forget the first time I missed a smart reading session my very first year as a volunteer, and I thought the kids I read with would not even notice that I was gone, and I was wrong. When I came back the next week, one of the girls I read with put her hand on her hip, and she said, where were you? And I realized in that moment they notice, they pay attention, and it matters to show up for them week after week. And I really realized the responsibility I had to not let this little person down. So today, Portland is joining millions around the globe and celebrating World Read Aloud Day, or RAD as we like to call it. And RAD is an observance led by a nonprofit out of New York City called Lit World that advocates for literacy as a fundamental human right for all. This is the first year that Smart Reading has joined this observance and we thank you for joining in it with us and we really look forward to how the celebration can expand in years to come and invite you all to be part of that with us. For those in our community who are interested in getting involved, we encourage you to pick up a book, read with a child, maybe volunteer to become a smart reader, and really just want to share that literacy is a true community effort and we can all support kids in their journey to become readers. So thank you again for joining us in the celebration of World Read Aloud Day and helping us show our community that reading matters. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you all for being here. The bookstore owner would probably want to go first. Yes, I'm feeling a little verklempt. I mean, World Read Out Loud Day sounds like a fun event, but it's really deep and meaningful. And like you, books were my first friends, and dang it, not again. That's okay, we got you. Yeah, growing up in rural Oregon in a pretty isolated area, books were my first friend, books were my refuge from, you know, tough life experiences, and books were my window onto a world that I could only dream of belonging to. Books also became my occupation. I was a bookseller for most of my adult life before I came to City Council. And there really are few things more beautiful than getting to watch a child learn how to read. That transition from reading to them, to them reading to you. I accidentally, well I guess unconsciously named my son after one of my favorite children's book characters, Henry Alden from The Boxcar Children. which was a very influential series on me I would have loved to live in a boxcar children or in a boxcar in the woods as a kid and I did do a smart orientation I'm looking forward to the day where I can make that weekly commitment without letting the kids down but I'm not there yet so thank you for being there for them I also want to add my appreciation as I listen to Afridah talk about her lived experience. I grew up in Baltimore, Maryland, one of 10 kids, and books was the way that I got away from my siblings, right? Exactly. It was my way to really escape into my own world. In fact, the librarian knew me by name. And I was that little nerdy kid that always had eight or ten books stacked like this because that was my weekend reading. Every day. Let me say it serves me well in my current position because the homework that I take home and have to read is significant. I think the best thing you can do for a young person is to give them access to books. Absolutely. Because as a young black child growing up in Baltimore, without books, I would have never known there was this huge world out there. And Baltimore was not the world, it was just a city I lived in, right? Exactly. And so I appreciate what you do. And like Commissioner Udaly, our life here doesn't allow us to make a commitment for once a week. But I want you to invite me to do something. I remember a couple of years, I actually did a Read Out Loud event, a couple of them, events. One was poetry and one was something else. But I love seeing that sparkle in young people's eyes. And thank you very much. And let me just tell our listeners, start making a reader today. Is that still what SMART stands for? Or have you just done away with the acronym and now it's just SMART? It still stands for Start Making a Reader Today, but we have officially changed our name to Smart Reading. Ah, I see. Learn something new every day if you read. Thank you. That was beautiful. And she's here all day, folks. On behalf of the City of Portland, I want to thank you for all the work that you do, bringing the gift of books and reading to literally thousands of children throughout our community. And I want to thank you for that. And I look forward to watching the annual observance of World Read Aloud Day and watch it grow and gain momentum both in our community as well as around the country. So thank you for your tremendous commitment. It's now my honor to read. on behalf of the city council, a proclamation celebrating your efforts. Whereas reading is an early gateway skill that paves the pathway for future success. And whereas lower literacy rates don't just hurt individual children, they're a huge concern for the future health and prosperity of our community and our state. And whereas the third grade reading level is a key indicator of a child's future educational success, yet nearly half of Portland's third graders aren't meeting this critical benchmark. And whereas by providing our children with one-on-one reading support, access to books, and building their confidence, literacy skills, and a love of reading, we can reduce the negative ripple effects of illiteracy and help children realize their full potential. And whereas World Read Aloud Day is an opportunity for people in Portland and across the globe to celebrate the joy of reading aloud and advocate for literacy as a fundamental human right that belongs to everyone. And whereas in recognition of Smart Reading's efforts since 1992 to engage 140,000 Oregonians to offer over 222,000 Oregon children reading support and 2.8 million books, putting them on a path to strong literacy skills, that yields lifelong benefits and opportunities. Now therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim February 5th, 2020, to be World Read Aloud Day in Portland and encourage all Portland residents to observe this day. Thank you. Yes. It's all we have. It's all we have and it's your reputation. What a pleasure. I'm a Navy man. Thank you very much. Thank you. Step it over to the other side. I knew it was either going to be quality or not. So Amanda, should I hold your picture up in front of you? Sure, go ahead. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for coming. Congratulations. Thank you. My gosh, yes, I'm that person. That's cool. I know. Hey. Hey. We'll make sure we get you to a reading. Just listening. I did read a lot today. I have a lot to read. Okay, next up. 101. Item pleases. Item 90, time certain. Portland Streetcar Annual Report for 2019. And it's 1015 times certain, and it's only 1004. Oh, you know what? Let's go to some... Have a seat. Sorry for the fire drill. No worries. That has never happened. Let's go to... Yeah, I know that's impressive. Let's go to a couple of second readings all the way at the end of the regular agenda. Could you please read item number 106, Carla? Carla, before you do that... There's a script for the electronic communication that you're reading still. I think that should be done in advance of the second readings on these items. Okay. Pursuant to PCC 3.0 2.025, Commissioner Fritz is participating by telephone because of... She can. Because she can. Without Commissioner Fritz's participation by telephone, there is not a sufficient number of council members present to connect all the city's business, which is true on emergency items. Does that satisfy your requirements? It might. Give me one second, please. Okay. That's what my script says. We already determined there's no objections. Yeah. We did that earlier. Say that one more time, please. I said earlier. Yeah, so here, I'll just, I'll read down to the bottom. Do any of the council members who are physically present object to having Commissioner Fritz participate by telephone? No. No, I don't hear any objection. I do object to this cut rate sound system, however. We really need to upgrade. We upgraded it last year. Oh. It's just a new one. Oh, boy. Okay, no objections. All right. She'll let me know if we're good. The rules state that you, the council is to be making a record of the circumstances constituting the emergency, which requires the use of the telephone and a record of the nature and extent of the attempts made to give the physically absent council member an opportunity to participate. All right. Commissioner Fritz, help me out here, please. It's really hard to hear you today. The microphones are not really playing up. Could you say that louder, please, ma'am? Commissioner Fritz, can you hear me okay? Okay. It's really hard to hear everybody. If you could all speak louder, that would be very helpful. Commissioner Fritz, can you hear me okay? Molly, you set my... Yes, can you hear me? Yes. So I'm going to read for you what the rules require for the participation by telephone. The council is to make a record of the circumstances constituting the emergency which requires use of electronic communication and a record of the nature and extent of the attempts made to give yourself, the physically absent council member, an opportunity to participate by telephone. Okay. So if you could just give us a little bit more information on why you're not able to participate in person today, that would fulfill that requirement. Thank you. Thank you. I had major surgery three weeks ago, and I'm still recovering. I can't get in participating by phone. Thank you. Yes, thank you. And I did not feel it was my place to disclose that. So that was my reluctance. Yeah, that seems a little invasive. In fact, I believe there are laws against me disclosing that kind of information. But nonetheless, here we go. Second reading, item number 106. Amend contract with Analytical Services, Inc. for a no-cost extension to provide backup cryptosporidium laboratory testing in support of Portland Water Bureau's bilateral compliance agreement with Oregon Health Authority. Any further discussion on this item? Seeing none, please call the roll call line. Fritz.
 Hardesty.
 Aye.
 Udaly.
 Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next. A sticker for you. Oh, a sticker, right? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Before a woman passes down. Oh, I got one. Oh, you got one? I got one. I always meant to have two. Okay, we already did. So next up are items 92 and 93, please. Thank you. 92, amend the introduction, modal plans, implementation strategies, and glossary chapters of the 2035 Transportation System Plan. And 93, amend the 2035 Transportation System Plan and the 2035 Comprehensive Plan in compliance with the Regional Transportation Plan. Adopt findings of compliance. Commissioner Udailey, any further thoughts? No. Very good. Colleagues, just to remind you, we continued this discussion, the resolution. We've already had a presentation and testimony. Similarly with item 93, the ordinance, we already heard a presentation, we heard testimony, and we voted on amendments. So we're ready to take a final vote unless there's any further business on either. Carla, please call the roll on item number 92. Fritz? Hardesty?
 Aye.
 Udailey? I want to thank PBOT staff for their work, especially Bob Kellett and Eric Hessa, in updating the 2035 Transportation System Plan. I'm pleased that we're updating this long-range planning document to reflect the recommendations of more recently adopted plans. This is something we will need to continue to do as conditions change and new opportunities emerge. I also want to thank the community members who have volunteered their valuable time to help shape the recommendations in this update. This is not the end of this work. We ask that you continue to stay engaged with us as the policies and projects in this plan are implemented and as we move forward with planning work that is rooted in equity. I also want to thank city staff at other bureaus, including BPS, BDS, Parks, and the Fire Bureau. Transportation touches all of us, and the decisions that we make should be coordinated so that we're achieving multiple city goals. In fact, I want to be clear to the public and our partner bureaus that PBOT staff will begin implementing regulations in the TSP update this summer. This will provide time for the public and our partners to dig deep into the plan and prepare their development proposals and inspection trainings. I am pleased to vote aye. Wheeler. I appreciated the presentation and the testimony. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Item number 93, which is the ordinance is amended. Please call the roll. Fritz. Hardesty. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. A certain item please. Item number 89. extend contract with Calais America Inc. for multi-space parking pay stations through April 23, 2025 for continued operations, additional door upgrades, system expansion, and provide for area permit program online permits for $16,164,000 for a 10-year total not to exceed $31,039,000. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. Council originally executed a contract with Calais America in 2016 for parking pay stations that you see throughout the downtown core, central east side, northwest and other areas of the city. This was a large contract and has a provision to extend for a period of an additional five years until 2025. This ordinance before us today is to amend the contract with Calais America to accomplish the following things. Maintain the operations of the 2,200 existing pay stations. Allow PBOT to purchase additional pay stations if new paid parking districts are developed. provide for online parking permits, and provide customer service through the help desk. I would like to turn it over to the City's Chief Procurement Officer, Lester Spittler, and PBOT's Parking Operations Manager, Chris Arms, to provide you with a background and details of this amendment. Welcome, and please state your names for the record. Thank you, Commissioner Daly. City Council, my name is Lester Spittler. I'm the City's Chief Procurement Officer. The legislation before you is an authorizing ordinance to amend the contract to add five additional years to the term and add a significant amount of money to the contract. I'm here co-presenting with PBOT to support this amendment. My staff and I have met with PBOT leading up to this event and have worked with them on this solution. We examined all of the options for what would be the best next step to expand the system and leverage the existing taxpayer dollars that have been invested in this contract and the system so far. After discussing options and associated costs, We are in agreement that this is the best option for those reasons. We also believe that the terms and conditions of our contract are more favorable than what we would be able to obtain from a competitive effort on the open market today. And for those reasons, I'm here again to support this effort and answer any procurement or contract-related questions. If not, Chris Armstrong-Pibot is here to present on the details of the amendment, and she can answer any scope or system-related questions. Chris, please. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. We are here today with an ordinance to amend the contract with CalA America. He about entered into the existing contract with CalA America in 2016 for a five-year term. The contract has a provision for an extension of additional five years. The original contract included operations of the existing on-street parking pay stations, procurement of up to 1,000 additional machines, customer support and help desk services, There have been three amendments to the existing contract. Amendment 1 was for $1.2 million and added a payment gateway service. Changing the gateway service to CalA has saved approximately $600,000 annually. Amendment 2 was for $150,000 for the development of an online digital permit system. And Amendment 3 was for $1.75 million to upgrade existing machines to be ADA compliant and to convert to a pay-by-plate system. With the amendments, the current contract total is $14.875 million, and the new requested amendment is to extend for five years and add $16.1 million. The three pieces to the amendment today, the first piece is continued operations of the pay station and help to support. The $9.6 million of operating funds includes wireless and payment gateway, management system and pay-by-plate and text receipt fees. The second piece is completing the upgrades of the existing machines and the ability to purchase up to 600 meters if needed to expand existing districts or if there is an adoption of a new meter district. The third piece is an online permit system. Currently, the Area Parking Permits issues 30,000 permits annually, and this is a paper system. The new system will be online and eliminate paper applications and permits. For community members who do not have access to a computer, they can call customer support for assistance or come to the Customer Service Center, and staff can issue them a permit. Thank you. To reiterate, the requested amendment is to extend the five-year term and add $16.1 million. A request for proposal process will start in 2024 for a new contract to be in place in 2025. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I noticed on your slide it said that you would start the outreach in 2025. Was that just misprint? Yeah, it will start in 2024. I expect it to be a lengthy procurement process, and so it would need to be in place by 2025. As do I, which is why I was concerned about that particular slide. What's going to be different in the new contract as you go out next time for a – to look to see what else is out there? Well, technology is changing very rapidly in this sector, and we anticipate there may be the ability to need less on-street pay stations and there may be other options for payment. And so we'll put an RFP out seeking new solutions for that. And today we have like different meters depending upon what side of town you're on. If you're over by Multnomah County's office building, the meters you put in your license plate and... and they don't let you actually add any dollars to it. And then we have the old meters that seem like they've been around forever. Is there going to be some continuity in the new RFP? Yes. Well, actually, the existing system, we are looking to change out all of the pay stations on the street so they're all the colored touchscreens with a pay-by-plate system and not a pay-in display so there's no more paper available. Commissioner Fritz has a question. Good morning. Would you please tell modifications that you've required ADA compliance in the different languages that are now available, please? Sorry. Are the enhancements in multiple languages?
 Yes. So right now the new pay-by-plate system and the color touchscreens will be available in English, Spanish, Vietnamese, and Russian. And you've also improved the ADA accessibility, right? Yes. So the new upgrades with the meters, they meet ADA with the display and then the height from the ground. Very happy to see those modifications. Thank you so much. How does this contract evolve as the technology evolves? A lot of us are using the Parking Kitty app and it's convenient if you happen to have access to a smartphone. And I'm assuming that the penetration is going to continue to expand in the years ahead. Is it fair to assume that eventually we'll just move to an app-based approach? Or do we know? Well, currently there's 40% of the transactions are through Parking Kitty, so they're mobile transactions. So the new RFPREA, as we move forward, will look for different payment options and whether – what would be available to people through their mobile device or what would be available on the street. And so we make sure that we have options for everybody, whether they have a mobile device or not. And because I'm assuming a large part of the cost here is the infrastructure itself, putting the stations out there. And eventually, my assumption is we'd want to move people to an app-based approach to this and get rid of the infrastructure. Yes. I mean, I don't think that's. possible just because not everyone has a phone. People visiting from out of town may not have the app. Yeah, well, we anticipate needing to have a payment system for people who do not have a mobile phone or a credit card. And so right now the on-street kiosks allow people to pay through coin. All right, well, it sounds like the flexibility is there, and I'll just keep an open mind with regard to what the future holds. But at some point, my guess is maintaining the infrastructure is not going to be cost effective relative to the proceeds that are coming in from people who still need to use the old school. Yes. What we anticipate is there may be an opportunity to distribute the machines out over a larger area, and so there would not need to be one on every block face for people to access. Good idea. Or maybe we'll just all have chips implanted in us. I'm kidding, Mayor. I'm sorry. I do have one more question. Yeah, please, Commissioner Hardesty. Does the City of Portland make any revenue from parking meters around town? No. Yes. So currently, PBOTS generates about $36 million from on-street parking. And so that goes in the PBOTS budget and used for transportation improvements, I'm assuming, since it's PBOTS? Yeah. So we recover our costs from maintenance and operations of the machines, and then after that, the remaining goes into the GTR fund in PBOTS. to be used for different projects throughout the Bureau. And the GTR fund is? The general transportation revenue, which is? For our listening audience, thank you. Sorry. It's one of the few revenue streams with no strings. I mean, a lot of the money that comes in the Bureau is very specifically targeted. So it comes in handy. That's not a small piece of change. Thank you. Great, any further questions? Very good. Is there a public testimony on this item? Yes, we have one person sign up. Great. Lightning Super Karma. May I have a comment? Yeah, please Commissioner Fritz. I just want to make sure that as we move forward, you must be able to continue to with money on the street. It's real, that's so difficult for tourists and anybody else if you can't actually pay with money. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Karma. Again, I'll just be upfront. I'm really tired of these people out of Florida, Clearwater, Florida to get these type of contracts. I want to see the people from Portland get these contracts. I really don't like to see contracts going to other states. That is my biggest objection to what the City Council does. I want the locals to be taken care of. I want the locals to have the jobs. I want the locals to have all the money circulated to all the business owners by these contracts. Instead the money goes back to Clearwater, Florida where President Trump and the Mar-a-Lago and all his friends live. So I'm not happy with this. Issue number two, is I didn't see any comparatables to why you think this was a good price on the amendment. I didn't see any other comparatables through any data, any other company saying this is really a great deal. How do we vote on something we have no comparatables to understand? And of course, this company is going to say, oh, this is the best price you can get. But you know, you brought up some good points, Mayor Wheeler, on app and different other ways of doing this. I'd love to hear from some other companies on that issue, because I think you're right. That is the new direction we're seeing everything going right now. And why they can't do this or has another company been able to do this, but it appears this company has this locked in pretty good. They were able to extend this five years out again and by the way I read this on this ordinance it says for a 10-year total. Now I was told it goes out five years and maybe they'll do an RFP in about four years and see where we're at but by this I'm reading goes out 10 years. Now if I'm incorrect on that that's okay. If I'm not this company will stand back and say, no, your ordinance said for 10 years on here. And guess what? We're going to get our 10 years whether you like it or not. And that's normally how it's going to work. So I want to make sure that's very clear. I want to see other bids from other reputable companies that do this. I want to see other new technologies that are brought to the table. Because even by this agreement, they've stated, well, we might put in additional ones, and then we might not. So there's kind of this option of maybe we will, maybe we won't. What direction do we go? Again, it's hard for me to make a decision this big a number without seeing actual data, actual comparables from other legitimate companies that want this contract also. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz had a comment. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a comment? I'm sorry. That was for the last one. Thank you. Now I go. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion on this particular item? I'd just like to clarify, we're five years in, and we've got five years to go with this. I'm also very much a buy local, do business locally person. I do not believe that there is a vendor that can provide this equipment or the services in Portland or even the state of Oregon. Okay. And we at PBOT care about getting a good deal. And we are extending this contract because it makes the most fiscal sense at this juncture. And in the next few years, we will be looking at all the options moving ahead. Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Very good. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item. Very, very smart. All right. Do we... Let's, let's, the next three individuals together, 85, 86, and 87, please. 85, request of Ian Corder to address council regarding negative impacts of bull run water filtration plant on adjacent property owners. 86, request of Lauren Corder to address council regarding negative impacts of bull run water filtration plant on adjacent property owners. on adjacent property owners. And 87, request of Floyd Jones to address council regarding negative impacts of bull run water filtration plant on adjacent property owners. Good morning. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Good morning. I'd like to request some additional time via Jeff Knapp. I'm sorry. We're only able to give three minutes per person. I apologize. Okay. No worries. I have two versions. I'll read the short version. Thank you. And you can also submit one for the record. We'll make sure. I promise we'll read them. Thank you. Okay, great. I'll jump right in here. My name is Ian Corder. I'm here to offer testimony in opposition to Portland Water Bureau's proposed water treatment plan in East County. To put it plainly, this is an unnecessary, immensely expensive endeavor that will have grave impacts on water rates for Portland residents and businesses, alter the taste and quality of Portland's water, and ruin the rural community of Pleasant Home. As I digest the available information about why the plant is being built and consider the decision making process, I find myself bewildered by the lack of accountability for the Water Bureau and imprudent decisions made by this council. Currently my trust in the city's government is extremely low and here's why. The primary reason for a treatment plant to be built is to address federal drinking water rules pertaining to Cryptosporidium. That is the foundation of this entire project. Although much less expensive options for treating crypto exist, Council opted to select filtration because it's expected to provide additional treatment beyond what's required to satisfy the federal rules. In December of 2018, Mike Sturr, with support of his staff, the Water Bureau explained the filtration plant at Carpenter Lane in East County would cost $500 million. which is two and a half to five times the cost of a UV treatment plant up at Headworks, Council decided with Mike Sturr's recommendation, approving the $500 million option over the less expensive alternative. Nine months later, Mr. Sturr returned to Council revealing that an additional $350 million would be needed to install pipes to carry water from the existing conduit to the new filtration plant at Carpenter Lane. At that time, Mr. Stern told Council that the Bureau forgot the pipes. In hindsight, we know this was dishonest for two reasons. The Bureau's own assessment report, which predated their cost estimate, highlighted the need for pipes at the Carpenter Lane site, and secondly, it's obvious that a water treatment plant won't be functional without a water supply. My contention is that the Chief Executive of the Water Bureau lied twice to this Council. First, when he provided the cost estimate in 2018, and second, when he explained why the pipes had been forgotten. Here's the important part. How did Council respond? In short, nothing changed. Mike Sturr, David Peters, they still have their jobs. City Council recently approved a $51 million design contract. Despite the Water Bureau's deception and poor rationale for the project, you're moving forward. I've been struggling to understand why City Council would be eager to spend this much money on a project you don't need. It's something the Water Bureau wants, yes, but it's not something the City needs. Recently I learned about the City's 5% utility fee. Could that be a source of motivation behind this project? Why is this council willing to support this? 5% of a billion dollars is $50 million that will go into the city's general fund. Is that influencing this process? I'm suggesting to you and those listening to the testimony that there's something corrupt in this process. What you're doing may not be illegal, but it's no less corrupt for government to use interagency agreements, self-imposed timelines, and complicated policymaking to conceal the true reasons for a massive public expenditure. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lauren Corder. My testimony today is a continuation of my unfinished statement from last Wednesday regarding the unnecessary proposed billion-dollar water filtration project. The repeated strategic misrepresentations by the Portland Water Bureau and the commissioner in charge are alarming, and this project continues to move forward. City Council, you are failing ratepayers. You should be holding this agency accountable with their frivolous infrastructure projects. Thank you. The essence of Portland Water Bureau's strategic dishonesty on the filtration project is when Mike Sturr revealed the cost for pipes. Let me remind you of the timeline leading up to this point. In August 2017, City Council approved filtration at the cost of $350 to $500 million. Following a site selection process, the Carpenter Lane site was selected in August 2018. Jacobs Engineering explicitly stated in their report that Carpenter Lane will require additional raw and treated water pipes because the site is about a mile off a conduit. In December 2018, Portland City Council approves $500 million for the project at Carpenter Lane, with no change in cost from the 2017 estimate. Nine months later, in September 2019, Mike Sturr finally discloses that the project budget will need to increase by 70% because he forgot to include the cost of pipes. Mr. Sturr did not forget the pipes. If you read the engineering report in 2018, he knew that pipes would significantly increase the cost of the project. Yet in 2018, he strategically weighted for City Council to approve filtration at Carpenter Lane before the big reveal. Intentionally withholding critical information, waiting for City Council approval, and then asking for forgiveness when the truth is finally publicized is not the actions of a prudent agency. Portlanders deserve a council that keeps this agency accountable. Last November, I had a meeting with Commissioner Hardesty just before the $51 million Stantec design contract decision. Commissioner Hardesty voiced her desire for an objective third party review of the project and budget by another engineering firm. Unfortunately, this was never pursued. However, this is exactly the type of accountability Portland Water Bureau needs. Portlanders cannot be saddled with a $1 billion project solely based on the recommendation of the benefiting agency. Lastly, I need to point out that our community will fight this project at land use, and we will guarantee that the City of Portland will not meet their 2027 deadline. You will find yourselves in 2027 without compliance to the federal mandate and an ever-ballooning cost to your constituents. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Floyd Jones. I'm with Friends of the Reservoirs. And it was Friends of the Reservoirs back in 2004 that first exposed the water bureaus having been involved secretly, along with their COSI consultants, in crafting this regulation. Why is it that not one other utility in the entire United States wrote comments supportive of this regulation that's flawed? Flawed from the start. Every other large unfiltered system submitted scientific scathing comments against this regulation. But I've heard the Water Bureau say this multiple times. Managers. Designing and building is glamorous. Maintenance is boring. And that's behind a whole host of large projects. In 2017, the Water Bureau asked you to throw out $16. million spent on UV radiation which complies with this regulation. They said filtration solves all problems, right? All the hypothetical, theoretical manufactured problems. They submitted no evidence to you of any of their hypothetical theoreticals. What's most appreciated always about Bull Run Water and our protected watershed is there are minimal chemicals. We don't have to dump in massive amount of chemicals. And up until about 15 years ago, water was affordable for all. And there's no yucky taste that's associated with the polluted water systems that require filtration. He told you there are thousands of filtration plants across the country. Yes, there are. There are thousands of polluted watersheds across the country where you have to put in these chemicals. What else did he tell you? He told you, oh, turbidity is a problem. I have gone to wholesale customer meetings for 17 years, taken time out of my whole life to do all these things. And if you read the reports just from the last say three or five years, they don't tell you turbidity is a problem. It's the opposite. The opposite. We hear this repeated in news articles all the time. They tell you, oh, population is climbing. Yes, it has for the last few decades. And what's happened to water demand? Through their own charts, they don't even produce them anymore because they don't show what they want you to show, that water demand has gone down. They'll talk about catastrophic fire. Well, shouldn't you be able to look across the country and find scenarios like that? Well, you can. You can look at Denver and what does it do to a filtration plant? It shuts it down. You know, Mike Sir has never paid a Portland water bill. He doesn't have an appreciation for the lack of chemicals, for the lack of yucky taste. But those of us who were born here, who live here, who appreciate all the work that our forefathers put into protecting this watershed don't want high water bills. We don't want chemicals in our water. You know, you can turn this around. That's up to you, whether you turn this around or you take us down this path. But it's really a horrible legacy. I mean, so far we've already spent a half billion dollars, not counting on the treatment side of this, but on the reservoirs. And we didn't get much for that. I could go through a long, long list. I could spend an hour talking to you about the flaws. You need to turn this around. Thank you. Appreciate it. Can I just comment please? Yeah, please Commissioner Fritz. Thank you Commissioner Udeli for her comment. Commissioner Fish in play for particularly Water Bureau lands of all of the property and for the Water Bureau the money from the sale of these properties goes into the Water Fund which has community benefit that is dedicated to efficiencies and economies within the Water Bureau. Thank you. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. We're in recess for two minutes. Next item, also a second reading please, is item number 107. Could you please read that item? Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Board of Governors of the Colorado State University System for laboratory services for cryptosporidium wildlife scat analysis in an amount not to exceed $400,000. Any further discussion on this? I certainly hope not. Very good. Please call the roll. Fritz? Yes. Hardesty. Aye. Udaily. Aye. Wheeler. This sounds like it's going to be a simulating analysis. I'm glad I don't have to do it. I'm happy to have somebody else do it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you very much. Carla, have any items been pulled off of the consent agenda? We've had no requests. Please call the roll. Fritz. Super excited to vote for the consent agenda today because the first item is to create two new representative classifications of 311 customer service representatives. I'm really, really happy to see that Mayor Wheeler is the mayor who's finally getting 311 done, and I'm very happy to vote aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First time may not be here, but we should read it anyway. Yes. Sorry about that. Item 84, request of Jeff Knapp to address council regarding negative impacts of Bull Run Water Filtration Plant on adjacent property owners. Is Jeff Knapp here? He said he's not able to make it today. Okay, very good. Could you please read? Wait, second reading. Declare surplus real property at six Water Bureau locations and request authorization to dispose of these properties. Any further discussion on item 108? Seeing none, please call the roll, Carla. Fritz? I very much appreciate the discussion last week and the conversation that Commissioner Hardesty and I had yesterday. For the past 11 years, I've been the most I'm an active member of council and looking after people who live outside and trying to find creative solutions for them. I worked for five years to move Right to Dream 2 from Fulton Burnside to their current location and I've constantly been looking out for how can we be more helpful to people living outside while at the same time we stress the need for permanent affordable housing. Properties mostly are residentially zoned so that they will be available for new homes to be built. And that, of course, is what we need the most is permanent housing. And so I appreciate the conversation that we did look into all of the options for other uses for these properties. And I believe that this is the right action. Hardesty. I also appreciate the conversation that we had last week and my conversation with Commissioner Fritz yesterday. My concerns still remain that as a city, we own property that we then sell, and then we say that the biggest cost, the biggest barrier to building affordable housing is land. and we sell the land and then we go out and we buy more expensive land somewhere else. I hope this council at some time comes together and figures out collectively what we do when we declare an emergency, when we have land and we have people who are in desperate need of safe, secure locations to lay their head at night. I will support this because Commissioner Fritz assured me that again all these properties with one exception are in residential areas. So the hope is, is that somebody buys it and builds some housing on it. But I think we could do so much better with land that the city owns, especially in an emergency. I vote aye. Udaily? Similar sentiments to Commissioner Fritz and Hardesty. I appreciated last week's conversation. We have been kind of combing the city for PBOT properties that could be used for the purposes of alternative shelter sites. And that has been a kind of frustrating ongoing process of the last three years. So I'm happy I finally have a bureau that has some of those properties. extra properties. I understand that the Water Bureau and BES has kind of special constraints on them due to being ratepayer funded, but I'm going to strongly suggest that we as a body establish a community benefits policy for the disposition of public land moving forward. I would love to have that conversation and ensure that we are putting every square inch of property we have to its best use for the public benefit. I vote aye.
 Wheeler. And just to put people maybe at ease, at least in the interim, and I support this idea of a more formalized enterprise-wide approach to this. The Housing Bureau does, in fact, make sure that they call through all of the dispositions and if there are properties that are appropriate for their work, then they definitely express an interest. As just sort of a footnote on this particular one, since it's coming through the Water Bureau, those are market rate opportunities because there is the issue relative to holding the rate payers whole in the case of assets directly related to the Water Bureau. But the larger point is one well taken, Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Hardesty. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. And because we have a time... We are back in session. I've had a request from Commissioner Fritz. If people could please, particularly the council, she's having a little bit of troubles hearing and understanding what we're saying. So if we could speak a little more into the microphone, it will help her understand what we're saying. So with that, item 90, please, Carla. Time, sir. Portland Streetcar Annual Report for 2019. Come on up. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Oh, I'm sorry, Commissioner Daley. Thank you, Mayor. I apologize. Got ahead of myself there. We're here today for the annual report to Council from Portland Streetcar, which continues to provide accessible transit to thousands of Portland residents in the central city on emission-free renewable energy. I'm excited for you to hear about the success of the Grand Avenue Business Access and Transit Lane that was installed this year. Or was it last year? I think last year. Yeah. It gives us a great starting point for rolling out the Roseline project and providing faster, more reliable transit across the city. Here to present the report and answer any questions you may have is Catherine Levine, who is our PBOT Streetcar Division Manager. Dennis Allen, the Chair of the PSI Volunteer Board of Directors. and Dan Bauer, Executive Director of Portland Streetcar Inc. Welcome, everyone. Please remember to state your names for the record before you begin. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Catherine Levine with Portland Transportation, and today is our sixth annual Portland Streetcar Report to Council. As Commissioner Udaly noted, speaking today will be Dan Bauer, Executive Director of Portland Streetcar Inc., Dennis Allen, Chair of the PSI Board, and guests. I wanted to thank you for the opportunity to bring forward an overview of streetcar service in 2019 and acknowledge that there have been challenges but we've also found solutions to some of those challenges and I'd like to quickly call out three before moving to the formal report first in 2019 streetcar participated in PBOT's pilot red lane project This was important for our system because we have a location on our system on Northeast MLK just south of the convention center, which is a transit-only lane. We've had a safety issue with cars encroaching into that lane and getting stuck. The Red Lane Pilot Project... used that location, and since the installation of those improvements, we've not had a single incursion into that lane. So from a safety perspective, we consider that very successful. Secondly, as you know, we had last fall a derailment near PSU at 5th and Montgomery. It was actually the second derailment in that location. Since then we've worked with a signal engineering firm and designed a secondary system which has been installed. I know we had quite a discussion about shunt last time, but should there ever be a loss of shunt, there is now a mass detector in place that will prevent switch movement. And with that, we hope to avoid any future derailments in that location. Thirdly, I'd like to call out our focus on safety. And more specifically in the past year with our safety officers guidance, we've really looked at slip, trip, and falls. Okay. So I believe one of the handouts you have is a brochure that PSI created for us. Under the current reporting rules to the state and federal agencies, we report on slip trip files that result in medical transport or may have involved the train because of the fact that the train was moving. There actually were 16 of those in the prior year. But they don't tell the whole story. So as part of our safety program, StreetCorps has been recording data on every incident, every slip, trip, and fall. So reportables may have been 16, but there were actually 35 slip, trip, and falls. Gathering data, event recorded data, location data, data on the demographics of the folks who are affected, is designed to help us figure out how we can educate our customers, how we can mitigate any factors in the environment, and try to bring that number down. Our goal is to have a safe and comfortable system for everyone to ride, especially on a low floor transit system. So in the future, you'll be hearing more about the mitigations we take to ensure that, but I just wanted to bring those three items to your attention. Well, and if I could just say I really appreciate the slips, trips, and falls, because Oregon has a particularly high rate of serious injury and fatality in seniors who fall for a variety of reasons, and it's gotten a lot worse in the last 20 years, so I appreciate the focus on that. Thank you. With that, I would like to turn to Dan Bauer who will provide the formal presentation. Thank you, Catherine. Again, I'm Dan Bauer, Director of Portland Streetcar, Inc. We're a private nonprofit with a board of directors that sits between TriMet and the city and is helping advocate for and help manage the streetcar program. This is a fairly quick presentation. It's nice to check in annually on what's happening with streetcar. I think it's important for everybody to take a step back and recognize what's actually working and working very, very well. Commissioner Newdaly, earlier we were talking, maybe a month ago, we were talking about how we don't see each other enough, and it's because things are going well, and that's largely due to the fact that Catherine is a fantastic manager of the streetcar system. So thank you. I mean, I like you, Dan, but I have no complaints about it. Yeah, if we see each other, things are bad. But importantly, we do run, the city does own and runs a 100% renewable electric transit system. Very important to recognize it carries 13 to 15,000 passengers every day. That's more than any bus line. That's about on par with the yellow line max. We've had zero fatalities in 19 years of service. More than 50% of all housing built in Portland in the last 20 years is on the streetcar line. And nearly 40% of all subsidized affordable housing is on the streetcar line. This is all part of a plan. happening because we put these things in place. We built the transit. We invested in the land use scenarios and it's beginning to bear fruit. As we've talked about- And can you define on the streetcar line? Within a quarter mile. Quarter mile. Quarter mile. Yeah. That's very good. Thanks. Madam, I'm sorry. Like other transit systems, the people who live along the streetcar line are the ones using it. Our census demographics are one to one in terms of who rides the streetcar and who lives along it. So those investments in affordable housing or just generally jobs or institutions, those are paying dividends in terms of our ridership. 96% of our riders get to the streetcar by walking out their front door and boarding the train. Again, you're building walkable communities. You're building in transit ridership. As you build housing, you build ridership. And it's a self-fulfilling prophecy. Similarly, you're building neighborhoods that people don't have to rely on cars. So 81% of our riders have one or fewer cars. I think about 40% have zero cars. So you're building a central city here where people are able to get about their daily lives and use the streetcar system in tandem with everything else to achieve their daily needs. There's some more demographics we've included in the annual report here and there's just a few highlights in terms of the number of people who don't have driver's licenses or income levels. And we have demographics stemming from a number of surveys we've done with riders over the years. We talked a little bit about the business access transit lane on Grand Avenue. I think this is the fifth time I've been in this seat talking about this project. It took five years, four years to build. It's actually in. This is a relatively simple fix that took us a while to get in place, but what we're seeing is a dramatic reduction in travel times between Stark and Hoyt on Grand Avenue. We basically just allowed cars to turn right and get that freeway traffic in the next lane over, and our travel times, we were taking upwards of 17, 19 minutes to go about nine blocks. Now we're routinely doing that during PMP during the scheduled time of about two and a half, three minutes. So much easier to build a schedule, easier to maintain staffing, and certainly better for customers who are trying to get about the city. Having a modern streetcar trying to operate on convenience and having that train stuck in traffic is not the reason we would build the system. So we have a number of opportunities on the horizon to be able to speed up the streetcar as well as improve service. Captain alluded to a few challenges we've had. For quite a while, our base schedule was 14 streetcars. We cut that back to 12 in September of 2018. What year is it now? September of 2018. We reduced our service by 25% on the east side. And what you saw was an almost one-to-one reduction in ridership. We have averaged about 1,000 riders per car running on the system for the last 20 years. When we went from 14 cars to 12. Commissioner Hardesty has a question. Why? Good question. Yeah, so we I see you you own 17 streetcars The base service uses 14 one of those streetcars is the prototype from Oregon Ironworks It essentially does not run so you now you have 16 streetcars Another one was involved in a massive derailment back in May of 2018 That car is scheduled to come back online this summer so basically you were running a 14 car service with 15 cars meaning you had no spares and As a result, we were scheduling service but not running it. So rather than promising something we couldn't deliver, we dialed back the schedule to 12 cars. Does that make sense? Yes. And it takes years to get new train cars, street cars. No problem. We did add a 13th car back in service in September of this year, and you can see I've highlighted here where that occurred. Almost immediately we saw our ridership increase, and it's amazing if you actually run the trains and open the doors, people will get on. You can see our on-time performance here at the bottom. We're averaging about 80% on-time performance. Normal transit is in the 80 to 85%. And we still have a significant number of earlier levels. So if you're talking about whether or not we're on time, we're actually doing quite well there, 85%, 90%. Just a little more on safety and security. I want to highlight that about two years ago, we hired a safety officer. He's in the room here, Steve Fisher. If you can wave. Back there. Okay. All right. And the stats I have here on the top show the dramatic reduction in collisions since we've invested in that position. This is a position that's required by the FTA, but it's been extremely helpful for us in terms of reducing the amount of small collisions that keep our trains from running on a daily basis. And I've listed out here the most common types of collisions. These are not high-speed things, but they are things that happen almost every day where somebody is turning right from the middle lane or... swerving a little bit and just hits the streetcar just enough to keep us from running full service on that day. So Steve's training programs and keeping our operators up to speed on best practices has been a great investment. The other one was last year we had a significant number of rear-end collisions and we have a very very focused training program on avoiding rear-end collisions from our perspective, trying not to hit other cars. We've seen a great reduction on that year to year. Just last thing on the horizon, we have a lot of things happening in the streetcar world. One of those is a FTA grant that we were awarded for transit-oriented development planning. This is a land use planning grant that's being administered by the Bureau of Planning, PBOT, and Prosper Portland, looking at potential streetcar expansions in northwest Portland to Montgomery Park, as well as potential routes on the east side to Hollywood. And that work is being managed largely by BPS and PBOT, looking at potential land use changes and the investments in transit and transportation that would have to go along with that. And thinking about what outcomes we can achieve in terms of affordable housing and affordable office as we're building out the city with a streetcar line. So that grant is underway and there will be things coming forward from that project over the summer. But right now what we're doing is just engaging in the public outreach component of that. So there's not a lot to share there. Um, we're also doing a lot of commissioner hardesty as a question. I was going to let him finish. I'll be done in a second. Yep. So the other major thing we have going on is important for the city recognized through the I-5 Rose quarter projects. Um, you run a transit system through the Rose quarter as we think about the projects. Um, Thinking about the freeway project, thinking about Lower Albina, we're talking about having a massive disruption to the streetcar service in that area. So I want to just keep them in your minds as we're moving forward through the I-5 Rose Quarter project. How are we going to manage your transit investment in that neighborhood through the construction period? It's an important conversation. A couple things, improving the existing service. We are in the process of installing cameras on the streetcars right now. We have the funds to do that and beginning the procurement process. We are continuing a strong partnership with PBOT on the Rose Lane projects. We have several projects in the pipeline that we're looking forward to then. We have rolled out a transit asset management plan and a funding scenario so the city can better understand where it stands in terms of enough investment to keep the streetcar running and keep it reliable for the next 20 years. And then one of the more important things is we're doing a condition assessment on some of your older cars. So you have cars that are upwards of 20 years old. need to be able to make a decision soon about whether we want to refurbish those and what that means or do we want to buy new ones. And the final piece before I hand it over to Dennis is just I want to acknowledge that we have some guests here from Brookville Equipment Corporation. We are on path to accept three new streetcars from them in 2021. So those are the things that are kind of happening to keep things moving on the horizon. But did you have a question? I do. Thank you. I actually have a couple of questions. So one is about your surveillance, your video surveillance. Talk about that. What does that look like? How do people know that they're being surveilled? What happens to the data after it's collected? All that good stuff. Right. So currently the vehicles actually don't have cameras and it's been an issue for security reasons, right? The proposal we have is to add cameras to both the exterior and interior of the car, that the data would be collected on a DVR on the car, and it would overwrite in 30 days. So the only time we would download any video would be if there was a collision or a slip, trip, or fall. Working with the task force here at the city, we have made sure that our specifications will include that there will not be facial recognition abilities within the software system selected. And who will have access to that data? Okay. The data will be owned by the city. The DVRs will be locked. So there'll be a limited number of people at streetcar management staff who can unlock the cabinet and access and download the data. So typically that, I would say we do have cameras at our facility, both inside and outside. and to get to your question about notification, we provided advance written notice to all employees before we added those cameras so that they understood that they were going to be on site where they were going to be and then if there's ever a need to use that camera data, it's downloaded, provided to risk management where both the city attorney and risk management have oversight of the data. And is... And is there a scenario where law enforcement would have access to that data? And how would that process work? I believe that law enforcement could request the data. They certainly have in the past, and we will work with the city attorney's office on the policy and practice for how that data is released and under what circumstances. We have a real interest in making sure that we are protecting people's privacy rights, so look forward to seeing that. My other question really has to do with the process. We've talked for over a year about the desire of this nonprofit to expand the streetcar. And there's a board for the streetcar. And then there are these other transportation tables that... when does the city council I mean like who are you going to come to us and say well all these other people decided we should expand and then it impacts our budget how does that process work let's maybe back up and recognize that the city is the owner of the streetcar system you own the assets so any decision associated with investment is made by city council I wouldn't Now, I wouldn't state that it's the board's desire as much as it is in actual plans. The transportation system plan, the metro's regional transit plan all have streetcar projects in them. So there's public processes that go into the planning documents. So our goal is to try and advance the projects that are involved in planning documents already. Ultimately, what we're looking about here is, you know, investments in the streetcar system, which would have to be approved by the city council for sure. Any land use changes would have to go through state approval, city council. So our board doesn't really have any authority in that regard. What we have is recommendations. So we don't, just like any other policy associated with the streetcar, if we wanted to raise the fare, our board has no role in that. We can say we think this is a good idea or a bad idea, but ultimately it's your decision. Okay. Does that make sense? Yes, thank you. I want to introduce Dennis real quick just to say a little bit more about the board, and then we can go from there. Thanks, Mayor, Commissioners. Morning. Dennis Allen, Chair of the Board of Portland Streetcar, Inc. I'd like to thank you for your partnership. Our structure of a nonprofit public-private partnership is really a model, and it's going on almost 20 years now, a model for most streetcar systems around the country and certain other public-private partnerships. It allows the property owners who are helping pay for it, the city, the transit agency, advocacy groups that are important to reliable and safe transportation, key partners in the city like OMSI, PSU, and the Portland Trailblazers, all to be at the table if you will to help make decisions, governance, all those things that ultimately as Dan said get recommended to you all. So it's a big part of it. We appreciate that and we're proud that it's been going on almost 20 years now and this is continuing to be a successful and our eye structure. Of course, key to that is providing reliable, safe transportation. And therefore, as you know, 20 years is a long time. We're coming up on the need for new cars to increase this service. And you've been instrumental in helping advance that. And we're hoping to get our car share soon. So to that end, we decided, or we're lucky to have in town, representatives from Brookville, who's the builder of these cars, to talk about their company and also the project that they're building for us. So we'll have them come up now. You should see it. Thank you very much. And this will just be a quick hello. This is Rick Graham, president of Brookville, and Joel McNeil, who's the vice president of business operations. Did I make that up? Thank you. Business development. Business development. Welcome, gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, fellow commissioners. We just wanted to say thank you for the opportunity to partner with your city, and we look forward to delivering cars to you and having a long relationship as well. Yeah. So, again, good morning, and thank you for having us. Thank you. We've been in business for 100 years, and we manufacture rail equipment, custom-built to specific needs. And more specifically for what we're doing for Portland, it's in the streetcar market. We've been doing this for two decades. We have over 100 vehicles in operation across the U.S. But for us, it's very well known that Portland is the model city for streetcars. We're very vested in the industry. We know what's going on, and it is very well known that Portland is the premier city for streetcars. And the fact that we get to now be a part of that is a big honor for us. And so just thank you for having us here today. Thank you for the opportunity to be part of your streetcar system. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? I have a couple questions. Sure you do. Yeah. So you mentioned the reliability benefits of the Grand Avenue transit lane improvements. It's always exciting to talk about new lines and expansion, but what could we do to improve our existing system to make it more reliable? Our number one priority is always trying to make the existing system work better. For me, the streetcar has to compete on convenience. And if we're running trains every 20 minutes, nobody should be expected to ride the streetcar. So what you'll hear from me, and I know it's the most expensive solution, but it's the thing that needs to get done is we need more cars. The streetcar should be running every 10 minutes, not every 20 minutes. Otherwise, you have an investment that is not getting the most out of it. So we are aggressive in trying to figure out a funding scenario to get more vehicles on the road. on the roadway, but part of that is the Roseland project. So if we can speed up the streetcar, we can get more service out there. And there are a few projects out there that we can discuss about. Some of it's Roseland, some of it's signal timing, some of it's just scheduling and priorities, prioritization. But we have a number of small capital projects that could speed up what's out there. Great. And then my second question is, we just celebrated the opening of the Louisa Flowers Apartments, which is an affordable housing development along the streetcar line on the east side. Are there more opportunities on the again on the existing system for large-scale development either for affordable housing or economic development? Yeah certainly there's if you think about where the streetcar runs there all of your key development opportunities within the central city are on the streetcar line. You've got OMSI, you've got the ODOT blocks in the central east side, Boyd district, certainly the Rose Quarter area, Lower Albina. and then the Broadway corridor on the west side. We serve all of those corridors. So if I was in your shoes thinking about where to make investments, where people can get housing and also have transportation costs brought down significantly, it would be along those alignments. So there's a very high good, high quality, clean transit service running through all of those parcels. And you should be intentional about where you're putting your efforts in that regard. I do have one more question related to the first, and I don't expect you to know this off the top of your head, but I would be really interested to know if we could truly unstuck a streetcar from traffic how frequent we could get our existing cars running because we know it takes years for you to build those cars for us. It's going to take a while to add capacity in additional cars. So you could... It depends on the line. Yeah. And it depends on our willingness to give operators breaks, which I think we probably do. I'm very willing to give operators breaks. Some of this is a scheduling issue and some of it's a fleet issue. But the reality of the situation is unless you... steal 15 minutes from a cycle. What you're doing is speeding up the transit vehicle, but then increasing the amount it's going to delay at the end, at the end point. Now we run a very unique circular transit system, which is its own thing, but our trains go in a circle all day long on the loops. So adding another vehicle into that is the easiest way to improve headways. Otherwise, you need to take 15 minutes out of that cycle time in order to improve service. Does that make sense? Yeah. Headways, that's some transportation jargon that I need to get down. But there are things we can do to improve the schedule, for sure. We're running about, it takes about an hour to do the loop. If we could get that down to 45 minutes, you could do the same service with three trains that you do with four. That's great. Okay. Working on it. Yep. Great. Could you also just add another train? If we had to. I mean another car to a train? No, our trains don't couple. I mean they do for towing reasons, but they're not really designed to be two car trains. Is that what you're asking? Yes. Yeah. So we can tow at a very slow speed, but they're not designed to be coupled like that. So do you make anything that's actually designed to be coupled like that? I mean, yeah, it is. It's a different operation style. you're not increasing frequency but maybe capacity per vehicle by doing that so it may or may it just depends on what the the need is do you need more riders per vehicle arriving or do you need more frequency well that's my question right right is it like they're so packed so people just decide okay i'm gonna go and use some other mode or On the west side, the ridership is tremendous. On the east side, we're about 3,000 rides a day. There's plenty of capacity in the trains on the east side. What's lacking is the frequency of service, in my opinion. Very good. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion to accept the report from Commissioner Hurst. He's second from Commissioner Udalli. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Yes. That was an excellent report as usual. Thank you so much. Very detailed. It's really especially seeing how many affordable homes are built alongside the streetcar line. Thank you for all your work. Aye. Hardesty. Udaly. Well, thank you for the report. Thank you, gentlemen, for being here today. I'm really pleased with how things are going, and I vote aye. Wheeler. Thanks for the report. Appreciate it very much. Thanks all for your dedication. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. And I believe we have one more individual, Carla. Yes, number 88, request of Portland Youth Climate Council to address council regarding the climate crisis. Good morning. Welcome. My name is Simon Skates. I've been here before. You probably recognize me. I'm part of the Portland Youth Climate Council. Good to see you. You too. Move the mic a little closer. A little closer? All right. Is that good? Yeah. Wonderful. Thank you. Thank you. I'm here to talk to you today about our ongoing concerns about the Zenith oil facility. Concerns that we know you share. The expansion of oil production, its storage and combustion is dangerous and destructive. Going against everything science is telling us to be able to continue living on our planet. We understand that blocking Zenith's expansion or better yet shutting their operation down entirely has proven difficult. Yet, Zenith is a huge threat to our future, and we need you to continue this fight. In fact, Zenith Energy and previously ARC Logistics have operated their facility on a Title V air quality permit that expired in 2012. Eight years on an expired permit. This is unacceptable. However, there is a way the city can take a significant stand. The DEQ needs to take action on this permit, and luckily, the city has a great deal of potential power in this process. In Oregon, cities get to make a land use determination in conjunction with this type of permit. Zenith has to request a land use compatibility statement from the city of Portland, and that is where the city has the power and the opportunity to halt this project's expansion and shut it down. The city must ask the DEQ not issue a permit until the city can review the consistency of the permit with the local land use compatibility. The last time the city of Portland issued a land use compatibility statement for the address at which Zenith operates was in 1995. A lot has changed since then. And there are many ways that Zenith's operation is not consistent with the city's comprehensive plan. The environmental destruction and degradation from oil extraction and combustion, the heightened risks... Endangers of tar sands oil trains and tar sands facilities, as well as the liquefaction risks, all pose threats which are greatly endangering to our communities. Not to mention the expansion of fossil fuel infrastructure, and on top of that, Zemuth is operating with an expired permit. If you can't drive around your car with expired tags, why can't a tar sand oil facility operate with expired permits? In order to protect everything we love and care about, the Portland Youth Climate Council asks the city to use its power to undertake a complete land use review and determine that Zenith Energy is not compatible with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, Current Code, and Binding City Policy. Thank you very much. Thank you. And could I get a copy of your testimony? Yeah, definitely. If I could grab that, if you could just leave it with Carla. Yeah, for sure. Thank you. Good testimony. Yeah, thank you. Greatly appreciate it.