Reset. Good evening, everyone. Welcome to the February 5th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll, Carla? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Seltzman? Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Hales?
 Welcome, everyone. We appreciate your attendance tonight. This is going to be a hearing in which we're taking up one subject, but we're taking it up with two alternatives, a little bit of an unusual way for us to proceed into an issue. One of the reasons why we're doing that is this is an issue where there are very strong arguments and very strong feelings on both sides, and the purpose of this hearing is to discuss.
 get the staff to present the issue to us and then to hear from people that have those strong feelings and strong opinions.
 and we're going to do that in this way. We're going to call up a panel of city employees, first of all. Then we're going to call up a panel that are here to speak in favor of Portland's participation in the Joint Terrorism Task Force, and then we're going to call up a panel of folks who believe that is not the right way to proceed, and then we'll open it up to public testimony. So we have some invited testimony up front and public testimony to follow that.
 As always in this chamber, but particularly, again, on an issue where there are strong feelings, we want to respect our fellow citizens' point of view. So if you agree with someone and want to demonstrate support, feel free to give them a thumbs up or waves of the hand. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' opinions, because this should be a chamber where all those opinions get heard.
 So we have two different versions of this resolution before us tonight. I'll ask Carla to read those, and then I'll call up the first panel. Thank you.
 146 and 147. Yes, please. 146. The City of Portland shall not enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Federal Bureau of Investigation related to the work of the Joint Terrorism Task Force and shall repeal Binding City Policy BCP-PSF-7.01. 146.
 And item 147, the City of Portland shall enter into a memorandum of understanding to become a member of the local joint terrorism task force in conjunction with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and shall repeal binding city policy BCP-PSF-7.01.
 All right. Thank you. So I want to first call up Dave Wilberl from the City Attorney's Office, Deanna Wesson-Mitchell from my staff, and our Chief of Police, Larry O'Day, for a staff presentation, and we'll take it from there. I'm in the MOU. Yes. You're in control. Hello, Commissioners. Hi. Hi.
 I'm Deanna Weston Mitchell, and I'm a policy director for Mayor Hills. Please turn your mic up just a little bit, Deanna. Sorry. There we go. All right. What I'm doing today is just going to provide a summary of what the two resolutions are that are going to be before you. And...
 They're both based off of the existing policy, which was done in 2011 with a lot of community involvement, months of community input, and government work together to figure out how to do a partial case-by-case relationship with the Joint Terrorism Task Force, with the Portland Police Bureau involved only on a case-by-case basis.
 So after a significant and well-documented community collaborative effort, this compromise, the 2011 current resolution, was achieved. Some of the issues that the compromise addressed were community and governmental concerns about access to terrorist threat investigations and detailed information that could be received only by joining the JTTF, an increase in the capacity of the JTTF through support of PPB officers.
 Investigative procedures and policies under federal laws and policies which were also a concern. The resolution addressed concerns that PPB officers, if we entered into a memorandum of understanding, would be outside of the standard chain of command on day-to-day operational matters. There was also a concern about the level of access to information regarding the activity of the police bureau officers who were assigned to the JTTF.
 And then differences in the interpretation specifically of ORS 181575 and ORS 181850, which address how the government, Oregon law regarding government's involvement in people's immigration status or investigations of immigration status, and also the ability to collect information on people in Oregon. So those are the Oregon laws, specific Oregon laws that were of great concern.
 So implementing the case-by-case membership relationship with JTTF has not proved possible with the way that JTTF is structured. So our current participation level, these two resolutions, if the council decides to go with the resolution that does not enter into a memorandum of understanding, it will pretty much maintain the current status and participation level of the police bureau with JTTF.
 So right now, the policy says that the police bureau can be involved on an as-needed basis, but that hasn't really worked out. And so the police bureau is currently not a member of the JTTF and does not assign officers on a full-time basis. When the resolution was developed in 2011, there was a hope that officers could be assigned possibly for multiple months at a time, but that has not worked out to be possible.
 We do have five other specific coordinated efforts with the FBI that are working successfully. Those include the Innocent Images, the Bank Robbery Task Force, the Metro Gang Task Force. We want to highlight that the Police Bureau has successful partnerships with the FBI. Thank you.
 Currently, the situation is if the FBI, they will notify the Portland Police Bureau should a JTTF investigation lead to knowledge of an immediate threat here in Portland. That is currently the situation that we're in. Also, the police chief is required under the current policy to report.
 to gain an FBI Secret Service clearance so they can participate in the JTTF Executive Board, and that would continue with the resolution to not enter into a Memorandum of Understanding. The other current members of the Executive Board include police chiefs and sheriffs from
 Beaverton, Clackamas, Gladstone, Hillsborough, Milwaukee, Multnomah County, and Tigard. So those participation in that executive board will continue, and they meet periodically to go over with the terrorist threats to the region and updates for leaders of local police agencies.
 Another thing that will continue under the resolution you have before you today to remain out of the JTTF would be that the police commissioner and the chief will continue to receive biannual briefings from the FBI special agent in charge. These cover updates on activities that the FBI and the Portland Police Bureau currently have task force together, including the Metro Gang Task Force and the other ones that were listed earlier.
 They'll also include summaries or general updates regarding current issues around terrorist activity nationally, internationally, and regionally, but it won't deal with specifics regarding what's going on in Portland. The difference with the...
 resolution to stay out of the MOU, it would discontinue the requirements for the police commissioner to seek a secret level FBI clearance because that is currently not the general policy for the FBI to issue that to an elected official who is not also a sworn law enforcement officer. And it would discontinue the public reports, which have been highly unsatisfactory to people because of their vagueness and the lack of information that is in those reports.
 So that is kind of the basics of what is in the resolution that would say that we're not going to join the, join an MOU to join the JTTF. And it basically maintains and clearly states what the current situation is as far as the relationship that we have. So then the other resolution before you is also based off of the 2011 resolution very closely. We really wanted to honor all of the time and effort that went into developing that resolution.
 So if this is the resolution that the council decides to go with, then it will allow Portland Police Bureau to become full-time members with the three other current local agencies. The Oregon State Police, Port of Portland Police, and the Washington County Sheriff's Office are currently full-time members of the JTTF. This resolution has several of the additional safeguards that were established in 2011.
 including the Portland Police Bureau assigned officers' responsibilities. We would assign two officers to the JTTF full-time. They would be under the day-to-day operational chain of command of the JTTF as they would be located in the FBI offices. However, they would still be responsible to uphold the same Oregon and local laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to all Portland police officers. Chief O'Day is going to give more details on what that structure would look like.
 The other Portland Police Bureau Portland officer responsibilities that are in the resolution require them to participate in an annual training with the city attorneys to make sure that they fully understand and are able to comply with current state and federal laws. If they are ever asked to do something while they are over, they're doing the work with the JTTF that is outside of Oregon or local laws, they would be required to notify the special agent in charge and the police chief.
 especially concerning ORS Laws 181575 and ORS 181850. If an officer who's assigned to the JTTF ever has a question regarding how to apply an Oregon law, they will be required to seek the legal advice from the City Attorney's Office. And the City Attorney's Office responsibilities in this resolution, they would be required to consult with the officers if they ever have concerns,
 obtain a nondisclosure agreement with the FBI if they needed to obtain classified information in order to provide accurate advice to the officers. And they would also be required to notify the police commissioner and chief if they could not obtain enough information to provide accurate advice to the police officers who came to them with questions. Then it would be leadership's responsibility to seek a resolution with the FBI regarding that matter. Thank you.
 So the city attorneys would also be responsible to provide annual training to the officers and confer annually with the Oregon Attorney General regarding any possible changes to laws or policies which would preclude PPB officers from legally working with the JTTF.
 That would be an annual written statement they would do. And then the police chief's responsibilities would be to adopt publicly available administrative policies and procedures consistent with the resolution, continue their participation in the JTTF executive board, obtain top secret clearance to allow them to receive regular briefings from PPB staff,
 and immediately notify the police commissioner of any report from officers assigned to the JTTF that they had been asked to or something they were doing was in a violation of law. The police chief would also be responsible to participate in the quarterly classified FBI briefings with the police commissioner. And this is a new one that is in this current resolution that will hopefully address some of the concerns if the council decides to enter into a memorandum of understanding.
 The FBI has agreed to enter into a nondisclosure agreement with the police commissioner, the mayor, and provide quarterly classified briefings regarding activities of the Portland Police Bureau officers who are assigned to the JTTF. This would replace the request for a secret clearance, which wasn't going to actually happen. Thank you.
 Other change with, in addition to no longer asking for secret clearance, there would not be an annual public report with, if we entered into a memorandum of understanding, because the reports would...
 There is a difference in the federal public records laws, and reports would be property of the FBI. So if we were doing an annual report, it would continue to be very unsatisfactory to people by the amount of information that was able to be shared publicly. So that is where the nondisclosure agreement with the police commissioner came.
 would enable the police commissioner to have those classified briefings, and if ever they found that they were not able to have enough information from the FBI about what the officers were involved in, there is the ability for the police commissioner to withdraw officers from the JTTF, and city council could move to terminate the MOU with 60-day notice. That's standard in the MOU. Thank you.
 So that's kind of a summary of the two resolutions. Again, they're both very closely based off of the 2011 resolution that was developed with a lot of input. But both of those would be able to be fully operationalized by the police bureau and city attorney's office to make them an actuality. Great. Thank you, Deanna. Thanks very much. Questions for Deanna before Dave takes the next segment? Okay. Okay.
 Good evening, Mayor, Commissioners. David Wover with the City Attorney's Office. Let me take a minute and get a little PowerPoint up here. I can help you with three things this evening. I've been asked to... Well, I can help you with the history, how we've managed the relationship, the various configurations of resolution and MOU we've had over the years. If you have particular questions about that, that can be very detailed. I won't go into it at first. I'm also the person that's...
 monitored some of our criminal intelligence unit activities, and I'm familiar with dealing with sensitive information, legal review of sensitive information. I would likely be the person charged with taking questions from officers should you pass that resolution.
 First of all, though, I am going to present the MOU itself. You needed a lawyer to actually go through the MOU and lay out what it does and what it doesn't do. It is 16, 17 pages long, so I've organized it by three issue areas that I've seen perennially when this is discussed. Okay.
 The characteristics of this thing that are at issue. The purpose of the investigations. There is often a question about who determines the purpose of the investigations and are they doing that with the interests of Portland at heart. Secondly, use of investigative tools. Are our officers contributed to JTTF given access to investigative tools not available to them under the Oregon Constitution and Oregon case law?
 And then finally, this issue of access to information for management. So I've used these three issue areas to kind of pull apart the MOU, and I'm going to show you some of the particulars in the MOU that address these things. There's a general statement on page one about the purpose announced by the federal government for the JTTF. And –
 Of course, after 9-11, there was considerable concern about the lack of coordination between various law enforcement agencies, and the stated goal by the federal government is to facilitate sharing of information with the locals and all people involved in anti-terrorism activities. And at the bottom underlined, you see that there is an acknowledgment that this must be done in a manner that preserves constitutional rights and civil liberties. Again, mission statement on page 1.
 information sharing, again emphasized by the MOU. The MOU doesn't say exactly what the rules are, but it lists many, many documents and sources of regulation that the federal government applies to these kinds of investigations. It's an extensive list. There's two pages here.
 I'll give you some time to absorb it. The federal investigators are rule-bound. They have many, many layers of oversight. I'm sure people will talk today about whether that's effective or not, but they have way more oversight than we can imagine here in Portland, layers and parallel responsibilities. And here are some more of those controlling documents to which the people on the JTTF would be subject, our people as well as the federal people.
 To burrow into what gets talked about almost every time this comes up, I've got here for you the Oregon statute that addresses criminal intelligence gathering and prohibits essentially spying on the social activities and associational activities of the public. ORS 181575 was enacted back in the 80s in response to abuses committed
 uh by criminal intelligence units in this state and prohibits collecting privates law enforcement agencies from collecting or maintaining information without and i'll shorten this up without a criminal predicate i apply this to the information i receive from officers regularly criminal predicate is essential in oregon to apply any investigative tools when there may be associations at issue the federal
 language. It's more extensive, and the reason I showed you the documents is that the rules are kind of spread through all sorts of regulatory tools. But this is what the federal government has provided us in the past as a statement of their principle in drawing the line between investigations that pursue a criminal problem and investigations that may be interested only in associational activities, political beliefs, things, religious beliefs. Okay.
 So the Attorney General guidelines are from the federal government. The Privacy Act is a federal government document. It is clear in this language in the MOU that the JTTF is controlled by the federal government. The overall commander of each individual JTTF will be the special agent in charge. The chain of command is quite clear and laid out in the MOU. FBI policy runs the JTTF.
 And there is a provision in the last sentence there for the last paragraph for resolving conflicts that arise between the operational units in the field. It's expected, of course, every once in a while you're going to have questions and perhaps get different answers from the chain of command. And there's a resolution mechanism. Now, this is...
 I believe this is a change that happened somewhere around 2007, 2008, 2009, somewhere in there. The federal government recognized that people contributed by local agencies to a JTTF would be bound by their personnel rules, laws, and policies. And the second paragraph there talks about what will happen if there is a conflict. So while the chain of command is quite clearly defined as federal –
 The personnel rules and policies of the local agency do play a role in managing the activities of the contributed employees. Do we know when that was added? I can't say with specificity. I can find out. Was it in the MOU that we took up a few years ago? Yes. This has been in place since then, yes.
 All right. So that's, you know, who directs the JTTF? Well, the federal government does. There's accommodation for policy control over the people that you contribute and extensive overlay of oversight. Use of investigative tools used to be, for me, a tough issue. It involved a lot of case law having to do with particular tools, and there were differences between
 between Oregon search and seizure rules handed down by the courts, as an interpretation of Article I, Section 9 of our Constitution, and the Fourth Amendment rulings by the federal courts. That gap has narrowed considerably over the years, and there's not much left to it. In fact, it might have actually flipped the other way. The principle...
 tool that I could think of in the past that was available to federal investigators, not available to Oregon investigators, was the ability to place a tracker, a vehicle tracker, in a car without a
 A pretty powerful tool. It was available to the federal investigators, not to our people, unless they were deputized and acting in the federal capacity. We had a case a few years ago that ended that for the federal government. The federal government now, their employees, their investigators, and JTTF people are required to get warrants in order to place trackers. One thing.
 Difference I can think of now, I spotted just the other day, it has to do with mere conversation, where the federal rule of consensual or mere conversation contacts between investigators and people on the street is actually more generous to law enforcement in the federal system. I'm sorry, in Oregon than in the federal system. So we have something of a reversal. From my point of view, as a lawyer watching this for years, this issue shouldn't be as much in play. There's not much difference any longer.
 Access to information for management is, of course, of great concern. The JTTF MOU requires that the people that you contribute apply for and receive top-secret, sensitive, compartmented information, security clearance from the FBI, and, of course,
 as participants in the JTTF are strictly forbidden from releasing information except in conformance with federal regulations. An important part of the conversation that we don't explore fully every time is the need to know. You have to have appropriate security clearance plus need to know to receive information. This seems...
 draconian to some but in any law enforcement activity and i'll refer to this again a couple of slides for instance a homicide case these are typical rules need to know is a dominant oh guide in management of information in criminal investigations whether they're jttf portland police bureau's fraud division homicide division whatever it's pretty typical for law enforcement to manifest here in this language
 The records of the activities of JTTF belong to JTTF, not to the city. They'll be maintained by the FBI. The FBI will regulate disclosure. Again, this seems there's strong language here. The FBI has taken control, as do we, for instance, if we have a joint homicide investigation with Beaverton. We will maintain those records and require Beaverton to turn to us if there's a request for the records and Portland makes the decision on release.
 And that's what I have for you. Thank you. Questions for David at this juncture? Okay. Then let's turn to you, Chief. Thank you very much for being here tonight. Thank you for your thoughtful consideration regarding city participation in the Joint Terrorism Task Force.
 A decision like this requires a robust and thoughtful discussion as we balance a responsibility that we both share regarding maintaining a safe city and maintaining trust in our government and our police. I appreciate the thoughtfulness you're giving in making this important decision and in preserving both of these principles. And I'm not here to pound on the table and tell you that Portland's going to be in grave danger if we have no involvement in the Joint Terrorism Task Force, because we're not going
 That's not what I believe, and it's not what I think will occur. If we're not part of the Joint Terrorism Task Force, the FBI is going to continue doing its investigations without any of our involvement, any of our information, or any of our influence. We'll be notified of an impending event or action, but it's going to likely be minutes or hours before that event is supposed to occur.
 and we will have had no ability to influence or impact the investigation, and we'll have to live with and manage with whatever or however they have decided to best proceed without our assistance. If Portland is a part of the Joint Terrorism Task Force, we'll be aware of what investigations are going on in our community and be able to infuse Portland values, assistance, and influence into these investigations. I believe our influence can help not only provide an increased amount of trust,
 but also provide for more timely, accurate, and thoughtful outcomes. For example, the Portland Police Bureau robustly works with our behavioral health unit when we're making determinations into investigations where there's threats involved. That allows us to much more appropriately determine if a criminal investigation and prosecution is appropriate or maybe something else.
 It may be that simply connecting somebody who may be mentally ill and acting out with the appropriate services achieves the best and just outcomes appropriate for our community. Also, by working together and sharing information between agencies, we are much more efficient and knowledgeable. We have the ability to connect a lot of dots working together, and our situational awareness is much greater. This is especially important during these increasingly concerning times.
 We already currently and effectively partner with the FBI in the Regional Computer Forensics Lab, the Metro Gang Task Force, the Bank Robbery Task Force, and the Child Exploitation Task Force. If you do decide that Portland is to participate, I'm very confident in the level of oversight, influence, control, and access that I and the mayor would have to protect our interests and fully comply with Oregon law.
 You never want to make decisions like this based on personalities either, but know that Special Agent in Charge Greg Bretzing is a very different Special Agent in Charge. He's been very transparent, opened his doors to me, answered every question that I've had, and he's the first Special Agent in Charge that I've talked to who wants to prioritize community outreach and relationship building for the FBI.
 Thank you for your thoughtful consideration as you balance our shared priorities of keeping our city safe and ensuring our community has trust in its government and its police. Know that I and the Police Bureau are here to fully support whichever direction you ultimately choose to, to the very best of our abilities. Thanks, Chief.
 So let me pose a couple of questions at the outset here with this panel to you, particularly, Chief, and that is that Deanna and Dave just went through this requirement that if we were to participate in the JTTF, our officers would be required to disclose to you and to me if they had concerns about violation of law or policy. Okay.
 given a situation like this where they were, in effect, under another chain of command, what incentive would they have, what reassurance would they have, those officers, that they would follow? What incentive would they have to go ahead and do that, to say, hey, chief, I've got a problem here, as opposed to keeping silent about it? I think the—
 the approach to take with that, I've given a lot of thought to who and how I would assign and that's why you're hearing the number two. You're not hearing one officer. I'm not going to send one officer over there to disappear in a task force. I'm going to send two officers over there who will have the right personalities, the right training from the city attorney, very clear directions, expectations and support from the city attorney.
 From me, by having two over there, they can talk to each other. The lieutenant that oversees them, though they'll be a part of the chain of command for investigations that the FBI is in charge of, they will have regular and weekly contact with their lieutenant who also has the same clearance. I meet with that lieutenant once a week. Okay. All right. That's helpful. And then another question, sort of a little broader scope. Okay.
 What other benefits do you see accruing to the Portland Police Bureau or to us as a community of participating? Aside from the fact that we might be more effective at actually dealing with real potential terrorist threats, do you see any other potential benefits? I do. I see that just by having...
 the ability to share information. It's going to increase the body of knowledge that we have. I think it's also going to increase the ability and access to various training when you're partnered with many of the federal agencies, such as the ones I talked about earlier, that also gets you access to additional training opportunities to better improve your workforce as well. Okay, great. Thank you. Other questions, please. Thank you, Mayor. Chief, if we
 are, quote, all in, you'll have to make a decision about staffing and budget. Yes, sir. And you said your preference is two officers, a sergeant in the configuration. And so could you give us a sense of what burdens that would place on you and the organization to dedicate those three individuals, both in terms of other kinds of things that you couldn't do and any budget impact? Sure.
 Yeah, I would be looking at doing this with no additional cost. What I would be doing would be doing this out of existing resources that I have and be repurposing part of the time of two people who also will retain some duties within the Bureau. That's another piece going back to not just having people disappear forever, but two people over there working a lot of time there, some of their time with us. We'd keep them housed with us. So they're working under contract.
 under the the FBI supervision on those investigations and Reporting to a current lieutenant that we already have so there would be no you know No additional lieutenant as a part of that and my understanding sir is that you currently have the requisite security clearance Yes, sir, and that is secret clearance. Thank you So how does that proposed level of staffing compare with the staffing that you've been dedicating to the task force over the last year? I?
 We've had two people that whenever we would do things, we would look at using those folks. So we've had two officers participating for the past year? We've had two officers working under the current arrangement. Available to participate. Yeah.
 And can you tell me how much they have participated over the last year? That's the subject of the report that we've been discussing at length that has caused us so many problems. So the answer to that question is no, you can't tell me. I think it's permissible to say very little. It's a secret. I think it's safe for me to say very little. So what are the –
 We're not having additional officers. I know how much overtime you currently are facing and that you don't have a high number of officers per number of citizens anyway. So what would these officers, where would they be pulled from? They would be repurposed from officers doing duty that we already have. Right. So that means that they would not be doing traffic duty or they would not be doing, what kinds of things would they not do because they would be participating full-time in the task force?
 They would not be doing different investigative type of work that they might otherwise be doing. This isn't going to be pulling a blue suit patrol officer off of the street. So other investigations would be shorter of manpower, womanpower, because these officers would be full time? Certainly. Okay.
 Mr. Novick? Yes, sir. This is probably a question for Dave, although, Chief, I'd be interested in your take, too. But one of the features of the Attorney General's guidelines that the ACLU points to is, quote, these guidelines do not authorize investigating or collecting or maintaining information on United States persons solely for the purpose of monitoring activities undertaken by the First Amendment or the lawful exercise of other rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States.
 and the ACU points to the word solely and says, well, does that mean that you can investigate or maintain information on United States persons where 95 percent of the reason is simply their exercise of their First Amendment rights? I mean, what does that – what's the significance of that word solely to you? You need to read that word in context of the whole regulatory scheme. And the federal government has an extensive system of categorizing investigations by their intrusiveness –
 by how long they've continued, by how strong the law enforcement interest, in other words, the criminal predicate is. And there are some that start with very low threat information, but it's required that there be indications that the investigators are actually pursuing criminal activity that has or will occur. Then that balance is continually measured by their oversight system. Cases do not survive.
 if the system works as it should, do not survive unless the criminal investigatory interests or the terrorism interests, which are quite similar, are increasingly substantial. And certainly intrusive, there's a whole set of rules for when the investigators can apply more intrusive investigative techniques. I mean, for instance, at a low level of criminal predicate, open source investigative
 The front page of the paper, for instance, open source Internet information can be gathered by investigators. It's not very intrusive. To start using warrants, going to homes, wiretaps, that sort of thing require a concurrence of prosecutors, judges, and an evaluation that the case is worth the intrusion. So...
 It varies. It can start again with a very low level of concern. The example that I've heard about for years that seems to kind of bring these issues together is observations by say a marine owner in Portland of someone who's taking cameras out and shooting photographs of our bridges. You know, is that, it could be terrible, it could be nothing. And the rules are set up, at least in the federal system,
 to allow some level of investigation, low level of intrusiveness. So it's a delicate balance at each stage, and the regulatory overlay recognizes that. So solely can be, you can end up with some pretty small criminal predicate. The question is, as a policy matter, what do you apply as an investigative technique, given the small criminal predicate? Is that in English, please?
 My husband used to take pictures of bridges quite a lot, and he sometimes was stopped and asked why he was taking pictures of bridges with a very long photo lens. So that's an example of an activity which many people would not think might have a criminal nexus, but potentially could. Is that a good translation? Yes. Thank you.
 A similar question, this again is from the ACLU, quoting the 2010 Inspector General's report, where they say, the purpose test for attending public events under Part 6 of the 2002 Attorney General Guidelines did not require any demonstration of an articulable suspicion to attend the event. It simply required that the agent ordering the activity have an anti-terrorism purpose in mind. Right.
 End quote. So, I mean, some people feel that even if they're at a public event, if somebody's there to, you know, quote, spy on them, they still feel they're spied on even though it's a public event. This sort of seems like the FBI can attend any public event just because they think they're fighting terrorism. Is that, I mean, how would you read that language? Yeah.
 I've seen that presentation by the ACLU, and it's one of the slides they presented in the past. We might see it today. On its face, yes, the ACLU asserts that that is not strict enough. It isn't a very firm or strict line. I can't speak with authority to the whole federal structure. I have a general sense of it. But if you had an officer who wanted to attend a rally –
 and went to a supervisor in the federal system for approval, I don't know what that process would look like, that approval process. That's too deep into it for me with my kind of sophomoric knowledge reading through the Attorney General's guidelines. Other questions for our team here from the city? Thank you all very much. Appreciate that.
 Now we're going to call on a panel on one side of the issue, that is a panel that believes that we should proceed to join the Joint Terrorism Task Force. And that panel consists of our U.S. Attorney, Amanda Marshall, Bill Williams from the U.S. Attorney's Office, and Bill Barr from the Citizens Crime Commission. So please come up and thank you very much for being with us this evening. Good evening.
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor and members of the Council. I want to start by just thanking all of you for the opportunity to address you today. And I know you've been working really hard on this issue individually and doing your homework because we've been talking to you and providing you any information you've asked for, and I really appreciate the thoughtfulness with which you have been approaching this problem. It was a difficult decision for me to decide to come because I am not an elected –
 official or a politician, but I am a representative of the federal law enforcement. So one of my real concerns is not to politicize this issue or make it about personalities, but simply to be able to publicly provide the facts that I think would support this decision to join the JTTF moving forward to protect the citizens of Portland.
 I've been asked to address a few issues, so I've framed my remarks around those in the interest of providing the commission with the information you requested. I actually grouped the first three because I think the answer covers really three of your questions, and those are how will this support the JTTF mission, and
 How will it enhance Portland Police Bureau generally? And what are the drawbacks of the current system being not involved on a day-to-day basis? I do want to start with a third, though, to just clarify that from the position of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Attorney's Office, there is no half in and half out. There is in or out. And to be in, you have to be a signatory to the FBI MOU.
 So the resolution that was passed in 2011, which some have referred to as partway in, isn't binding on the FBI or the federal government, of course, as a city resolution, but was really more a framework, as we view it, for the city to move forward and how the city manages Portland Police Bureau's participation in terrorism investigations since they were not members of the JTTF.
 So that's just sort of a rhetorical framing, but I think it's significant. So the answer, to group those questions and really go through the answers, how it makes the JTTF better, how it makes Portland Police better, and how it will take away drawbacks from the current system. Initially, because counterterrorism is the FBI's number one priority, every field office in the country has a joint terrorism task force.
 made up of federal agents and local law enforcement officers. Portland is the only major metropolitan city in the United States whose city police force has opted out of that partnership. And it shouldn't be anyone's part-time job, not in Portland or anywhere, to make sure our city is safe from terrorist threats.
 The first sign of a terrorist threat in Portland, as it has been in the past, likely will not be spotted by an FBI agent or related to the FBI's gathering of intelligence. It will more likely be a local police officer or sheriff's deputy who will be in a position to observe and respond to a citizen complaint. The relationship through full-time active participation in the task force is vital to connecting those dots.
 Face-to-face daily contact with an embedded task force officer gives them real-time, constant access to intelligence and investigations. It helps to connect thousands of dots between Portland Police Bureau's thousands of street and citizen contacts and the FBI's thousands of intel contacts. We know that in all spheres, modern-day law enforcement is about intelligence.
 partnerships and relationships. And you heard Chief O'Day talk about some of those partnerships and relationships that exist and thrive between the City of Portland and the FBI, including the Metro Gangs Task Force, the Bank Robbery Task Force, and the Child Exploitation Task Force. Those are all FBI task forces, and Portland Police has acknowledged and benefited from the relationships in all of those cases to keep our communities safe.
 Portland loses out on day-to-day investigative steps if they're not in the task force, and they also lose out on one more layer of oversight and enhanced transparency between what federal law enforcement and local law enforcement are doing.
 At the time of the 9-11 attacks on this nation, the City of New York was the primary JTTF in the country. The City of New York PD had been embedded with the FBI for some time. After 9-11, with the acknowledgment that intelligence information had been siloed between federal and state and local law enforcement agencies and the risk that that posed to our nation and our communities.
 The JTTFs were ordered to be put in place in every field office of the FBI across the nation for the purpose of not creating more walls and silos, but for opening up that information to people like the city of Portland in order to better connect your communities. Yes.
 So it's really more of an openness and transparency. It not only gives more oversight to the Portland police officers in terms of the layers and layers and layers of oversight that your city attorney discussed and that are contained in literally thousands of pages of documents located throughout the federal government and different policies.
 but also gives the Portland Police oversight into what the FBI is doing directly through your TFOs, your task force officers, who will be reporting straight up your chain of command all the way to the police commissioner so that you know what it is the FBI is doing in your city in a way you would not know were you not members of the JTTF.
 The JTTF is not just about detecting and managing threats, but it's also about prevention, response, and apprehension. And one need look no forward than the terrible tragedy that happened at the Boston Marathon to see how well these relationships work in a time of crisis.
 Yes, that attack was not prevented, but the outcome of the investigation would not and could not have been successful without the strong partnership between the Boston Police Department and the FBI's JTTF. Carmen Ortiz was here, the U.S. attorney from Boston recently, and I know, Mayor, you had a chance to meet with her with some of your staff, and some of your staff attended a briefing that she did for my Anti-Terrorism Council.
 And she really highlighted how because of the relationship and the embeddedness of the Boston police with the JTTF, they were able to gather intelligence information, lock down the city, keep people safe, determine who the suspects were, and bring them into custody in a more expeditious way, in a safer way, in a more effective way than ever would
 been done without that relationship. An example of that is that the Boston police officers were aware of every single pole camera in the city that the FBI had, and so they knew exactly how to access that information and utilize it in their investigation in real time, right at the time of the bombing. That's just an example of the type of intel and investigative partnership and technique that allowed them to coordinate in order to apprehend those suspects. Okay.
 I was asked what the current threat is now compared to in previous years. The FBI and collaboration between state and local and federal law enforcement goes back in time way before Portland even had a JTTF.
 Many years ago, there were that type of task force and collaboration led to apprehension of a suspect and successful prosecution of somebody who lit a Portland abortion clinic on fire. So, you know, you can go back to times like that. That would be an example of a type of investigation that even today, if it were to occur in Portland, they would be able to work together on.
 We've always had here in Oregon a large presence of folks who refer to themselves as sovereign citizens. Those are other types of investigations that are still going on. We have threats here in Oregon to this day. That's been a pretty consistent threat in terms of domestic security, white supremacist groups and others as well.
 But in the last, and we all know about 9-11 and the threat of Al Qaeda, but in the last five to ten years, it has changed from just Al Qaeda. We have people acting alone and getting radicalized on the Internet. We have homegrown extremists, lone wolves, and we have people from Oregon who are traveling overseas to Syria and other parts of the Middle East to fight with ISIS and ISIL. And the scary thing is what happens when they come back.
 After France, the nature of the attacks are smaller, they're easier to organize, and they're harder to detect and disrupt. The Willamette Week published some cartoons a few weeks ago that Charlie Hebdo was attacked for publishing. So it's not just Paris. Those types of threats exist in our city as well.
 We have people in Portland who are troubled and lost. They're looking for meaning and direction, and they are vulnerable. And the challenge that we face in law enforcement is that they may be getting exposed to radicalization and calls to violence on the Internet. And after prolonged exposure to that sort of poison, they may get up from the computer and kill people, which is the call of ISIL, just kill somebody. Thank you.
 There are open cases looking into individuals who may be related to ISIL or ISIS in every state in this country, with the exception of Alaska. I was also asked to highlight the process by which the JTTF opens new cases, and your city attorney addressed some of that. So I hope this isn't too repetitive here.
 I do want to tell you that there is a manual that is utilized by the FBI and that covers a lot of this, and it's thousands of pages, and there's also lots of other policy, and it's embedded in a lot of other sections of the law depending on the nature of the investigation and the techniques that are used. But generally, just to summarize it, there are three stages of,
 The first is a threat assessment. When something comes in, there's this threshold question. At that stage, you can't do much. So Commissioner Fritz, you know, if your husband's out taking pictures of Portland's beautiful bridges, which I'm sure many people do, and why wouldn't they, then the FBI or the JTTF or task force officer doesn't have a right to tap his phone.
 they may have the right to say, hey, why are you taking those pictures? So that's the type of low-level contact that is allowed under the first phase of the investigation, which is the threat assessment. Is there anything wrong? And in the vast majority of these cases, the answer is no. They say, nice to see you, have a nice day, and enjoy your photos.
 But as that threat escalates, then the investigation and the techniques that can be used can escalate. But while it's designated as only a threat assessment, there's very little that law enforcement can do at that stage. Open source data, conversation, things of that nature. Okay.
 The second stage, and again, this is only after intensive review by lawyers, by people within the FBI, following their own procedures about when it can be escalated from a threat assessment to a preliminary investigation, is the preliminary investigation.
 This is where additional investigative techniques are available, such as grand jury subpoenas. So again, now you've got the oversight of the U.S. Attorney's Office, and the grand jury is another threat on a case that's moved into this level of investigation that would allow these techniques to be used. This is also the stage at which they may be authorized to interview people in a more formal setting.
 And these cases, once designated as preliminary investigations, are reviewed every 90 days to determine if the case should move forward or closed. And they're supposed to be, if they haven't moved forward, then the rule says they're closed in six months, unless there's another violation.
 review and they determine it should be extended as if it was a new investigation. I want to give you an example of the way that this works in real practice with the JTTF and investigations that I've been personally aware of here in Portland. Most of these cases, again, are going to be closed.
 So these are the cases where they see the guy with the camera and they engage in mere conversation with him or look at open source documents to determine whether there's anything that would indicate that there's some threat. Maybe they call over to Chief O'Day and he checks with the behavioral health unit to find out if this is maybe an individual that has mental health issues that they're already addressing in another way, which would be helpful to know in terms of what follow-up should take place.
 And in some of the cases that I've seen, in many of the cases I've seen, most of the cases, people are diverted and the case is closed.
 But the FBI engages in citizen engagement to try to turn people around when they can. That's always the first point of action. They don't need cases that – they don't need more to do. They don't need to make somebody a terrorist who's not. But if somebody's on that borderline, the vulnerable people that we talk about who are –
 who could be radicalized, they try to get them turned in the right direction. And that includes such things as FBI terrorism agents reaching out to universities to help a kid get back in school because he's lost his way, and they know if they can just get him connected back with his community and back on the right track, maybe he can turn it around.
 Because there's nothing illegal about looking at radicalizing propaganda on the Internet. That is protected by the First Amendment. And mere speech alone does not justify a criminal investigation or prosecution. So they are very careful to try to disrupt and dissuade whenever possible, even if it means...
 doing things that you might not think about FBI agents doing, like going to talk to school administrators or talking to somebody's employer or reaching out to community support, mental health support, contacting up with the BHU to try to find out what resources they have, local mental health, to try to steer somebody off of the path of terrorism. And that happens a lot in the Phase 2. Phase 3 is a full-blown active investigation. Very few of these are opened.
 Additional techniques can be used, for example, search warrants or tracker devices like your city attorney discussed. But at each level and with each additional technique, there's more intrusive review and more oversight. For example, obviously, if you wanted to tap somebody's phone, that has to go to a federal judge, and you have to get a warrant, which requires an application about this big to support it.
 and then judicial oversight in addition to the oversight by the U.S. Attorney's Office, by the Criminal Division of Maine Justice back in Washington, D.C., and by several others. So with each technique, there's additional oversight, additional requirements, and I think that's important to highlight.
 Now, the next question was, how are civil rights protected? Before you move on from that, could you just explain that oversight by the Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorney's Office, the oversight at the FBI? What's your role, and do your staff participate in the JTCF?
 Absolutely. So, yes, we do participate in the JTTF. I do have clearance, as do many people in my office. Mr. Williams, who's here with me, who until today was my criminal chief and is now my first assistant, he has clearance and participates in the JTTF.
 We have a unit in my office that's the anti-terrorism unit, national security unit, and all of the prosecutors in that unit have clearance and participate in the JTTF. But particularly my national security prosecutors, of which we have four and a half,
 they go to the FBI. They spend time at the FBI field office. They review investigations. The Department of Justice, so anything that the FBI wants to do or the JTTF officers need to do that would require any...
 type of technique that the Constitution or federal law requires judicial involvement or a grand jury, we have to sign off on and review and be briefed on. So any grand jury subpoena, any Title III wire, any tracker device.
 Anything like that is going to be reviewed and signed off on by a prosecutor, and in some of those matters, a federal judge is going to be involved as well. In addition, my terrorism folks are working in conjunction with the JTTF on a regular basis on all of their cases. They're watching to make sure that the participants in the JTTF are doing their job correctly.
 the way that the laws require. Absolutely. And I would say that recently that oversight and involvement has actually substantially increased. And that's a result of a policy directive that was issued by Attorney General Eric Holder to all U.S. attorneys directing us to create a risk assessment tool and to work with our special agents in charge and assistant special agents in charge of all of the
 all of our federal law enforcement partners so that we early identify any case that involves a sensitive investigation or a sensitive technique. So a sensitive technique would be something like the use of an undercover, obviously the use of any type of heightened surveillance activity. We have to be...
 briefed on those regularly, and we have to be in concurrence with those decisions as an additional layer of oversight over the fact that the FBI themselves has their own. As you have city council, they have their own in-house council that is also ensuring that all of their activities and techniques are compliant with federal law. Who are the judges who are not in the Joint Terrorism Task Force who are then applied for when the
 The offices then apply for the wiretapping or whatever the authority that they're seeking, the search warrant. They're district court judges in Oregon. So they're just randomly assigned, or there isn't a particular judge who does this? No, any Article III judge in the District of Oregon would be, is cleared. Okay.
 by their own background in the Senate confirmation process, and any Article III judge in the District of Oregon would be qualified to review, say, a wiretap application or application for any of the other types of techniques that would require that type of oversight and review, up to if you get into matters of...
 foreign intelligence collecting, then that would not be a judge in the District of Oregon, although we have one on the court, but it would be the FISA court in Washington, D.C. So if you're asking about collection of foreign intelligence that would be covered under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, then those cases go to the FISA court in Washington, D.C.
 But there's about 100 steps and hoops that you have to go through of approval, both through FBI and the Department of Justice, National Security Division, in order to get concurrence to even seek anything under the FISA court. And that's very important.
 not something we're dealing with very often. Part of the Department of Justice and your attorneys participate in the task force is to remind the FBI agents you've got to go get a warrant for this wiretapping if they... Oh, yeah. And believe me, you don't have to remind an FBI agent they need a warrant to get a tap. They do that all the time, and they certainly understand that. That is part of the role of the Department of Justice in being...
 involved in the task force? Yes, to make sure that the cases are legally sufficient moving forward, that the law is being complied with, that the Constitution is being complied with, to weigh in from our independent perch as a U.S. Attorney's Office, not part of the FBI, as another voice. Also because when the U.S. Attorney's Office is involved, our terrorism prosecutors, our national security prosecutors are looking with the mind towards having a case in criminal court.
 We aren't general counsel to the FBI. We're looking to build a case that would be able to stand up under scrutiny of a jury and a judge and review an appellate review by the Ninth Circuit.
 So we need to make sure that regardless of what the FBI concludes is legally sufficient, that we are able to have evidence that we can produce and use in court that will be available for that level of scrutiny, including up on appeal through the Ninth Circuit and the Supreme Court. May I ask one follow-up question because it goes excellent line? Chief O'Day testified to the chain of command
 within the police bureau culminating in the mayor. And if the city, if the mayor is the police commissioner, after getting a briefing pursuant to a confidentiality agreement, determines that there's a problem with an investigation, it contemplates a number of things. There's a 60-day opt-out if they feel it cannot be resolved. But there's also a contemplation that the mayor or the police chief would pick up the phone and call you.
 So if you are contacted by the mayor or the police chief who raise a concern about a violation of constitutional rights, Oregon state law or whatever, do you have the authority to resolve that, that issue at the level of the U S attorney? Well, let me, let me answer that question, um, this way. And that is that in reality, um,
 There will be questions and potentially the perception of a conflict, and there have been. And when that has happened in the past, and I'm not just talking about Portland, but I'm talking about any JGTF or, say, Washington County Sheriff's Office right now.
 The way that those are normally have been resolved in every case that I'm aware of is that the, say, the sheriff of Washington County has picked up the phone and called the SAC, the special agent in charge of the FBI, and said, here's my concern, or called the supervisor who's in charge of the JTTF on the more day-to-day basis, because normally it wouldn't even need to go up to the SAC level. So he would call Jessica and say, hey, I'm here.
 I'm concerned or my officer has a concern or my county council has a concern about this legal issue or this technique or this investigation. And the FBI would say, come right over. We'll show you everything. Here is everything that's been done. Here is the whole file. Here is the file.
 complete transparency because that person's cleared, as Chief O'Day is, and so Chief O'Day would go over to the FBI and meet with their JTTF supervisors, find out, see everything he wanted to see, know everything he was doing. And in every instance, that's the level at which those conflicts have been in.
 resolved. Now, in what I perceive to be the very unlikely event that it couldn't get resolved at that level and the SAC and, say, the chief of police end up to have a true conflict in terms of how a Portland Police Bureau task force officer was being used, then absolutely I would come and walk into the room with them and say, well, I don't know. I don't
 and try to participate in resolving that conflict. And I think our office is well situated to do that, both as the US Attorney's Office with our relationship with the City of Portland Police Bureau, which of course is right across the street from my office. And we communicate with them every day, several times a day.
 Whereas the FBI is actually out by the airport, and I'm out there a lot less than I am at PPB. So we would have that ability to settle those things, but also as lawyers in Oregon and with people in our office with expertise in Oregon law and Oregon law enforcement and a good portion of my staff having been –
 stolen, you might say, from Multnomah County DA's office and other district attorney's offices around the state, we are in a very good position to help to mediate those disputes. But I don't
 I guess my main point is I don't anticipate it getting to my level. It never has before. And I think if you speak with the Port of Portland, Washington County Sheriff's Office, other agencies that are embedded with the task force, they would tell you that the FBI is completely open and transparent to that chain of command because ultimately the Portland police officer answers to his lieutenant.
 and his lieutenant answers to the chief, and the chief answers to the mayor. And that's his chain of command. And if there's a legal question, they consult with the city attorney's office on that question, and none of that changes because they become a task force officer.
 Okay, so how are civil rights protected? You know, as we've talked about, there are literally thousands of pages of policy and extensive oversight and review by the FBI, Portland Police Bureau's only chain of command, my office, the Anti-Terrorism Advisory Council, and in many options, the court. Okay.
 I would just point out that the FBI, besides, you know, I've mentioned that their number one priority is national security, always on their top three priority list is enforcement of civil rights.
 So they are also the agency that is generally enforcing civil rights violations in the state of Oregon, including against state actors in Oregon who violate federal standards of civil rights protections. And I, myself, and my office also has our civil rights enforcement as a key priority, as you know, since we sued the Portland Police Bureau over their violation of civil rights in the excessive use of force case.
 So we absolutely see that as a responsibility. Additionally, just looking back in history, the FBI has been in many cases on the forefront of enforcing federal civil rights laws across this country. Yeah.
 I would also just note, as I think your city attorney did, that the Portland Police Bureau officers who participate in this task force will find themselves under much greater scrutiny and oversight than Portland Police Bureau officers do in any other role that they play.
 on any other investigation. I can tell you, having been a state prosecutor myself, that I find the bureaucracy and oversight of working within the national security apparatus to be at times stifling. But like Jim Comey, the director of the FBI, said when he was in my office earlier this year,
 he would have it no other way, and neither would we, because we're all committed to the rule of law. And ultimately, this council's decision about voting into the JTTF or not hopefully will be based on a belief and a trust in the rule of law in our constitutional system, in the checks and balances and oversight of the federal courts, and that's the reason why you should be confident to vote in. And that would be my hope.
 That's all I have. Thank you very much. Mr. Williams? Thank you, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. I'm not sure I have a lot to add to what Amanda has said, but I can tell you there's a clear understanding that reasonable minds can differ.
 on whether or not Portland should be in or out, put arguments on both sides. That's one of the things that's unique about Portland. That's one of the things that we've all discovered, for instance, in the case involving the police bureau that Amanda mentioned that I've been a part of as well from its inception. There's something incredibly valuable about having this debate
 I've been a prosecutor for 25 years now and handled just about every kind of case you can imagine. And in the last four and a half years, I've been supervising, up until two days ago, the criminal division, which includes the terrorism cases, the terrorism unit, and our personnel who are extremely experienced, well-seasoned prosecutors who take their responsibilities very seriously.
 The level of oversight cannot be overstated in terms of the level of scrutiny that's applied by line assistant United States attorneys in their working with the JTTF, the line of supervision that's within our office, that's within the main justice, the National Security Division.
 that Amanda has outlined. It is significant. It's supervised by magistrates, judges, by Congress. The FBI has oversight report responsibilities to Congress. So do we.
 So there's a tremendous amount of oversight that, frankly, I just think the general public has no idea that it exists, but it's significant. We do engage in a lot of community outreach, in particular with Muslim communities that Amanda and I have been involved with for some time, critical to our mission on behalf of the United States Department of Justice. So I think our message is we're dedicated communities
 to civil rights, to understanding there's a difference of opinion. We're supervised by all manner and level of oversight possible. And ultimately, at the end of the day, if we make a mistake as a matter of law, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and the U.S. Supreme Court is the ultimate oversight authority.
 So there are people, I don't believe in scare tactics either. There are, unfortunately, you can turn on CNN 24 hours a day and realize there are actually people who don't like Westerners who...
 are being trained and who are traveling. I'm going to a symposium next Monday on foreign fighters and the significant risks that's not just posed in rhetoric. It's the reality of which we're tasked with dealing with. So we're going to do our job. I think we do it well.
 And we're hoping that Portland is a part of our team that does it, because at the end of the day, what this is about is not the politics of it. It's about public safety. That's why we're encouraging you to consider all the arguments. And at the end of the day, the people of Portland need to be safe, and this is one way to do it. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Barr, welcome.
 Thank you. Good evening, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm Bill Barr, chair of the Portland Citizen Crime Commission. Thank you for the opportunity to share our view about the city's role and responsibility in combating terrorism. I'm testifying today on behalf of the Citizens Crime Commission and the Portland Business Alliance. Several members of both organizations are here tonight as well.
 We support the city having two Portland police officers assigned to the local Joint Terrorism Task Force as prescribed in resolutions 147 and 148 and urge you to vote yes. We do not support resolution 146 preventing the city from entering into a memorandum of understanding with the FBI and preventing Portland Police Bureau officers from being part of the JTTF and urge you to vote no. All of us are vested in
 All of us have a vested interest in combating terrorism. Acts of terrorism threaten our security and our liberty. Several events in recent years, including the attempted bombing of the Christmas tree lighting ceremony in Pioneer Courthouse Square, demonstrate that Oregon and Portland are not immune. We need only mention Boston and Paris to instantly recall the terror experienced recently in those cities. Members of the Citizens Crime Commission and Portland Business Alliance are concerned.
 Both boards have examined this issue and taken a positive position supporting the city's full participation in the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Companies including Greenbrier, Northwest Natural, FLIR, and the Portland Trailblazers, to name a few, have a vested interest in safety and security for their product distribution, their employees, and the public. Acts of terrorism threaten that safety and threaten the foundation of our community.
 That's why they support collaborative law enforcement teams who share information on potential threats to community safety and leverage resources to respond to those threats. We have taken time to speak with leaders in several cities in our region and around the country about their experience in working with the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Uniformly, uniformly, they have spoken to the value created, the time saved, and the increased security experienced in working together.
 Uniformly. Joint Terrorism Task Forces are part of our national security. Local, state, and federal law enforcement officers and agencies share information, leverage their relationships, and coordinate efforts on the focus goal of detecting, deterring, and vigorously responding to terrorist threats. The FBI and the Portland Police have separate unique strengths and advantages when it comes to counterterrorism.
 The FBI has greater resources and access to secret or classified information necessary to investigate national and international terrorist networks. The importance of local police to this collaboration cannot be overstated. More than 900 Portland police officers with close to 400,000 contacts have more than 400,000 contacts with community members every year. They know the community and the community values they are entrusted to protect and serve.
 Local officers bring that network of expertise and knowledge often not possessed by federal JTTF partners. That knowledge of the local community and a greater awareness of local sensitivities and values are critical to enlist the community's help in combating terrorism. Community security and protection of civil liberties are not mutually exclusive. We are confident law enforcement working together with the community is in fact the best way to accomplish these objectives.
 We are safer when Portland police officers have more information about threats in our community. Having Portland Police Bureau officers on the task force makes the task force stronger and ensures Portland values are represented and protected. We are the only city of our size not a part of this national security effort. We should join other cities in our state and across the nation united against terrorism with the goal of doing everything possible to increase the safety of our community.
 Thank you for inviting the testimony. We appreciate being a part of the work and discussion tonight. Thank you all. Any further questions for this panel? Yes.
 Mr. Attorney Marshall, Mr. Williams, I'd like you to talk a bit more about your outreach to the Muslim community. Because I've had people tell me that the Muslim community is – a lot of people are scared of the FBI, that if the Portland police –
 That's what I've heard. I'd like to hear, and obviously no community is uniform, but I'd like to hear more about the outreach you have done and your gauge of the effectiveness of it. Thank you so much, Commissioner Novak, for that question. I think it is a very important piece of this. And I want to talk specifically about some of our outreach efforts, both at the FBI in Portland and at the U.S. Attorney's Office since I've been there. But I also want to make it
 clear that these efforts are not just because I'm the U.S. attorney or because Mr. Bredesen is the special agent in charge. They really aren't personality driven. They are a shift in the way that the Department of Justice is a
 approaching violent extremism and community engagement and balancing with civil rights to make sure that people's interests are protected and that we are inclusive and not exclusive in our efforts moving forward. And this is taking place at the Attorney General level, at the congressional level. It's being embedded into
 policy. We have, I mean, on the Department of Justice website, the internet, we've got a link to, you know, outreach toolkits for different types of communities. And it's very much a part of the civil rights agenda, as well as the combating violent extremism agenda.
 agenda on a national and policy level. But here in Oregon, those efforts have been running strong through several administrations. I know that U.S. Attorney Karen Emmergut had been actively involved in outreach specifically to Muslim communities during her tenure. Dwight Holton, when he was the interim U.S. Attorney, carried that effort on and really
 I spent a lot of time engaging with Muslim communities across the state of Oregon. And when I came in, not only did I continue those individual efforts, but I also took steps to institutionalize those efforts within the framework of the U.S. Attorney's Office so that regardless of who is sitting in the corner office, those efforts will continue. So we have created a team. We've got outreach contacts. We've got email listservs.
 We go out and meet all over the state. We've gone to Billy Williams and I and other members who's also a member of my outreach engagement team have visited community groups and mosques in Eugene, Corvallis.
 Portland. We've involved ourselves in the interfaith community with a lot of those outreach events. We've spent time in people's homes sharing meals and learning about each other and culture in both informal and formal ways. Recently on the anniversary of the bombing of the
 firebombing of the mosque in Corvallis, which is allegedly, in the indictment, a retaliatory event that took place after Mohammad Mohammad's attempt on the pioneer courthouse square.
 We held an outreach event at the mosque in Corvallis, which was very well attended by state and federal law enforcement alike and community leaders, members from the Muslim – many diverse Muslim communities across Oregon, including Eugene and Portland, attended that event in solidarity with the community in terms of not just in terms of –
 you know, investigations that people might think are directed in some way because somebody is more likely to be a suspect because of their faith, but because we realize that oftentimes people are more likely to be victimized because of their faith.
 In a lot of these outreach events, we talk about people's civil rights. I've spent a lot of time at the Somali American Council of Oregon, and I think, Mr. Novick, I've seen you at one of their events. I have a picture. And engaging with that community because they are particularly at risk of hate crimes, housing discrimination.
 We've gone out and done seminars about fair housing. Because I have a background in child welfare, I helped negotiate some of their issues around cultural competency with Department of Human Services child welfare in the state of Oregon in terms of Muslim kids being placed in foster care and needing particular dietary –
 prayer frameworks so that they can practice their religion in a way that makes them safe and healthy individuals as children. And so our outreach has been multi-layered. And in fact, I'm going to be flying to Washington, D.C.,
 later this month and I was invited as one of four United States attorneys in the country to attend a White House summit, an international White House summit on efforts to combat violent extremism in the United States through outreach and engagement. And so it's very much embedded in the framework of everything we do. But most important tenet of that outreach is creating those relationships between state and federal local law enforcement and
 all different factions of the community, but particularly those that are most impacted, to make sure that they feel like, and they know, not just feel like, but they actually experience that they are a part of our solution. Most of our tips on cases that are opened in the JTTF, they often come from inside of those communities. And so we need to make sure that people have the
 Again, terrorism plots and threats come from a citizen who's concerned who calls their local police bureau. So we try to connect up all of those dots. Thank you. Anything else? Just to follow up on that, I think it's very clear radicalization and the terror that's brought on around the world, for that matter, will never change without community involvement of engaging people
 members of communities that perhaps are new to Western diplomacy of engagement cannot change, and that includes here in the District of Oregon. So community outreach is a fundamental tenet of the department's approach to, for lack of better terms, addressing the war on terror.
 It's sort of like the argument of changing the dynamics with understanding you can't build so many jails, jail your way out of prison or out of crime. It just doesn't work that way. So it is about engagement and having mutual understandings within communities with people
 and how they work and where the interests lie. So it's a critical part of what we do. Yes, we investigate cases and prosecute where appropriate, but that's clearly not all that's part of our efforts in this endeavor. Thank you all very much. We appreciate your informing this really important choice for us, so thank you. Thank you, Mayor.
 I next want to call Dave Fidanke from the American Civil Liberties Union of Oregon and Casey Jama from the Center for Intercultural Organizing. Do you have PowerPoint, Dave? Do you have that set up? While we're waiting for that, Mr. Mayor, David Fidanke, Executive Director, ACLU of Oregon. And I wanted to let you know we have a petition we've circulated by e-mail and on our website.
 that started last week. We already have 675 signatories on that of people who live, work, or regularly visit Portland, and I have a hard copy for you. Great. Thank you. Thank you very much. I appreciate the council's deliberation, again, on this issue. It's obviously not the first time we've been through this. Thank you.
 The ACLU did support adoption of the current resolution and ordinance. And at this time, we are asking the council to make it crystal clear that the city will get out of the Joint Terrorism Task Force and stay out. We believe that this is not a question of whether the city wants to prevent acts of terror.
 We all want that. The question is, how can the city of Portland best do its job to prevent acts of terrorism? And we believe that is by staying out of the JTTF. You had a presentation from Deputy City Attorney Dave Oberle and your staff, which mentioned RRS 181.575.
 And that law, I think you all know, was adopted because of past abuses in the early 80s and is still in place. And the city has been very sensitive about the enforcement of that statute. We have some disagreements about details. But it does require, for lack of a better term, a criminal nexus before –
 members of the Portland Police Bureau can collect or maintain information about the political, religious, or social views and associations or activities of any individual or group, unless that information directly relates to an investigation of criminal activities and there are reasonable grounds to suspect the subject is or may be involved in criminal conduct.
 That remains today a very different standard than the standard that the FBI and the Joint Terrorism Task Force operate under. You've heard again today how the mission of the FBI has changed dramatically since September of 2001.
 The emphasis now is more and more on intelligence gathering and analysis rather than law enforcement. There is much less effort on actually solving crimes that have been committed and more and more effort and resources going into greatly expanding the
 the surveillance without a criminal nexus of those against whom information is being collected. We're all very familiar with the revelations that came out, thanks to Edward Snowden,
 of activities that had been authorized, and some not authorized, but now that have been authorized retroactively and going forward by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to gather the records of telephone calls made to and from all Americans in the United States,
 information about people's email traffic, the to and from and subject lines of all emails of all Americans, regardless of whether they are communicating within the borders of the United States or externally. Thank you.
 The FBI now routinely uses not only government databases, but also commercial and private databases that they can get hold of. Trying to prevent an act of terror is like trying to find a needle in a haystack. But since 9-11, what the federal government has been doing, rather than focusing on where there is evidence, is to make that haystack bigger.
 That does not help in finding the needle that may be inside that haystack. So how big is the haystack? Well, we don't know exactly. You know, in the old days, and once again, I've brought the FBI file that was gathered on the ACLU over a course of 35 years.
 that we were able to get access to under the Freedom of Information Act in the 1970s. This is old technology, okay? It's a few hundred pages. What the FBI and other federal agencies are doing now is,
 is collecting massive amounts of information about millions of Americans, Americans who are under no suspicion of having done anything wrong, just so that in case they might ever come under suspicion, the FBI and other intelligence agencies can quickly find out everything about each of our lives, where we've been.
 who we talk to, how often we talk to them, and by inference, what we might be thinking and saying in those communications. By 2007, the FBI had amassed 1.5 billion records relating to individuals. By 2012, that estimate had grown to 6 billion records. We have no idea how large...
 those databases are today, how many records are in them, and how many Americans' information is contained in those records. Staffing to track and gather these massive amounts of information has also been greatly expanded. The FBI's Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force has
 The last report I saw had 360 staff members. Those are not here in Oregon. That's nationwide. And they're involved in 40 different projects. So...
 Of course, one of the major implications of these databases is the amassing of the terrorist watch lists. There is not one. There are numerous terrorist watch lists. The one that is most well-known is the no-fly list. And we know because, again, of Freedom of Information Act requests –
 that the no-fly list itself, which is the smallest of those lists, has increased by more than 1,000 percent since 2009. The ACLU filed a federal lawsuit here in Portland on behalf of clients from all over the country, and that litigation is ongoing.
 But two of our clients, I think, will give you a sense of what the FBI is doing, how they are using these watch lists and what they are doing to people who are on them. In 2010, Abe Mishal, a U.S. citizen, was denied boarding at Chicago's Midway Airport
 where he was surrounded by TSA employees and FBI agents and questioned at length about his religious beliefs and practices. The agents told Mr. Mishaw that if he would agree to be an informant for the FBI, his name would be removed from the no-fly list immediately, and he would be paid by the FBI as an informant. When he refused...
 The FBI promptly ended the meeting, and not until the ACLU filed suit and won a ruling from a U.S. district judge here in Portland did the FBI finally remove his name from the no-fly list. In the interest of time, I won't go into the second story right now. You heard earlier testimony about the limits of
 and restrictions on the FBI's activities. And you heard reference to the Attorney General's guidelines. Those guidelines have been weakened substantially since 9-11, first by Attorney General Ashcroft in 2002, and then by Attorney General Michael Mukasey in the waning hours of the George W. Bush administration in late 2008.
 In addition, the FBI is subject, one of the other documents the FBI is subject to, is a domestic investigations and operations guide. I'm holding one-third of that document, and you can see it's rather thick, that was declassified and posted on the FBI website from 2011.
 There are significant redactions in this document, but the relevant portions relating to the Attorney General guidelines and restrictions on surveillance of First Amendment activity were not redacted.
 And this document, however, has been updated twice since then, in 2012 and 2013, and those updated documents have not been declassified. So I can't tell you whether the provisions I'm going to cite to you have been modified, but I don't think they have because the Attorney General guidelines have not been changed. You heard reference to assessments. Yes.
 Assessments were created for the first time in the Attorney General guidelines adopted by John Ashcroft in 2002.
 They greatly weakened and expanded the ability of the FBI. They weakened protections of First Amendment protected activity and expanded the ability of the FBI and cooperating agencies to engage in surveillance. The attorney's guidelines themselves note that in order to open an assessment,
 there is not required any particular factual predicate. And that language is reflected in the Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide of 2011. Between 2009 and 2011, the FBI opened more than 82,000 assessments, and that's based on data that they turned over to the Senate Judiciary Committee.
 Of those 82,000 assessments, fewer than 3,500 discovered information that justified further investigation. That's, I would submit, a lot of wasted effort. So what is the next step? The next step is a preliminary investigation. And I want to point out to you that a preliminary, it doesn't take much to get to that next level.
 you still don't have to have direct evidence pointing to an individual. It may be initiated on the basis of information or an allegation indicating that a federal crime or threat to national security has or may have occurred, is or may be occurring, or will or may occur.
 and the investigation may obtain information relating to that activity. The Inspector General of the Department of Justice, who reviewed practices carried out by the FBI, concluded that the current policies, and these were the policies in place as of 2008, but as I've pointed out, they have not changed in any meaningful way.
 like prior policies and guidelines, allowed the FBI to open preliminary and even full investigations through standards that are easily met. That's the inspector general talking, not the ACLU. One of the expansions of the ability of the FBI to engage in surveillance of First Amendment protected activity is,
 merely requires that the agent who is supervising the activity have a purpose, a law enforcement purpose, for someone to attend a public event. Now, this can be an FBI agent. It can be an informant or undercover operative under the FBI's control.
 does not require any, again, this is the Inspector General, does not require any demonstration of an articulable suspicion in order to justify attendance at the event. It simply required the agent ordering the activity have an anti-terrorism purpose in mind. Again, the Inspector General's conclusion, the 2008 guidelines, which are still in effect,
 Loosen the limitations on the FBI retention of information collected in connection with attendance at public events. It no longer needs to relate to potential criminal or terrorist activity in order to be retained. Now, this is where you have the most direct conflict. Even if a Portland police officer, you could somehow justify it.
 than under 181.575, investigating or collecting material about someone's political, religious, or social activities. Once it becomes clear that they are not involved in any criminal activity, present or future, Oregon law requires the city to purge that material.
 Under the rules of the Joint Terrorism Task Force, your officers would be creating FBI records, not Portland police records. And those records would be subject to the retention rules of the FBI. Again, the Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide lays out the retention requirements. They are exceedingly loose. And I can give you the page citation for that if you want it.
 that material can be retained indefinitely by the FBI. You heard earlier and saw this language that I have up on the screen currently, that the Attorney General Guidelines and the MOU and the Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide all repeat this language, that investigations, collecting and maintaining information...
 cannot be based solely for the purpose of monitoring activities protected by the First Amendment or the lawful exercise of other rights secured by the Constitution or the laws of the United States. But there is nothing in the guidelines, there is nothing in the Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide that prevents collecting and maintaining that material primarily because of someone's
 protected First Amendment activity. Let's talk about racial, ethnic, and religious profiling. The Domestic Investigations and Operation Guide specifically permits the FBI to identify locations of concentrated ethnic communities in every field office's domain.
 if these locations will reasonably aid the analysis of potential threats and vulnerabilities. Reasonably aid. That, again, is a very soft standard. Well, Attorney General Holder, just last year, issued new guidelines restricting racial and ethnic profiling by federal agencies. However, he specifically authorized...
 this racial, ethnic, and religious mapping to continue in local FBI field offices. There were other exemptions as well covering customs and border patrol. And the Attorney General's guidelines also continue to permit recruitment of innocent individuals based solely upon their race, ethnicity, or religion.
 So the Attorney General has continued to give a green light to the kind of intimidation and bullying tactics that the FBI has been engaging in to try to force people to spy on their neighbors and members of their place of worship. You've been assured that Portland, by the U.S. Attorney, that Portland would be able to carry out
 and follow both the city's policies and Oregon law. The memorandum of understanding that was circulated, the unsigned and not finalized memorandum of understanding, that as a council you're being asked to authorize the city to enter into has language that we believe says otherwise.
 As I mentioned earlier, the MOU provides that all investigations carried out by the JTF will be documented on FBI forms in accordance with FBI rules and regulations, not local or state rules and regulations. And you talked about with the U.S. Attorney what happens when there's a conflict between
 between those things that is brought to the attention of supervisors, of your officers if they were to rejoin the JTTF. The standard in the MOU, which the city would be agreeing to if it signs this document, is that those conflicts will be resolved in a way that provides the greatest organizational protection or benefit
 And I think you should insert in that phrase, to the FBI. And if you want to try to insert something else, good luck. That's what Mayor Adams tried to do back in 2011, and the Department of Justice in Washington, D.C. vetoed all of those suggestions. On page six of the Model MOU,
 is language that specifically prohibits JTTF personnel from discussing any JTTF business with supervisors who are not members of the JTTF unless the supervisor possesses the appropriate security clearance. You already know that the mayor, who is at the top of that chain of command, is not going to have that security clearance. On page 7...
 is a provision that provides that non-federal members of the JTTF will be federally deputized while being detailed to the JTTF. We would submit to you that is in conflict with the assurance that your officers can be properly supervised by their superiors in the Police Bureau. On page 8.
 despite the language that was cited by Deputy City Attorney Wilberl about participating agencies being able to follow their own policies and laws, it provides all non-FBI members of the JTTF must adhere to the same rules and regulations as FBI employees while conducting JTTF business. How do those provisions get reconciled?
 There should be specific language about that. There isn't, at least not that would protect the city. On page 9, again, another provision that provides all JTTF materials and investigative records, including any memorandum of understanding, like the one you were being asked to sign, would originate with, belong to, and be maintained by the FBI. In San Francisco and Oakland...
 The FBI has refused to release and declassify the memoranda of understanding with those jurisdictions so that those documents could be made public. In summary, the FBI JTTF operates in total secrecy under the FBI's rules. It is categorically different from every other task force that the city participates in. Everything the JTTF does...
 is classified. Everything it has access to is classified. If the city rejoins the JTTF, police bureau personnel, we believe, would be shielded from the chain of command, would create FBI records subject to FBI rules and retention policies, not Oregon law, would be tainted by the FBI's suspicionless surveillance tactics and practices, and would be
 The police bureau, we believe, would be further alienated from the community rather than trying to rebuild relationships of trust that have been deeply strained. Again, we believe the best way for the city to have its ears to the ground and eyes and other senses acutely aware of activity in this city is
 And to have the positive relationships with members of the community that would be most likely to hear about plans to commit these kinds of criminal acts is to stay out of the Joint Terrorism Task Force and to distance yourselves as much as possible from the federal government and its tactics and policies and practices.
 thank you very much i meant to mention this earlier but i assume it's okay with you since you've presented this we want to have the powerpoint presentations that we've received this evening in the record actually get those duplicated for council members because by the way we are going to conduct this hearing tonight and and bring these resolutions back for a decision by the council in two weeks
 So we want time for people to be able to send in additional written testimony after this evening and also for the council to be able to deliberate on what we've heard. And I think these presentations have been so good. Thank you, Dave. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'd really like to have that document in front of me as I continue to look at these issues. I did circulate hard copies to each of you. Okay. The clerk has an electronic copy. Great. Thank you very much. Mr. Donald, welcome.
 Thank you, members of the Commission. My name is Casey Chama. I'm the Executive Director of the Center for Intercultural Organizing. We are a social justice-based immigrant rights organization in the city of Portland. I don't think I'm going to add much. I think my colleague David actually covered most of the legal and framing around this issue. But I want to talk to you a little bit about the community perspective. So I will start in the latter note.
 I refuse to remain silent, and anything I said cannot be used against me. So, I have been around this issue since 9-11, and I have testified many times around this, the collaboration between the city and the JTTF.
 I think with the start of the community, my agency really, we were kind of a place where community uses us as resources. So when they've been challenged or they have an issue, they come to us, they call us, and then we find a resource, whether we call the ACLU or the other resources that we have to connect them, a legal assistance that they need. But...
 This case would be that there's a young man actually right now who's just driving from Seattle. He's one of the cases that we're working with him closely, and he really wanted to testify today. I'm hoping he will be joining with us later, but if not, I'll be happy to help you to connect with him so he can share with you his own personal experience on this issue. Thank you.
 I think overall, you know, I think both the FBI and as well as the U.S. attorney kind of created a two-picture scenario. One is that we are imminent threat and there's a nature of do-mistake scenario. And the other picture that they created for us was that we are working with the community and we have a better relationship with the Muslim community and we're trying our best to outreach to them.
 I think in my experience in the community, first of all, there's actually a fear of the FBI in the community. And I think there's a lot of circles that I am when we're talking about what your community members are talking about. They actually even hesitate to say the FBI word. I mean, actually, the coin phrase, they usually say the three-letter agency. That's really how frightened they are even to say FBI.
 So that shows the level of mistrust that the community has with the agency. But also, as David said, I think for us the ethnic and racial profiling is a real issue. So we believe continuing with the JTTF will lead to more profiling, surveillance, and intimidation of many innocent community members, and it violates the basic civil liberties and civil rights for our community members.
 We also believe that the City of Portland claims to strive as open and inclusive community, and we should be able to strive and achieve that by ensuring the most vulnerable community members of our community that we care about their safety, we care about their concerns, and we will not be working and joining with the JTTF. We also believe that the outreach that
 has been said by the Hichita community, many community members also believe that the outreach itself is actually a mechanism on spying. And actually there is an article that has been just published recently by Star Tribune in Minneapolis, actually creates a memo that has been signed by the FBI director, assigned to Minneapolis and five other cities,
 In 2009, to use community outreach with Somali groups as a cover to gather intelligence on terrorist recruiting efforts and individuals who were likely to be vulnerable to be radicalized, according to the newly released memo that outlined the secretive operations.
 So even the outreach itself, the community knows that there could be a potential of surveillance cases. So overall, I think for us as an agency, I think you will hear members of the Center for Architecture organizing, our bottom line is what we are asking you to do is that we tried case by case. We tried fully joining the JTTF. What we are asking today to do is that.
 completely stay out of it. Do not join the JTTF, period. That's where we are and that's the request we're asking as members of this community. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Thank you. I have two questions, David, for you. The first is, in your PowerPoint, you state that if we were full participants in the JTTF, police bureau personnel would be shielded from the chain of command.
 And I take it that that's based on the notion that the mayor would not, as the police commissioner, be exercising some kind of supervisory authority. Is that correct? Well, I think in the first instance, Commissioner Fish, you have to rely on the wisdom of who this chief or the next chief or the chief after that assigns to the JTTF. Right.
 Because if those officers don't report everything to their supervisors, the sergeant, the lieutenant, then that chain of command is broken. And in addition to that, because of the way the MOU is written, we believe that the city would essentially be saying one interpretation of the MOU, despite what you're being told today. And remember that the personalities can change.
 You know, next week, tomorrow, we've had several different special agents in charge of the FBI field office here since 9-11. We've had several different U.S. attorneys. Who knows who's going to be elected president in 2016? The MOU provides that its term is indefinite. So I think you need to ask yourselves, how can you assure that?
 that you are going to have the information you feel you need to know that anything untoward is happening. It's all classified under the terms of FBI rules. It can be withheld. And I think it's unlikely that the city would accept.
 ever exercise its option to get out unless you have a mayor who looks at all of this material and concludes the way that Mayor Potter did, that this is just flat inconsistent with the chain of command and the proper way to operate a law enforcement agency in Oregon. Thank you. Let me ask a related question.
 What, in your view, is the difference between the mayor exercising oversight under a nondisclosure or confidentiality agreement and the mayor exercising oversight with secret clearance? In both instances, there probably isn't a huge difference if you take as a given that.
 that what the special agent in charge and other personnel are going to tell the mayor will be the same thing. That's both the good and the bad. I forget that all of the other law enforcement agencies that were listed on an earlier slide, but I seem to recall Multnomah County Sheriff –
 State Police, Port of Portland. There were some other law enforcement agencies that are... Well, those are the ones that are on the sort of the working group below the level of the JTTF itself. It's the Washington County Sheriff's Office, the Port and Oregon State Police that are actually full members. So thank you, Mayor. So let's take the Oregon State Police and the Washington County Sheriff's Office. Now, there's no...
 dispute in this room that they are fully covered by Oregon law. They are obliged to follow, including 181.575. Do we have any evidence, since they've been a participant, that this statute has been violated? Commissioner Fish and Mr. Mayor and members of the council, we don't have any evidence at all of anything that,
 That the JTTF has been doing. Right. No, I understand that. But there are lawsuits going on around the country. The last time we took this up and the ACLU supported the as-needed and was prepared to support putting police officers into this arrangement on an as-needed basis. One of the important things we talked about was litigation around the country, evidence of wrongdoing. We assessed it and we did a balancing test.
 And that's how you ended up, I understand, concluding that as needed, reduce the risk of some long-term violation of law, among other things. I'm just asking, do we have any specific evidence through complaints or court cases or anything that their participation has led to a violation of the statute?
 I think the major point I would make, Commissioner Fish, is that we have no way of knowing one way or the other whether there have been violations by the FBI or cooperating agencies like the state police. I would hope not, but the point is we have no way of knowing because those agencies are subject to the FBI's rules and the FBI's rules are
 keep everything secret, and their rules trump everything else. I think maybe I can add one example of case, and I don't want to detail this issue because of confidentiality. I think there was a case that my agency is involved. I don't know whether it's being seen as a violation of the agreement or law, but
 It was a case in Washington County where I got a call from a client, and after I investigated and visited the client, I learned that actually FBI agencies went to the schools of some of the family members. Kids were attending some of the schools in that area, and the kids were interviewed. And they very much were pulled from the classroom and interviewed.
 than being interviewed by, and when I looked at the cards that folks left for the family, definitely the state police was one of the folks who were involved in that case. So that's as much as I can share, but, you know. David, I'm sorry, one last point, going back to some testimony in an earlier panel, I just was curious to get your view. We had someone earlier argue that if
 portland police officers subject to a chain of command at the city were participating in the jttf in fact they could they could serve as effectively as watchdogs in that role please let someone else raise the point and let's show respect to people's points of view and the argument that we heard from an early early panelist was that in fact
 we'd have more influence by having participation and bringing Oregon values into the equation than if we didn't. And I wanted to get your reaction to that. Again, Commissioner Fish, I don't want to minimize the positive actions that the Portland Police Bureau has taken in the past. You know, when Attorney General Ashcroft put out the call for dragnet interviews shortly after 9-11 of...
 individuals who were in this country on visas based on the country of origin and their faith or their presumed faith who were to be questioned about their political and religious views. The Portland Police Bureau refused to participate in that, although they were requested, and the city was part of the JTTF. So that's an instance where the city did step up, and I'm not –
 telling you that would never happen, or that the police bureau couldn't have some impact, positive impact behind the scenes. The problem is community is unlikely to ever find out about it, absent that kind of a dramatic situation. And I believe that our community would be safer if the police bureau could.
 distances itself, if it's available to work, still available to work with the FBI on a case-by-case basis, as the Bureau would be under proposed Resolution 146. So it can actually have positive relationships based on trust with members of communities of color and minority religious faiths in this community that are not tainted by the
 by the FBI's bullying tactics and intimidation that is well-known in those communities and has undermined its ability to ever develop relationships of trust. So let me actually follow that, Commissioner Novick, because maybe it gets you both to sort of come at the big question that's in my mind here.
 from a slightly higher altitude, we've gotten into some important questions of law and policy. Let me try to state it this way. Dave, you in particular have really done an incisive job of critiquing the FBI's approach and their practices and the AG's guidelines. I followed that, and again, I appreciated the presentations very much. And therefore, the
 potential danger of associating Portland police officers with those policies and practices and guidelines. So setting aside the question of whether Portland police officers' values could even influence an organization the size of the FBI, there are after all only two of them. Let's set that aside. Some people might think they could, some people might think they can't. If you can set all that aside. Thank you.
 There's still a danger. I would think we would all submit that there's some danger. Well, maybe not everyone will admit that. I believe there's a danger. There's some things that keep me awake as police commissioner and as mayor, and one of them is that something like what happened in Paris or Boston could happen here. Sure. And so do you see no legally defensible operational advantage –
 I want to ask you the same question, Casey. Do you see no legally defensible, under our laws here in Oregon and here in Portland, do you see no legally defensible operational advantage to the Portland Police Bureau in keeping us safe in cooperating with the FBI at all or under this arrangement? Does that make sense? Oh, it makes perfect sense, Mr. Mayor, and I sympathize with your sleepless nights, believe me. Okay.
 I believe that since, and let me say, as you know, I'm not a lawyer. I have talked about these issues with national ACLU attorneys who are experts in these matters, and they have assured me that the material I've given you today is accurate as far as they know, to the extent anyone could know it, that is outside of the federal government.
 But I think, you know, again, going back to the 50,000-foot level, the fundamental question is what you believe will make this community as safe as it can be. Do you want to align yourself with an agency that has been treating everyone as a suspect, including millions of law-abiding Americans? Yes.
 that is amassing huge amounts of data on all of us that was not able to prevent the Boston attack? And do you think those are the tactics that are going to make this country as safe as it can be? Or do you believe there should be someone out there that adopts a different strategy and tries to increase the amount of safety we might have up to now,
 Portland has been that jurisdiction that has said, no, there is a better way. We want our community to continue to be safe, and we're going to do it consistent with the Constitution and the laws of Oregon. I regret that Portland is alone in taking that stand, but I sincerely believe it is the best direction possible.
 that this city took the right move in 2005, that it did everything it could in 2011 to have a symbiotic relationship with the FBI, and the FBI has essentially said to the city, that's all well and good, but as far as we're concerned, you're either in or you're out, and you're out. So let's recognize that now and make it crystal clear
 to the citizens and residents and visitors and those who work in Portland, that the city has taken a different path, and it is every bit as committed to this community's safety as the FBI and the Joint Terrorism Task Force, but it is pursuing a different strategy, one that relies on the community, not one that suspects the community. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, thank you very much. I think it's a very important and valid question. I'm a father of two children. I consider myself as an Oregonian. I consider myself a proud Portlander. We all want safety. We want a safe community, all of us. And the question will be, you know,
 Are we able to prevent potentially what happened in Paris or what happened in Posta? I don't know. That's a hard question. I think the question we have to ask ourselves is what David said. It's a different strategy. What strategy should we take as a city, as a community?
 One is that we work with the FBI and assume hope the best, even if legally we're okay and we'll cover. What is that going to do to us, our most vulnerable population who are being targeted into the FBI investigation? And if the strategy is if that alignment will create
 exclusion create members of our community, law-abiding Oregonians, who believe that they are being targeted and they are fearful of their safety and they are being part of the members of this community. If that collaboration creates that, strategy creates that fear in that community, particular community, I think we should think about it. I think the other strategy is that do we –
 opt out and say, no, we're not going to collaborate and work with our law enforcement. There's nothing prevents the FBI to pick up the phone and call you or call our police chief if there is an issue that needs to be discussed and so on. They can do that without a JTTF, memorandum of understanding, if there is an issue. Law enforcement will always collaborate.
 But for me, the question, fundamental question, is the strategy. So the strategy that we are pursuing is important to members of the community that I work with. That is, we as a city will ensure that we are inclusive for all. And that is the type of security and safety that we are all seeking for us as members of this community. And for us, that's...
 that I would like for us to pursue, instead of assuming that by just by if we collaborate with the FBI, even if the legal way, we might be preventing potentially unknown terrorist attack. I think for me that's a wrong strategy, and that's wrong thinking. I think what we need to do is what David outlined, what we've been outlined from the beginning since 9-11 happened, is that fear does not create, does not prevent terrorism.
 We are fighting the hearts of the minds of our youth, particularly the work of the youth that I, the Somali community that I work with. The fight that we are fighting is they're winning their hearts and their minds. And for us, the way to win their hearts and minds, it's not targeting them and making them label every one of them to be a suspect. The way we can fight,
 We can win their hearts and minds is creating an opportunity for them to feel they are part of the fabric of our community. That is the type of inclusiveness that I really want us to strive. So for that reason, I think that's a better strategy. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Thank you. Mr. Chama, you heard earlier.
 U.S. Attorney Marshall and Mr. Williams talk about the importance to them of the outreach they've done and wanting to develop good relationships with the community. You said that there's a lot of people who see the outreach itself as a form of spying. Is there anything that the FBI could do to develop a good relationship, particularly with the Muslim community? Is there something they could do over the course of the next months or years that could win people's trust?
 I am a firm believer that we can work together as a community. I practice conflict resolution. I think the answer is that yes. First of all, number one, stop spying the community. I think that's the first step that they have to do. Number two, that they have to be genuinely
 wanting to have a better relationship with the community. And I think I have to admit that our US attorney mentioned the case, Muhammad-Muhammad case. That case did not help at all in terms of building a better relationship with our community. So for us, we can always start a blank page. And we're open to that. I am open to that.
 I think many members of the Muslim community want to have a better relationship with not only the FBI. We want to have a better relationship with our local law enforcement agencies. We want to have a better relationship with our electoral officials. We are part of this community. We want to be seen as not others. We don't want to be seen as the one who's being protected from others. We want to be protected and have that community.
 extended to us as part of this community. And so for me, your answer, Commissioner Novick, is yes, but we have to talk about deeply what that means to us. I think we may have no more questions for you. Thank you very much. Thank you. I appreciate your presentations. So thank you all for your patience. I hope you appreciated this very good discussion. Thank you.
 So we're going to ask Carla to do one detail we forgot, which is to read the ordinance that accompanies the second resolution, because we have to read it before we take testimony on it. Item 148, enter into a memorandum of understanding to become a member of the local joint terrorism task force in conjunction with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Thank you. Yeah.
 Now, I know we have a number of people signed up. We'd like to extend to some courtesies because I know there are some parents of young children here in the room, and there's also probably some parents of young children who need to get home and put them to bed. So if there's some folks that have child care needs that would like to come first, we want to extend that courtesy, and then to anyone who's disabled as well. So if you have special needs, come on forward now before we start the general roll call off the sign-up sheet.
 and we'll show you those courtesies. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I wish I could say something brilliant to you right now that would change your mind if you're leaning to rejoining the JTTF, but I can't. The ACLU has just given you a great presentation. There is almost no way that I could build on that
 However, there's a couple of things that I learned today just reading. I didn't know that the JTTF was also working with ICE. I didn't know that. I may be the only activist in the room that doesn't know that. But Boston was brought up. They brag that they handled 1,300 cases between the JTTF and ICE. Now, this community...
 has come out very strongly for immigrants. And I don't know if you know that. But if you did, okay. But I didn't know it. So I was kind of taken back by that one. I don't like ICE. I don't like the FBI because you can't trust them because they work in secret. Our police department here, as much as we battle and fight and argue, there is an openness to it.
 We know Chief O'Day. We know Chief Reese. We knew Chief Sizemore. We knew the personalities. FBI, shh, it's a secret. We all laughed when I said that, but it's true. It is a secret. Think about this. Senator Feinstein, one of the most powerful women in the Senate, one of the richest women in the Senate,
 could not speak about the intelligence community, even though she had a secret clearance. She could not open her mouth because it violates federal law. She would go to prison.
 It's not a rule, it's a law. If you violate confidentiality or you violate classified information, you're going to jail. And what we're asking our officers to do is to think out the FBI. What's the chances of that? That's the only input we get.
 from the offices, thinking out the FBI people that they're working with every day. Never going to happen. So that's why we're in the dark. Shh. It's a secret. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So anyone else that would like to come up early? Please, come on up. It's okay. Don't have to be shy.
 And you just have to give us your name. You don't have to give us your address. My name is Shantina Leith, and this is my daughter, Shai India Alexander. She's going to read something for us tonight. She's a very good reader. She's a little shy. Okay, go right ahead. She has a big voice, and she's a big girl. Come on. Be shy. We'd love to hear you. From the top to the bottom. Come on. From the top to the bottom. Come on, read. Come on.
 Following the Civil War, Congress submitted to the state three amendments as part of its reconstruction program to guarantee equal civil and legal rights to black citizens. The major provision of the 14th Amendment was to grant citizenship to all persons born or naturalized in the United States, thereby granting
 citizenship to former slaves another equally important provision was the statement that nor shall any state deprive any person of life liberty or property without due to process of law nor denied to any person within its jurisdiction
 The equal protection of the law is the right to due process of law and equal protection of the law now applied to both the federal and state governments on June 16, 1866. The House...
 joint resolution proposing the 14th amendment to the Constitution was submitted to the states on July 28 1868 the 14th amendment was declared and a certificate of the Secretary of State ratified by the necessary 28 of the 37 states and became part of the supreme law of the land congressman John A
 Bingham of Ohio, the primary author of the first section of the 14th Amendment, attended that the amendment also nationalized the Federal Bill of Rights by making it bending upon the state senator, Jacob Howard of Michigan, introducing the amendment that specifically stated that the privileges and immunities
 Clause would extend to the states. The personal rights guaranteed and secured by the first eight amendments, historians disagree on how widely Bingham and Howard's views were shared at the time in the Congress or across the country in general. No one in Congress explicitly...
 contradicted their view of the amendment, but only a few members said anything at all about its meaning for this issue. For many years, the Supreme Court ruled that the amendment did not extend the Bill of Rights of the state.
 to the state not only did the 14th amendment fail to extend the bill of rights to states it also failed to protect the rights of black citizens one legacy of reconstruction was the determined struggle of black and white citizens to make the promise of the 14th amendment is reality citizens petitioned yeah petition and in initiated court causes cases congress and
 acted legislation in the executive branch and taped it to enforce measures that would guard all citizen rights. While these citizens did not succeed in empowering the 14th Amendment during their reconstruction, they effectively articulated arguments and offered dissenting opinions that would be the basis for change in the 20th century.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. So what she read was just the 14th Amendment of our rights? Yep, very important. That involves slaves. Thank you for reminding us of that history. Thank you. Would you like to speak as well? What's your name? Tell us your name. Janice Walker. Thanks for coming tonight, Janice. Anything you want to add? Spit it out.
 I don't like police officers because they treat black people like we are criminals. They ride around our neighborhoods and ask us questions and it makes us feel unsafe. Thank you very much. Thank you all for coming. I appreciate you being here. That's right. It's okay to clap for kids. Thank you very much. Okay, let's move to the sign-up sheet then, please. Okay, we have about 28 people left.
 And the first three are Jamie Partridge, Michael Mayo, and Jean Yamamoto. And they'll be followed by Reverend Dr. Leroy Haynes, Brandon Mayfield, and Malcolm Shattuck. Mr. Partridge, welcome. Hi, thank you. Commissioner, Mr. Binger. I'm here representing the Portland Jobs with Justice, which is a coalition of 95 organizations, unions, community groups, faith-based organizations.
 Portland Jobs of Justice thinks that the city should not participate in the Joint Terrorism Task Force at all. We think that the legal regime created by the USA Patriot Act and the Anti-terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 is unconstitutional and creates the apparatus for police state even if it's not yet been fully applied. These laws potentially treat nonviolent organizations that coordinate or mobilize dissent
 as terrorist conspiracies. They subject nonviolent groups to surveillance on the basis of secret listing by administrative agencies that cannot be appealed. And they define terrorism in unusual, non-common sense ways that could potentially affect legitimate means of social action. For example, strikes if judged to be quote, economic coercion with a political motive, unquote. In other forms of, and other forms of legitimate and necessary resistance to oppression.
 If the city chooses to participate, it should continue to do so only on a limited case-by-case basis. Any participation should be subject to strong public reporting requirements. There should be security clearance of the commissioner of police as well as the chief of police.
 So that the Commissioner can exercise proper oversight of the Police Bureau's activities in the JTTF, the Portland Jaws of Justice objects to the fact that both versions of the draft ordinances under consideration contain no publicly accessible reporting requirements. We are concerned that officers participating in the JTTF could become a rogue entity in a similar way to the former Red Squads.
 FBI practices in JTTFs around the country, including Portland, create serious problems of religious and ethnic racial profiling. Their profiling is often aimed at vulnerable immigrant communities. This tends to deepen the Portland Police Bureau's continuing problems with racial profiling.
 Portland Jobs of Justice, thus urges the city not to spend money and energy on the JTTF participation. Instead, turn those resources to end racial profiling by police and creating robust police accountability and community oversight. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good evening. My name is Mayo, spelled M-E-O, and I am addressing you for the first time as the officially designated liaison of the Oregon...
 Pacific Green Party, which has 8,000 members and which typically runs third to the Republicans and Democrats in contested electoral seats where other minor parties participate. In my district, for example, I ran third out of six. We are here tonight to discuss the Green Party's attitude toward the JTTF of Portland's participation.
 We want to talk about in the Green Party that the FBI was founded as a political police. In the Palmer days of 1919, it was the FBI that was there to lead the charge. The FBI has an entire century of being a secret political police.
 We can ask Martin Luther King if we want anybody to tell us how the FBI treats political dissenters in the United States.
 And after the JTTF is founded and acts within the jurisdiction of this city, what do we get? We get a 19-year-old Somali immigrant whose father brought him to the attention of the federal government. We get that guy railroaded into life imprisonment and his family broken into smithereens. That's what we get from the JTTF in this city.
 Now we have that to look forward to, ladies and gentlemen, or should I say optimize. I have no intention of going into any great detail here, but I do want to tell you how horrified I am that the U.S. attorney tells us
 that there is going to be some help from the Muslim community after they are horrified that some father who tried to help his adopted country had his son stolen from him and railroaded into prison for life.
 That is horrible. And it is on a level with that same speaker addressing this group and telling us that the appeal of ISIL is just kill somebody. In fact, the Green Party of the Pacific Green Party of Oregon does not,
 want you not to join the JTTF because there's some better way to prevent terrorism. The Green Party wants to point out to you and to everybody listening that we are an imperial power, and there is opposition to the imperialism of the United States, and that is what we are doing. We are enforcing in a domestic area as well as in a foreign area. We are enforcing by violence our hegemony.
 Now, in order to stop that, the Green Party asks that we oppose the politics of fear. We do as Mr. Jama spoke. We welcome all the members of our community and trust them to work in a cooperative manner. We point out to those assembled here there are no terrorist problems in Canada. Mr. Mayo, thank you. Okay, next please.
 Mayor Hales and commissioners, my name is Jean Yamamoto, and I am a board member of the Portland Japanese American Citizens League, the Portland JACL, which is a chapter of the national organization. We are the oldest, one of the oldest Asian civil rights organizations in the United States, and I am testifying on behalf of the Portland JACL in opposition to Portland joining the JTTF.
 Over 70 years ago, in the midst of wartime hysteria and racism, men, women, and children of Japanese ancestry, many of whom were American citizens, were subjected to curfews, searches, restrictions, and finally incarceration in the name of national security. Our chapter president, Kirk Tambara, was not able to come this evening, but he would like to share his story. His grandfather, Asakichi Tambara, said,
 immigrated from Japan to work on the railroads. Leading up to World War II, he owned a restaurant called Nikko and other businesses in Portland's Japantown and was very involved with the Buddhist church. The day after Pearl Harbor was bombed, he was arrested by the FBI. Never having committed a crime, he was taken from his family and community for the entirety of the war and was sent to a detention camp in Santa Fe, New Mexico.
 A few months later, the rest of the family was sent to the Portland stockyards and then to Minidoka, where they were incarcerated until the end of the war. After the war ended, the family came back to Portland. They had lost their businesses and had to start all over again, as did many other Japanese Americans.
 And each year, the Portland JCL hosts a Day of Remembrance. Around February 19th, the date Executive Order 9066 was signed in 1942, authorizing the forced removal of all Japanese from the West Coast. We remember this to honor those who suffered grievously, but also to bear witness to a terrible time when a vulnerable community's constitutional rights were trampled and very few were there to speak up for them.
 We are at a crossroads today where fear of terrorism is creating hysteria and justifying the sacrifice of some of our civil liberties, especially if it affects the others. Seventy years ago, people who look like me and the Tambaro families were the others. Portland is better than this and must be held accountable to all our residents.
 The Portland Police are here to protect and serve and not engage in secret surveillance and other tactics that are against our values. It took 40 years of advocacy by the Japanese American community before the U.S. Congress and the President acknowledged and apologized for the unlawful violations of the civil rights of Japanese Americans during World War II. Let's not repeat the sad and regrettable history
 We ask that the Portland City Council vote to keep Portland out of the JTTF. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next three are Reverend Dr. Leroy Haynes, Brandon Mayfield, and Malcolm Chaddock, and they'll be followed by Debbie Iona, Dan Handelman, and Joanne Hardesty. Dr. Haynes, I believe you're on first. Yes. Thank you, sir. And Reverend Dr. Leroy Haynes, Jr.,
 chairperson of the Urbana-Minister Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform. To the esteemed Mayor Hills and distinguished members of the City Council, as chairperson of the Urbana-Minister Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform, came to the concern about the direction of the city in contemplating
 rejoining the Joint Terrorist Task Force. As a civil rights advocate for several decades, I've seen with my own eyes and experienced the abuse of power and authority by federal law enforcement, in particular the FBI and other state and local entities. When it comes to
 stopping the civil rights movement and the post-civil rights movement, as well as the peace movement in our nation. Indisputable evidence has been presented by congressional investigations, as well as documents from the Freedom Information Act. Whether it was from the FBI bugging of Dr. Martin Luther King and civil rights workers,
 and character assassination, domestic counterinsurgency by J. Edgar Hoover against citizens exercising their constitutional rights and civil liberties, or the systematic attack on groups like the Black Panther Party through their COINTELPRO program of the FBI. Our government...
 does not have a good track record when it comes to balancing security and constitutional rights. Let us heed the warnings of our eminent senator from Oregon, Ron Wyden, to not be driven by fear as a nation, to not so easily give up our constitutional rights and civil liberties for the promise of absolute security
 but to find a proper and appropriate balance that will not degrade the American Constitution nor our state constitution. If the option of your vote today does not include accountability, I would say and AMA say vote against joining the Joint Terrorist Task Force. Thank you very much. Good evening.
 Good evening. I want to thank the former and current council members and the former mayors and mayor for their courage to withdraw and consider participating in the JTTF on what I'll call a trial basis with attempts at full transparency and safeguards. Since I first came to Portland, I first started practicing in Lincoln County when I first came here after September 11th.
 the events of September 11, 2001. I can attest that the local FBI have been routinely questioning Muslims at home and at work, intimidating them to answer questions without counsel, have threatened to put Oregon Muslims on the no-fly list, have put them on the no-fly list if they didn't become informants, as Mr. Fadinki had said, have facilitated torture overseas of at least one Portland Muslim who's a former client of mine and a current client of mine.
 lowering at-risk youth into sting operations when such youth had no preconceived predisposition toward violence, allowed splashy headlines of said sting operations, then immediately and strategically asking to reconsider Portland rejoining the JTTF, keeping illegally obtained information called derivative materials, and then distributing said information to other agencies here and around the world, rating members of the Somali community,
 As Mr. Casey Jama had pointed out, federal agents have questioned Somali children at school without parents and again without counsel. And the U.S. Attorney's Office has been telling you that the FBI would never gather information about one's religion or keep track of such information because it's against the law, wrong and unconstitutional.
 and as some of you you may remember i was arrested on may 6 2004 in connection with the madrid bombing on the basis of a faulty fingerprint identification one in which the fbi and u.s attorney's office withheld from portland federal judge jones that the spanish police had concluded my fingerprint was not a match as early as april 13 2004 just a couple weeks before i was arrested every justification for that arrest besides the fingerprint
 had to do with me being Muslim or associating with Muslims or representing Muslims. So put quite simply, I was arrested, surveilled for being Muslim and associations with Muslims, and the FBI, U.S. Attorney's Office, Portland JTTF, procured information about Muslims that they otherwise legally could not have. And it's important. There's something I want to share with you.
 to keep in mind that I was arrested on May 6th. On May 5th, 2004, the day before I was arrested, an email was sent by Beth Ann Steele, spokesperson for the Portland FBI, admitting that they did not have probable cause that I had committed a crime and that they would arrest me as a material witness if I was outed by the media. There's something else I want to share with you that I haven't had an opportunity to share with you before.
 It comes from a formally classified document that was released to me long after the government and the Portland JTTF's blunder in my case. It's an entry from a physical surveillance log detailing surveillance conducted on March 21, 2004. And on that log, it shows that at 1.03 p.m., the special agent in front of my house...
 reports me leaving in my maroon Chevrolet and documents me going to a gas station, going to a Big Five sporting goods store, placing an item in my trunk, then removing said suspicious items at my house with my co-conspirator, who was my son Shane. So what was the suspicious and potentially dangerous item being removed from my trunk? A basketball and a basketball hoop.
 That's not the important part. The important part is that the same special agent who is at my house reports me departing from my house at 319 p.m. and at 340 p.m. the task force agent, we're talking about JTTF, task force agent reports the subject, me, standing in front of the Bel-El Mosque, which is in Beaverton.
 The FBI admitted that they had no evidence I had committed a crime, and yet the FBI and task force proceeded to collect information about my religious activities and associations. Portland task force members were violating Oregon law, which prohibits such activity, which I think addresses some of the questions you are asking for. Is there an instance? Here is an instance.
 I want you to wrap up soon. This is really important information, but we're running way over time. So to sum up, to remain in the JTTF will arguably always be unconstitutional since it's currently used primarily by federal agents to target Muslims and Muslim associations, and when that is no longer fashionable or profitable, they will use it to target the next unsuspecting Japanese, African-American, communist,
 Green Party, Cop Watch, Anti-War Protest Group, or some other anti-American labeled association. And for that reason, I respectfully ask that you consider not being a part of the JTTF, and we can still remain safe and strong. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening. My name's Malcolm Chaddock. I'm a member of Veterans for Peace and Individuals for Justice and Don't Shoot Portland. And...
 Thirteen years ago, before I moved to Portland, I was a member of Peace Fresno. Peace Fresno was infiltrated by the Joint Terrorism Task Force of Fresno County, utilizing the services of one of the sheriff's deputies there, and the only way we found out that was happening at all was because he got in a car wreck and died, and they identified him as who he really was instead of the name that we all had known him by for six months.
 Thirteen years ago, this October, will be the first time that I walked into these chambers. I'd been in Portland for about 48 hours, and I was testifying to this very issue. Thirteen years later, we're still at the same place we were back then, which was everybody...
 telling you guys that you can't trust these people. And 13 years later, we're here to finally close that out and say this is it. Okay? That's what I'm hopefully here for is to watch this end, this process, to finally go to a close. Now, today I sent you all an e-mail.
 that was kind of mixed in with an article. I hope the color differences made it comprehensible. But in the article, there was an FBI senior agent who was talking about the fact that they have to ratchet up the fear in order to keep the budget flowing.
 Okay, that's your culture that you're dealing with. That's the culture you're dealing with. You're not dealing with people who want to keep us safe. You're dealing with people who want to keep their budgets flowing. I got off the phone just a little while ago with two of my old friends from Peace Fresno.
 After all that went down, the AG of California issued another letter that said, hey, you guys really got to follow the rules. But nobody much got in any trouble except for the sheriff who had detailed that guy. He got in some other scandal in between Peace Fresno's inappropriate surveillance and some other shenanigans he was up to his career ended.
 The only thing that the JTTF ever brought Fresno that I'm aware of was liability. And I think that what they would bring Portland and have brought Portland in the past has just been liability. Thank you. Thanks very much. The next three are Debbie Iona, Dan Handelman, and Joanne Hardesty. And they'll be followed by David Hess, Jason Kofori, and Tom Nelson. Good evening. Go ahead, Dan. Oh, I'm going to let Debbie go first. Debbie first? Okay. Okay.
 It's two minutes. Good evening. Try to do it in two minutes. Oh, God. I know you can speak fast. Nobody else has those. Oh, right. Okay, thank you, because I don't think I can think that fast and downsize it by a minute and two seconds. Okay, so I'm Debbie Iona, representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. Over its 95-year history, the League has developed a set of fundamental principles upon which we act. Two of those principles directly relate to the city's relationship to the JTTF.
 The League promotes an open governmental system that is representative, accountable, and responsive, and that protects individual liberties established by the Constitution. Furthermore, it promotes political responsibility through informed and active participation in government. The League cannot support rejoining the JTTF.
 If the City assigns its officers to the task force, Portland residents will have no guarantee that the protections offered us by Oregon law will be honored. As an organization that promotes political involvement, we value prohibitions on the collection and unlimited retention of files on those engaging in political and other First Amendment activities.
 Without local oversight of our police officers, it is impossible to know if we are benefiting from those protections. The FBI is not responsible for ensuring our officers comply with state law, and asking our officers to monitor their own behavior is impractical and lacks accountability. Thank you.
 By deputizing our police as federal agents, the city will give up the right to scrutinize their day-to-day activities and record-keeping practices. This lack of oversight only invites potential abuse. Furthermore, our officers would be placed in an untenable position. They would be expected to follow Oregon law, yet must work side-by-side with agents governed by less stringent rules.
 The League also advocates for governmental transparency. If Council should decide to adopt the proposal for a more limited role in the JTTF or rejoin, we recommend rigorous oversight and regular public reporting. This should include periodic review of all critical incident and intelligence-related files by the City Attorney and the IPR Director for cases in which local officers participate.
 These reviews should be summarized in written reports presented to City Council and available to the public.
 The League believes that our democracy is strengthened and sustained by active participation in government, that participation can take many forms from casting a ballot to delivering testimony or joining in a peaceful demonstration. Involvement of that nature is threatened when individuals feel they have to look over their shoulder because they fear they are targets themselves.
 of government surveillance and file keeping again we do not support rejoining the jttf and any involvement of our officers with the task force should be carefully reviewed and reported to the public thank you thank you yeah go ahead uh good evening mayor and commissioners i'm dan handelman with portland cop watch at last year's reading of the week annual report commissioners fish novick and fritz indicated they would back the mayor for pulling out of the joint terrorism task force if he were not given security clearance
 Now it seems the Council may be okay with the Mayor merely receiving briefings from the FBI. The issue with the JTTF has always been that our Mayor is a police commissioner and it's his responsibility to be sure our officers are conducting themselves consistent with the US Constitution, Oregon law and local policies. If he cannot review the daily work of these officers, we can't hold them accountable. Having more insight is not the same as having more oversight. Resolution 1 calls to repeal the existing resolution, but retains the requirement for the Chief to have security clearance and allows participation when there is specific knowledge of an immediate threat.
 This is really the same as the case-by-case basis established in the old resolution. The mayor continues to have at least two briefings a year from the FBI. The resolution doesn't call to remove the officers of security clearance who are already available to work with the FBI, but it does remove the annual reporting requirement. Resolution 2 calls for Portland to assign two full-time officers to be part of the JTTF. The mayor will get quarterly or more frequent debriefs from the FBI, and again, there's no reporting requirement.
 It's a mistake to assume that the FBI's terrorism task forces are designed to make the community safer, when the FBI has created as many or more fake terrorism scenarios than the suspects they are tracking and often entrapping. Their investigations lead to mistrust in the community, so that even if people have been willing to come forward with information about suspicious activity, now they likely are afraid of the consequences. You've already heard this before, but the prime example is Mohammed Mohammed's father calling the FBI for his help, and his 20-something son ending up being set up and convicted for a fake plot
 created and funded by the FBI, and he's now facing 30 years in prison. Portland needs to keep being the leader on this issue. When Portland Copwatch first brought the JTTF to council's attention in 2000, then Commissioner Hales remarked that Task Force's mission sounded like something out of the Nixon era. The next year, also as you heard before, under Mark Croker, the most militaristic chief we've seen, the Portland police refused to participate in broad interrogations of our Arab and Muslim community.
 In 2005, Mayor Potter, former police chief, took Portland out of the JTTF because he could not supervise the officers without security clearance. That situation has not changed despite the proposed contract stating, as Mr. Fidenki read, appropriate supervisory personnel responsible for the police officers must apply for and receive top-secret security clearance.
 There seems to be a trend going on at City Hall. When there's a controversy, don't raise the bridge, lower the river. When we have too few affordable housing units and south waterfront, the solution is to lower the goal rather than increase the number of units. When the annual reports in the terrorism task force are inadequate, don't demand more information, just get rid of the reports.
 We've always said that if there's a real threat to public safety that's not manufactured by the FBI, the police obviously should work with the FBI to investigate and prevent harm, but there's no real mechanism to ensure that's the only situation that will work together. Unless there's fundamental reform on a federal level, including an end to restrictions on saying, for instance,
 how many times they've opened up investigations, there's no way Portland can be an active part of the JTTF. And from the point of view of our parent group, Peace and Justice Works, if the U.S. were to end its foreign policy that generates militant violence against the U.S. and its allies, we would not even be having this conversation. Thank you. Thank you.
 Joanne, welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor, City Council members. For the record, I'm Joanne Hardesty, and I'm here today in my role as president of the NAACP Portland Chapter to oppose further involvement with the Joint Tourism Task Force.
 As you may know, the mission of the NAACP is to ensure the political, educational, social, and economic equality of rights of all persons and to eliminate racial hatred and discrimination.
 We expect the city mayor would obtain top-secret clearance in order that the office would oversee city employees, including Portland police officers, when they act in our community on behalf of federal agencies. This has never happened.
 We were promised the chief would make annual reports to the city council. We've watched you accept over and over again an empty report from a police bureau supposedly under your authority. We have grave concerns that civilian authority cannot exert itself over Portland Police's role in the JTTF.
 We assert the electorate cannot offer consent of the governed when we are kept in the dark as to secret matters. We are finding our 100-year history of the NAACP Portland chapter includes FBI infiltration, disinformation, instigators, and other government-sponsored terrorist activities.
 They have impeded our anti-war, pro-civil rights efforts. We know too little about JTTF collaboration against Occupy Portland and currently against the Black Lives Matter efforts here and across the country. Recent events indicate these practices continue. And like Contel Pro and the torture of uncharged prisoners, history will prove this also.
 We have entered a surveillance society. Our local police force grows increasingly militarized. We have no reason to believe a partnership with federal agencies who help provide the city with these intrusive resources will give us any protection.
 Your failure to provide oversight, your complicity and secrecy has us suspecting we're not giving up our right to be free from warrantless search, that we're inviting secret police into our organizations. If you do not withdraw Portland from federal collusion, you are asking the NAACP to continue to labor under conditions which have hampered our struggle for so long.
 We draw your attention to the federal role in fabricating a terrorist plot here in Portland. We believe as well as falsely targeting Brandon Mayfield as a terrorist are indications that federal agents are surveilling and then toggling our Muslim community. Our analysis is that you are not engaged in protecting our community. You are threatening us.
 The JTTF has found a foothold in Portland's racist culture. We ask you to take this target off our backs. Rather than inspiring a culture of fear, how about helping Portlanders adopt a culture of care? Rather than signing off on secrecy, why not stand for values of transparency and accountability? Give up this failed Bush policy. Say no to the JTTF.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. If I might, I have 30 seconds more. You asked a question of the police chief, and I'm paraphrasing. The mayor's question about what is the incentive for Portland Police Bureau to report unconstitutional practices of the JTTF? I have two names for you, James Chassie and Keith Notice. Portland police officers stood around and watched Portland police officers stomp James Chassie to death.
 If they can't control people within their own bureau, why would we believe they would be able to control FBI agents? Mm-hmm.
 The second question, the Attorney General says we should trust her because she sued Portland Police Bureau. As this city council knows, the AMA Coalition for Justice and Police Reform, because we could not get justice at this city council with the police commissioner, with the police chiefs, went to the federal government in D.C. and asked the Civil Rights Division to come and investigate Portland Police.
 And so when an official misrepresents who did what and then wants us to just trust her. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question for the three of you. Mr. Handelman, I really appreciate you bringing to my attention the wording in the resolution, which is titled...
 not enter into a memorandum of understanding. It, however, does say that, be it further resolved, the City of Portland will continue its current practice of not participating in the JTTF investigations, which our current practice is to kind of. So I'm wondering if the three of you, while we hear more testimony, could work on some amended language for...
 for this resolution to make it more clear. I mean, it seems to me reasonable that we should have the police chief to have some kind of secret clearance so that when something comes up,
 Otherwise, the FBI doesn't get to talk to him ever. I don't know. Commissioner Fritz, are you suggesting that if something happened, like happened in Paris or Boston or New York, that the FBI would come to the chief of police here and say, sorry, we're not going to involve you in this investigation because you don't have the appropriate clearance?
 Do you think that's going to happen? Because I think that would be really petty and ridiculous. So I don't think that we should keep the secret security clearance. I think it just allows him and encourages him in the resolution, as it's written, to sit in on the FBI task force meetings every month or quarterly or however often they are. We don't really know.
 There's no reason for it. So if the three of you would like to look at that resolution, and as I continue to hear testimony, pass me a strikeout amended version of it, I'd be very happy to consider introducing that as a proposed amendment. Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Fritz, my best recommendation is just say no to the JTTF. Yes, but we have to have language saying that. I'd be happy to give you just say no. Okay.
 I will work on it for you, Commissioner. What we tried to do with these two resolutions is make each option clear and decisive, because as Dan recounted, I'm not, and I think none of us is fully satisfied, most of us are not satisfied at all with the current sort of halfway relationship.
 So we tried to set this whole proceeding up with both clarity of wording in each option and clarity of presentation by those who have the two different views. So I think we're doing that. But I'm not convinced that that's right. We may not have gotten the words right. Appreciate that, Mayor. And then have the city attorney take a look at what you're proposing that –
 I'd like to get to something on the table that we could then take some more testimony on tonight. Thank you. And I just want to say I appreciate that. But what you heard from the Attorney General was that you're either all in or you're out. And so there is no wiggle room with language, right? No, no. We're not looking for wiggle room in the law.
 room in the language. We currently have the relationship that we have. So we need to figure out the language which ends that and is very clear. No, we're not participating. So that's what I'm asking you to tell us. If I may recommend, I think David Fidenki knows this law much better than us. And with the information he provided with you tonight, I think you would be able to
 get much better information if you talk to the ACLU about what that language should be. I would be very uncomfortable trying to suggest some language, because what I heard from the Attorney General is you're either all in or all out, and I believe her on that. Thank you. U.S. Attorney, yes. Thank you. We'll touch base with each other and get back to you. Okay. Thank you. The next three are David Hess, Jason Kofori, and Tom Nelson. Thank you.
 and they'll be followed by Maxine Fuchsen, Martin Slapekas, and Bill Micton. Hi, good evening. Thank you. I'm David Hess. Greg Cofori couldn't be here tonight, so he asked that I just read a statement on his behalf. Should the city of Portland continue its relationship with the FBI? This is, at its core, a symbolic vote. The FBI does what it wants. Should one city say no? In the mid-1960s, after the tyrannical purges of the McCarthy era,
 J. Edgar Hoover felt it was his prerogative to select America's great black leader. First, he had to take out the formidable indigenous black leadership. His efforts to destroy the lives of Martin and Malcolm are well known. After that, he turned local police units into virtual death squads, targeting Black Panther Party headquarters from coast to coast until the mayor of Seattle disclosed the FBI's role in these attacks. We all know these headline stories, but let's consider the small stories.
 In 1970, I was in a graduate school class at the University of Oregon, where we sought to discover what had happened to those U of O kids who had gone to the South as civil rights workers in 1964's Mississippi Summer. I found a young woman at the end of the earth teaching at a job course center in Astoria. She told me that she had had a number of jobs since college, but that each time the FBI would visit her boss, she would be fired.
 In 1977, under President Carter, I was able to get my FBI file. The first item was a letter saying that it was nice that two Whitman College students were going to the South to register Negroes to vote. I was named. That letter was published in the spring of 1965 in the Walla Walla Union Bulletin. This was not in the age of computers, but the age of scissors. Beyond the headlines, the daily work of the FBI has gone on and goes on.
 One commentator suggests that we think the FBI is a domestic political secret police with its law enforcement functions serving largely as a front. Over time, the political targets have evolved from civil rights workers, black activists, Vietnam War opponents, anti-nuclear groups, to peace activists and environmental activists. Now it is the Muslims' turn, as their mosques are infiltrated and their children solicited by skilled agents provocateurs.
 Looking back, how successful was Hoover's plan to supplant the many strong black leaders with a satrap? Do you recall who President Obama sent to Ferguson? It was not a modern Martin or Malcolm or Brother Stokely. It was Al Sharpton, the FBI informant. Not to resist is to collaborate. Someone, some city, should say no. And I would also like to add that historically, secret police do not make communities safe.
 You just ask the citizens of Chile, El Salvador, Guatemala, or Germany. We don't need secret police, not even two, because if two are okay, what about five? What about 10? Maybe 20. Two is the beginning, but where is the end? Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I'm Jason Kafouri, and I'm speaking today on behalf of the Oregon Progressive Party. Our party has...
 been at the forefront against this effort for years. We've led demonstrations. We've gone into various city hall offices with petitions. I'm happy to see that it looks like throughout this debate we're starting to coalesce around either all in or all out, because I think that really has to be the answer. And I would like to have a clear vote, and I hope over the next two weeks while we await this debate, we'll be able to see what happens.
 this vote that everybody is on the same page that it's either all in or all out, because I think that's critical for our city.
 I asked a couple years ago when we were having the same debate, what is the benefit to our community of being in? And that was the question that you asked, Mayor. And I think that the burden for the benefit shouldn't be on us. It should be on those that want us to be a part of it. And what I just heard today was, well, we may get some information faster, and we may be able to train some people. And then there's this...
 ephemeral idea that Portland police officers are going to somehow make the FBI better by putting Portland values in there? Come on. I mean, let's be realistic about this. The FBI is going to do what the FBI wants to do. The only question before us is, are we going to be the only city, only major city in America that's going to take a stand? And do you know how many other cities around the country are probably watching what this vote means? I
 A lot of people around the country are watching what this city means, and we have a serious responsibility to maintain this position of not joining the Terrorism Task Force. I think the most critical question is, that has not really been addressed now, what, from the time we've been out of the JTTF over the years, what harm happened? What did we as Portlanders not get? What information was missed? And the answer is,
 I've never been presented, and I don't know if you have any answer to that. But I think that's something to think about. What did we really miss out on and lose when we weren't part of the JTTF? We've all heard these examples. We heard from Attorney Mayfield about what happened with his personal experience. I want to just to give you a sense of what the FBI has done for the last 30 years. Let's look at the Washington Post from this summer.
 For the last three decades, the FBI has been sending into courtrooms people to testify, forensic experts, and there is now an inquiry into 2,600 convictions, 45 death row cases.
 about whether the scientific evidence of hair matches that happened at the FBI was completely unscientific and shouldn't have happened. And this is three decades later, this inquiry is being done. I mean, these are people who are now spending their lives behind bars who were sent to their death.
 because the FBI maintained a system of sending forensic experts in and matching hair samples without any further evidence. When you come down to what the FBI wants to do, the FBI is going to do what it wants, not what Portland wants. And we need to be the city to take a stand and stay out and all out. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening.
 Good evening. I'm Thomas Nelson. I'm an attorney. I'm representing tonight the National Lawyers Guild Portland Chapter, and also a young man by the name of Jonas Ficre, who's been referred to, not by name, by Mr. Mayfield. I have made a formal filing. I've handed it in to the clerk, and I'm not going to get into that, because I kind of wanted to respond to some of the issues as they've been coming up tonight. I think you should look around the room and ask yourself, where are the immigrant Muslims? Yes.
 They are the ones who are most directly affected by what you're talking about tonight. There's very few here. One of them is my wife. They're not here because they're afraid. They think, and I would say they probably know, that if they show up at something like this that is critical of the FBI, they're going to wear a target. They're going to be gone after. How do I know this? I'm kind of the go-to guy when an FBI agent calls somebody associated with a mosque.
 or calls them at home and i get these calls because i've been handling these kinds of cases
 Specifically, I've been handling Jonas Fikre's case. I mentioned him. Very briefly, without telling you the whole story here, he was interrogated without a lawyer in Sudan. He was told he's on the no-fly list. After that, he was imprisoned and tortured in the UAE for 106 days, and then because he's on the no-fly list, couldn't go home. Therefore, he goes to Sweden, where he is right now. We're trying to bring him home. We're going to try to do that. My point is Mr. Fikre was targeted by the FBI.
 He was not convicted of anything. He was released without charge by the UAE, but he's still in Sweden. And the Muslim community in Portland knows his story. And they know the story of Mohammed Mahmoud. They know these things.
 As I said, I get a number of calls from the community, how do I deal with this? And I always try to tell them, for God's sake, don't talk to the FBI unless you have a lawyer present. And when I get involved to that extent and I call the FBI and say, I understand you want to talk to somebody, I'll be happy to show up. They say, well, that's okay. We really don't need to. We don't want to.
 Going back to the bigger issue, I heard the chief of police talk tonight about trust in Portland. I was a charter member of something that we used to call the American Muslim Public Affairs Group, something that met with the Portland Police Bureau once a month or so. And that was an exceptionally good group because we could sit around and we could share sometimes confidential concerns.
 Just because of the hour, I want you to wrap that up. Wrap that up really quickly. We could share confidential concerns, but when in 2011 the JTTF came forward again, we dropped it. I dropped it. I dropped out because I figured I'm just going to be a conduit to the FBI, and we don't want that. The Muslim community in Portland needs police help and support.
 They need to trust the police, but they will not trust the police if the JTTF is involved. Finally, in this submission, there's a reference to former police chief Roseanne Sizer and her involvement in Jonas Fickler's case. I suggest you read it. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next three are Maxine Fuchsen, Martin Slapikas, and Bill Mickton, and they'll be followed by Teresa Rayford, Sharon Maxwell, and Lightning. Thank you.
 Hi, thank you. Thank you very much for allowing us to testify. My name is Maxine Fuchsen, and I'm here representing the group Jewish Voice for Peace Portland Chapter. I'm here to speak in favor of the city of Portland not participating at all in the Joint Terrorism Task Force, not even on a case-by-case basis.
 And since it appears at this point that that position is not represented in either of the resolutions being presented, we would recommend that it be stipulated that any mayoral review of Portland's participation in the JTTF on a case-by-case basis be transparent so that the public is informed of the city's role and can be ensured that civil liberties and Oregon law are fully being respected.
 It's been well documented that in the aftermath of 9-11, the FBI engaged in massive surveillance of Muslim communities across the country with no probable cause other than their religion. We at Jewish Voice for Peace are particularly sensitive to the persecution based on religious beliefs or minority status. Historically, we Jews have been persecuted and discriminated against for these reasons, particularly in Europe, but also here in the United States.
 After 9-11, however, a wave of hysteria and suspicion targeted our Muslim brothers and sisters. And instead of anti-Semitism, we witnessed Islamophobia, which is aided and abetted by those in power who seek to promote their own agendas. As you've heard tonight, Portland is not at all exempt from this Islamophobia, and that's why we're particularly concerned about the city's participation.
 We all heard from Brandon Mayfield about the horrible and flimsy and inaccurate information that was used that led to his arrest. That proved to be a major embarrassment for the FBI. The systemic intimidation of the Muslim community in Portland is well known and also not well known. We all have heard of families, friends of ours within the Muslim community who find the FBI at their door.
 had to endure questioning about friends and other acquaintances, had their computers confiscated in search for no probable cause other than their religion and immigrant status. Can you appreciate how intimidating and fear-inducing this is? We in Portland need to stand against participation in any police surveillance that violates our civil liberties or puts any community under suspicion and fear.
 We at Jewish Voice for Peace know all too well what can result when governments target a religious minority, and we speak out against that happening here. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Slopikis, welcome. Mayor Hales, commissioners, my name is Marty Slopikis. I currently live in northeast Portland.
 Referencing a report issued in the year 2000 by the U.S. Commission on National Security for the 21st Century, co-chaired by former Senators Redmond and Hart, I submitted more detailed remarks earlier this week stating reasons why the city's involvement should be all in. The report outlined threats and recommendations to counteract those threats to the U.S. It listed six threat areas, seven strategic functions,
 Four levels of involvement, federal, state, local, and private involvement. Each level of government involvement must satisfy 42 distinct mission areas, primarily gathering current and accurate information. I listed seven of my concerns in that detail. They are, should city council vote on an all-out policy of the Joint Terrorism Task Force participation, upon what definition of terrorism will that decision be based?
 If Portland is no longer to participate in its share of national security, does the city have the resources to protect its citizens from threats listed in the Commission's report? Will Portland no longer share its information with the federal government? Four, does the city of Portland have the capacity and financing to perform the requirements of the strategic functions listed in the Commission's report under an all-out policy? Five,
 Number five, if not, what is the role of the city to be in protecting its citizens? Six, if Portland is no longer to participate in the terrorism task force, what strategic role is to be expected of Portland residents at the private involvement level? And seven, would an all-out policy create a double standard of crime investigation? City leaders desire Portland's participation in the global economy. Like it or not, Portland is on a global two-way street.
 participating in the global economy should clearly alert city leaders and, frankly, residents to take notice of the obvious threat of global terrorism to our local citizens.
 institutions, and economy. Certain Portland neighborhoods already experienced the potential of coal and oil train disasters, either natural or man-made. The city is currently negotiating with Pembina to locate large-capacity propane storage tanks on Terminal 6 at the Port of Portland. There is a risk to the citizens of this city when it permits such endeavors. Like it or not, the city of Portland is and should be involved in the fight against terrorism.
 The issue is not one of Portland no longer controlling our own intelligent resources, but rather joining and sharing our resources for the benefit of the whole nation,
 Violence against unarmed civilians, such as what we experience as a nation in New York City, D.C., Oklahoma, Boston, and the potential of our own, our very own Portland Christmas bomber, is very possible once those who wish to do so realize how unprotected, how unprepared Portland and America truly is. In my view, Portland's continued participation in the Portland protests
 Joint Terrorism Task Force is a major concern of each neighborhood association, business, and citizen in the City of Portland, and even the State of Oregon. City Council is considering a binding city policy on this issue. It impacts our safety and will have reverberations to our city economy and around the nation. On January 20, 2015, I've just got another quarter of a page. Thank you.
 On January 20, 2015, issue of the Portland Tribune, the legislative director of the ACLU is quoted as believing the city should fully withdraw from the JTF. She states, the FBI has a well-documented history of abusing the rights of law-abiding citizens.
 I would suggest there are those who successfully attacked us, who continue to threaten us, who have already demonstrated a history of not only abusing the rights of law-abiding citizens, but also abusing our right to live. And they are doing this on a global basis. No one can enjoy a freedom to worship, a freedom of their property, or enjoy a freedom of speech, or a freedom of the press, or even a protection of civil liberties unless we first enjoy that freedom, the freedom to live.
 What I ask of this council debate is how the City of Portland will use its resources to protect the society that is tolerant
 from violence by a society of the intolerant, particularly when that violence is delivered by folks who have no consideration as to whether they live or die. Do not put us in a position of no longer participating in the Portland Joint Terrorism Task Force. The city's involvement should be all in. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Hi, I'm Bill Mictum. I live downtown. Hi.
 I thought the ACLU covered the facts quite well, and I'll be talking a little more emotionally, though still unlike the U.S. Attorney's testimony, I'm going to be factual. The U.S. Attorney's testimony was rife with fear-mongering and propaganda. She leaves out national security letters, which not only...
 go into people's personal lives, but then gag them from even talking about it. She didn't talk about Brandon Mayfield, who fortunately was here, to speak for himself. She talked about all the training that they're receiving to do good work, but based on her testimony, that training is mostly in propaganda and fear-mongering. One of the things that I was stunned by was calling the...
 the marathon bombing a success of the Joint Terrorism Task Force. I thought the idea of this thing was to prevent terrorist acts.
 The FBI, speaking of not preventing terrorist acts, was informed before abortion provider George Tiller was assassinated that the very person who did the assassination had vandalized a clinic right there where he lived. And their response was nothing.
 Okay. Uh, also, uh, earlier people mentioned the idea of the police chief considering having two police bureau officers working with the JTF is safer than having one who might disappear into the JTF culture. And this, uh, earlier person said two won't disappear. Um, you know, another thing that the, uh, us attorney said was that the FBI helps lost loaners, uh,
 And then she referred to, she didn't refer to Muhammad Muhammad as one of those loners they were helping. She didn't refer to Christopher Cornell, who was just busted for being set up by the FBI. This is a 20-year-old unemployed living at home, spending most of his time playing video games in the bedroom and still calling his mother mommy.
 a person who considers his cat his best friend. He posted radical things on the Internet and then was roped into an FBI-created plot. I also bring to mind Brandenburg v. Ohio, where that kind of speech is completely protected. That was a case that involved a Ku Klux Klan member calling for...
 radical, violent behavior. Okay? That was protected. Anwar al-Awlaki was murdered for the same kind of speech. This is what we want? Stay out of the Joint Terrorism Task Force. And I might say, not to be too rude, just rude enough, do not listen to this man who just preceded me. That was rude enough. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you.
 The next three are Teresa Rayford, Sharon Maxwell, and Mr. Lightning, and they'll be followed by Zachariah Muhammad, Charles Johnson, and Trudy Cooper. I don't think we got the words on the page right. Good evening. Welcome. Hello.
 All right, so for the record, my name is Teresa Rayford. I'm a representative of the city of Portland. I'm a fourth-generation Oregonian. I'm also representing Don't Shoot Portland and the Black Lives Matters. In regards to this, first of all, I would say vote no on JTTF. You don't need it. You're not responsible enough to handle it. First of all, I don't fully trust our local police department.
 Second of all, I don't believe this city leadership has the public safety as a high priority, not as high as the priority of appearing to be the best city in America. I also have an issue with the PR for the JTTF and other policing needs here in my city.
 For example, I learned about the JTTF pilot program at a meeting in the Donald E. Long Center, which included members of Multnomah County, Portland Public Schools, and several other agencies like the Oregon Youth Authority that deal with our youths.
 In this meeting, in the presentation, I was advised that this opportunity would help Oregonians police force, the gang task force and the FBI, I guess, identify and red flag terrorists in our communities. The terrorist on the paper that they showed us was basically a head circled around with a line to a school, a line to a neighborhood, a line to a family member.
 and aligned to the society in which they were raised. And they said that based on those characteristics around that head, that there was a likelihood that that person would turn into a gang member.
 Shortly after that, I heard Senator Wyden, after a gang task force meeting over there on Emerson, 449 Northeast Emerson, stating that this was a generational problem and that we needed to continue the funding into our police force so that we could offset the issues that we had to deal with these terrorists or these gang members in our community. At that point, I felt like he was a terrorist because he was in my community calling people that looked like me, ages 15 to 25 years old, terrorists.
 and saying that we needed this money and the support in order to investigate them to keep our community safe.
 From the time that the Portland Police Union, back in 1983 and in 81, decided to pull terrorizing tactics against our citizenship, we have not been safe in this community. If you do this, we're not going to be safe in this community. Those children that told you how they feel about the police, that's how I feel about the police. We're not going to get along with you if you continue to terrorize us in our community. Thank you. Good evening.
 Good evening. Some great speakers earlier. I'll try to make my points. Oh, just put your name in the record, Lightning. Yes, sir. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. Unnecessary secrecy breeds suspicion. That's what the FBI represents. That's their culture.
 The FBI is going to make decisions to withhold information in favor of pursuing a prosecution investigation rather than empowering local officials to protect public safety. They've denied you security clearance. You're an elected official. They can make that change if they wanted to, to allow you to have that clearance as an elected official. They will not do that.
 We have to understand that we need to, like people have stated, be in or out, and there's no being in this situation. Everything that you're going to sign with the FBI will be a one-sided agreement. They will control everything, all the information. There is no agreement that you can submit and sign to that will not be in favor of the FBI. Now, you've stated that you want to try to have some limitations or add some other...
 verbiage into these agreements, I don't think you're going to be able to do anything. And the best thing to do is stay completely out and understand that they are going to control the information. They're going to control what you do. And is that necessary for the public safety? I don't see why you've ever been in an agreement with JTTF to begin with. It does not make any sense
 and you have to have some type of control on what you are doing. If Portland police want to work for the FBI, just go work for the FBI. We don't need an agreement here.
 We don't need an agreement, and they can still provide and we can still have collaboration with the FBI, but there is no reason to have people within the FBI signed under these type agreements. It does not make any sense for the public safety. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Sharon Maxwell. I'm a citizen of the United States of America and a citizen of Portland, Oregon. In 1980, we were told that there were three gang members from the Crips gang out of Los Angeles that brought crack cocaine into the community. What I've
 giving you is a document that was written by Peter Dale Scott, the North Iran Contra and Doomsday Project, an original congressional cover-up of continuity of government planning. What I'd like to do is read a few of the excerpts, but before I do that, I would like to ask that you do not
 Do not, do not, do not participate in the Joint Terrorist Task Force because it was the Joint Terrorist Task Force that brought crack cocaine into our community and destroyed the African-American community that also created the school-to-prison pipeline. Let me ask you to not read from this, but just give us your thoughts because we can read this.
 You know, later. Well, I want the people that are here as part of my testimony. Take some excerpts. Thank you. That's what I said. Assembled in this documentation on what we know as continuity of government planning, part of this planning on doomsday project and documents of the U.S. terrorism as a pretext to justify it and the abuse of constitutional government.
 Part of this was to fight a declared proxy war against Nicaragua in defiance of congressional opposition, plan for massive warrantless detention, create special networks for developing policy at odds with the White House policies, use public-generated funds to defeat opponents of the Contra and proxy war in Congress, use publicly-generated funds to propagandize the American people, use publicly-generated funds to interfere with the witness-
 with contra-terrorism, which is also part of the Joint Terrorist Task Force, falsely claimed that the witnesses themselves were terrorists, cover-up contra-drug trafficking that thwarted Senator Kerry's investigation of this case,
 Part of this, the practice was uncomfortably close to the U.S. government. These funds, which were used to bring crack cocaine into the United States of America and into the urban African-American communities that destroyed them. By creating a counterterrorism network with its own secure system of intelligence, communication channels were created from which bureaucrats could
 with opposing viewpoints could simply exclude the counterterrorism network, even at its own special worldwide anti-terrorism computer network's codename, Flashboard, which members could communicate exclusively with each other without collaborators abroad knowing. This was done through mid-level operatives. They were called the CABLE, the counterterrorism.
 Thank you very much. I want you to stop there because we're running out of time. Well, no, I want my full time. Thank you. You actually had it. No, I didn't. There's 41 seconds left for me to. It's going up because you're over time. Okay. Anyway, I am filing a Department of Justice complaint that our African Americans have
 First Amendment rights, the Fifth Amendment rights, and the 14th Amendment rights have been violated. We've been discriminated against. You have killed 1,058 people from 1980
 to 2013 because of the war on drugs, and therefore we need to make sure that restitution of economic loss and life of our community is restored as a part of this Joint Terrorist Task Force that it has done this destruction right here on American soil to American people.
 Your informants are still in our city. We need them gone. They're causing way too much gang violence, and you need to quit blaming it on us when you know that you guys are the ones who hired them. The next three are Zachariah Muhammad, Charles Johnson, and Trudy Cooper. And then the last three who signed up are Nancy Newell, Michael Withey, and Judith Boothby. Good evening.
 Hello, my name is Zachariah Muhammad and I want to thank you Mayor Hales and City Commissioners on letting me testify why Portland should pull out on joining the JTTF. I want to start out by saying I am a Muslim, I'm black, I'm African, I'm a Somali, I'm a refugee, and bilingual. To most, this would seem a list of something to not be proud of, but I take in full pride in all the identities I hold.
 I know what it is to feel profiled. Since 9-11, having the last name Mohammed raises an eyebrow, and still to this day. One story I can share is walking to a bus stop with my mother at 11 years old. We were targeted and called terrorists because she wears a hijab.
 We are almost into the sixth day of Black History Month. I want to highlight the names of MLK, Malcolm X, WB Du Bois, Marcus Garvey, Angela Davis, Asada Shakur. What all these amazing people have in common is that the FBI or COINTELPRO has targeted them and marked them terrorists.
 Mohammed Mahmoud is a name that has been said throughout this hearing. He was a resident of Beaverton. His mother, Mariam Barra, life is ruined because her son has been sentenced to 30 years in prison. Osman Barra, the father, has lost his son to the prison system. The police is supposed to protect and serve its community. Let's have them do that. The JTTF profiles intimidates people.
 We do not need that. I am a community organizer for a center for intercultural organizing. Prior to this hearing, I have called many of my Muslim friends to testify against this. But as Casey has said earlier, that the FBI is a word that is a taboo in Muslim culture. This is a triggering topic. It's similar to Voldemort, he who must not be named in the Harry Potter book series.
 My friends are some who I feel are very versed in politics and have interesting conversations with. But getting them to testify was hard because they feel they are better off in being silent and not in the horizon or anger the FBI than to be intimidated and be put in a box. One thing I want to conclude is...
 I want everyone to remember Tom Potter was the previous Portland Chief and also former mayor and was against us. Joining the FBIJTTF only complicates accountable law enforcement. I thank you for letting me testify. Thank you for testifying. Thank you. Good evening. Assalamualaikum warahmatullahi wabarakatuh. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And all these people, even Marty, are here to testify about peace.
 and peace is not what we're going to get with further cooperation with the JTTF. It just doesn't work that way. The FBI was not trying to bring peace in the days of Martin Luther King, and the FBI is not trying to bring peace now. They've been a tool in a ridiculous, corrupt drug war that has hurt this nation more than it's helped this nation. Just the only thing that ever came, perhaps came good out of the Republican Party is Nancy Reagan said three words, just say no.
 That is the correct response, both to overusing narcotic substances and to the JTTF. It's absolutely insane that you think we need a bunch of memorandums and documents for sworn law enforcement officers to protect us. They should just do it because they're good people. And then when they go overboard and they spy on people, they should be punished. But the FBI never punishes excessive law enforcers.
 So we can't trust them to do the JTTF either. Just say no will be just as safe, actually safer, than every other city in America.
 So don't think that we need to take two people out of the Portland Police Department and make them special JTTF liaisons and come up with nine positions to put body cameras on people so we can have more surveillance. No. Let the citizens train and interact with the police. Stay out of the JTTF. That's all that you need to do. Write a very short memorandum that says...
 The City of Portland is confident that the FBI sort of wants to protect people and doesn't need some fancy memorandums of understanding to do that, and that they will share information that actually relates to real threats without a bunch of stupid paperwork. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Trudy. Hello, Commissioner and Mayor. My name is Trudy Cooper.
 I think it's clear from everything we've heard tonight that there's a basic contradiction between the culture of the JTTF and the FBI and local law enforcement and this city. And I think that, you know, people have testified a lot to the secrecy. I think there's two other characteristics that we were hearing full bore from the U.S. attorney, and that's in duplicity and propaganda. People have mentioned the case of Mohammed Mohammed several times already.
 I'd like to just point out one other thing, and that is that his father not only didn't get what he wanted when he asked for help, he also got the entrapment of his son based on his son's thoughts, not on his son's action. There was no criminal action that led to that investigation. Yet what we heard that U.S. attorney say this evening was three things.
 We don't need to make someone a terrorist who is not. She was talking glowingly of their outreach efforts and their style of investigation. The second thing she said was, we help steer someone off the path in the course of the investigation. The third thing she said was, and mere speech alone does not justify an investigation. It doesn't build trust.
 for a partnership, for this kind of propaganda and misrepresentation to be coming to a community where we were there, we saw this. She also represented it as the guy who tried to bomb thousands of people in the square without mentioning that it was a sting.
 She also assured us the chain of command in the Portland Police Bureau would be intact, that the two officers would report to be answerable to the lieutenant, the lieutenant to the chief, the chief to the mayor. But we know that due to the top secret clearance that that's not the case.
 The problem all along with the JTTF is that the mayor has no oversight and that the police act independently in relation to the JTTF. What we're asking you today to decide is, is this acceptable to continue a situation in which police act independently of the entity that employs them?
 It's a simple question of who's the boss. If we agree that it's the JTTF, then we're agreeing that the FBI is the boss. I want our city to continue to be the boss of itself in relation to these issues of community and safety. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. The last three who signed up are Nancy Newell, Michael Withey, and Judith Boothby. Thank you.
 Well, I might amend that very quickly. Good evening. Good evening. I'm Nancy Newell. I'm here today to say that I am quite popular with the FBI. Everything that that fellow mentioned that sat here previous to me, I was listed as participatory in and followed by the FBI throughout my life. I'm very proud of my accomplishments, and I've saved a lot of people's lives, and I
 created a better quality of life. What I'd like to point out to you is definitely no on the JTTF. I think that's an easy thing for this council to do. And there is terrorism happening in Portland right now, and it's our own government that is spraying the skies with chemtrails. And it has been covered up since I did a TV show here in Portland 15 years ago. Now the government of Italy, because NATO also sprays aerosol spraying from airplanes,
 is the chemicals that are in it, nanotechnologies, it's horrible. They revealed the whole thing. They've sued NATO. And I think this council should pay attention to that form of terrorism and clear the skies like Hawaii, certain sections of Hawaii have succeeded in doing. I asked the county to do so. They said it's not their authority to do that. But I think we could do it, and I think we could stop this activity because it's harmful.
 It causes Alzheimer's. It causes cancer. It causes destruction of soils. It's endless. So anyway, I just wanted to bring that to your attention. Thank you. Good evening. Hi. My name is Judith Boothby. Thank you for this hearing. I think it's very important. I've been to many of these hearings since the start of them. I'm just a citizen. I'm a health care provider. And I want to just talk about basic neurology.
 Anytime you have an issue that somebody is afraid of or they are in pain over, you never try to address the issue directly. That just makes the pain brain bigger. And thinking that the FBI is going to solve this problem, it doesn't even talk to why we even have the problem to begin with. We need to learn to share. You know, if you have people that are disenfranchised,
 Why would anybody do these acts unless they had nothing to lose? So as a culture, if we say, oh, gosh, you're scared, let's solve your scared problem by making this very expensive thing, that will make people dumber. And every person needs to learn to be brave. That's the only thing that will make our culture stronger. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Withey, I think you get the last word. I get the last word. That's pretty unusual. So really, this is a pretty easy one. It's pretty simple. It doesn't seem like many people at all that I've spoken with in the city really feel comfortable about an arrangement with the federal government. We think that you, as our elected president,
 police commissioner should have at least the clearance to know exactly what they're up to. And if our elected official, the mayor, who is in charge of our entire police department, the safety of our city is being left out of the loop, none of us are comfortable with that. It's a no and a no on both of these proposals. If you want to redo the proposal and just say no thanks, I think that's the proposal that you should vote in. Now, that one statement –
 from whichever of the three that were up here originally, the pro-JTT guys, which I just found pretty preposterous throughout their whole testimonies. I couldn't really know where they picked up or left off.
 what was true or not. But one thing stuck out in my mind. Yes, we are the only major city without a good coalition with a joint terrorism task force. But we're also the only major city without poison in our water, and it's for a reason. It's just because we don't like poison in our water, and we don't want poison in our police department. We have enough of that. That's it. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, I think we're going to...
 okay close the hearing but i think we're going to stay in session for a moment because we've got some ideas about amendments and i think we want to get those in on the table now because we are going to leave the record open for a couple weeks for people to be able to write right in so um i think the goal here is to further clarify
 the resolution number 146, which is saying we're not going to participate. So Commissioner Fritz, I think you have some language, and I think you're right. We don't need to keep the remnant of that one whereas. So why don't you articulate that? We'll see if there's a second, and maybe we can put that into the draft. Thank you.
 As of tonight. So, and as the mayor has said, we're leading the record open. We said that we would do that. We want more public comment. When we come back to vote on the resolutions, we need to be very clear. We need to have the resolution before us that we want to vote on. If we were to amend it at the next hearing, then we would have to have another hearing. This has been a wonderful nearly four-hour hearing. I think we've very...
 thoroughly aired the issues during what was almost a work session for the first two hours, and then we've had some terrific testimony. So in response to this testimony, I'm going to propose I move the following changes to Agenda Item 146, which is the City of Portland shall not enter into a memorandum of understanding with the federal FBI and JTTF.
 The current language starts with, be it resolved that it is the policy of the city simultaneously to help prevent and investigate criminal acts of terrorism, protect civil rights and civil liberties under United States and Oregon law, and promote Portland as an open and inclusive community. So that would stay. And then it would say, and, be it further resolved that the city of Portland shall not participate in the joint terrorism task force.
 And then we would strike, be it for the...
 So this is a proposing language, and we don't know whether there's support on the council for in or out, but this is the proposed new language. We would strike the next four be it resolved. So strike the be it resolved about the police chief seeking clearance. Strike the be it resolved about the regular briefings. Strike the be it resolved that the city will continue its current practice if not participating, because I think what I've just proposed is much clearer. Then leave in...
 Be it further resolved, the provisions of this resolution are binding city policy and no element can be changed without an open public hearing and ratification by city council and leave in, be it further resolved, that resolution number 36859 is hereby repealed. Is there a second for that language? Second. And further discussion about adopting those amendments. I guess my question to the sponsor is,
 Just the rationale for eliminating the resolved. Which resolved? The ones you've eliminated. Well, we want to be really clear that we're not participating. That's what we've heard from public testimony, and I think this is the clearest way to do it. The police chief doesn't need authority from the city council to seek clearance on whether they get secret clearance, I would say that. We don't need a council resolution to,
 I think that what this is trying to do, as Mr. Handelman testified, is to carve out something like it but without the annual reporting, and that's not what we're – That wasn't our intent. The intent is we're not participating. So we just say we shall not participate in the Joint Terrorism Task Force. We don't need to go into all those other details about –
 the extent to which we're not participating, we're just not participating. Right, right. Yeah, no, I think that's really, frankly, remnant language from the current ordinance that shouldn't have been in this version in the first place. And I want to clarify the point you just made, and that is we don't have to pass
 a resolution for the police chief to seek a security clearance. And he has sought a security clearance, and he has one. And I think he should, because there are going to be times when federal authorities need to give the police chief classified information. And I wish I could get a security clearance, but they told me that I can't. So I would at least like for him to be able to receive that kind of information when it's proffered by the federal government. And I believe that that's appropriate and that he has the authority.
 already to seek and obtain such a clearance, and he's got one. So I don't think we have to speak to that in this resolution. But fortunately, one of our city attorneys is still here, and she can tell us whether this stands to reason. Yeah, I think you're correct. The police chief and seeking secret level clearance, you don't need to authorize that. But...
 That first provision also authorizes the chief to participate in the JTTF executive committee. Right. So I don't know if you – I think this version of the resolution is stating that we would not be expecting him to participate in that. Well, and is the intent to prohibit him from going to those? No. But, again, I think if we're trying to be – in my personal opinion, we're trying to be clear in this –
 in this resolution that we're not, if we pass this resolution, we're not participating in the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Period. And therefore there aren't any implementing actions
 of not participating, right? But the police chief is free, as he does every day, to be in contact with the Federal Bureau of Administration. He is often in contact with the Federal Bureau of Investigation because we're working together all the time. And I'm not saying that the man can't go to a meeting, but we're not instructing him to participate in any way.
 Mayor, you're the original author of the resolution. Is the amendment consistent with your intent in providing the two alternatives to the council? Yes. Okay. There's a first and then we have a second to the motion. I call the vote. Any more discussion? So let's take a roll call on that amendment unless Deanna or our city attorney says, wait. What?
 Okay. Roll call, please. Fritz? Well, again, thank you to the community and particularly Mr. Handelman whose attention to detail is better than mine. Aye. Fish? Aye. Novick? Mr. Handelman, being told that your attention to detail is better than Commissioner Fritz's is the highest compliment I've ever heard in this chair. True enough. Did you vote? Yes. Aye. Mr. Husson?
 I want to thank the council. We've had a couple of very long hearings this week, very good ones in both cases. This was a very important one tonight. What we wanted to do and I think we succeeded in doing is really cue this question up for the community and the council very clearly. Should we participate or should we not? We have attempted an approach over the last few years that people did with
 good hearts and good intentions of try to get a security clearance mayor. Let's try to make this
 arrangement work, in my opinion, I think in many people's opinion, it hasn't. So what we really wanted to do was call the question, and I think we've gotten really excellent testimony and really well-informed presentations from both points of view tonight. So that's really what I had hoped for in setting up this alternative approach to considering a resolution at the City Council. So thank you all for your engagement in that. We will schedule this for a vote on the 19th.
 And we're adjourned. And we should probably dispose of 147. I'm sorry? Dispose of 147. And we'll send 147 back to my office. And we'll pass 146 to second reading? No, no, no. Wait, no. You keep the ordinance with the resolution. All three pass to pass the second reading on the 19th. Okay. Did you want to give it a time certain or? No.
 That's an afternoon session that has. Afternoon session that was otherwise going to be occupied but now I think isn't. Is that right? I have a Vanadia appeal. Okay.
 That's going to take 10 minutes. So 2-15 on that date. Carla, thank you. You're welcome. Thank you, Carla. Now we're adjourned. Thank you. Well, I think so, too. I think so, too. It was helpful to me, even though we all have a little butt sore. Yes. I'll get Mr. Carlos in so that she can get in. Okay, good. Thank you, Dan. Thank you.
 It's completely necessary to have fans.