very good is it nine o'clock yes or 9 30. it is and we have carla here this morning all right good morning everybody this is the meeting of the portland city council today is wednesday february 8th uh before well first of all let's call the roll fritz here fish here saltzman ewe daily wheeler here uh before we begin i've been asked to read the following um
 I want to say a few words regarding council proceedings and maintaining decorum. The purpose of the council meetings is to engage with and hear recommendations from the community on the public's business. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everybody, both here and those watching on TV, I want to quickly review some of the public testimony guidelines. Good morning.
 My hope is that these details help everyone feel comfortable and included and also to ensure the decorum is maintained. During the meetings there are two opportunities for public participation. The first is communications, which we're about to do. Communications items are an opportunity to speak briefly on any subject. These items are scheduled in advance with the council clerk's office.
 Then, of course, there's first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. Public testimony of these items must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your full address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, please disclose that. Folks get three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated at the meeting. When you have 30 seconds left...
 you'll hear the little box beeping. And then when your time is up, I'll let you know. If you have handouts for the city council, if you could please hand them over to Carla, the clerk, we'd appreciate that.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimony or during council deliberations isn't allowed. If that behavior is seen, this guidance serves as warning that anyone disrupting this proceeding may be escorted from the council chambers and excluded from city hall.
 If folks would like to show your support or displeasure for a particular item or comment, you can do so with a simple thumbs up or a thumbs down. Please don't shout or yell. It disrupts people, and it takes time away from everybody you'd like to testify today. So, Carla, without further ado, please call up our first individual for communications today. 107, request of Michael O'Callaghan to address council regarding report from the street.
 Good morning, sir. Good morning. Welcome to the council, both of you. Thank you. I've been testifying here now for about eight years. I've been on the street for about eight years and an advocate for those that live without shelter. One of the five that helped start Right to Dream. Right to Dream.
 Early, I'd like to know, one of my issues is what authority government has. And you mentioned including people here from City Hall. I'd like to know what authority you have to include people from City Hall. What law gives you that authority? Okay.
 Anyway, you don't have any authority to do sweeps. You don't have any authority to confiscate property, yet the city does it. I'll be part of my second litigation against the city. I'm presently in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals on the camping ordinance. They granted expedited consideration to me, and the briefs, your brief is due on the 13th of this month. Our brief has already been submitted today.
 It's interesting they granted expedited consideration. I would assume the camping ordinance will be struck down just like it was in Multnomah County in 2008. Katz decided to ignore that.
 Also in the Ninth Circuit Court, LA versus Desert Rain. It was also struck down. Anna Aiken, right here in federal court, said that to sweep when the shelter is full is cruel and unusual punishment, which contravenes the Constitution, which you're sworn to uphold. Another issue I have is the homeless count. I submitted a few papers, so I won't go into details on that. But you've got 12,000 people on the streets
 7,000 people, the Portland School District has said that they're teaching that are homeless. Over there in the county, she said that they put 2,000 people in housing last year. So obviously, the count of the homeless is woefully inadequate by a factor of five. So if you want to solve a problem, you have to understand the magnitude of the problem. There are 12,000 people on the streets.
 Now, the solutions are pretty obvious. Right to Dream, which I helped start, one of the five people that helped start it, Dignity Village, Hazelnut Grove, these are the solutions. What we did when we started R2-D2 is that we received $20,000 in fines from the city. Oh, wow, how nice. You guys really work with us quite well.
 There is a solution. Follow the solution. Why hasn't it happened? Nobody's responsible. Nobody here is responsible for homeless. Somebody's responsible for housing. Nobody's responsible for homeless. Another reason is because you have snakes in your legal department. Oh, it's not against the law to sleep in Portland. It's just against the law to put a blanket on yourself or put a tarp on yourself.
 Okay? Total disrespect. No compassion. Okay? Now, I appreciate your attitude and your change in this process. It looks pretty good. But please, don't ignore the courts. Another thing, would you like to feed a million meals to people? Do the same thing that France did. The entire country prohibited supermarkets from throwing away past-poll date food. Okay? Just a sign. A thousand people are fed. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
 Item 108, request of Charles Ormsby to address council regarding Bureau of Environmental Services, Terwilliger Boulevard sewer and Tryon Creek treatment plant projects he has had to reschedule. Next item, please. 109, request of Stan Herman to address council regarding the city being in violation of ORS 830.035. Thank you.
 We made it. Good morning, sir. I was hoping Saltzman would be here, but we'll go ahead anyway. My name's Stan Herman. I'm just here to try to get some answers on this ORS violation that was down at the state, talking to them a little bit. I'm just trying to get an answer to my question that I emailed everybody, and I dropped a paper copy off of everybody, and I've got a backup copy here. You know, I called BDS a couple times. Paul, no return call.
 I try to turn in a complaint. I get no response to the complaint, but when my neighbor puts in a complaint, they're there the next day. So I'm trying to figure out if I'm doing something wrong. I sent an email to Saltzman's office and no response. Anyway, I'm not going to take up the whole three minutes explaining where I've been and what I've been doing. I just need an answer to the question I put in front of you, is was the city responsible to do an investigation on this hit and run? And you've got the ORS right there.
 I just need an answer. And like I said, I emailed everybody here last week, dropped off hand copies, no response. Why? Answer him. Mr. Herman, I just have a question for you. Thank you. Did you contact Dan because he used to have the Bureau of Development Services? Was that the reason that you wanted to see whether he could help you? Because the Bureau has now been reassigned.
 No, I think I contacted everybody. I didn't pick anybody out in particular. But you say hit and run to his building. So is it mostly a building issue and a
 Is it an issue about the condition of the property? It's a complicated thing, and this is why I've actually talked to 20 people that work for the city, and everybody says it's not my job, not my job. So I had to get some clarification. I'll just leave you with this. If it's about a building and it has to do with any kind of code, that would be the Bureau of Development Services, and that's now Chloe Udaly's portfolio. So if you would resend the email to all of us but make sure she gets a copy, then we can all figure out whether we have a piece of this.
 Who is in charge of the police department? Why don't they do that investigation? I know it's an old case now, but they just say. I just don't know what hit and run to a building means. I think we're going to have to look into that. You see the picture in the back? I've got a picture of the building. Ross Island Sand and Gravel barge slammed into my building. So you're asking a question of a police officer because that's the Oregon Revised Statute. I just want your opinion. Should the police of the city of Portland investigate that? No.
 And Mayor Wheeler is in charge of the police. So this sounds like a legal question. I'm not a lawyer. So let me talk to the lawyers, and I will get a response to you. And I have your e-mail information, I assume, here, correct? And actually, I sent them a copy as well. Very good. I will get you an answer, sir. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 110, request of Wayne Wigness to address council regarding use of the Joyce Hotel property. Morning. Sorry. Morning.
 My name is Wayne Wigness. The road to failure is paved with good intentions. Doing more of the same thing is going to reinforce more of the same results. I hate to be such a broken record, but out of respect for the fact that we have two new council members and a new head of the Housing Bureau, I wanted to present a brief compare-contrast between what we've been doing and large-scale bunk housing.
 First off, in a subtle yet important way, the Joyce Hotel used to provide a third option to those homeless people besides being criminalized outside or treated like prisoners in missions. Secondly, consider that perhaps where the Joyce went wrong is that they, like everywhere else, they tried to build walls and give people privacy. Now, I love homeless people, but...
 There's a reason why many missions don't put doors on the front of their bathroom stalls. You give privacy and that sends a signal to drug users that come in and abuse the place. Furthermore, walls give room for bugs to crawl through, things to accumulate. And when walls need to be repaired, they cost money. This forces this together with the fact that they limit the number of people paying rent per square foot forces the landlord to either up the rent or let the place rot. And that's exactly what happened at the Joyce Hotel.
 Now, on the left-hand side, I have two 7-by-10-foot areas. The upstairs dormitory section, you see a two-person bunk bed, three-by-three-by-three stacked storage units, four-foot walkway. Downstairs, you've got the same area with a three-person couch, plenty of room to spare. Tack on an extra 35 square feet for kitchen and bathroom, and that's justified because these appliances are being shared by a larger body of people. Okay.
 The main thing is how to avoid an awkward silence and feelings of intrusion. And in my experience, the answer to that is add more people. So multiply this by a couple, two, three hundred. Spatially, the tenant has access to a much larger area. If access remains unrestricted as it is in missions, then you have more people with probabilities of being in different places at a given time. And so overall, the space is utilized efficiently and claustrophobia is a non-issue.
 On the right-hand side, the contrast is something like a tiny home. The individual is limited to 150 square feet. Costly appliances go unused throughout much of the day. More walls means more money or cheaper construction material costs, and that's an epidemic, by the way. And mostly that magical space sitting in the vertical direction above our heads at night has gone entirely unused, meaning the rent has not been divided by two.
 Lastly, homelessness is in part a social phenomenon and many people need options rather than help. I'm kind of running out of time here, so I'm skipping stuff. But basically, China, it's not the infrastructure that's the problem. There's no reason it should be restricted to the use of charities or costly hostels. China has taken Japan's
 A pod model, and they've, they've, they're, it's taken with students. They're renting beds for $11 a night. I can't figure why we shouldn't be able to do that here in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, please. 111, request of Danny Robbins to address council regarding police response to the protests. Good morning. I want to know what an acceptable occasion to protest in this city without a permit is. On inauguration day, dissenters in the streets were assaulted by their own police force.
 but the next weekend the mayor himself joined in an un an unpermitted protest at the pdx airport did he not see the travel ban on the horizon this inauguration day if an unprovoked war or something equally horrific is headed from this administration i want our city to be the loudest voice denouncing it in the streets this administration has made it clear from the beginning what their goals are and exactly what they aim to destroy these are not things we can wait until after the fact to protest
 Either you understand this, Mr. Mayor, or you're strictly interested in symbolic opposition to these harmful policies. If the target of the police response you commanded was to focus on violence, then why did we see crowds consisting of people with their hands in the air being tear gassed and shot in the face with rubber bullets? Ribs were cracked. A citizen in a wheelchair was shot in the head with a concussion grenade.
 I stumbled upon a pair of glasses lost by a tourist who, walking back to her hotel, asked an officer what was going on, only to be smashed to the ground with the butt of his rifle, her face landing on the concrete. She stood up in a daze, only to be smacked down a second time. She asked for their names and badge numbers, but they refused to give them. While people laid screaming with their faces burnt by chemicals and flashbangs, police were filmed laughing and taunting them.
 Police corralled citizens and media into tight spaces and then launched explosives into the trapped crowds, which contained both children and senior citizens. What sort of strategy is this? This was a clear lack of training compounded by unnecessary panic. If you are going to equip our law enforcement with military gear in response to a peaceful protest, they at the very least need to be trained in how to use it. My mother once told me, if you're holding a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
 I don't want to be just another nail to these police when all we're trying to do is demand basic accountability in our executive branch of government. I don't think I should need a gas mask to voice my concerns in unison with my neighbors. And the ACLU of Oregon agrees with me. According to reporters, you and Chief Marshman agreed to a hands-off approach if the protesters didn't march onto the freeways. Then a police captain called organizers an hour before the march to tell them the deal was off.
 This was terrible mismanagement of the police response, Mr. Wheeler, and I want you to promise us that it will never happen again. Thank you. So we have a time-certain item, but with the forbearance of my colleagues, I'd like to move to the consent agenda and take care of that quickly. Is that all right? Very good. Please call the next item, Carla, the consent agenda. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Are there items that have been pulled? Thank you for reminding me. Item 113 and 116.
 Go to the end. So 113 and 116, we can put those at the end of the regular agenda. If you could please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. And at the beginning. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. If you could call the next item, please. We have a time certain at 945. Aye.
 Item 112, accept the Explore Washington Park 2016 program review. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. In 2014, Council created the Pay to Park program at Washington Park to resolve longstanding issues there.
 The issues included managing limited parking there, which often spills over into neighborhood streets. Explore Washington Park, which was formerly the Transportation Management Agreement, is a 501c3 nonprofit that provides transportation management services at the park on behalf of Portland Parks and Recreation. Since its inception, it has been working with many partners to alleviate traffic and parking congestion at Washington Park.
 Explore Washington Parks Executive Director Heather McCary is here today to come over some of the accomplishments and what's to come. And since we haven't had a report about it at Council before, I thought this would be a good way to start off the new administration. Director Mike Abate. Thank you, Commissioner. Council, it's a great pleasure to be here. Mike Abate, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation. I'd like to set a little bit of historical context.
 In 1981, the city council consisted of Mayor Francis Ivancy, Commissioner Charles Jordan, Commissioner Mike Lindberg, Commissioner Mildred Schwab, and Commissioner Margaret Strong. And I'm reading from the first and only, thus far, master plan for Washington Park. Two recommendations of that plan include, I'm just going to read from it,
 Number one, establish a permanent advisory committee which equitably represents each of the institutions and adjacent neighborhoods, as well as users from the city at large, to work with the superintendent in recommending park policy, programming, and development objectives. And then this is really key. This is, what, 36 years ago. As the cost of driving and owning private automobiles increases, public transit will become a much more popular means of reaching recreational facilities.
 Demand is expected to nearly double within the next 10 years. Those who reach the park via public transit will require some form of transit to move within the park, as will those who find it necessary to park at some distance from their destination. As the numbers of people using the park increase, the resulting traffic will itself become a cause of dissatisfaction among the park users. For these reasons, it is time to consider alternative means of moving people around the park.
 Well, 31 years later in 2012 and under the leadership of then Parks Commissioner Nick Fish, Portland City Council and Metro Council, I should mention, approved the establishment of the Transportation Management Association for Washington Park.
 And I'd like to, this is, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, this is our first time to come to council and just give you a report on how it's going. So first of all, I'd like to express my appreciation to the council for taking the risk to implement paid parking at Washington Park. And we should be very proud and excited for the work that has been accomplished in these four short years. And the way we brought the park stakeholders together to achieve the vision set forth such a long time ago.
 And now that the effort has been fully operational for three years, we want to give the council an update on the accomplishments, but also the future of the Transportation Management Association, which is now called Explore Washington Park. Things such as the free shuttle with excellent ridership, a transportation management plan, and starting a new master planning process for one of our premier parks, increased ranger presence, and enhancing the park through better maintenance and stakeholder engagement.
 So I'm joined today by Parks Program Specialist Victor Sanders, a Parks employee who works in close collaboration with Heather McCary, the Executive Director of Explore Washington Park, who will be making this report to you this morning. Thank you so much, Mike. Good morning, Mayor and Councilor. My name is Heather McCary. I'm the Executive Director of Explore Washington Park and really appreciate the opportunity to be here today to give you a little bit of background on who we are and what we've been able to accomplish today.
 I appreciate Mike's historical background looking at 1981. I'm actually going to start us off in 1903. So 1903 is when the Olmsted brothers came to Portland and they created plans for the city of Portland parks. And at the time, in 1903, Washington Park actually did exist, but it was called City Park. And this is what they had to say about City Park in 1903. Okay.
 Already, the capacity of City Park is taxed to its utmost upon holidays and pleasant Sundays in summer. So I was in 1903, and of course, the popularity of Washington Park has not decreased since then. By the way, I have a copy of that plan in my office, and the original is in our archives. And the interesting thing about the original is between the preparation of the final report and the presentation to council, the author found some mistakes, so they're all corrected in pencil.
 Even looking up here, you can see it said City of Portland Parks Commission and then crossed out in pencil. So yeah, you're exactly right.
 So, you know, the popularity of the park is just ever increasing, and we're home to some of Portland's most treasured attractions. We have Hoid Arboretum, the Portland Japanese Garden, International Rose Test Garden, Oregon Zoo, World Forestry Center, and the Portland Children's Museum. In fact, the park sees over 3 million visitors every year. I think it's really interesting to note that the Oregon Zoo is actually bringing in over half of those visitors, over 1.5 million.
 So access to the park has really always been something that's been a top concern. I don't know if any of you guys remember this bus that used to run from downtown Portland up to the park. This is when OMSI was still in the park and TriMet ran this bus. They did an amazing job marketing what they'll find in the park with the space caption there and the lion on the back.
 And then, of course, in 1998, the TriMet light rail station opened. This is the deepest station in all of North America, and it links the park with the MAX red and blue lines. But even with those efforts, people were still driving to the park. And so Metra, at the time, they created an off-site parking lot. People would come to the park. If it was full, they would go and be sent to this off-site lot and take these yellow school buses to get back to the park.
 This is a system that's still in use today. It's definitely not giving people the customer experience that we're hoping to provide to them. This is a picture of folks. All these folks tried to park inside the park. They got sent to this off-site lot, and now they're in line waiting to get on a yellow school bus. So parking and access continue to be an issue. And so, as Mike mentioned, we're...
 The directors got together in the park to really figure out what could be some aggressive measures to improve access. And these directors hired a consultant. That consultant recommended a pay-to-park system go in. The pay-to-park system was projected to raise $2.1 million annually, and all of the money would stay inside Washington Park. And it would go to pay for some of these things that you see on the screen. So a transportation management association,
 I just want to say, Mike, what she just said about the money staying in the park –
 That was the loud and clear message of our community when we had this fairly sharp debate a number of years ago, that the money stay. And so we're continuing to put all the money back into Washington Park, correct? Absolutely. And, again, I think that was a courageous move by the council to do that because, you know, sources of funds are precious. And to recognize the importance of Washington Park and say all the money that's raised there is going to stay in the park.
 And that's exactly what's happened. It was meant to create this nonprofit association, this TMA, pay for capital improvements, some of which were code required, pay for enhanced shuttles, so improve the off-site shuttle and then also create a free interpark shuttle and then create a new master plan, as Mike had mentioned.
 And so Mike mentioned in 2012, City Council and Metro Council approved the ordinance that allowed for the Washington Park Transportation and Parking Agreement so that Portland Parks and Rec could install pay-to-park system in the park. So I wanted to give an update on how that parking system is going. The parking system is run and managed by Portland Parks and Recreation. So I provide these slides on behalf of PPNR.
 I had mentioned that it was projected to raise $2.1 million annually. Our first full fiscal year, we raised $2.4 million. This past fiscal year, we raised $2.6 million. We have not raised rates in the park since we started in January of 2014. However, we are starting to utilize the parking that we have in a more efficient manner, which is why we think we've seen an increase in revenue.
 There's always the concern that a pay-to-park system is going to impact attendance. I'm sorry, could you explain that, when you say in a more efficient manner? Yeah. So we actually had quite a bit of parking near the parking reservoir at the north end of the park that was underutilized. The rest of the park would be full. In fact, people would be sent over to...
 these off-site lots while we had maybe 100, 200 stalls that were remaining empty near the reservoirs. We didn't really have a way for people to get from there to the zoo or the rest of the park. And so when we started the inter-park shuttle, we could tell people, park at the southern end of the park. We'll get you to where you need to go. And that has really, I think, increased the use of those parking stalls. Great.
 Thank you. Yeah, sure thing. So this chart gives you attendance for peak season, so this is summer only, for the main venues that are in the park, main ticketed venues. So first you'll see that the Oregon Zoo definitely is bringing in a lot of the attendance.
 2013 is on the left, and that is when Paida Park did not exist as we know it now. 2014 is when it went live, and then, of course, 2016 was this past summer. So you can see that the Children's Museum really didn't see any change in attendance. The Japanese Garden has actually increased each year since Paida Park went in.
 The zoo did see a decrease in attendance in 2014. That might have been a bit for pay to park. They also were doing quite a bit of construction on elephant lands at that time. And I am happy to report this is a press release that they sent out about a month ago, and they topped at 1.6 million in attendance this past year.
 So it's a little bit about how the pay-to-park system is running. I wanted to give you just some nuts and bolts of Explore Washington Park, the nonprofit that was created. So we are funded almost entirely through parking meter funds. We receive funds for our operating and programmatic expenses, and then we also receive funds to operate the shuttle system. We have received metro federal funds through the Regional Transportation Option Program as well.
 We have a fantastic board of directors. It consists of the directors of all the venues, as well as Director of Portland Parks, Mike. TriMet sits on the board. We have at-large members, and we have the two neighborhood associations also represented. That's Arlington Heights and Sylvan Highlands.
 So, you know, we've talked a lot about, like, getting everything going and the money we've been able to raise. I wanted to give you a real sense of what we've been able to do with those funds in the three short years we've been operating. And I think one of the most visible things we've been able to do is create a free shuttle. So, Pay to Park went live in January 2014, and Hell or High Water, I wanted to have a free shuttle in May because that was something that we had promised the public that we would do.
 and so we were able to partner with trimet they have line 83 that ran throughout the park so we paid for the farebox recovery of line 83 so that we could advertise it as a free service it was definitely really popular that first summer but we didn't have control over frequency or customer experience and so the summer of 2015 we were able to start our own shuttle service at the time we were called washington park transportation management association which is a little bit too long to put on the side of the bus
 And we didn't have a website, so we weren't able to market it as much as we wanted to. Having said that, it was a huge success. And that first summer, we offered 100,000 rides. The season is from May until October, and it runs around 15 minutes, depending on traffic in the park.
 the next year we did have a logo we had a website name etc and so we were able to brand the shuttle and the shuttle stops this is right outside the tri-met station right in front of the zoo entrance and the word free shuttle is written no less than nine times in this picture so it'd be very hard to be here and not realize that you have a free shuttle that will take you around the park in addition to branding the the buses we also got the service on google transit
 And we created a real-time app that lets people know where the bus is in the park. And all of that had a huge impact. This is just a picture of any summer day. And you can see the popularity of the bus. In fact, we had standing room only often on the bus. Our shuttle ridership increased 40% in just one year. And we gave about 130,000 rides this past summer.
 And, of course, that is beginning to impact the park. So we can show that we've reduced the number of trips by 26,000 vehicle trips in the park, and that has created some decrease in greenhouse gas emissions. We've decreased CO2 emissions by 32.9 million by taking those number of vehicles off the road, 32.9 – excuse me, 32.9 tons.
 We also wanted to provide some customer service to folks once they were in the park. This is a picture of an old coffee kiosk that's right at TriMet, right in front of the zoo. So it wasn't in use at the time, and so we were able to turn it into an information kiosk. We staffed this kiosk seven days a week, June, July, and August. We worked to have bilingual staff, and those staff were located both at the TriMet kiosk and at the Rose Garden, and they helped over 30,000 people this past summer.
 One of the largest tools that they used was a free brochure that we created. So this is a map of the park. It lets people know how to get to the park, really emphasizing transit. It also lets people know where the shuttle will take them and what they'll find inside the park. We printed 25,000 of these, and we distributed them through our customer service staff, the venues, and partners like Travel Portland.
 We've also developed a website that will let people know what they'll find in the park, how to get there. It even has a parking availability widget so people can see if there's parking there at that time or not and if they should be taking transit to get to the park. So we've done a lot that is really sort of hands-on resources that people can use to access the park. We also have worked on policy for the park. Before we get to that, could I just ask a question? If people park in the overflow area,
 Do they have to pay for that? No, the overflow parking is free, as is the shuttle that brings them back. And the shuttle operates all the time, not just when the parking at the park is full? No, the shuttle only. There's two different shuttles. There's an off-site parking shuttle that only operates when we use those off-site lots, and we only use the off-site lots when the parking is full. So on a summer weekend day, we would use those lots. Okay.
 The inter-park shuttle, that runs continuously from May through October. It's on a set schedule. So can we share? Oh, I see, within the park itself. Within the park itself, we have a shuttle that runs continuously every day. But then we only use the off-site lots when the parking lot is full at the park itself. Okay, thank you. Yeah. Okay.
 So those are some of the services that we're offering. We're also working on policy to improve access in the park. One of the ways we've done that is to adopt a transportation management plan. This was adopted this past October, and this was one of the main tasks that the TMA had when it was created.
 And that transportation management plan sets out goals for the park. It also has different target areas, such as mode split. So, you know, we're looking to decrease vehicle trips by 15%. One of our goals is really to make sure that we have measurable targets. And to that end, we do really robust surveying. Every single August, we survey 800 to 1,000 people. They're intercept surveys. We offer those surveys in five different languages.
 And so with that, we've really been able to track the impact our programs have had on the park. This is probably my favorite slide because it really shows you those impacts. So you can see in 2014, 80% of the people that were coming to the park drove to the park. This past summer, that had dropped down to 66%. So a lot of those folks are taking transit. We've increased from 13% to 17%.
 I think what's a really interesting story here is this other car share. So in 2014, when we started, other was rollerblading to the park, and Uber and Lyft hadn't come on the scene. But now in 2016, Uber and Lyft are a main way that people are getting to the park. In fact, it's 8% of the people. So it kind of shows how technology is impacting the way people are accessing the park and moving around our city.
 We definitely are working... Again, sorry to keep interrupting. Yeah, sure. Can you tell me about the demographics of people coming and how much the different languages are used? Yeah, so we do ask in our survey, we ask what language is spoken at home, we ask race and gender, and we ask their...
 area code, excuse me, their zip code. And we have chosen not to ask their income. We decided that we can use census track data in order to figure out the demographics of that. And so we are using that to figure out who is coming to the park. One of the main goals in the transportation management plan is to increase the number of people from underserved populations that are accessing the park. And so we'll be able to use that data to track if we're being successful with that or not.
 And do we have any preliminary findings on that, like we have with the most shares? I do, yeah. It's in our survey report. This can be found on our website. Yeah, I can provide you a copy of this. It goes into great detail about that data. It is on your website? It is on our website, yep. And we can also provide you a paper copy. Thank you. Sure thing. Thank you.
 So we do have a couple of things that are coming online. One of our goals is to do some targeted marketing to our venue members. These are folks that we can get information to before they get to the park. So we received a $140,000 grant from Metro to do that work. We'll be starting that work this summer.
 We also are looking to improve our shuttle service. We don't want people to have to stand on the buses, so we'll be putting more buses en route. And we are looking to develop and build out a new Rose Garden shuttle stop. So this is the current Rose Garden shuttle stop that we have. It's really a pole on the sidewalk. And by this summer, we'll have an actual shuttle stop that is completely ADA compliant that can have up to 20 people there. So we're really excited about that project.
 We're also looking at providing more sustainable off-site parking solutions. So I've shown you this yellow school bus. It's certainly not helping us reach our greenhouse gas emissions. So we're looking at using Sunset Transit Center on the weekends. There's actually more parking available at Sunset than what we currently have in our off-site lot. And we're looking to partner with TriMet to figure out how can –
 We improve that access link between Sunset Transit Center and the park. It's just one stop on light rail. So we're looking to partner with them on that program. Of course, Mike had mentioned that we're working on a master plan. That master plan is being led by Portland Parks and Recreation, and it is set to be completed fall 2017. Okay.
 And then lastly, we are working with the Portland Water Bureau. So they've got the reservoir project taking place right now. This is a map from our brochure. I want to orient you to the map. So the bottom is 26, and that's where the zoo is located. And at the top is the Japanese Garden and the Rose Garden. And you can see that's where all the red lines are.
 Those are the red lines. Those are the roads that are being impacted by the reservoir project. That is where we have lost over 50% of our parking at that end of the park for this next peak season. We've also lost a major access road for the park. So we are working aggressively with Portland Water Bureau to provide additional shuttle services, and we will really be marketing for folks to take transit to the park and then getting on a shuttle in order to get to that end of the park.
 So I hope that gives you a little bit of background and some information, some update on what we've been able to do these past couple years. It really has been an amazing effort, and it's been just an honor for me to be able to work in the park and work to improve access to it. Thank you. Mike, I have a question. Sure. First of all, congratulations on the report, and to Commissioner Fritz and Director Abate, and to – I love the name, Explore Washington Park. And by the way, I just –
 went on my phone and pulled up the app. Great. And it's terrific. Great. Thank you. So thank you for that. Mike, one of the concerns we had a couple years ago was the impact on mobility in Washington Park with all the big capital construction projects happening at the same time.
 and that includes the expansion of the Japanese garden, the work at the zoo, obviously the Water Bureau work, which after the presentation I feel like I owe you an apology. It is for the greater good. So you have a lot going on. How is that impacting the ability of people to get around? Yeah.
 Well, it's going to have a significant impact. Right now, it's not too bad because it's certainly off-season. But this is the year, it's the centennial of the Rose Garden. The International Rose Test Garden will be 100 years old, and there will be a celebration this year. And, you know, just convergence of realities. We're in the middle of a giant construction project at the same time that we are going to recognize an important milestone in the city's history. Okay.
 I think Heather hit it on the head. This summer, if you want to come to Washington Park, please take MAX. Take MAX or other public transit. There will be very, very limited parking. It will be hard to find, and there will be congestion. But what's wonderful is that because the foundation's been laid, we now have a process and a plan to help people enjoy the park in the summer of 2017. So it has real impacts, I would say.
 Great thanks to the Water Bureau. Great thanks to the Bureau of Transportation, all of whom have come around the table and realized we've got to make everything work to the best extent possible. I just want to say, looking at the...
 I actually had no idea you had so many stops that were conveniently located, particularly on the perimeter of Washington Park. So for people that are going to take a bus and then to, like, 23rd and Burnside or someplace on the edge, it really –
 There's no reason to bring your car into – I mean, I don't want to take revenue off. I mean, I don't want to work against your goal of generating revenues to fund all this. But you have made it very easy to access the park without bringing your car in, and I thank you for that.
 And I'd say one other thing on the app front, if you do drive, like we come now, there's an app, passport app, where you can pay for parking. So that's really helpful. If you come to the zoo and you've got a couple of kids and you pay for a couple hours of parking and in the midst of your visit to the zoo, you say, man, we haven't been to Elephant Lands yet. We need another hour. You just –
 On your phone, you can dial in and get another hour or two hours of parking without going all the way back to your car. So it's been a really great success. That's how I pay to park when I'm up there is I just use the phone app. May I ask, has there been any extension of the services provided to people who are mobility limited?
 You want to talk about that on the shuttle? Yeah, so our shuttle is completely ADA compliant. It's able to hold two wheelchairs and 24 people that are seated.
 And I would say that there are many, you know, the city did an inventory of barriers. And Portland Parks and Recreation, because of our facilities, have more ADA barriers throughout the city than any other property owner. But, for example, the bond project, we are doing a major project for increased accessibility to the Rose Garden. And that's also being timed with the centennial in mind. So, yep.
 Thank you. Appreciate your time. Any public testimony on this issue, Carla? Yes, I have three people signed up, but please come on up. Star Stauffer, Mimi German, and Joe Walsh. And as usual, three minutes to the subject, which is parks. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Star Stauffer. Thank you to Washington Parks for coming up here and giving us that lengthy commercial for transportation and TriMet.
 Because let's be honest, that entire project that they're putting together and the entire presentation that they just gave has nothing to do with the park. It has everything to do with transportation and TriMet. And the money will not stay in the park. That is misguiding the public, thank you very much. Because when you talk about expanding parking lots and partnering with shuttles and TriMet and buying kiosks,
 That's putting money into the hands of developers and corporations. That's not money staying in the park. Money staying in the park would look like taking the money and reinvesting in planting more trees.
 if we're going to develop more structures in the park, let's build some tiny homes. I think in that park with the shuttle service and everything that's going on, we could probably do, starting off, 25 tiny homes. We've got a free shuttle service that will take them up there and take them back downtown so that they can get needs met at the shelters as far as meals and clothing and stuff. That sounds like a really good investment to me if you really care about the public. But don't come up here and give some half...
 cocked presentation and think that as the public I don't realize that you're not talking about the park. You're talking about putting money in the hands of TriMet and construction developers. How does this improve the park? This is just more walking space and concrete. If you want to invest in your community, invest in those who have nowhere to sleep. We have this entire park that you've turned into a tourist attraction. That is our park. Shame on this council that you would sit here and listen to this for all of this time
 And you can't even give us a meeting about the houseless. We have emailed all of you, and you daily's office sat with us for two hours and took notes and wasted our time and didn't present them to you. And you will sit here and listen for 20 minutes about them developing a parking lot, and you think we're stupid enough to buy that, that it's about the parks. We're not. You've underestimated us, and we're not going away.
 We want to talk about this house's issue, and we don't want a meeting with your assistant, Wheeler. We want a meeting with you, face-to-face, where you have a pencil in your hand taking notes and making stuff happen. Period. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. And I've got to just tell you how enthused I was listening to that plan because your staff obviously spent a lot of time and a lot of work, and they did –
 a lot of grafts, and they contacted TriMet, and they did all the things that they're supposed to do. So my question is to you, Mayor, where the hell is the plan for the people dying on the streets? Why don't you have a plan? Where are the grafts? I want to see grafts. I like grafts. There's a lot of buildings coming up here and saying, oh, we don't have five people on our streets. We got a plan. Where the hell is the plan, Mayor?
 You keep saying there's a plan. Why don't you get TriMet to put two buses right outside here as warming buses? You open up the Portland building and you think you're St. Francis? No, you're not. You're a fraud at the moment. And we want to believe in you. We wanted to give you six months. We wanted to go with you. You're a fraud so far. You throw bombs at kids for God's sakes.
 And then you have Graham. Please don't interrupt him. This is the only opportunity we've had to speak. I am on point. I am on point. Thank you. And my point is, you're a fraud. All right. Thank you, sir. And you, every week, will be told that. Fraud. Thank you, sir. Duly noted. Good morning. My name is Mimi Gurman, and...
 I thought that the report on the parks was really illuminating, and I'm glad to see that there's such extra money being made from the parking lots that could be turned over in and of itself to help build shelters at these parks for people who need shelter. And the parks are a wonderful place, as we just saw in that, in whatever, hour-long presentation, or so it seemed, to...
 even have two different shelters built, two different villages built at the park because there's enough room. And I have a feeling that at the park, if there was a graph that showed the space near where the reservoir was, where that was, you know, instead of being made into more parking areas,
 that we took that idea and used it in a way that was much more efficient and beneficial and humanizing for what our true needs are in the city where we build a village there near the reservoir. And we built another village of tiny homes in another part of the park because the park, as we just saw, is doing so well on the extra money of the city.
 of the parking lots that already exist and the money coming in from that. So instead of spending money on concrete, which is something that this council sat before, you know, another presentation last week or two weeks ago about giving money to preserve concrete and fix the concrete in front of another just disgusting and heinous, gentrifying building on Front and around Northwest 9th, instead of
 having a pattern of paying for more concrete, let's take that extra money and build villages in the park. There's already, that we just heard, there's free busing. So the people who need to come down into the city to use, you know, TPI or anything like that, they can come in on the free buses that already exist. Okay.
 I think it's a fabulous way to spend that extra money. And kudos for the parks for putting this presentation together. We just need to change the focus of not going for concrete, not allowing more money for concrete, not allowing money to create a shelter for people who are waiting for a bus rather than shelter, which is housing for people.
 I found that appalling in that presentation, that there's already a poll that exists there where people know clearly up at the Rose Garden where to wait for a bus. They don't need a shelter. The people who need a shelter with that extra money are the people who are living right out here on the street at that park. It would be a perfect, perfect answer. So I encourage you to look into that extra money, that $2 million, and
 How many – you could build beautiful tiny homes in two different villages, perhaps three different villages up at the park, and take care of the needs of the people up there. Thank you. Senator Wilkins, and I'm sorry I don't agree with this conversation. I believe that Washington Park is a place of natural science. We don't want people living there. I've had wonderful – Shelter is life! Water is life! Shelter is life!
 I'm sorry. You're going to be excluded. All right. All three of you are excluded. We'll take a 10-minute break. Please, why don't you start your testimony over. You got interrupted, and that wasn't fair. About putting homeless housing up at Washington Park. Actually, I was more in favor of putting Right to Dream 2 near OMSI
 I like the fact that there's a lot of natural science. Even this, in 1957 when splitting happened, the old OMSI had a computer. I used to go up there in grade school and see a computer the size of a room. And they grow plants there. If you're a person, a child living in Portland, you don't own any property because you rent, you can go up to OMSI and grow a rose or something.
 You know, this is natural stuff. You know, out the Beaverton Way, there's a thing called the Tektronik Museum out there, you know, on the west side. It's great stuff, the Tektronik's Telstar. But the problem is this area here is a natural spot. There shouldn't be any people around. And if you're going to do...
 housing for the homeless, do it near OMSI. I mean, there's a lot of train tracks there. There was a plan to put a Right to Dream Tour near OMSI. I support that. And don't do anything up near Washington Park. It's a natural spot. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning, Council. I want to formally welcome Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Udale. Is that Udale?
 You daily. Thank you. Can you put your name in the record too? You daily. Put your name in the record too, please. And my name is Craig Rogers. I'm an old, straight, white guy. And it's my pleasure to walk across a field from where I live and walk into the East Portland Community Center because of the diversity. And Commissioner Fritz. Hey, I'm nervous. Commissioner Fritz.
 You ask a significant question in this excellent presentation that they gave of the different languages, sir. And so, you know, you're inquiring as to the diversity. And what you've got going on over there at East Portland Community Center, I really encourage you to keep that going forward with Washington Park and all your different areas. This isn't too abstract, but...
 You know, Jeff Merkley recently was a part of opening up the area down in the Siskiyou Mountains that President Obama contributed some more land to it. That area down there is actually one of the most diverse areas because there's three distinct ecosystems that overlap. And where they overlap, it's incredible diversity. And nature tends to run fast.
 ahead of humanity. And we need to look at examples of their nature of why diversity is so important. And we as humanity should grasp and understand that and really appreciate the diversity that we have in humanity. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Appreciate it. We have a motion and a second. Any further council discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll.
 Thank you for this great presentation, Victor Sanders, Rachel Felice, Heather McCary, the entire Washington Park Board and TriMet who are partnering on this. Also particular thanks to Commissioner Fish for starting this project and also for his work working with the Water Bureau and Bureau of Transportation to alleviate the congestion.
 The lingering concern that I have is that when we saw the pictures of the board, clearly it does not represent the community that we serve. And so I'm going to be hoping that in the next year we can have more discussion of how could we make sure that people from East Portland are able to come to the conference.
 the park. It takes a very long time on TriMet to get from the East Portland Community Centre all the way to the park. We've had several years to get the concept going and now we need to refine it to make sure that everybody has access and they're not limited by the ability to pay either parking or the expenses of the admission.
 I also was reflecting when we were listening to the presentation about the shuttle bus, that it's becoming more and more like Yellowstone Park to decrease the congestion and also for making sure that people can get around. We've got these internal shuttles as well as the external ones. And I think the more we can start thinking of the different attractions at Washington Park, very much like some of the different...
 attractions in Yellowstone Park, we can continue to promote this wonderful resource that was started so many years ago. Hi. Fish. First, thank you for the excellent presentation and the history lesson. I particularly like the photograph of the bus that used to be used. And I was thinking, did we borrow that from Ken Kesey or did we give it to him after we were finished with it? That was a classic. Thank you.
 You know, and also I want to compliment the team for coming up with the name Explore Washington Park. I think that has a nice ring to it. I like the logo. This is about good government. The idea is that users pay to maintain the physical infrastructure.
 And we didn't use to charge people to drive up there, but there was an impact on the road, so everyone paid for it. And I think it's very appropriate to say if you use Washington Park, you're going to help defray the cost, and you're going to help cover the cost of shuttle buses to get people out of their car. This is consistent with our climate action plan because we are giving people options, alternatives to driving there. They can take the MAX. They can take a shuttle bus. They can walk.
 And finally, this is one of our crown jewels, and I didn't realize this was the centennial year. So I look forward to the many celebrations with the Parks Commissioner and the community as we celebrate this treasure. Thank you for a great report. Aye. Hugh Daly? Aye. Wheeler?
 I thought it was a fantastic and informative report, and I believe the team has actually left at this point. Perhaps, Commissioner Fritz, if you could extend my thanks, along with the other commissioners' thanks, for the hard work they put into it. Public testimony notwithstanding, it was a report.
 explicitly about transportation, and it was exactly the report I had hoped to hear in terms of how we reduce the number of personal vehicles being driven to and then stored in the park while people are there. The reality is they've made it easy, cheap, convenient, in fact free in many cases for people to be able to get there.
 Into the park. I was pleased with the answer to my question about people who are mobility limited in terms of making sure that Everybody has access to this amazing asset in our community So I'm an enthusiastic. I the report is obviously accepted Commissioner fish has invited a couple of people to testify and they've been waiting very passion patiently I'd like to move item 113 next please. I
 authorize a special appropriation grant agreement with Vanport Mosaic in an amount not to exceed the $40,000 to expand the Vanport Mosaic 2017 Festival. Thank you, Mayor. And I'm going to ask Mary Helen Kincaid to introduce the panel and to tee this up. But just a quick background. Today we are officially awarding a $40,000 grant from our special appropriations process to the Vanport Mosaic.
 Mosaic Festival. And I want to do a little subliminal advertisement for continuing the special appropriation process through the next budget cycle, Mayor. This is subliminal. I second that motion. Okay. I think we now have the votes. Carla, would you call the roll? Okay. Okay.
 So this is a big year for Vanport. It's the 75th anniversary of the building of Vanport, which was built in 1942. And that's interesting because we normally focus on another event, which is the 70th anniversary of the destruction of Vanport when the 1948 flood. Colleagues, as you know, at its peak, Vanport was Oregon's second largest city with over 40,000 residents. And I believe it was the most diverse city in the state of Oregon.
 The Vanport Mosaic Festival is back for a second year. It will take place over four days, May 26th to May 29th. And it's a chance to educate Portlanders about the great history of Vanport and to celebrate that history and the survivors through art and public events. And today, Damaris Webb and Mary Helen Kincaid are here to accept the grant and to tell us about this year's festival. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. I'm Mary Helen Kincaid, and I often come here and testify on things that are contentious. And today, this is really a happy day. I don't have to talk about demolition or deconstruction or any of those kinds of things. So this was an example of how good ideas happen when really smart, caring people get together. Thank you.
 Damaris and Laura Laforte, who couldn't be here today, and Renee Mitchell, had a great idea to collaborate to bring back the memories of those people that we don't have and they aren't being recorded. And I believe this is an opportunity for us to learn from those memories. As Commissioner Fish said, it was the second largest city. It was the largest
 the largest housing project in the nation at the time. And that was 75 years ago. Today there's a golf course, PIR, and Delta Park. And one small, about 10 by 20 foot patch of asphalt is all that's left of Vanport. So the memories and the history are all in the minds and the hearts of the people that lived there. And they're doing an excellent job of recording those and bringing to light some of the struggles that people go through today.
 We're doing that same thing today, and we witnessed that with people's concerns about housing and displacement and what's going to happen. And I don't know that we should not, and I believe we should, connect the lessons that we've learned today.
 At the time of the flood, when the berm and the railroad berm broke, 18,000 people were homeless within 24 hours. Where did they go? What happened to them? And then that all leads into the history of the Albina District and the Seoul District, right?
 There, we want to know who lived there, who was born there, who went to school there. Portland State College has its roots there. That's where it began. And that history is rich for the city. And this Vanport mosaic is putting all of that together for us. And so I've been advocating probably the last six months of my work with them is this isn't just Vanport. It's the city of Portland mosaic with a historical bent. Yeah.
 Kaiser did some great innovations when they built that. They brought out a whole new form of health care. Child care became something. I forget the man's name. That was the school superintendent. First integrated school in the city of Portland. Hired the first African-American woman as a teacher. Yeah.
 Just recently, Damaris produced and directed Left Hook, which was a play about the boxing culture in the city of Portland and Albina and how it got its start at the Knott Street Gym, which is now in the Matt Dishman Center, which operates...
 by an almost totally volunteer man that boxed there, has connections in the community, gets no funding from the city, rich in history, and basically goes hat to hand to collect money so the kids can go there and learn and have community. We need to do better with that, and they've connected with the Van Port Mosaic project.
 There's all other kinds of connections there. There's the Don't Shoot Portland, Black Panthers, Black Lives Matter, Vancouver Avenue Baptist Church, a historic building that just got, the Irvington Covenant Church, all kinds of people. And what I found and how I got involved was to sort of,
 Actually, my official job title is resource engineer. It kind of came up with try to find all these connection points and put them together to do good things. How do we get all those people together? Laura Laforte just recently said there are so many people contacting us, we can't do all the work. And so this appropriations grant is really, really beneficial to help support and provide a structure. Thank you.
 I don't know the exact figures, but last year I would say 95% of all the work was volunteer work. The contacting work that we had to pay for, the food for what I think is a premier event is a reunion dinner for all the former residents and their families, and they gather people together and let them reminisce about their days. Stories from last year, schoolmates that hadn't seen each other since sixth grade, and they're 80 years old, right?
 memories of who was so-and-so's boyfriend and girlfriend from 80-year-old people. It was fantastic. This year, the U of O and Portland Community Media, that's now Bright Lights? Open Signal. Okay, sorry. Open Signal have renovated a 60s Airstream building.
 trailer into a mobile video recording studio and it'll be on site at all the events to record those. That costs money. We're generating that. So this grant is really going to support a lot of efforts that are going to preserve and discover the history of Portland. And so I can hardly wait for all the great stories. We're – Port of Portland's giving us three buses to do an inside the fence bus tour because
 the people that live there can't walk a mile and a half to see what was there. So I can hardly wait for the first person to point out the window and say, that's where I lived, that's where I went to school, so that we can record those things. And hopefully we'll learn some lessons of how we can handle people that don't have housing so that they don't have memories and they aren't forgotten. Thank you. Thank you, Mary Helen. I'm Damaris Webb, and...
 You've done a wonderful job of capturing some of the festival, but I also want to say thank you for this appropriations grant because it's also allowing us to expand our programming beyond just the festival. Thank you.
 as we witnessed and we know, housing homelessness, displacement, and also it's interesting when we point to discovering the stories because the stories have been here, we just haven't been listening, right? So I feel that...
 As a co-director of the Vanport Mosaic, our main intent, although we are artist-led, we're community-driven. And the mosaic expands to all the entry points coming into the history of the Pacific Northwest, as well as all of the richness of the stories of the Pacific Northwest. So we're trying to place ourselves in a kind of grassroots position.
 community organizing situation and then bringing that back to, I'd say, the dominant paradigm so that we can learn from where we've been so that we can more richly and more diversely decide where we're going to go. So thank you for supporting us in doing this. Thank you so much. Just one thing that I left out. I'm kind of looking at the notes I scratched in the car driving here. Last year, Commissioner Fritz opened the festival at the Interstate Firefighters
 Firehouse Center where they'll have dramatic readings and Commissioner Fish closed the ceremony and I think they both experienced the great craftsmanship that went into the festival and so I'm
 Commissioner Udailey and Mayor Wheeler, I'm inviting you. I wanted to do it in person first, but I'll send it to your staff to put it on your schedule because there might be an event or all the events that you want to attend. All of them. Could you tell people at home what the dates are this year, please? Yes. Yes.
 The dates are that we have some cards to share as well. And you can look. It's always Memorial Day weekend, which is the anniversary of the flood. And our website is www.vanportmosaic.org. So you can find out about our programming throughout the year as well as for the festival Memorial Day weekend. Thank you. And I have more cards. So if anybody wants one, you know how to find me and you can put them in your office.
 fantastic thank you thank you both is there any further testimony Carla on this item oh I'm sorry there's people who want to testify come on up we are running behind now due to the protest earlier so I'm gonna limit it to two minutes please that's okay I just want to say van port's a great thing I learned last year that was van port means Vancouver Portland there was a great my grandfather in World War two
 My roots are from Colorado, farm people. One thing about making ships to help England or something in the Second World War, women built these ships. They became welders. In countries like Japan, women were not allowed to do things like that. We mobilized women in the workforce. We also brought African Americans here from the south to have shipyard jobs. We all could work together. There was daycare there. There was health care there.
 and then, of course, the flood shows sometime that nature is probably more powerful than a lot of things, you know, in 1948. But it's a great lesson to be learned as a late person about history, about the history of the First and the Second World War, and how there was a role there for a better society at that time that we're still trying to have right now. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and I think that –
 you know, in this time of increasing, from some angles, polarization about race and immigration and in-country migration, when we remember what was supposedly the greatest generation, that is the time when Vanport happened, and much of Portland was not so great about assisting the victims of that tragedy and dealing with everyone equitably and fairly. Um...
 By 1948, when a racism that's still part of Oregon culture was causing complications for the victims of the Vanport flood, some Americans had only been out of internment camps for a few years. So when we had the women's march and hundreds of thousands, 100,000 or maybe people marched, there was a lot of concern as that was being planned about intersectionality. So I think another area for intersectionality is
 When on the one hand we have this, I think, not so constructive greatest generation idea is to also look at the intersectionality between the Japanese Americans who were interned while we were trying to bring workers to the Port of Portland and realize that we have made progress, but there's still a ways to go. Thanks, y'all. Thank you, sir. Good morning.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice, and I object to lowering the time for citizens to testify to this. We are in favor of this, and we're excited about it. However, there is a dark side to this, and we're a little bit concerned about that. So when you do this funding...
 Do you have any mechanism that says, you know, this was a disaster on a very large scale? As we heard, it was our second largest city. But we were coming out of the concept that African Americans were not allowed in Oregon. We had an actual law that said you could not come to Oregon. And what happened to that city? And how did it happen?
 And why did it happen someplace else? Those are all interesting questions that came up, but we do support it. We support it because we need to know. And all we're saying to you is be honest on the histories. And everything that we heard here today was very positive. This was not a positive experience. People lost their homes. They died. This was not something to celebrate. Yet here today, we are celebrating it. So thank you.
 My brain gets a little tangled on these value systems. So I'm asking you, if you're going to give our money to any cause, would you please ask pertinent questions and say to them, they have history down here. In that history, do you have what happened and why? And what's the connection, as Charlie said, to the Japanese internment? It happened at the same time.
 or very close to it. It's connected. Thank you. Thank you. Carla, please call the roll. Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish, for pulling this from the consent agenda. It is an important item. And I do also agree with you that the special appropriation system that Mayor Hale set up last year is a much better model than when I first started on the council in 2009, when we had lots of
 special appropriations for various different things over the course of Mayor Adams' administration and then Mayor Hales, the things that we really wanted to keep as an ongoing part of our budget, like the Vose Workers' Centre and some of the other Future Connect and other such things, are now part of the ongoing budget so that we have
 fewer special appropriations requests, but still it was up to people who knew a particular commissioner or mayor to come in and say, I'd like to put this in the budget, and then there wasn't really a way to look at which ones should be funded. So instead, last year, Mayor Hale set up a million dollars in a special appropriations fund, and then the council offices all sent staff, obviously not the council members, because that would be a quorum and a private meeting, but the staff...
 looked at all the applications and decided what were the most meritorious in looking at what had been done before or what was proposed to be done. So it's a much more fair opportunity for everybody to ask for that special appropriations money and I'm very grateful that the Vanport Mosaic was one of them. I think anyone who went to the festival last year would have no question about its veracity in telling the real story of Vanport in multiple different ways. Damaris Webb, who
 taught me a very good lesson in telling me Damaris Rhymes is glamorous. And so I've realized that, you know, to help people remember things, you have something like that. And I don't think I will ever say your name incorrectly again. And also, I know who you are,
 because of your involvement in that. Thank you, Mary Helen Kincaid. You were very much an integral partner to the whole system last year. I love your title of resource engineer. That's essentially what a lot of grassroots activists are doing, is just engineering and making connections between community folks who then all work together for really wonderful things. I have heard a suggestion that we should rename Delta Park for the van port. And so, as the Parks Commission, I don't know why it's called Delta Park in the first place,
 It wasn't Delta Park in the first place. It was Vanport in the first place. But I think that's a conversation that we need to have to look at. Could we stimulate for the rest of the year, not just on Memorial Day weekend? Could we get our children asking, why is that called that? So anyway, I'm going to be very open to having that discussion. And thank you very much for all of your work in the community. Bye. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz, I second your effort in considering renaming Delta Park. I think a public process is warranted to explore that, but I think it's a splendid idea.
 To Damaris Webb and to Mary Helen Kincaid, thank you for joining us today. And I'll just add that, to me, what you are doing represents the best of our city. I'll call it the spirit of Portland, and that may be why this year we awarded you the Spirit of Portland Award. So thank you for your service, and please give our regards to Laura Laforte and the rest of the team. Hi. Thank you, Daly.
 I'm thrilled to get to support this special appropriation. I learned about the Vanport flood in 1998 through Azine, which is where I learned many interesting details about our city. At the time, Vanport had really been reduced to a rumor or a legend. It was extraordinary that such a catastrophic...
 catastrophic event that affected almost 20,000 people in our community had largely been forgotten. So I was honored to get to present an art show three years ago by a Vanport survivor, Peggy Ball. It was called Kinship Stories, Remember the Native North Portland, and it was through her that I really got to...
 learn firsthand what life was like and, you know, what that event, impact the event had on the community. So I also, I'll third Commissioner Fritz's suggestion of renaming the park and I. I thought this was a great presentation. Thank you, Commissioner Fish.
 And I want to thank you for coming in and sharing your stories and sharing a little bit about the Vanport Mosaic Festival, which will be coming up on May 26th through 29th. I think it's exciting. It's great. Add me to the list of people who wonder why there isn't more of a direct reference to Vanport, given that that is the historic location of Vanport where Delta Park currently stands.
 is located. So yeah, let's start that process and see where it takes us. All right. The ordinance is adopted. Yes. May I just have a point of information? We do have parks naming and renaming processes. And so when we have a new park, we always go through a process to have the community make recommendations on what to call it. Can I say one thing about Senator Jackie? You have to come up to the microphone, otherwise people at home can't hear you.
 still behave to testify um senator jackie winters is working on a state effort to get an i-5 sign put on i-5 that says historic vanport site and there's also efforts to make it the entire site a national historic site there's a state oregon historical marker number 102 right there at the entrance to pir and so there's a lot of interest in the
 recognition as we can guess there's a lot of regulations and public process to go through to do that the other piece of that is is we're working with Commissioner fishes staff on a proclamation that will bring back because last year they there was a city proclamation for the city so that'll be yet another recognition and we're hoping that and we'll be able to coordinate that with the state so
 All of those things are all because of one year of work at Vanport Mosaic, so I think that's...
 Good to keep on the record. And so I just wanted to make clear that I'm hearing conversations in the community. It wasn't my idea. And I'm always interested in looking for community suggestions. Renaming a park is a major undertaking because people sometimes do have connections. And yet in certain instances like this, perhaps Custer Park and others should be considered for renaming. So I'm very much willing to be engaged in that.
 as the community conversation bubbles up. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Carla, could you please call the next item? Item 118, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Beaverton and Metro to revise the urban service boundary for the unincorporated areas between the cities of Beaverton and Portland. Is there any further council discussion? Please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Okay.
 the uh it passes uh next item please item 119 waive potential conflict of interest and authorize the city attorney to jointly represent mountain hood cable regulatory commission and the city of portland in joel rank versus mountain hood cable regulatory commission at l good morning from the city attorney's office i think
 We've briefed you on what we want to do with this item, and I'm happy to answer any questions that you have. Any further council questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? You might as well just stay there. Thanks, sir. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog PDX. I would prefer that the city attorneys remain independent pertaining to the litigation on this issue.
 Again, I want to avoid the appearance of any and all conflicts of interest. And as we all know, President Trump is involved in that from the Foreign Emoluments Clause, which we're seeing a historic event take place. So I'm watching this very close on any conflict of interest and would prefer city attorneys remain separate pertaining to this litigation. And also, I have a concern on...
 how much money we're going to end up funding on this because the city attorneys are stepping in position and also representing the other party, the commission itself. So I have some concerns on the overall cost by going in this direction. Thank you. Thank you. Any further public testimony? Call the roll, please. Thanks, Harry. Aye. And thank you very much for all of your work on the commission. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Aye.
 The resolution is adopted. Next item, please. Item 120, authorize a contract with BioWest, Inc. for the purchase of data center co-location services for a five-year contract not to exceed $4,500,000. Very good. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services.
 The Bureau of Technology Services is responsible for maintaining data center facilities for the critical and business-critical applications of the city. The Portland building houses the city's primary data center and is subject to significant seismic concerns. Additionally, the Portland building will be undergoing major reconstruction efforts, posing considerable risk to critical city operations if the primary data center remains in its current location.
 BTS is seeking to relocate its primary data center to a local co-location facility within the metro area, and the same vendor will also provide disaster recovery capabilities through a secondary co-location facility outside of the region.
 In September of 2016, the city issued a request for proposals for data center co-location services. On September 30, 2016, three proposals were received. The proposals were reviewed, evaluated, and scored by a five-person evaluation committee that included representatives from BTS, Transportation, Development Services, and the Minority Evaluator Program.
 The proposal from ViaWest was deemed the highest scoring proposal and was recommended for awarding of a contract. The city issued a notice of intent to award on December 1, 2016, and no protests were received. You have before you a procurement report recommending the authorization of a contract to ViaWest for a not-to-exceed value of $4,500,000. I will turn this over to Jeff Baer and Carolyn Glass to talk more about the project.
 thank you christine for the record good morning mayor wheeler members city council for the record i'm jeff barron the director of technology services with the city and with me is carolyn glass who's our production services manager and is overseeing the data center relocation project and i wanted to provide some additional detail related to relocating the data center out of the portland building and into a purpose-built data center facility and
 And to most people, it's not very glamorous to move a data center, but to us it's rather exciting to see this come together because this really reflects an investment in a significant leap forward in protecting and providing data resiliency. Thank you.
 And these are the city's mission-critical data systems, and by relocating these systems out of the Portland building and out of the downtown core area, we achieve significant improvements in maintaining these systems by having it in a purpose-built, highly secured environment, fault-tolerant, and multiple redundant power distribution paths.
 I'm sure one of the questions that you might be wondering is what does the $4.5 million cover? And this includes the total cost of the build-out of the existing systems, relocating all the equipment and servers to the new location. We have some professional and technical services related to the build-out, cloud-related services, and also covers the ongoing operational expense over the five-year term.
 And once we complete this primary site build-out, as Christine referred to, we're going to be pursuing the disaster recovery and data backup plans in an out-of-state region facility with ViaWest in Denver, Colorado. And because we're still finalizing the design of the initial system, the ongoing expense related to this operational cost is going to be in the magnitude of $45,000 to $60,000 per month ongoing.
 And because of the technical complexity of this project that we're working on, this is being overseen by the Technology Oversight Committee. So each of you have a representative on that committee we meet monthly, and it will be reported quarterly to the City Council. Additionally, we also have an external quality assurance consultant firm reviewing the project and publishing their monthly quality assurance reports.
 I just want to highlight a couple of the key reasons why we did select ViaWest. Because of their being connected, they're actually off Highway 26 in Washington County. They're connected to the PGE Sunset Reliability Center redundant power grids. They have a 24-7 diesel fuel priority with PGE's dispatchable standby generation program. They are also a gold-level partner in the PGE's electric clean wind program, which guarantees a reliable and renewable source of clean energy.
 So there I'll pause, and Carolyn is here to answer any of the technical questions. But if you have any questions, I'd be glad to answer those. I just have a question. Is it far away enough? I mean, what's the earthquake stability of that area? It's fault tolerant, so it's out of the primary grid. And so it's actually, if you drive out Highway 26, if you're familiar with the, I think it's the Tonkin baseball field out there, it's just past that.
 And that's not subject to the major earthquake problems. Thank you. I have a couple of questions. So obviously, this is an opportunity for us, as we move the data center, to take a deeper look at how we actually conduct business. And I'm interested to know how we're going to use this to improve our efficiency, how we're going to use this to improve customer service, how we're going to use this to adopt new technological advancements like cloud services,
 With that in mind, I have a couple of questions. The first of which is, as you move the data center, are we simply moving an old data center to a new location, or are we actually thinking about ways to improve and enhance the use of technology? How is this going to be different than the old data center? That's it. I'll take that one. Thank you. I'm Carolyn Glass from BTS.
 Not moving the old and that's all we're doing that's not really the case As a part of a move this large for us We are looking at different technology refreshes things that we can do to advance our capabilities and also reduce our costs However with the timeline of this move Primarily being driven by the Portland building reconstruction we do have a limit of how much time we can spend on that kind of analysis and design and
 So we did not do everything that we could do. We didn't do everything that we wanted to do. There's further analysis that should be done going forward on how we can further optimize. So will there be an opportunity here for you to do a deeper customer assessment in terms of their needs? Could that help shape some of the technology that you're going to be using at this location? So I think that's something that would happen over time on a customer-by-customer engagement level.
 Always we have a consistent engagement with those projects that come up from customer bureaus about how we can better meet their needs and how there may be technological changes that we can employ. Certainly this facility provides us a lot greater capability and flexibility than what we've had in our own facility. If we needed to expand significantly, they're able to assist us with that level of expansion. They have no real limitations whatsoever.
 at our scale for power or cooling that would otherwise have been a problem for us. What about data collection? As we move forward, I'm very interested in the Internet of Things, autonomous vehicles, sensor data. Will this facility have the ability to capture and store that data? So our systems that we locate in that facility absolutely can, and we already have the ability to scale quite large based on the design that we have in place.
 And should we need to, we can use their cloud capabilities or their on-ramp to other cloud capabilities to help expand that for us as well. Okay. And does that include the use of multiple providers, Microsoft, Google, Dropbox? Do we have the capacity to move beyond some of our current customer or certain contractual relationships?
 It does. And we currently have contractual relationships with Microsoft, for example, using their Azure cloud services. This contract gets us access to Vial West's cloud services, and we use Amazon cloud services for some other spot needs as well. So certainly it gives us good capabilities in that expansion. And what about on the data storage costs? Are the data storage costs at BTS, are they comparable to, say, Amazon or Microsoft?
 For the types of storage that we're delivering and including backup capabilities in that, yes, they generally are. What those services tend to not provide is the higher performance storage for applications located elsewhere. We would have to move the applications wholly into the cloud to take advantage of some of those types of storage. And will you have the ability to scale like that? Will you be able to do that?
 We have the ability to do that now, and this contract actually improves our ability to do that because of their substantial bandwidth
 out of the ViaWest facilities. Good. Because I just see this as a great opportunity, potentially. If we do it right, this is an opportunity to jump to the next level as far as the technology that's currently available and is assumed to be available in the next several years. And I want to make sure that we have...
 an infrastructure in place that's able to handle both the complexity of the customer arrangements as well as the data storage and being able to accommodate the kinds of data flow that are going to come in through autonomous vehicle and sensors and that sort of thing. So I want to make sure we're not locking ourselves into an older technology platform. Thank you.
 And it sounds like you're telling me that is not the case. That's correct. Very good. That's what I wanted to hear. Thank you. Sorry, anybody else? And, Mayor, if I could add, one thing, Tom Reinhart, our Chief Administrative Officer, he's chairing our Technology Executive Steering Committee, and one of the discussions points we're having right now is inventorying, what we're calling all the different major systems and applications throughout the city. And we have various life cycles in those.
 But where are those opportunities that we could look at more of an enterprise approach instead of these one-off applications? We're actually starting those discussions. Very good. Thank you. Commissioner? My question is, is the Technology Oversight Committee looking after this project? They are, yes. They've taken it on under their portfolio. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this matter, Carla? I didn't have a sign-up sheet, Mr. Wilkins. Two minutes, please.
 Yeah, I'm Shedrick Wilkins. I agree with this. Generally during this ice storm or if there was an earthquake or something, this whole downtown area is going to be cordoned off. There might be gas leaks, traffic jams. People want to get out of the city, so people coming into the city won't get in here. This ice thing, snow, is what's going to happen. And moving, I guess, this is to Washington County.
 It's better also if you want to have consultants. Intel has 15,000 employees they can consult about. They have futurists. They can tell you what's the next generation of information storage. I mean, Intel's out there. And, again, it's more open. It's flat. He said they have their own generators. And, again, if there's an earthquake, Portland's going to be a mess, and people aren't going to be able to come down here. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. For the record, my name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and I was very glad to hear the mayor have some direct questions because the electronic document that's linked strictly to the agenda is just three-page, fairly pro forma. You have to read it in a paragraph before you find ViaWest. I would – you know, it's a little bit – I don't know if this is a second reading, but I think one thing that – even though these contracts look good and I have no qualms about ViaWest as a provider –
 I would encourage y'all to look at language in the contract with ViaWest that is strictly about guaranteed service and delivery in times of crisis. It's really great if they have green energy and stuff like that.
 If in the end, and also I don't think it really matters. They have centers in about eight states and Calgary. I don't think it really matters whether the data is co-located in Denver or Plano or even Canada. The main thing is that if they can't deliver in performance, you know, if there's a crisis situation or something happens either at the local data center or the earthquake comes, then will our contract with ViaWest –
 reduce payments to them if they're not able to meet specific performance objectives. So often we hear situations where we did the best we could and products aren't delivering. So I encourage you to see if that still can be in the language because in a crisis situation they're going to have, you know, we're the city government we're important, but they happen not to be in the city. So
 They will prioritize service based on protecting their revenue. And so if there's fines, disincentives, changed payment structures, that will ensure that the residents of the city of Portland get the best prioritized service from BioWest. Thank you. Thank you. Can I get a motion and a second? So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second. Carla, please call the roll. Bits. Thank you for your work. Very important. Aye. Bish. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. Good stuff. Thank you. The procurement report's accepted. Next item, please. Item 121, accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $89,959 from Portland General Electric 2016 Renewable Development Fund for Portland Fire and Rescue Station 1 Solar Plus Storage Project. Thank you for your patience. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'll begin. Good morning. My name is Danny Grady. I'm the Senior Energy Specialist with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm testifying before you today to request that you accept and appropriate us grant an amount of $89,959 from Portland General Electric's 2016 Renewable Development Fund for the Portland Fire and Rescue Station 1 Solar Plus Battery Storage Pilot Project.
 First, I'd like to recognize Portland General Electric's Renewable Development Fund, or RDF, program. The RDF is funded by PGE ratepayers who make voluntary contributions to support the development of
 of local renewable energy projects. They make a choice to have a line item added to their bill specifically to support projects just like this one. And the PGE has one of the most successful utility programs of this type in the nation, which I think speaks to the commitment of our community in supporting the development of projects like this one.
 The city was awarded these funds through a competitive RFP process. These funds have allowed us to expand the scope of the original project, which was originally a 30-kilowatt project. It has allowed us to expand the scope to include the battery storage component, and it simultaneously helps to free up the funds dedicated for this project for continued and additional solar development.
 Solar projects are not something that are new here at the city. Since 1990, the city has a stated policy to support sustainable energy resources such as solar, the 2009 Climate Action Plan,
 calls for the accelerated transition to renewable energy resources. And in 2015, Council adopted a resolution outlining sustainable city principles and 2013 environmental performance objectives for city operations that includes
 A goal of meeting city operations electricity use, using 100% renewable energy, either generated or purchased. The goal is further to have 15% of the electricity use come from renewable resources. We're currently at about 7%, so we're halfway there.
 The city currently has, with the completion of the North Police Precinct, which is currently being built and should be completed by the end of the month, that will bring the overall solar assets down.
 on city operations to 657 kilowatt hours at 16 sites. That's the equivalent of about 710,000 kilowatt hours, which is enough to, again, the equivalent is approximately 65 average port-led homes to be powered annually. Okay.
 The Fire Bureau currently has solar assets at four of their stations, totaling 25 kilowatts. So this 30-kilowatt system will more than double the Fire Bureau's current solar assets.
 in addition to this being a solar project the um this project really represents a strategic shift in the development of the city's solar resources the 2016 mitigation action plan recognized the benefits of energy storage in critical city facilities in order
 to bolster the resilience of city facilities and emergency response staff to respond to emergencies. This project represents the city's first solar plus battery storage demonstration project. Solar plus storage is a rapidly emerging technology, and the city is showing a great deal of leadership in developing this type of technology project.
 and planning for resilient response while embracing this resource to meet multiple both resilience and sustainability goals. Due to the new battery storage component of this project, there's been a lot of interest from community partners who have reached out to us, including the Energy Trust of Oregon, who's offered –
 development assistance in terms of design development assistance, as well as PGE, who is interested also in working with us to develop a demand response pilot. So there's a lot of interest, a lot of enthusiasm within the community for this project, and again, it meets many of our goals. So with that, I'll turn it over to Deputy Chief Panetti. Thank you.
 Good morning. I'm Deputy Chief Marco Burnetti. I'm the Deputy Chief of Logistics, Portland Fire and Rescue. And when Danny came to us and asked us if we were interested in this type of project, we overwhelmingly were just excited about it. So we discussed it, decided that Station 1 was probably the best location for a project of this type with solar volatilized panels on the roof.
 The key part was the battery backup. And so originally we were just going to go with the solar arrays, and then when this grant opportunity arose, we said let's jump on it and really would add to the resiliency to the main fire station, which is Station 1 at 55 Southwest Ash.
 The interesting thing about this project is it also – we have a backup emergency generator there, but we also – adding solar arrays would augment that capability during the daylight hours. However, since it's a 24-7 operation –
 including a battery backup system, which would continue to operate after maybe you ran out of fuel of the generator or some other interruption occurred, was a really key factor for continuing operations in the event of a major earthquake or any other emergency, since Station 1 is dedicated as our area command center or incident command center in major emergencies on the west side of the river for Portland Fire and Rescue. So, yeah.
 This is an exciting project. It's also going to provide an opportunity for some training for not only ourselves but for the public, for regional partners. If they want to be able to access the roof, come take a look and see what a solar array is with the battery backup system. It's quite a large roof structure, so there's room up there to be able to do a show-and-tell.
 Solar panels are becoming more and more prevalent around the country and the world, and they pose significant special hazards to emergency responders when something goes wrong with them. So the technology is changing, but right now the only way to shut off the power to a solar panel is to cover it up, basically. Some of the new technology is going to allow –
 a disconnect to be right there at the panels to be able to shut off the power without having some kind of shutter system or tarp or whatever might be available to turn that off so it's safe for people to work around and mitigate any emergency at that site. So we've had fires underneath solar panels and things in the past. So that's why you would need to turn it off? Yes, if there's an emergency with the system,
 For emergency responders, they need to be able to know how to shut off the system and safely operate around it because you can't really work around an energized system safely. You need to be able to learn how they work, how to disable them, and work correctly and safely around them. So this is one opportunity that was part of the grant requirements, the demonstration project, can it be accessible to the public, are there training components available for emergency responders or anyone else
 and also is it going to provide a benefit to the public, to emergency services, and pick a topic. And this just kind of fell into place in all those areas. So we're excited about it. I have a question. Thank you.
 You know, when we did Bud Clark Commons, the goal was to get to lead platinum. And the solar and long-term, the goal is to become energy independent as a building. My understanding is the 32,000 kilowatts per hour that's generated here will cover about 6% of the electrical needs of the station. Is that correct? That's correct, yes. So, and that's certainly worth acknowledging. Thank you.
 But how do we close the gap on the remaining 94 percent? Through energy efficiency. I think that the existing systems that are at the fire station, we need to be operating those systems as efficiently as possible. The –
 The amount of renewable energy that's available to be generated is limited by the amount of rooftop space and existing technology. So short of identifying an off-site renewable energy system that we can then be able to wheel that power directly to the station, which is...
 Again, another type of emerging technology as well that we can certainly continue to explore. But the goal in terms of energy management always starts with energy efficiency. Have your load as small as you can and then offset the rest as best you can. Thank you. We're sometimes limited by sunlight too. What level of seismic resiliency is Fire Station 1? Is it going to stay up in the 9.0 quake?
 And my understanding is in the side sub-Cascadia subduction zone event, it may not. And we're viewing this as very much a pilot and demonstration project to provide proof of concept. And this is the opportunity that we had given the location and location
 and the funding opportunity. It's the location that we have at the time of the funding opportunity. Once we do provide, you know, create proof of concept that this is a system that works, we would like to very much include this in other areas that would be impacted less and are more likely to...
 still be standing after such an event. Fire Station 1 was, in the last several years, recently upgraded seismically to withstand those standards that might happen at a 9.0 earthquake. So it's a good location right now to do this. Isn't it in a liquefaction zone? Yes, but the foundation has been stabilized with a...
 a grouting system below to minimize any liquefaction. And I won't say eliminate because I've never seen that happen, but it was engineered specifically to basically build a big rock underneath the station to prevent the liquefaction from creating it to move. I remember that, but why are we putting this on the west side when there's most of our population that's on the east side? In solar voltaic panels?
 The project, and actually I guess the further question is, why is Station 1 your area of command rather than somewhere on the east side?
 Well, the east side is also part of the Emergency Communication Center. So we'd respond there, but this is just, that's the main station where the deputy chief on duty operates from 24-7 and also where the administrative offices are for the fire bureau. So that is just, it's one point. We also have a logistics facility at 11th and Powell is another location that we'd be able to marshal to and do an area command or incident command from that location as well.
 So, it's on the east side. Very interested to hear how it goes. What's the timeframe that way you'll know how it's working? The grant requires that the construction is completed and everything's up and running within 18 months. Within 18 months.
 Yeah, because I'm just thinking for the emergency communications and emergency management center, I don't know what their backup power system is, so something we might need to look at. Yeah, I am aware that we have looked at those facilities as well, and with a lot of solar facilities, you're limited by the integrity and structure of the roof. And so as things such as the...
 you know, through routine maintenance, it comes time to replace the roof. That is one thing that I look at with all the city's facilities, that that's a prime opportunity to look at the feasibility of systems just like this. Yeah, so obviously, since you're in charge of emergency management and it's a relatively new building, I would hope that the roof would be able to do that. Maybe they already figured something out. I would hope so, too. Yeah, so we'll look at it. Yeah, great. Thank you. Any further questions?
 Any public testimony on this item, Carla? I do not have a sign-up sheet, Mr. Wilkins. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Frederick, we're just accepting a grant here. We're just accepting a grant. Inappropriating. I can't talk? No, you can. We welcome your comments, but we're just accepting a grant. I'm a PGE rate payer, and actually I'm fascinated about this term called storage. When I was going to Portland State...
 There was a thing called a superconducting flywheel, which spins around and stores electricity. In New Zealand, they actually pump water back on top of a dam at 90% efficiency and then flood it back down to store electricity. I've had an idea one time. Why don't they just make – it's like art – have a spinning flywheel.
 in a culvert and have glass on top, and you could see this thing spin around and store electricity. That would be... I'll propose that to PGE. It's very artistic. If you put lights on the armature, it would actually make like a little TV. There's ways to put lights, have a clock, and this thing would be storing electricity. And it's interesting because it stores by moving something around in a circle, like a generator, instead of...
 And in the last 20 years, people have concentrated on lithium batteries, batteries for laptops, and get away from this idea of storing energy mechanically.
 I have to say, you're spot on. We have a demonstration project where in one of our Water Bureau pipes, we use the flow to generate a turbine that generates electricity. But as you also know, we have a major hydropower operation in the Bull Run. So we capture the velocity of the water that's released, generates clean energy through our hydropower plants. Both good ideas.
 Yeah, it's interesting, and it's different than just batteries, which you can't see them. It's actually fun to watch something turn around. I've been at the Bonneville Dam, and you see the generators go like this. Good idea. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. For the record, my name is Charles. I was –
 Glad that Commissioner Fitz didn't forget about his microgeneration in the PWB pipes. And I think that that might be something to add or to consult with, you know, the people working on that project is if we have massive disruption, obviously some pipes won't have water, so there won't be microgeneration. But also transmission will be down. So maybe co-locating...
 micro generation in PWB pipes near emergency service centers is not too cost prohibitive. Thanks, y'all. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Call the roll, please. Ritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Very interesting and a much appreciated aye.
 Item 116, amend contract with Portland Patrol, Inc. to extend the term and increase the amount by $934,000 for security services, for parking garages, and streetcar facilities. This was brought off the consent agenda. Does anybody have – Who pulled this, Carla? Mr. Lightning. Is Mr. Lightning here? Yes, he is. Did you want to say something? Did you want to give us a brief presentation? Sure. Yeah. Okay.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Michael Jacobs. I'm the Smart Park Program Manager for the Bureau of Transportation. The ordinance before you is to amend the City's contract with Portland Patrol, Inc. to extend the term of the agreement through March 31, 2018, and to increase the contract amount by $934,000. Portland Patrol currently provides security services for all of the Smart Park garages and for the streetcar facilities. Thank you.
 This extension will allow us to conduct a competitive solicitation process. While we do that, we can maintain critical security services and keep our facilities safe. Thank you. Anybody else who wants to testify, why don't you come up now just so we can keep this moving. Good morning. Good morning. It's interesting that this was pulled from consent agenda. I'm sure you all are right on – oh, I'm Charles Johnson. Charles Bridgecrain Johnson, for the record. Thank you.
 I think this was on the regular agenda last week as a non-consent item, and then Commissioner Schaltzman pulled it back. We cannot in this city have public confidence in the government if an item to increase by $134,000 the annual expenditure on parking garage safety doesn't talk about Ms. Batts. Obviously, her primary safety net is not the people that patrol the parking garages.
 But we live in a city where our safety net is so broken that a 52-year-old lifelong Portlander is found too late to save her life in a parking garage. So on this particular agenda item, there's no way we can guarantee these things don't happen and that we can make Portland Patrol responsible. But as good people...
 We need to face that challenge head-on and eventually have a report from y'all dovetailed with Mark Jolin. It's unfortunate that there's different areas of responsibility. So sometimes citizens get frustrated about where do we get answers. So approved an extra $100,000. I don't know why it's $134,000 more than it was before. Because I'm pretty sure last week I remember being about $800,000 per year. But I'm not opposed to approving it. I trust the procurement division. But we need...
 to realize that people shouldn't have a high expectation for safety of their vehicles or their personal property or anything in a parking garage when we can't even keep the parking garage from being the grave of a woman. Charles, one quick comment on that because I think his time is up. I've actually written an op-ed about Ms. Batts. It will be on the Sunday Oregonian. I want to correct you on one thing. She died of hypothermia.
 in a parking garage within two blocks of a warming center that had a space for her. Thank you. And so the larger question here is, what do we do with people experiencing mental health crisis?
 for whom an apartment without services is not going to be a successful outcome and who are reluctant to use shelter even in the middle of a storm. In my view, that calls out the crying need for more permanent supportive housing units, housing plus services. That's my takeaway from that. I don't want someone to have to choose between the street, a garage, or a shelter they don't want to move into. For someone like her suffering from schizophrenia and with a lot of other life challenges,
 If we failed her, in my view, we failed her because we didn't have a permanent supportive housing unit, and we're short about 2,000 units in this city. I'll have more to say about this next Tuesday at the work session, but that I think I urge you to focus on that point too because without housing and services, we're not going to save people like Ms. Batts in a storm, and that's disgraceful. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog PDX.
 One of the concerns I had on this situation is that are all amendments being approved by the council members, not only by the procurement officer on the original contract itself, is one issue I have. What I've seen is that basically during June 29, 2016, there was an increase. That would have been Amendment 4 by $250,000.
 On October 19, 2016, Amendment 5 increased the contract by $200,000. There was also a notice of intent to negotiate the contract itself, which was issued on July 13, 2016. Five different proposals came in. Now we're doing another contract, which is kicking the total amount up by $934,000.
 Total contract amount to $4,538,000. Now, it's my understanding if you present a bid or a contract out there, should amendments be coming in adjusting that price after the fact of $250,000 plus and then another $250,000 plus and then we're kicking the bid up even higher right now. From my position, I want to make sure that companies aren't coming in low and then doing amendments to it.
 kick the bid up on a regular basis. Now, if I'm wrong on that, I do apologize to anyone making the bids. But everything I could see by Amendment 4, Amendment 5, and where we're at today, the appearance as though that is happening is there. And does the council members have a right to vote on those amendments, or is that going to another individual to make the final decision on that? That is my question. Thank you. Thank you.
 I see Matt Grum from Commissioner Saltzman's office here. Is that you back there? I just have a question as to why it was... Good-looking guy in the corner. Yeah. I'm wondering why it was pulled back last week and if there's something different compared with what it was last week. The Commissioner Saltzman's had some concerns about the procurement process and how it was done last year, and so he wanted, as the new commissioner in charge of the Portland Bureau of Transportation, to have a fresh RFP process, and so he looks forward to conducting that.
 So is this identical for what was there last week, or has it changed? This is an extension of the current contract. We'll have a new process and hopefully a new contract coming forward in the next few months. So it's completely different from what was on last week. Thank you very much. And I certainly support having that more in-depth look. Thank you. Thank you. Further council questions, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hugh Daly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Okay. It's adopted, and we are adjourned until Thursday at 2 p.m.