Carla, do you know who's going to show you daily here? I don't have her absent. Okay, why don't we go ahead and start because I have to read the script anyway. Good afternoon. This is the February 9th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, could you please call the roll? Ritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Wheeler? Here. Okay.
 So here's my usual statement provided. Before we begin, I want to say a few words regarding council proceedings and maintaining decorum. The purpose of these meetings is for people to be heard, for the council to do its business. Everybody needs to feel comfortable and included. Thank you.
 there will be one, there'll be an opportunity during each of our heard items today for public testimony. State your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, say so. If you're representing an organization, say so. Don't disrupt the meetings. If you do disrupt the meetings, you're robbing other people of their opportunity to be heard, and you could also be...
 excluded from the council session. Could I ask you, Carla, to please read the first two items? We're going to consider them together. Thank you.
 item 122 consider the proposal of the Institute of international Christian communications and rudy manziel of bridgeway Realty Resources LLC and the recommendation from the hearings officer for approval to change the comprehensive plan map designation for
 for a portion of the site from high-density single-dwelling residential to low-density multi-dwelling residential, and to change the zoning map designation from R5 to R2 for property at 6012 Southeast Yamhill Street, LU15-280008, CPZC.
 And item 123, amend the comprehensive plan map designation and amend the zoning map for property at 6012 Southeast Yamhill Street at the request of Rudy Manziel, LU15-280008, CPZC. Very good. We're going to start off with the city attorney giving us a couple of comments about today's hearing.
 Hi, good afternoon. This is an evidentiary hearing. This means you may submit new evidence to counsel in support of your arguments.
 for Council consideration of hearings officer recommendation on a comprehensive plan map testimony will be heard as follows We'll begin with the staff report from BDS staff for approximately 10 minutes following the staff report the City Council will hear from interested persons in The following order the applicant will go first and have 15 minutes to address council after the applicant the council will hear from the individuals Organizations who support the applicants proposal each person will have three minutes to speak. I
 Next, Council will hear from persons or organizations who oppose the applicant's proposal. Each person, again, will have three minutes to speak. If there was testimony in opposition to the applicant's proposal, applicant will have five additional minutes to rebut testimony given in opposition to the proposal. Council may then choose to close the hearing and deliberate. I would like to announce several guidelines for those who will be addressing City Council today.
 Any letters or documents you wish to become part of the record should be given to council clerk after you testify. Similarly, the original or a copy of any slides, photographs, drawings, maps, videos, or other items you show to council during your testimony, including PowerPoint presentations, should be given to the council clerk to make sure they become part of the record.
 After testimony, arguments and evidence you present must be directed toward the applicable approval criteria for this land use review or other criteria in the City's comprehensive plan or zoning code that you believe apply to the decision. The BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as part of their staff report to the Council.
 You must raise an issue clearly enough to give counsel and the parties an opportunity to respond to the issue. If you don't, you will be precluded from appealing to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue. Additionally, if the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to the proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing any actions for damages in circuit court.
 Very good. Thank you. Do any members of the council wish to declare a conflict of interest at this time? There are no council members declaring a conflict at this time. Do any members of the council have ex parte contacts to declare information gathered outside of this hearing that they'd like to disclose? There are none. Have any members of the council made any visits to the site that are involved in this matter? No.
 None have. Do the council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we begin this hearing? Seeing none, we will then start with the staff report. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Matt Wickstrom. I'm from the Bureau of Development Services. Thanks, Matt. 1900 Southwest 4th Avenue. And today we're having a...
 Landis review hearing for a conditional use, I'm sorry, a comprehensive plan map amendment and a zoning map amendment for a property at 6012 Southeast Yamhill. The proposal is to change the zoning map designation for approximately 85% of the site from R5, which is residential 5,000, that's a single dwelling zone, to R2, that's residential 2,000, and it's a multi-dwelling zone.
 And then the remainder of the proposal is to change both the comprehensive plan map designation and the zoning map designation for about 15% of the site from R5 residential 5,000 to R2 residential 2,000. And that's from a high-density single-dwelling zone comp plan designation to a low-density multi-dwelling comprehensive plan map designation.
 This is a map of the current zoning of the site. You'll see that it's entirely zoned R5 right now. The next slide I zoom in on this a little more so we can talk about the map distinctions between properties that have similar comprehensive plan map and zoning map designations as opposed to those that are different.
 that are different. The building was previously used as a dormitory for the International Christian Communications, and prior to that it was a dorms, nurses dorms for the medical center across the street.
 Here's a zoom in on the zoning of the site. You'll see this here, the R5 with the R2 in parentheses, demonstrates that the current zoning of the site is different from the anticipated future zoning of the site, or different from the comprehensive plan map designation.
 That's reflected by having one zone, this is the current zone, R5, with another zone in parentheses, which is the comprehensive plan map designation, and that's R2. And this is where we see about 85% of the site with this designation. This small area of the site down here, which is about the 15%, is zoned R5.
 When there isn't a different zoning designation in parentheses after the current zoning, it demonstrates that the current zoning and the anticipated future zoning are the same. This area of the site is zoned R5.
 Also, this is the area of the site where the comprehensive plan map amendment review and the zoning map amendment review applies, whereas the remainder of the site, the larger portion, only requires the zoning map amendment. And so this is a...
 This is what the proposed zoning map would look like with the entire site zoned R2 residential 2000. You'll see there's a dot on the site that demonstrates that this is a historic landmark, and it became a historic landmark through a hearing in front of the Historic Landmarks Commission in 2016. Okay.
 And the building is planned to be converted to 76 dwelling units. Those are primarily studios. And because of the historic designation, there's no maximum density applied to the site. It's part of the historic preservation incentives to allow additional density for historic landmarks.
 And the applicant plans to retain the existing 15 on-site parking spaces. Those are surface parking spaces. And then that's another historic preservation incentive, which is that historic landmarks are required to retain the parking that they have, but not add additional parking if there's additional density within the project.
 This is an aerial view of the site, and we'll use this as the site tour. I have some additional on-the-ground slides at the end if you'd want to see those. But you'll see these are the dorms right here. Here's the small portion of the parking lot that has just the residential 5000 designation. This is the medical center across the street. We've got a church to the west, a single-dwelling residential development to the south,
 And then to the northwest and the northeast of the site is R2, which is multi-dwelling designation. There's some low-density. There's some houses and some low-density apartments. And then to the north here at the intersection of Belmont and 60th, there's a small commercial node with some retail and insurance office in that kind of development.
 This is a picture of the building. It ranges from two to four stories, with four stories running on Southeast 60th. And then as far as the approval criteria goes, the Comprehensive Plan Map Amendment approval criteria is found in 33.810.050. And this approval criteria has to do with
 Requiring the proposal to be consistent and on balance with the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan. And this is today's comprehensive plan, not the updated comprehensive plan that's expected to go into effect in 2018. And then the zoning map approval criteria is found in 33.
 855-050, and that criteria requires that the proposal show adequacy of city services to support the proposed zoning.
 As far as the findings go, comprehensive plan map amendment approval criteria were found to be unbalanced, equally or more supportive of the comprehensive plan. It satisfies Metro's requirements. The proposal provides more opportunities for housing and housing types. The proposal is consistent with transportation policies and objectives. And the overall project will be consistent with surrounding development.
 as far as the zoning map amendment goes the proposal meets the approval criteria for base zone changes the proposed zoning is consistent with the comprehensive plan map designation and
 The city bureaus found that the site has adequate public services for the zone, and BES added a condition of approval regarding stormwater management. And both PBOT and BES are here today in case there's any questions about that condition or any questions about transportation-related findings. At the end...
 Hearing with the hearings officer, there are testimony from four individuals. The testimony focused on pedestrian safety, increased traffic, and parking. In reference to parking, I believe the applicant has additional parking-related information that they would like to submit into the record. As far as pedestrian safety goes, PBOT's response at the hearing was that, yes, there potentially could be –
 pedestrian safety issues. However, they're not related to this proposal, and the appropriate channel would be to call the 823-SAFE number and see if there can be some investigation of that. And then in conclusion, the hearings officer recommended approval of the Comprehensive Plan Map Amendment to change the designation from high-density single-dwelling, that's R5 or residential 5,000,
 to low density multi-dwelling, that's R2 or residential 2000 for the landlocked segment of the site. And then to the hearings officer also recommended approval of the zoning map amendment to change the zoning from R5 to R2. And that's consistent with the 2035 comp plan update. Oh, you know, I should also have pointed out that the comprehensive plan update
 that's expected to go into effect in 2018, propose the same change of the entire site to become R2 zoning. So this would almost just be a sort of stop-gap measure so the applicant could move forward with the project prior to that change going into effect. And that concludes my presentation. If there's any questions, I'm happy to answer them. Good. Okay, thanks. Thank you. That was thorough. Now we'll hear from the applicant.
 And you have 15 minutes, sirs. Could I ask a question of legal counsel? Does the time allotted, I assume we have to be fairly specific about the time allotted, does that include questions and answers or no? You have discretion to adjust the time so that you can ask questions and answers. Very good. So I think we just set it out so the public knows, but you have discretion to. Okay. Thank you for that clarification. Sorry to interrupt. And if you could just state your name for the record, you don't have to state your address.
 My name is Rudy Munzel. That last name is spelled M-U-N-Z-E-L. There was a spelling error on the application. That's the proper spelling of my name. I'm an investor and representative of Reham 6 LLC et al. And we're a small Portland investment group requesting rezoning of 6012 Southeast Yamhill from
 from R5 to R2 for proposals that proposes creating desperately needing workforce housing in Portland. Thank you to the Mayor and the City Council for considering our request today. Thank you to BDS and BPS City staff for assisting us
 and our consultants to work through the complicated task of meeting the many facets and rules and regulations and complying with them. Thank you to our consultants from the Booking Group, Lancaster Engineering, Heritage Consulting, and Dave Rotterbach Architects. The report you've seen will be better explained by your staff and the consultants beside me than I can possibly do.
 What I would like to contribute to this is explain some of the more intangible merits of this project that may not be obvious to you or be in the report. However, I think there are aspects that you may want to consider when deciding on a thumbs-up or thumbs-down vote towards our rezoning request. In addition, I'm happy to attempt any answers to any of your questions afterwards. Our ownership is a private, small group of mostly Portlanders that have invested their personal savings, along with myself,
 in projects that my business partner Gary Oka through the company of Bridgeway Realty Resources LLC have found and created into business plans that are not only profitable but consider from their very inception important concepts that parallel the City of Portland's goals and the unique personality that Portland has. We use no public funding in our projects. I think we are an example how private enterprise can provide much needed resources
 resources in a respectful and considerate fashion and fit into the Portland fabric, while putting no financial burden on the taxpayers of Portland. We are not a fund. We are not a large corporation from outside of Portland that comes through and then disappears after imposing projects on Portland that fit the corporation's ideals, but unduly consider the city's needs. It is with some pride that us and our investors can look at our past projects that add to the Portland livability.
 Our business plan is to provide workforce housing, respect the environment, and preserve buildings that are often on the cusp of demolition and have apparently come to the end of their useful economic life. With careful thought, we adaptively reuse the building that can add to the betterment of Portland. And some important elements of this in our work are historic preservation that keeps the fabric and livability of our neighborhoods intact and is almost always appreciated by the residents.
 This respects not only the feel of the neighborhood, but guarantees that it will be for so many future years, as the new laws that were recently enacted make it almost impossible to tear these buildings down at a later date. This project is in the process of going through historic registry. We create workforce housing that considers income brackets.
 We have done this long before some of the new regulations like inclusionary housing and other recent rules moving the cost of annual rent increases up by more than 10% well before they were enacted. We believe in creating rental units that we have a duty to understand the wide spectrum of the users.
 and formulate our business plan around that and not a narrow top market user that has an earning capacity that is much higher than most Portlanders. Some environmental considerations are also taken into account. Environmental considerations are also an important aspect of our plan. Adaptive reuse means preventing our landfills from being unnecessarily filled. Although our projects don't receive official LEED certificates that most other new high-rise towers receive,
 We think that we are much more friendly to the environment than these projects. Most modern environmental analysis recognizes that newer buildings usually mean clearing sites of old buildings. These discarded buildings unnecessarily fill and pollute our landfills. In addition, many of the new buildings using concrete add a tremendous amount of CO2 to our environment when cooking the lime to create the basic ingredients for concrete.
 On the other hand, doing the extra work to figure out an adaptive reuse avoids these damaging actions. Some recent examples of our work are the Everett micro lofts, which were built in 1914 originally and was previously called the Everett Hotel in the corner of Northwest Broadway and Everett on the edge of Old Town Chinatown. The second and third floors were at the time 2010 vacated for over six years. The roof was falling in and it was in fact raining in the building. The building was ready to collapse.
 We bought it and converted it to Microloft Apartments. It's now called Everett Microlofts, and it has 18 workforce housing units on the top two floors and retail on the bottom floor from locally owned businesses. It was also placed by us on a historic registry to preserve it. Another recent project of ours is Mississippi Court Apartments that previously was a drug and rehab center for single mothers run by LifeWorks.
 The operators were, at the time of our purchase, in the process of building a new facility a few blocks away, and so the building appeared to be not economically viable anymore. We converted it to 42 workforce apartment units and went through an occupancy change. Sir, can I just jump in for a second? Yes. I'll cut against your time. Just so that we can all follow this as carefully as possible, are you challenging a condition of approval
 No. You're not? No. Okay. So, all right. I just wanted to give a little bit larger spectrum than the report you've seen. That's my purpose. It has to come to the council, as I understand it, because it's a comp plan review. It's a change to the comp plan, and that's why it has to be heard. I have a staff memo. So there's no condition of approval which you object to? No. Okay.
 So you're just asking us to approve the hearing officer's ruling? Correct. I just wanted to give you a little better spectrum. That's okay. That's my purpose. I just want to make sure that that's what you're seeking. This is a recommendation from the hearings officer, so it has to come to council and you make the final evidentiary hearing and make the final decision.
 So that actually concludes my comments. I didn't mean to cut you off. It's okay. It actually was very timely, so that's fine. I just wanted to make sure in the remaining time there was no – I had been led to believe there might be a condition of approval question here. Absent that, very good. Thank you. So how do you define workforce housing? Okay.
 well i think it we don't we don't really have a formal i'm careful not to use terms like affordable housing and stuff because it has connotations that mean very specific things to people i want to use a term that simply means that we look at the large spectrum of housing needs in portland not the top tier but kind of the middle income okay we try to fit in that giving a firm example we're planning on putting 76 units in this apartment
 and they're going to be right around 1,000, some units below that, some above that. So that's affordable for most people. Generally, you think of housing needs to be no more than one-third of your income. So I'm going to start looking at incomes and saying, what can you spend? That's really the largest part of the market segment. So that's what we focused on. That's what we also focused on and provided in those other two projects, Everett Microloss and Mississippi, core departments that we've already finished a couple of years ago. Is the building currently occupied? Which one? That building.
 building that was seen that uh it has some applicants the we bought it from um uh worldview that's also ic yes or whatever it is iicc yeah sorry uh so they they do occupy a little of the building right now uh they're in the process of moving out so uh they they are finding other they their business plan changed really because of actually what happened in 9 11. it's a long story but it's not viable anymore so it's largely empty but not empty
 Did you gentlemen have anything else to add? Yes. Great. Thank you. My name is Chris Hagerman, H-A-G-E-R-M-A-N. We're the booking group. We're the land use planner for this. I only have a couple of quick comments and then I'm going to turn it over to our transportation engineer. I wanted to thank staff. All the Bureau staff have been very helpful in helping us navigate all the options and procedures for getting to this point. I wanted to bring – mention that currently up until –
 They purchased the building. It's operated with a conditional use for 90 residents and office space for 10 office workers as well as teaching. So the goal is that this project, this conversion of use to apartments, won't be a significantly increase, if at all, in the intensity of the use of the building. So from the neighborhood perspective, there shouldn't be a change in how they interact with the neighborhood. There shouldn't be a change in how it feels.
 The students, because they're on the school cycle, I think they started to move out probably last year at the end of the school season, I would expect. And at this point, I'd like to turn it over to Mike Ard of Lancaster Engineering to talk about parking.
 Thank you, Chris. Mike Ard, that's ARD with Lancaster Engineering. I'm the transportation engineer that has been involved from the beginning of this project with reviewing what the comprehensive plan amendment and zone change would mean in terms of changes to the traffic in the area and what the city needs to do, if anything, to address the impacts associated with it.
 This is a little bit of a unique application in that usually when we're looking at a zone change we're required under Oregon's transportation planning rule to look at how the picture changes under what's called the reasonable worst case development scenario. So we look at the existing zoning and we see what you're allowed to do under that zoning and then we say, okay, well what about the proposed zoning? What are you allowed to do under that? And if somebody built out the maximum under what the current zoning is and then they changed it to the maximum under the new zoning, does that create new impacts?
 In this particular case, that isn't really the right question. Even though it's still a requirement legally, and we did fulfill that requirement, that analysis resulted in a change of two trips between the two types of zoning, a negligible impact. But, of course, we recognize that there's an existing use on the site, and there's a planned use of the site that don't really fit in the cubbyholes of what's allowed in the zoning because this is a historic property. Okay.
 And so we also went and analyzed what the actual use is today and made a comparison between that and what the actual proposed use is in the future. And that's more significant, although still not huge impact, an increase of 11 trips during the evening peak hour and 14 during the morning peak hour. So it's a relatively small traffic impact in that context.
 We did prepare an initial traffic impact study that I don't think has been the subject of much debate or concern in its findings, but there were some specific concerns that were raised during the context of our prior hearing in front of the hearings examiner by the neighborhood, and we wanted to be proactive in addressing those concerns, even though some of them may not be directly relevant to this application and the decision that's made today. We did want to provide answers where we could. Okay.
 And one of those is in the form of a parking analysis memorandum that I prepared. The parking analysis memorandum was in response to concerns about whether there's adequate parking in the vicinity to support 76 micro or mini apartment units in this area.
 And it's kind of a unique land use in that usually I would go to the ITE trip generation manual and I would look up for an apartment. How many vehicles are expected to park during the late night hours when everybody is home? And what's that demand look like on the system? Because these are 300 square foot units...
 we would expect fewer occupants in them. We would also expect people who are more inclined to active transportation, walking, biking, and using transit. And so in order to get a sense of what the parking demand looks like for that type of use, I went out to a similar location, and it is the Tabor Commons development located... I'm sorry, reading the wrong spot. That's this one. The...
 I should have it listed here, the Alder Royal Apartments, which are located at 16124 Southeast Alder Street. There was a prior project that Mr. Munsell did that was also a small form factor apartment that's actually in the downtown area that might provide better insight, except that it doesn't have dedicated parking. So it's impossible to go out there and say that car's associated with the...
 the development, and that one is not. So in the case of the Alder Royal site, they have two parking facilities, one on each side of two buildings, and they have 400-square-foot apartments. So it's a little bit larger in form factor than what's being proposed here, but it did give us a good sense and a reasonable conservative upper bound of what the parking demand would be.
 So based on that and based on our inventory of parking as it exists currently on the street in the site vicinity, we found that it is currently 41% full during the late evening peak hours and that in the future it would be projected to be 68% full, considering that existing demand plus approved development that's already occurring in the area plus this site. So there is sufficient parking to address that need.
 The last thing that we heard was related to a pedestrian crossing concern, and that's something that I wanted to take very seriously. As the question was raised, it was also raised with a solution in mind, that we take the intersection of 60th and Yam Hill and we provide a striped crosswalk at that location. Okay.
 I am definitely in favor of making safety enhancements to the area, and a crosswalk striping is actually a very cheap treatment. There's no reason to oppose that on the basis of cost. But I am concerned about what that could mean for safety. The reason is that a crosswalk, when it's marked, makes people feel more comfortable walking across the roadway, and it makes them feel more comfortable at all times, even when there's traffic coming.
 And because of that, the statistics show that there's about a 20% higher crash incidence that occurs at marked crosswalks versus unmarked crosswalks. So what I wanted to do to try to address that concern is look at some statistics
 standards that have been established by the National Cooperative Highway Research Program that evaluate when you can do something a little bit more than just a striping of a crosswalk. It's enhanced flashers and signals and something that really causes traffic to come to a stop and provides more proactive treatment for pedestrians.
 What I found based on a quick analysis there was that based on the existing volumes, that would not be warranted. Based on the projected volumes, it would still not be warranted. But there's a little bit of an asterisk that I have to put on that, which is that our count data was collected during February, which is not the highest volume pedestrian part of the year.
 Ultimately, I think that the best approach that we can take here is rather than saying the standards are not met to do a more robust treatment, we instead ought to say we can defer this decision to make it associated with the land use process, and at that time we may have solutions.
 the opportunity to evaluate the crossing needs the city has also indicated that they would like to see this initiated as a city sponsored process rather than directly with this so again it's not really related directly to the zone change and comprehensive plan amendment that's that's the question posed to you today but we wanted you to know that it is on our radar and something that we're concerned about great any further questions for this panel what's the speed limit on yam hill do you know offhand
 I think I should have that in my notes. It's not vital if you don't have it. I'm just interested in the crosswalk question. According to my notes, it is an unstriped paved road allowing for two-way traffic and has a residential district statutory speed of 25 miles per hour. Okay.
 Great. Thank you. So the way these hearings work, it's fairly prescribed in terms of public testimony. First up for three minutes each are any supporters of the applicants. Are there any people here? Can I add one thing because I'm not sure whether you were asking the question you meant to ask there because you asked about the speed limit on Yamhill, and 60th is the one that they wanted the crossing going across, so that is a 30-mile-per-hour speed limit there.
 Thank you for the clarification. Is there anybody here who would like to testify in favor of the proposal? No one else signed up aside from Mr. Arden. All right, very good. Is there anybody here who would like to testify in opposition to the proposal? Mayor, I just have a staff question, if we could, before we move to a recommendation. Yes, Mayor.
 Thank you. MR. If I may, Commissioner, we don't have any public testimony, so we are at the Council discussion part, so this is the appropriate time to ask any further questions. MR. So thank you for your excellent and succinct presentation. I just have a question.
 Because you sort of foreshadowed something which I think we're going to see more of, and I just want to make sure I understand procedurally how that happens. Because you said that in the comprehensive plan that we adopted last year, we actually changed the zoning on this site. Correct. Now, that probably was not – we had not probably adopted that change prior to the filing of this application. But the question is, what –
 What happens to all those property owners that hope to have our comprehensive plan adopted by LUBA and therefore made the law, you know, in a year or two who are in this interval? Is this the process to act in the interim, or is there some other process they could also pursue? Sure.
 This would be the process to act in the interim if you want essentially to speed up your proposal. We've worked with the city attorney to craft language to warn anyone who's applying in this window for a comprehensive plan map zoning map designation that if it doesn't match what was adopted by council, which is going to go into effect in 2018, that you could potentially have a zone change
 for a short period of time and then have it change again. I see. That's right, because actually there's no guarantee. We have no crystal ball on actually what's going to happen at the end of the process. I mean, LUBA could reject parts of our comprehensive plan, presumably. But it just occurred to me as I was listening to you that we may well get a lot of these kinds of applications during this interval.
 And I asked the applicant about that, just wondering why would you go forward with an expensive land use review like this when you know that, you know, the zoning is eventually going to change? And the response I got makes total sense. It was basically holding onto a property like this is expensive. And so, you know, the need to move forward outweighs the cost of this review that's really only necessary for a short period of time. Thank you very much.
 Any other questions? All right. At this point, then, the evidentiary record in this hearing is now closed. This means that the council will accept no more oral or written testimony on the land use decision. I'm happy at this time to entertain a motion and a second to either accept or not accept the hearing officer's recommendation to the council. Thank you.
 And we move acceptance of the report and the hearings officer's recommendation. So we have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Is there any further discussion on this item? Mayor, my guess is that this will not take the city attorney that long to prepare findings. We should probably just inquire. No, and yes, so you could make a tentative vote today and then come back for a second reading. How long do you think it would take to draft findings? Yes.
 We have them. So you could also have them change it to an emergency ordinance and vote on it today and not come back for a second reading. Does the applicant have a strong preference? Time is money, right? So, Mayor, I move that we add an emergency clause to the findings.
 One question from legal counsel. That's a separate vote, correct? Separate motion and vote, yes. Okay, so let's start with that. So we have a motion and a second to change this to an emergency ordinance. Any further discussion? The reason being that it's in the public interest to do this is expeditiously supposed.
 agreed Carla please call the roll I did thank you Fritz I fish I Seltzman I you daily I Wheeler I and to the main motion is there any further discussion hearing none Carla please call the roll and this is a tentative vote oh no this is a final final vote this is it good
 Well, thank you, as usual, Lewis. That presentation was excellent, and it's gone through the proper process, thanks to the applicants who do seem to be considering the neighborhood's concerns and willing to try to do what they can. And also thank you for preserving this building and putting it to adaptive new use. I. Fish. We get a lot of land use appeals before this body. I can't think of one that was as succinct.
 And it is clear, and I thank both staff for the excellent job that you do in presenting to us, and I thank the applicant for your presentation. Hi. Well, I really appreciated learning about the objectives of Bridgeway Realty Resources. I really appreciate the commitment to historic preservation and to building workforce housing. So I very much appreciate that. And to your transportation consultant, as the new director,
 Commissioner in charge of the Transportation Bureau, I appreciated the mini lesson there about crosswalks and what speeds and things like that, all these factors that go into a simple decision or what seems like a simple decision about a crosswalk or not. So thank you for that. Aye. Mayor, point of order. Can we just have a friendly amendment to spell the applicant's name correctly in the land use filing? So accepted as a friendly amendment. It's a Scribner's error. We'll fix that. Udaly?
 uh thank you everyone for your presentations and um thank you mr manziel i appreciate the values you bring to your projects and i wish more developers would follow suit aye wheeler uh thank you everybody for coming well prepared i thought that was an excellent uh presentation hi the hearings officer recommendation is adopted on an emergency basis
 The next item up is a time certain at 2.45, so let's take a three-minute break and we'll reconvene. 3.45? Okay. That's right. All right, folks, we have to do a little house cleaning. Commissioner Udaly was correct.
 in what she noted, which is that we still have to take a vote on Item 123, and we also have to have a motion and a second to make that an emergency ordinance. I want to clarify that the applicant has already conveyed the report to the clerk, or that is in process, so we're good to go here. Can I take a motion and a second, please, on the emergency status of Item number 123? Okay.
 A second. And the reason is that the council declares an emergency exists because expediting this approval will assist in addressing the city's housing emergency. Therefore, this ordinance shall be in full force and effect on and after. I couldn't read this part. You're right. On and after its date of passage. Thank you, City Attorney. Well drafted. Great. Any further discussion on that piece? Call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler.
 aye and to the main motion amend the comp plan designation and amend the zoning map for the property at 6012 southeast yamaha street at the request of rudy manziel uh spelling corrected ordinance introduced by commissioner eudaly lu 15-280008 cpcz any further conversation and i need a motion in a second no it's an ordinance oh it's an ordinance very good call the roll
 Well, the Bureau of Development Services can be happy that you have another champion who's paying a lot of attention to the details. So you're in good hands. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Thank you. Completed. Next item, please, clerk. Item 124, Office of Equity and Human Rights, 2016 Annual Report. Commissioner Udaly? Aye.
 Okay. I'm sorry. There was no sir that you wanted to say something. I apologize. Good morning. Good afternoon. Whatever it is. Whatever day it is. I don't remember anymore. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. Well, Mr. Lynn finds what he's going to be offering us a little bit later. Let me just let me just say it's truly my pleasure.
 to be here and to bring the City Council this annual report documenting the work of the Office of Equity and Human Rights for the past year. My name is Dante James. I'm the Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And almost here on my five-year anniversary. So it is an honor. These reports are actually not required, but I think it's of paramount importance to the Council and by extension the community. Here's the work that has been created.
 that has created an unprecedented engagement internally and externally, and what this office continues to accomplish in the area of social justice on behalf of you, who were elected to ensure that all Portlanders are treated equitably in how the city does business. This report is somewhat of a milestone because on March 12, 2012, this office opened its doors and began the work of infusing equity throughout the halls of city government. We're knocking on the door of the five-year mark, and when I first arrived,
 In this city, I was told by some that this office would not last for five years. So I and my staff are gratified to still be here doing this work that focuses on improving the lives of all Portlanders through improving how the city thinks about delivering its services by first starting with the area and the idea of addressing the disparities that exist for people of color and people with a disability.
 I would truly first like to thank my staff for their passion, commitment, patience, perseverance, and expertise, and I ask them to stand or wave so they can be publicly appreciated for their work. There we go. Thank you, Carla. I also want to acknowledge the continually growing number of city staff and city leaders who have supported the work by making it theirs and taking it upon themselves to ensure that equity is a part of their work.
 I also want to acknowledge the Portland residents and city staff who have come here to support or offer their remarks. Let's see if I can make this work. There we go. Not only in this past year, but right at this moment, we are watching the world, this country, and this city struggle with the issues of race. However, we have also seen city staff and bureaus become more comfortable with discussions of race and discussions about institutional racism and making space for personal and institutional reflection,
 and how they can work to be part of the change that deconstructs the racism. The Office of Equity and Human Rights has been focused on and driven to reduce the disparities that exist that are based on race and disability. This is not just a job. It's a calling for those who do this work. Perseverance and constant vigilance are required in order to deal with the many trials, tribulations, and alternative facts that continue to challenge this work.
 For example, recent data reported just last week in the Portland Tribune, which is doing a series of articles on the history and current racism that exists in the city of Portland as well as the state. They pulled up data that clearly identified the racial disparities that exist in the criminal justice system just in Multnomah County, from police stops to the fines levied for jaywalking. People of color are disproportionately and detrimentally impacted by the actions of the criminal justice system.
 This office is constantly engaged in working with various parts of PPB to encourage, support, and challenge aspects of their bureau. And the idea that the ratio is 27 to 1, specifically for black folks to be cited for spitting in the public, is just amazing. It's just an amazing number. And you can see the rest of this. I would encourage you, if you haven't read the article in the Tribune, please take a moment and read it. Because then it goes to address issues.
 the financial impact because of the disparity in the fines that are levied for each and every one of these things that they've cited as disparities just in citations. You've received a copy of the annual report that details some of the highlights of our work. Our goal is and always has been to ensure the community benefits from the increased understanding and use of equity principles by city government in the delivery of its services. We have tried to stay true to the Portland Plan and the many five-year action items within it,
 specifically in each of the heading areas. We have closed the gaps. We have engaged the community. We have built partnerships. We have launched a racial justice initiative. We have increased focus on disability equity. And we have increased internal accountability. So to those ends, just this past year, what is some of the work we have accomplished? We continue to conduct and facilitate our equity training.
 Our training curriculum and approach is a sought-after model because it is designed to offer concrete understanding and approaches to equity work. The evaluations of our training show an overall satisfaction rate of 91%, which is just an unheard-of rate given the diversity of city employees and their perspectives. We have engaged the community by holding a community listening session attended by over 120 residents who offered thoughts and suggestions on issues of importance to their communities.
 You can see some of these suggestions and comments on page 7 and 8 of the report. Our racial justice initiative work continues with almost every Bureau's completion of a racial equity assessment and the creation of a five-year racial equity plan. These plans each have goals, metrics, timetables, and measures of accountability broken into one-year increments for review and evaluation.
 The plans are currently on each Bureau's website, and they are on our website, so that Portland residents can see, evaluate, and hold accountable a Bureau's work against their plan. You can also see in the report on pages 5 and 6 some of the promising practices that Bureaus have as goals to address disparities and improve their service delivery and their internal work.
 So we have a short video that will provide a little bit more information about the racial equity plan process and why it's such a vital resource in advancing racial equity in the city. All 26 bureaus are creating five-year racial equity plans that are supposed to operationalize or bring to life the city's racial equity goals and strategies that city council adopted last year.
 So the racial equity plans themselves start with outcomes, you know, the city's kind of long-term aspirational goals, and then ask bureaus to create these five-year objectives, kind of where do bureaus want to be in five years. So the purpose of the five-year racial equity plan is to ensure that the bureaus focus on their internal processes, on the institutional disparities we may have within the system,
 to look at how we do business with the community, whether we're using an equity lens. Some of the major concerns that we are taking a deeper dive in is making sure that a racial equity lens is used as far as contracting and our community engagement. Those are two of the biggest components of our racial equity plan. Another big theme is community engagement, so everything from just greater access
 and understanding of existing community services to building partnerships with community-based organizations that are culturally specific, or working with leaders of color to better design or evaluate programs.
 the director of a bureau can continue to provide that focus over time especially when we do big things like budget uh... and and do big things like produce communication plans and hire uh... those kinds of things the director's office can provide focus for the bureau and so those are the kinds of things remove barriers another thing i can do at my level the plans themselves aren't supposed to be the end all that's kind of the beginning of the real work
 I just want people to know that this is going to be difficult work. It takes very hard conversations. Change is very difficult for the city, for bureaus, but it's very important. Really, at the end of the day, it's making sure that everyone feels included at the table. The amount of work that the Office of Equity and Human Rights in guiding the bureaus to do this work has been amazing. And I think a more systemic, deep, passionate work.
 passionate approach to this from the top, the elected officials right to line staff is the only way we can begin to make progress. And so I'm really proud to work for an organization that's taking that kind of approach on this issue. Communities of color nationwide and in Portland have been organizing for generations and decades for government to respond
 to issues of racial inequity. So I think this will be the first time that the city of Portland has really put in a very detailed commitment to addressing very specific racial inequities. And the measures associated with those commitments are an opportunity for communities of color and staff of color to hold the institution accountable.
 So once again, thanks to Jeff Selby for his amazing videography and as well as putting the report together. I mean, nobody gets to steal them away from me. The work that each of the bureaus really did to put their racial equity plans together was amazing. The assessment, the entire process of assessment through goals,
 was truly, for many and most bureaus, a very involved process. They took it very seriously from the directors on down. They're still extremely engaged. They want more engagement from us. And so I will tell you that, you know, it is a model, as many of the other things that the city is doing. It's a model around the country for how this work is institutionalizing itself and embedding itself in just how the city does its work. Okay.
 And so it's designed to be a living document. Each of you know...
 Every bureau has an affirmative action report that it has to do, affirmative action plan that everybody dreads when they have to do it. They can't wait to get it done, and then it goes on a shelf until the very next year when they have to do another one or when they're going to hire somebody and they get a report on what their deficiencies are in who they've hired. This is truly designed to be a living document. It's been appreciated and accepted that way, and I really expect that in the next year
 Just one year, we'll be able to see that the needle has moved in many of the areas that you see in the report that people have highlighted as what they want to focus on. We have continued our work to close the gaps in disparity, with the most recent example being our support of DEEP, the Diverse and Empowered Employees of Portland, which saw the completion of its first annual nine-month leadership development program, initially for women and Latino and African-American employees.
 DEEP has also added affinity groups for veterans, employees with disabilities, and Hawaiian, Asian, and American, and I can't read, American and Pacific Islanders. The goal being to increase the number of people of color who are managers and or supervisors in this city. The city's workforce overall has increased in significant measure in the last several years while the percentages of managers of color has remained significantly, significantly smaller.
 And if you haven't looked at our dashboard recently on our website, it will be able to certainly indicate for you by bureau what the demographics are in each of the bureaus broken down by employment status, supervisor, non-supervisor, full-time, part-time, gender, disability, veteran status. So I encourage you to, if you have not, take a look at the dashboard. The most recent version of the dashboard, it is updated monthly.
 through SAP, so it's truly up to date. And the bureaus always say that it's a benefit as they do what they do in understanding the demographics of who they're serving. We plan on enlarging our engagement on the issue of disability. Portland can become the leader in disability equity work in the same way that it has become a leader in racial equity. That will require, however, a citywide commitment of resources. In the upcoming budget, we have asked for a commitment of additional resources and personnel to accomplish this.
 Also, the Bureau of Human Resources will need additional resources to ensure the fruition of their efforts to lead on making this city truly a model employer of people with disability. These things will require your commitment individually and collectively to be not just supporters but advocates for this work. We continue to build and grow partnerships through our engagement with the Government Alliance on Race and Equity,
 For example, this office co-hosted, along with the city attorney's office, a training by internationally known legal expert John Powell on how the city can move this work forward while avoiding legal pitfalls. Additionally, we're also working with procurement services, the county, and Metro to address the idea of a regional community benefits agreement for minority contractors and people of color in the construction industry workforce.
 Our office completed and trained city staff on the use of a racial equity toolkit, and there are currently eight bureaus that are using it on various projects as pilots to evaluate how to improve equity outcomes. Additionally, we supported and worked with the Human Rights Commission as it dealt with considerable community pressure in preparing its recommendation to the city's Committee on Socially Responsible Investment. I'm sure you remember that process.
 In conjunction with the toolkit, our collaboration with the Budget Office and our equity budgeting process continues to be viewed as a model for other jurisdictions. Just by example, I've been asked and invited to come to New Orleans later on this spring to meet with city leadership to help them to create a very similar approach.
 At the end of last year, the deputy mayor and a couple of her staff came and sat in my office for an entire day going through what and how my office functions and what we've done with the city and what we've embedded in the city. And they're in the process of now rolling out their own equity work in their equity office and really want to see how it can be tied to budget work. Because if you know it's important, follow the money. So they're really trying to engage in an equity process around their budgeting.
 The office became the oversight bureau for the city's Equitable Contracting and Purchasing Commission, bringing the number of commissions the office is responsible for to three, including the Human Rights Commission and the Commission on Disability. The commissions take a considerable amount of time to properly support and staff, with the important expectation for each of them to advise you in the subject areas.
 Moving forward, as I mentioned, we are preparing to expand our work in the areas of disability equity and have asked for, in the upcoming budget, additional staff more than the 1.5 we currently have to do that work. We're also asking for support for a centralized model for continuing the racial equity work that we do. In the five years of this office's existence, we've received no budget increase. We've only had our budget cuts that were offered and subsequently taken.
 We've taken on additional programs, some with no accompanying staff, or received staff with a new program, but nothing to support increases to our core mission. Our goal with this new model is to provide specific liaisons to each bureau in a similar manner as the Budget Office does or as Human Resources does. Many bureaus have their own internal HR person or budget person, but both HR and CBO set the standards by which this work is accomplished. I'm asking that equity be given the same consideration.
 This is not to take away from the work that's currently being accomplished by any one person in any bureau with the title of equity manager. But there's not even a dotted line to my office for that work. And my office doesn't necessarily know some of the work that's being done. Case in point, several bureaus have brought in outside consultants or trainers at a cost of several thousand dollars. Some of the work might have been done by my office, some maybe not.
 However, not knowing what the content is, what the approach is, whether there could have been efficiencies in sharing between bureaus, had we known, or some bureaus that want their own specific individuals to manage their equity plans, creates disjointed work and creates more silos that exist as we try to then narrow those silos. So I ask you to consider the efficiency and greater effectiveness of a centralized model. Thank you.
 Before I introduce now our invited speakers, I would like to introduce you to Matt Lim from the Bureau of Technological Services Enterprise Business Solutions. He's going to introduce to you an amazing tool that will be part of OEHR's website. He has done this on his own time as a member of the HAPA Asian and Pacific Islander Affinity Group.
 and I'll let him preview it for you and explain how it's going to work. But if it is all that I've heard it to be, it's an absolutely amazing tool that will be a benefit to each and every bureau in the city. Thank you. Good. Good afternoon. Well, time to show you guys some eye candy. Let's get this going. Okay. Can you move the microphone a little closer? Oh, sure. Sure.
 So I'm here to present just some visits I've been working on with some publicly available data, specifically pertaining to demographics. And so the point of these visits are to show what type of data is out there and what type of analysis we can do if we have enough resources and people dedicated to just mining and analyzing this data. So bear with me. I know the resolution here is kind of small. Okay.
 and hopefully we can kind of read it. But here I've just got an example of some poverty data that's broken down by race, and also I have an overlay here just related to population growth and whatnot. So you can see here with this dashboard tool, we have some advanced filtering capabilities. Let's say I just want to look at a few neighborhoods or neighborhood coalitions.
 once it re-renders. But essentially this Tableau dashboard tool allows us to do some really advanced visuals, analytics, and is a very, I would say, convenient delivery method.
 for getting analysis out there. So here I've got a couple selected here, and you can do the same thing with census tracts, and you can do a double filter on that. So here we're looking at census tracts within those coalitions, and if you look at the legend here, the bigger the... Whatchamacallit? The bigger the shape on the left side, that represents...
 basically a track or a block group where if you compare the proportional poverty rates between people of color and white individuals, you can see that there are some discrepancies. Although there are certain instances like this one,
 census tract right here where we actually do have a higher rate of white poverty. And here you have a graph down here that coincides with the map and all the filters. So as you can see, those few neighborhood coalitions I selected from the filter up top filtered the graph below. Now if I want everything, I just go back up here, click all,
 And there we go. In the interest of time, I'm going to go ahead and move to the next visual. And I can go ahead and send people a link if they want to dive into this type of stuff. And so there was a lot of talk about disability. And there's actually some really good disability data out there available from the Census Bureau. It's regularly updated, maintained by them. And it's a tool that I don't think has been leveraged as well as it could be.
 So here we've got some poverty data here, right? Same filters as before. We have another poverty rate comparison between the tracks, and we also have proportional symbols as well to represent absolute counts. And here, I know it's a complex map, but I just wanted to do something really complex to show you guys what's possible.
 if we zoom in on the map here i can show you what's going on so on this map we have every single sidewalk in portland and every arterial major arterial and because of a masking trick if you look here the gray areas where there's no blue streets that's a sidewalk gap and if you zoom in even closer those little purple things it's got a render it's a really big tile set map but
 Once that renders, those little corners right there that are purple, those are ADA ramps.
 And the orange ones down here are corner ramps. And we have every single one in Portland mapped here. And it coincides with the disability data. I am assuming there are issues with mobility with certain disabled people with disabilities. So I think if we can take this really rich census data and combine it with our own, we can have some really good analysis. Like this thing right here, I did in a few days.
 So, I mean, there is quite a few things that are possible. And there is an opportunity for if we focus on a few data sets that have lots of dimensions. Like I was able to collect something like 600 dimensions or columns from each of these census tracts. And I haven't even begun to completely mine what the Census Bureau has. Right.
 So if we can have those large data sets that are standardized, that are vetted, that are verified, do some centralized standardized analysis from one point of view and provide that information to all the other bureaus, you establish a metric of accuracy.
 equity measures and performance metrics that everyone else can be aware of and adhere to much easier than right now. I mean, you've got PBOT. They have their own equity lens. BPS has their own. Every bureau more or less has their own. And so, I think it's a great way to start
 we don't really know how to consolidate those different lenses. It's almost like the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing. And so with tools like these and just amazing data resources, combined with our own data resources, there are limitless possibilities. So you could do point-of-time data evolution as well. I mean, you could actually show how the map is evolving with time. Oh, yeah. We have census data that dates back, I mean, ever since the census was conceived. Right.
 Yeah, we have everything. As long as whenever they've been collecting the data in which timeframes they've added new dimensions to those sets, we can track it back 20 years perhaps with a lot of these dimensions.
 Lots of good stuff. That's really impressive. Mr. James has promised. Very impressive. I can't take any credit. But could you, for example, overlay the census data of who in the community has disability with where there's a gap in sidewalk or where there's a gap in curb cuts? Yeah. Well, here, if you look at the content filter,
 down here, all these are the different demographics of people with disabilities, which within those census tracts. So we have it broken down at such a granular level. And this is just ethnicity. We have gender. We have income group. We have native Oregonians. We have native American citizens and foreign-born nationals as well. All that broken down by economics,
 age, we even have mortgage values. We have a lot of affordable housing data. I'm not sure why no one's mining. I've mined it. It's all started here. So what you're describing, if I hear you, you could find who is a black wealthy person with a disability
 in any particular area and determine where well you technically can so these are broken down by the track level so that's like the level observation that you have there but um there are certain geospatial techniques where we can populate those census tracks or those block groups within a certain statistical accuracy so for instance if i did something like a dot density um
 algorithm, for instance. I would have a track, right? You'd have the shape there. It would pinpoint every single individual in that shape within a certain amount of confidence. So yeah, it's possible. So that's a bit of concern with what's going on at the national level. We thought about that too. Yes.
 So what kind of safeguards are there that people cannot be just targeted instead of just having the demographics? I would say level of skill, because in order to do something like that, you need a specialized ensemble model. And I made a specialized one that only I know of. So, yeah, I mean, someone else has to get a master's and have their hand at it. Otherwise...
 Pretty tough to do. So you could block the data, though, at a neighborhood level. I mean, you could keep it a larger scale on a granular level, and it would still tell you the trends, where infrastructure investments are needed, where there's gaps. I mean, it's still very relevant. Oh, yeah. We can expand those boundaries as much as we want. When it comes to shrinking those boundaries down, that's where it gets tricky.
 because when you aggregate up, you have those different components and you can just, like, add them all together, for instance. When you're breaking it down, you don't know what that distribution is within that geographic boundary. So that's where you have to do a lot of statistics, a lot of data science, a lot of weird stuff. And, Mayor, we have had some discussions about what should go on Portland maps and what should not go on Portland maps. Just recently, we were talking about the energy score. So I do, you know...
 I am seriously concerned about this issue, and so it would be at some point good to have a city policy on how much data we share and how we protect data. To be fair, all that data that I got, all of it's from the Census Bureau, so it's not like we even have control over it.
 Right, and as you just mentioned, not all of us have masters and are able to do something like that. If we do have access to those resources, there's still a question of what safeguards do we put on the new data that we just got. Well, that's tricky because when you don't have control of the data, who it's going to, who can access it. I mean, the Census Bureau data is available to everyone. It's funded through taxpayer dollars. Everyone has a right to it. But as we put this on our website,
 We can limit how far down you can go into the granular level. Yes. So I think that's what you're asking. Oh, yeah. I've done that with a number of dashboards I've developed for different bureaus. I have a really good security process that I go through where it locks it down, and I would wager that my dashboards are more secure than the other Tableau dashboards out there. That is what we had.
 thought about. So we're not going to be able to pinpoint one person living on this block who has this particular demographic information. Thank you. That's a tremendous presentation. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I wasn't lying. That's amazing. So
 That's essentially the report. What I will continue to say and sing the praises of this office and my staff is that this office clearly and truly continues to be a leader in doing equity work around the country. You know, I've got a phone call next week with somebody in, is it Texas? Where is my phone call from?
 Long Beach, California. I mean, so we get calls. I was going back to Denver, and they heard I was coming, so I had to go up to Fort Collins and meet with the city manager and others. So the office is known around the country for the work that it does. And so I...
 You know, I truly hope that you can understand and respect. It just seems like we just keep rolling out what we do. This has happened in a short time frame in five years. You know, Seattle is kind of OG doing this work. They've been doing this now for 12, 13 years, I guess. In some ways, they are ahead of us. In other ways, we're ahead of them. But I think between the two...
 We are absolutely leading the way and are the models for how this work gets done across the country. And certainly nobody else is specifically focused on disability in the way that we are. Can I just jump in for a second? Yes. Because a little bit of history was just made. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals just rendered their decision, and it was a 3-0 decision upholding the state of Washington's, the federal judge in the state of Washington blocking,
 that the national state stays in place until the Supreme Court takes it up. Very good. Thanks, Commissioner, for letting us know that. I guess you weren't paying attention to me, though.
 I have a question. When we started the office, and I agree, it's been really satisfying to see the focus on race and disability and to be a leader nationwide on that. And obviously, when we were trying to explain to people six years ago what we even mean by this, we mean opportunities in jobs, contracting and services.
 And we have reports during the budgeting process as far as where the different bureaus are providing services and that kind of thing. For my bureau directors, every year I ask them, what are the demographics of our workforce and what, the year before, have we been making progress? Do you have a sense of...
 Year by year, are we getting to have a city workforce that looks more like the demographics of our city? Yes. When I started, I believe the demographic number of people of color was 17%. And the last time I looked, it was about 21.5%, 22% people of color. As I said, the managers and supervisory number is half of that. But the demographics overall for the workforce has increased, I think, a good number.
 In addition to the wonderful information in the report, for the next one I would like us to keep putting that in there. And also I know you've only just started working recently with the Equitable Purchasing and Procurement Commission, or something like that. That's something that I know Mail Wheeler is very much focused on and it's a piece that I think we haven't made all that much progress over the past eight years that I've been here. So to be thinking of having tracking that
 the numbers of the contracting that goes out, and also the demographics of the workforce as well as who owns the businesses. I think we, you know, it's great work, and there's always more to do. Correct. Thank you. I would suggest that the numbers, the contracting numbers are not good. The workforce numbers are not particularly good. And I would also suggest that it's, as much as you don't want to think about the dollar amount, it's time for another disparity study that I think would...
 give you a different answer than the one that happened six years ago in terms of what the NBEW percentage is looking like and what can be done. Since the last one said essentially there was no disparities in subcontracting, I would suggest the number is different today and it would recognize a disparity that would allow the city to do something much more concrete in terms of what it can require.
 So. If I could just make a comment. You mentioned a couple times about your budget ask and hiring staff to follow up on the model employer policy we've adopted and the work we're required to do under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Right. I'm going to be generally supportive of those asks, and I'll tell you why. Okay.
 Santa Lawrence in my office, Office of Equity, HR, and the Disability Commission, and I are all working on a pilot program.
 to become an employer of choice for adults with intellectual disabilities. And you said some cases were ahead of Seattle and some instances were behind Seattle. Seattle is ahead of us on this one. And it's because a number of years ago their mayor said we're going to be a model employer, and it was organized out of the mayor's office, and they now have 33 employees full-time with benefits. Right.
 that have been recruited and are successfully employed. But there's a lot of hoops we have to jump through to make this work, but what I have learned is that we don't yet have the full capacity as a city to handle this and all the other commitments that we've made under the model employer policy. So if we're going to –
 stand behind that policy and what we want to do, we have to have staff to implement it. And since the council has been emphatic that this is a priority, I think we have to look seriously at budget time of filling those positions. I appreciate that. Thank you. So, thank you for your time. I had a question. Oh, yes. So, just going back to your recommendation that you become sort of like a CBO or human resource office, budget office or human resource office, providing centralized assistance to all the bureaus. Right.
 Is that coming full circle from where we started five years ago? Because it seems to me the drumbeat at the time was to have each bureau have its own equity director. And, in fact, I think each bureau has gone on to do that. Well, first, that was never my drumbeat. That was not your drumbeat. Okay. And currently five bureaus have – well, four bureaus have an equity manager and one has someone who has equity in her title, but she's not a manager. Okay. Okay.
 And so there will be, I think, in the upcoming budget, asks for bureaus to specifically have either an equity manager or someone who's charged with being a program manager who will oversee their equity plan, which is what a liaison from my office could do as a part of what their duties would be. And so that's really what I think the centralized model will be able to do is provide that level of service and greater accountability.
 engagement with a specific bureau to understand how they do what they do and what their needs are in the same way, you know, CBO does it now or HR does it now. So in terms of efficiency, it saves I think money from each bureau now having to find money or ask you for money for a new person. Um, when it could be centralized in my office for consistency and commonality of the work and, and the oversight of how it gets done. And then the other question I had was, um,
 Well, I mean, we started out five years ago focusing on people of color and people with disability. Correct. Is it time to, five years later, is it time to expand that universe of where we're looking? I would probably just say watch TV and say no. The opportunity to focus allows then, I would suggest that the reason that the ease of the
 The restroom issue of, you know, gender, not gender specific was made easier because we'd already have these conversations about equity the last four years. And so I don't think it's time to expand because it's still too easy for everyone to default to the next conversation of let's talk about class. Let's talk about gender. Let's talk about something else and ignore the issue of race, even though it's commonplace.
 It's just so preeminent and prominent in this country currently. So I would say no, even though I get that question quite a bit. I would say it's still not time that we need to maintain a focus on addressing this. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, I have a question for you.
 Dante said something interesting earlier. He said that there's no requirement for an annual report, but he's brought one forward. When you led the effort with then Mayor Adams, did we not mandate an annual report? And if not, should we at some point amend that?
 I think any equity director in his or her right mind would want to bring the manual report because clearly we need to have these conversations. The Commissioner's assessment just said, are we done? The answer is clearly not. Also, we want to invite all of our friends and sometimes people who are concerned about us to be able to come in for a public hearing to say, this is how we think it's happening. And these are what the
 the community wants to see because we're still very much focused on city staff, city programs. We're not where we need to be there yet. In terms of broadening our outreach and doing work in the community, that's not what the focus of this particular office is supposed to be.
 The only reason I raise it is that we mandate annual reports for just about everything. So I don't want this omission to indicate that this council doesn't have a strong desire annually to have you come out with a report and then a follow-up on progress.
 No, I appreciate that. And I might need to double-check. I know that there was a requirement for within the first six months to have a report. I just don't recall that there was one required every year, even though it was what I was going to do anyway. There were some people who thought we wouldn't be there for six months. Exactly. For the record, Commissioner Ritz, I didn't say, are we done? I suggested we expand. Are we ready to expand to look at other issues around equity? Mm-hmm.
 Not to declare victory with race and physical disability. Yes, I apologize. My wording was incorrect. And I think, Commissioner, that we have. I mean, when you look at the general, you know, neutral restrooms, there are the conversations. And when we talk about, you know, the budget equity tool, our focus is race and disability. But what I tell the bureaus all the time is that's not your focus. Your focus is equity broadly.
 And so using the tools that we provide, you can substitute any identity you want and work through the same process to address issues of any other issue. So that's kind of how we approach it.
 Okay. So at this time, I'd like to introduce our invited speakers. I have a few, after which there may be some individuals signed up to offer remarks, and then after that I'll be asking you to accept the annual report and then be happy to answer any more questions that you may have. Thank you, sir. So at this time, Don Uchiyama, who is Deputy Director of BES, Stephen Holt, who is a community consultant, Deidre Hall, who is from the Portland Commission on Disability,
 Joe McFerrin, who is president and CEO of POIC and Rosemary Anderson High School, and also chair of the BMA Workforce Subcommittee. Moussa El-Olo from the Somali-American Council of Oregon woke up ill this morning and asked me to relay his apologies and also send me some remarks, just some very brief remarks that I'll also read to you when we're done here. So I'll let them go. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, I'm very pleased to be here today. Sorry, I have a little bit of a cold. I'm Dawn Uchiyama, the assistant director, newly appointed assistant director at the Bureau of Environmental Services. And on behalf of Mike Jordan, Director Mike Jordan, and my bureau, I'm very pleased to offer our strong support for the Office of Equity and Human Rights and acknowledge this important milestone with their annual report.
 OEHR has provided great assistance to BES while developing our equity plan and has served as a really steady guidepost as we've navigated our way through the cultural transition that's happening in our Bureau from planning to implementation. We're moving into implementation.
 And to that end, I just want to highlight a few things. With Commissioner Fish's leadership, we've created the position of assistant director and now have dedicated management in my position to guide employees and guide the equity work that we do to tie back into the central model that OEHR has created.
 And we have recently rechartered our Committee for Equity and Diversity. We've had a committee for 10 years. We've rechartered it to meet the goals that are now stated in our plan, and
 We have money in our budget set aside for our equity work, and we're continuing to build off of the great community relations that we've had over the years with programs like the Community and Watershed Stewardship Program, our tree planting program, Portland Harbor, and more recently, our strategic plans. So we have a number of great programs that we really are looking to advance our community relations with.
 around equity. And looking forward, we're really looking forward to participating in innovative recruitment and contracting practices. There's a lot of potential there for us, and we're signed up and ready to go. So this work would not be possible without or is coordinated without the work of OEHR's institutional framework and leadership, and we're really looking forward to making more advances in the years ahead. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, members of Council and Mayor. Thank you for having me here today. My name is Deidre Hall, and I'm the newest appointed commissioner with the Portland Commission on Disability. I've been volunteering with the commission since June of 2016 and became an official member in October. I've been asked to speak about the importance of disability equity work that OEHR and the commission do for our community.
 I can tell you that I'm continually impressed by the dedication of OEHR staff. Nicole Cherone, who serves as our advisor, is also involved with several major citywide policy initiatives and other bureaus. I know this because she's constantly bringing us new things to work on or asking us for feedback on surveys. Dante James makes time to have a presence at our meetings and has met with various PCOD commissioners. And my fellow commissioners are all very passionate about making Portland the most inclusive city.
 In my short time on the commission, I've been involved with making recommendations about drive-through zoning, downtown street improvements, ODOT's transition plan, infill housing recommendations, and helping to restructure Pequod. My fellow commissioners have been working on the city's model employer policy, advocating for more disability resources for ADA Title II compliance, and a checklist for bureaus when hiring disability awareness trainers.
 Now more than ever, it's important that the voices of the disability communities are heard. Portlanders with disabilities are entitled to accessible housing, employment, transportation, education, and recreation. OEHR, PCOD, and the members of council have a great opportunity in the coming years to set the example and inspire other cities to follow suit. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and hello, commissioners.
 Mayor, I don't think we've met yet. I'm Dr. Stephen Holt, and I own a consulting company called TriExcellence. And in that capacity, I'm certified as a DBE or gone through that MWESB process, which I'd love to talk about it sometime all by itself.
 But today, I'm here to speak specifically for the Office of Equity, and I'm going to kind of have a two-fold approach. I'm going to talk about the office itself, and then I'm going to talk about equity as a whole very briefly. The office itself, I think, has done a phenomenal job
 in the present structure. With a charge to train and educate and work with all of the bureaus under its current governmental system without any direct response or accountability of those bureaus then to do that work, I think to have accomplished what it's accomplished is nothing short of miraculous. With the staffing and the challenges they have to
 to do what they do, to be sitting here at this moment and having moved the needle as far as the needle has been moved is tremendous. But to go from 17 percent to 21 percent or 22 percent, while that is worth celebrating, it's still a far cry from where we need to be. I think we'd all agree with that. And so to respond, and I hope I'm not speaking out of turn, but to respond to it's a time to –
 focus on or engage around something broader, I think what really should happen is we focus the lens even more intensely to make sure that we're reflecting the needs of the community and the needs of the city. The staff is a passionate staff and a very talented and capable staff. Um,
 I am presently involved working with the five-year strategic plan with the Office of Equity and Human Rights to say, what is the next rollout? What are the next steps that need to be taken? And so definitely more of a focus and drill down in terms of the educating, in terms of the equipping, in terms of the education.
 empowering of the bureaus and making sure that there's consistency and quality and that the work is being evaluated and being evaluated well and that the adjustments and changes that need to happen in order to hit equity goals, that there's resourcing and support for that. So...
 I'm a strong advocate and a strong believer. Part of the challenge with the Office of Equity is that they are so stretched from my perspective. And so there's an element that is extremely important, and that is community engagement.
 How does the community engage with the Office of Equity? Now, up to this point, it's been very much focused on moving the bureaus, which it should be, very much focused on training the government or helping the city become efficient and effective and to think through a lens because, you know, it's different to have knowledge of something and to begin to think through that knowledge. Those are two things.
 very separate things. I think what we've done to this point is help to expose or create a lens of knowledge, but really not moved the thinking so that the evaluation is that way. So there's a great work that still needs to happen. However, with the community itself and the needs of the community, specifically people with disabilities and people of color, having access to and voices that speak for
 for their needs and their concerns. While many have thought that the Office of Equity was given that charge, there is a need to kind of clarify that the office really has been put in place to work specifically with moving the city forward in order to be in a position to more adequately reflect. So there's a lot of work to be done.
 And I'll end with this illustration I was working with. And I should say that I've been a community trainer with the Portland Police Bureau as an equity trainer through the work that's been done and a variety of other bureaus that I've done some work with. But the illustration I'm going to use is some work I did with the city of Gresham and their police department.
 The goal was to take the police department through a process of changing the lens and creating an equitable lens, and then to concurrently work with community and develop an opportunity for community to engage and engage in authentic and genuine manners, and then at some point to bring the two together. So after we have a prepared process,
 community of officers who can think through a lens, then bring the community together. What unfortunately happened was the officers didn't believe they needed the work, felt they were beyond the need to be adequately prepared. We had a great opportunity and I think the right recipe for what's happening in the city, and yet we missed it.
 I would hate to see that happen in the city of Portland. And with what's going on nationally and what's happening here locally, I think it is quite clear that equity matters more now than ever. I think there's a great opportunity to do some significant work and to resource it and support it appropriately. Thank you very much.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Councilmembers. Joe McFerrin, President and CEO of Portland OIC and the Rosemary Anderson High School, a community-based organization that focuses on alternative high school for kids that don't make it in the public school system, but also work with a number of public agencies and departments to provide wraparound services.
 to some of our low-income citizens and predominantly folks of color. I'm here in support of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I wanted to talk a little bit about my work and our organization's work specifically with black male achievement, but also share a little bit about how this office has impacted our organization.
 So our organization, we have about 95 employees, and we're in six locations throughout the city and throughout the county. And first of all, I need to commend Dante for his leadership. I look at Dante as a mentor.
 I call on Dante for a lot of advice, not only about equity, but just about being a leader and running an organization. So I wanted to say that publicly. I really do appreciate that. I'm not surprised about the depth of the report. I thought the report was outstanding. It covered the touch points, and it covered the points that our citizens, I believe, are very interested in.
 In terms of black male achievement that comes out of the office, I think it's spot on. I think the work that we're doing in employment and training to give young African American males an opportunity to learn the skills necessary to take care of themselves and be self-sufficient and really bring relevance.
 relevance excuse me, that is late to their education has been huge. It has brought together a number of community-based organizations and advocates and it's also brought together a number of African-American males who are successful that have an opportunity to then impact those young males.
 That work is going on. We're focusing on three areas, construction, IT, and then also working with work systems on the summer works, internships, and the year-round internships. And I commend the city because the city and the county for taking on a number of those youths.
 As far as our organization is concerned, we've grown as an organization tremendously. When I started 22 years ago at POIC in the high school, we were about $340,000 annual budget. Now we're close to $9 million, and we're serving more than 2,000 citizens in Portland of all ages. And as you can imagine, with that growth, it's tough.
 to make sure that your staff and your organization has the kind of policies necessary to put them in a position to get the kind of outcomes that we're looking for.
 And Dante, through his office, walked our organization through a process, including our board and key staff members, and we developed an equity policy at Portland OIC that I believe will also get at some of the issues and concerns that have been expressed today that we're all aware of. And I think that what I will be able to do, along with our staff members and our board, is to share that work with other organizations. So I think that...
 the impact goes beyond. I hear it was the first that I learned that the primary role of the office was for the city. I had no idea that that was the case. And that is because from, as an outsider, it doesn't appear. So through Dante's leadership, what the most of us in the community believe that not only is he working internally with the city, but it feels like his responsibility is also to work with the community. So,
 I appreciate you pulling that off because I think a lot of folks will benefit from that. And so I am ‑‑ I'll end with, again, I'd like to get more involved. I'd like our organization to get more involved because it's been beneficial. And I would like to encourage the council to support the office and meet the request, the budgetary request that Dante has expressed today. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Rickford. Thank you, Mr. Rickford.
 Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you. And finally, I would just like to read a portion of the letter from Moussa El-O, who's the president of the Somali-American Council of Oregon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Fish, Udeli, Fritz, and Saltzman. Thank you for the opportunity to present to you today. Today, OEHR has a very capable, diverse, and professional staff and leadership. To anyone who wants to embrace, they can offer the tools and resources to achieve equity.
 One of my personal experiences with OEHR is the following. I was helping with a group of cab drivers that wanted to have their own company. As an owner, you pay approximately $300 a week instead of $700 a week when working for a company that's not your own. Many of these cab drivers were newcomers and were linguistically challenged. In their bid to get a cab company, they hit a dead end with the city. They were very frustrated with the system, and therefore I contacted OEHR and they offered to help.
 OEHR has helped us navigate through the city's bureaucracy and help the cab drivers achieve their goal of cab ownership and get a piece of their American dream. Without OEHR's help, the other option was to spend tens of thousands of dollars in lawyers' fees, money that they cannot afford. Why is that so important for the city? OEHR's efforts to help these cab drivers has a double outcome value. They offer technical assistance to overcome barriers.
 and the city learns. So my request is that you support this OEHR and its dedicated team and plan for the long term. With that in mind, we can achieve a reputable, repeatable, and lasting success. Thank you very much. Muse Olo. Thank you. So I'll stop and see if there's anybody signed up and then come back and answer any questions you may have and ask you to accept the report.
 Very good. Thank you, sir. Do we have people signed up for public testimony? Yes, we do. I have eight people. Eight people. Could we limit testimony to two minutes, please, just because we're running a little behind? I'm not going to be draconian about that, but at two minutes I'll do this, which means start to wrap it up if you could. Thank you. If you could call the first three. Sharon Maxwell, is it just you or –
 Okay, you signed up three times, I thought. Okay. And we'll go with Rantfus, Giantino Villatoro, and Dana Coffey. Do you want to go ahead and start, Sharon? Yeah. Good afternoon, everyone. And just in part of my presentation, I wanted to just play this little recording. Sharon, before you do, I should have reminded everybody, if you just state your name for the record, that'll be fine. Sharon Maxwell. We can all sit in the table.
 Let it go in the space of the sun. Let it go in the space of the sun. And what that is is from Hidden Figures, part of the track of the women who were the scientists, the computers that got the men up into space. And part of my presentation today, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, is to talk about what hasn't been done.
 Whereas I hear the good work that has been started
 It's still not enough, but I'm going to stick to my strip here. We haven't seen real equity rolled out, and from the understanding of this was supposed to be, I guess, internal for the city and not for the community, so I'm learning that as well today. But I want to speak to the issue of real equity not being met, specifically within the communities of color and African Americans. If we look at the Urban League's state of black people,
 Portland and Black Oregon, we're at the bottom. It's unfortunate to see a whole community, which we would say stolen, lost, and desperate impact severely, I would say really ripped off, being redlined to an area, displaced and gentrified out. I don't want to be too critical, but it must be cited that this doesn't make any sense.
 When you see 30 years of police brutality, black people under siege being refugee in their own city and country through strategies that have been implemented and displaced an entire urban black center. What we need, which this city has never addressed, is to be valued as black people and that we have ability to make contributions and that we're human beings.
 When we haven't seen economic stability come to our families and community over the last 35 years, that's what would help us to actually maintain our neighborhoods, our homes, and provide adequately for ourselves and family. Mayor, you talked about bringing forth employment and careers to the city. Employment and careers with real wages, paying for equal work, that's what we need in communities of color.
 Secondly, we have made a significant contribution to this city and region that has never truly been honored, only marginally, which we are totally marginalized all the time. I would like to ask Council for a memorial for the 1,200 black people who have been murdered since 1980 up to this present time. I'm asking that Alberta Park be renamed Memorial Park or...
 as our president has said, Frederick Douglass is being recognized more and more. Maybe we should name the park the Frederick Douglass Park or Sojourner Truth Park in memory of young men and women who were murdered through homicidal violence because of the war on drugs through poverty.
 That is something, as of today, one year ago, I asked of Mayor Hales and this city council, was to acknowledge the loss of 1,200, 1,200 black people. That hasn't happened in any other city in this state but in Portland, Oregon. That's really painful. I have a rendition of the artwork that I would like to see commissioned by the city.
 for this memorial to be placed in the park, as well as doing a proclamation in memorial and renaming the park. Thank you. Thank you. Either of you can start. Go ahead. Hi, my name is Ran Fies, Genitino Viatoro, resident here in Portland, and also a Bureau Advisory Committee member for the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 I'm here to testify, one, in support of a funding increase for the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I think many have demonstrated today the importance and need for equity being a priority in the times that we're talking about rapid development in the city of Portland, as well as a rapid increase in gentrification.
 It's very clear that the city, as a steward for the tax dollars for many of the residents, that it's very important to ensure that those dollars are spent responsibly to ensure that everyone is represented and ensure that those tax dollars are used, whether it's construction projects or developing new businesses that communities of color are benefiting, as they're clearly at this moment most impacted. Thank you.
 And I think the office has done a tremendous job in centering equity within the city. And I think that's an important vehicle to continue to build. I also want to testify on the annual report. I believe it's my civic responsibility to provide support as well as critiques on the report.
 I believe that the Equity 101 trainings are great, but I do want to say, as I'm wrapping up here, that the five-year racial equity plan is a great step forward as well. I do find concerns. I've heard a lot of community support around community benefit agreements. I do not see that reflected in this report.
 seeing the report around human resources talking about addressing collective bargaining agreements as an impediment towards racial equity. But I feel like there have been many stakeholders that have come together with some unions to talk about addressing true racial equity to try to work with HR and OEHR, and that just has not happened yet.
 There was discussions from previous years, and I encourage the council members, as well as the Office of Equity and Human Rights, to really come together as stakeholders, not to see the collective bargaining agreement as impediment, but how we can ensure that agreements can ensure that everyone has a fair process, that everyone has...
 that there is real true pipelines from communities to get jobs here at the city and to ensure that people are clear that they have a clear, transparent process in terms of how they get wage increases as well as how they are promoted. And I think the biggest thing that impacts morality
 is when those processes aren't clear. And I think that goes, that extends to folks who are not covered under the collective bargaining agreement. Thank you. Thank you very much for your testimony.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm sorry to be rushing people. I just don't want to lose commissioners before we go to accept the report. I'm going to be short, brief. My name is Dana Coffey, and I'm with the Portland Commission on Disability. First of all, I want to thank Dante and his hardworking staff for their leadership and all their efforts on our behalf, on behalf of the disability community.
 And I'd like to lead with a quote from one of our founding commissioners that says, disability is the last frontier in equity. And I believe that can be underscored by a recent city survey result that shows that only 2% of city employers are disabled.
 courageous enough to identify as having disabilities and that there is no stated goals or considerations for persons with disabilities on the contractor and subcontractor. I'm sorry, I lost the word. Thank you. So none. To...
 To the end of promoting and driving positive change for persons with disabilities, our commission will be meeting with each and every one of you commissioners within this month to advocate for budget to increase staffing at BHR and OEHR,
 so that the shortfalls and gaps as outlined in Title I and Title II ADA requirements are met at the city, so that it can be universally accessible and an equitable employer. Thank you. Appreciate it. Our angel, Chesimet Stephen Nakana and Georgina Narte. Good afternoon.
 Hello. Hi, would you like to start? Sure, where's the mic? There you go, right? I am excited to be here, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Angel Chesimet. I am a part of the Portland Commission on Disability. I am very proud of all the work that Dante and the Office of Equity and Human Rights has done.
 I just want to say that it's really unfortunate in our society today that marginalized groups have to fight their way to the table, specifically people with disabilities. We are often not invited or added on as an afterthought. You have supported the Office of Equity and Inclusion, I'm sorry, the Office of Equity and Human Rights today,
 to pass the Model Employer Plan. I would like to ask you to take this opportunity to take action and pass or support the budget for the Office of Equity and Human Rights and specifically the ADA Title II Coordinator Program.
 who will be a person that will ensure equity for our community, specifically our community of people with disabilities. And one last thing I would like to point out, every person in this room, every person in this room at some point in your life, disability will touch you. So just remember that as you go forward in your day. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler. My name is Dr. Stephen Akana. I'm the Social Equity Program Manager for the Port of Portland, and I'm here to support the initiative that Dante and his team are running. In fact, the Port of Portland Social Equity Program is...
 adapting its vision from Dante's team's strategy that they've implemented, and we're looking at them as a partner, and they've been very accessible to us in designing our own program. So I think this work is beginning, and there's a lot of partnerships that they're creating, and we're very impressed with the work that they've done, and I personally encourage you to support, to increase the resources that they need. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Is there a Georgina Narte from Africa House? Okay, we'll go with Ashika Bharati, Samira Elmi, and Marota Gary-Smith. Was there anybody else whose name was called who's here? I believe I heard the one. Okay, is there anybody else who would like to testify who hasn't signed up? Okay, you get the final word. That might not be a good thing. Good afternoon, Commissioner and Mayor Wheeler. My name is Marietta Gary-Smith.
 And I am the daughter of Sharon Gary Smith, and I am the granddaughter of Bobby Geary and Frederick Douglas Geary. I'm a second-generation Portlandite and a native Oregonian, and I'm here to express my support and deep appreciation for the Office of Equity and Human Rights and to really...
 I want to make sure that I speak clearly, but also very clearly state what I need to say. So in light of what's happened in our recent election, I have chosen to remain silent about a lot of things. And that's because as a person of color and as a woman of color, my identity has always been less than or othered by those who are in places of power. And that includes being a native and a resident of this city.
 So in a lot of ways, and I'm not speaking about you all because I don't know you all that way, but in a lot of ways I am not supposed to be here at all. I am not supposed to be educated. I'm not supposed to be articulate. I'm not supposed to be doing any of the things that I'm doing with my life. I should not have degrees. I should not own my home. I should not be able to make decisions about my body and reproductive justice. I should not be able to have health care and make decisions about the ways in which I want to access health care. I shouldn't be able to have the rights to do these things. Simple.
 simply because I am labeled other by those who are in power within a culture of whiteness, or if we're looking at a dominant understanding of how things are run, right? And so the Office of Equity and Human Rights allows this city to actually actionably allyship with other folks. What I mean is that it's not just about talk and words. It's about actual due process and end result, something that is tangible.
 So people have something that they can look and see that is real and in real time. And so for me, it's important to have this conversation, but I really want to urge you to figure out how you want to leave your footprint here. We have an opportunity here in Portland to move out of the shadow of the history of this city. Right?
 Right. So we have an opportunity to really do some good work. It's going to be hard. It's going to be challenging and it's going to be ugly. Equity work is not pretty. It's never been pretty because you have to deal with the ugliness around what happens when we're talking about power and structural, institutional and systemic racism and other isms that impact so many people. And so when we're talking about that, it's not going to be comfortable and it's not going to be nice. And so if we want to get ahead of Seattle, which is always sometimes a good thing,
 If we want to get ahead of Seattle, that means we actually have to do some work. And so that means you have to commit money. And when we talk about money, that's also uncomfortable because people don't want to talk about money, especially when we're talking about government. And I'm a former government employee with the Multnomah County Health Department. I'm no longer there. But I saw in my six and a half, almost seven years there,
 the struggle that people went through to talk about money and equity as it related to how people had end results for what they wanted for their lives. And Portland has an opportunity to really step out and do something significant and be a leader in all of the ways that people look at Oregon and look at this city for leadership and progress and progressive thought and movement. And so I encourage you to actually look at the ugliness of the situation and figure out what side you want to fall on. And determine if you want to be someone who's going to decide...
 That it doesn't matter that you can be comfortable about your decision and go home and go to bed at night and feel okay, or actually realize that the people who elected you to this position trust and give you the space to make decisions that will, in the end, value their life as much as you value your own. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much.
 So at this point, we have opportunities for further questions for Mr. James, or at this point I'll also entertain a motion and a second to accept the report. May I move to accept the report? Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Further discussion? Mr. James, was there an end cap you wanted to put on this? No.
 I think it was just done, so I'd say no. Thank you. Done and done eloquently. Please call the roll, Carla.
 Five years, and it really does feel like it's going to continue going at this point. I think it was a question five years ago. Thank you, Nancy, for your involvement. For those of you who, and maybe some at home, are wondering how this came to be, it was the 2009 State of Black Oregon report showing that for African Americans over the last 17 years, things have got worse rather than better.
 And then following that, the Coalition of Communities of Colour came out with a report saying there was similar evidence in six different communities. And I remember going upstairs into Mayor Adams' office and saying, well, we're not just going to put this on a shelf, right? We're going to do something about this. And he agreed that, yes, we should do something about it.
 And then he announced it at the State of the City address. And everybody was kind of looking around at each other, wondering what exactly that something might be. What we did was we established what Sam called the Creation Committee, which is a bit grandiose, but on the other hand, it really did need a very deep delve. I think there were 32 stakeholders on it. It was referenced that this is the only equity office in the country, I believe, that also...
 also looks at disability and needs to honour Nyla McCarthy, who was insistent that this was a group that needed to have attention. And Commissioner Saltzman, you're right, there are many other groups that also suffer disparities. These were the two that we, the Creation Committee and the Council at that time thought knew were the ones that we absolutely had to concentrate on the most. And over the last five years, I've learned so much to understand
 that that was the right decision. And now we're looking at what are the next five years going to be, or certainly the next four years. Dante and I might seem like we disagree as far as the equity managers in the bureaus and the equity staff that he's requesting in his office, but actually we don't. Only the police bureau got extra funding for their police equity managers.
 The others were told by their commissioners, find it within your existing resources, and so they did. But Dante has actually got a very small office, so to tell him, within your resources, go out and check on all the 26 bureaus, see how they're doing, that's totally not happening. So the way you framed it at the beginning in terms of, yes, there's a budget for the office,
 person within parks. There's a human resources expert within parks, but there are also centralized folks who both guide them and tell them when they've done things right or not. So I think that's what you're talking about and I would certainly support that initiative.
 I'd also have to say, Dante, that you've been Portlandized, that you now recognize the value of community engagement. And Mr. McFerrin is certainly not somebody to sugarcoat things if he didn't really value your work in the community. So I'm glad that we've won you over and that you are part of the Portland process. And it continues to be a very difficult process, as we heard from the testimony.
 We're not where we need to be at all. We have made progress and we need to celebrate that with so much ground to make up. And I was afraid when we were starting it that...
 If it didn't work this time, we could just forget it for the next 50 years because so many people of colour in the community were so disillusioned. We've done this 20 times over, we're not going to go through it again. It's taken us five years to even start building those bridges and showing as well as talking about things that we really do
 And I think now, more than ever, with what's happening at the national level, we do need to see what can we agree on. And certainly the Portland values are the values that are evidenced by the Office of Equity and Human Rights. As Mariana Gary-Smith said, we want due process and end results. It has to be tangible. We have to have a process.
 outcomes that are better than the ones before. And it is hard to turn the ship of state. It's not like a jet boat that you can just swirl around. It takes a while to make it move, but we're all going to have to put our shoulders to it and help it to move. We can't fail, and it's so important. So thank you very much, and thank you, colleagues, for all of your support over the years. Hi. Dr. James, thank you for an excellent report.
 And I was proud to be on the council that launched this experiment, and I'm glad it's still moving forward and that you are still leading this effort. Seventy-five years ago, a president signed an executive order that, over time, history will record was a terrible mistake, targeting people based on who they were and questioning the loyalty of Japanese Americans. Seventy-five years later, we have a new president that is signing similar executive orders –
 And we are living in a time where people are being targeted because of their faith, because of where they live, and because of their status. It's unbelievable that 75 years later we have not made more progress. And as Commissioner Fritz alluded to, sort of the dark clouds at the national level, it's all the more important that we get it right locally. We can control what we do locally. We have very little control right now over what's happening in Washington.
 So, the report, I think, is thorough and clear, and I'm a big fan of Jeff Selby's work, and he does all your reports. And he also spoke the other night at an event the mayor and Commissioner Fritz and I attended where 1,000 people came out to the Muslim Educational Trust, and he got up and gave a brilliant speech. Here's my commitment.
 I do believe we need to support the ADA Title II coordinator position and the implementation of our model employer. And that's not just because we have a bad habit on this council of signing on to things and not funding them. It's because we've declared this a core value of reducing barriers in our community. And the way we do it is we have the staff people to help us get it right.
 So I will be supporting the budget ask. Number two, I want to celebrate something that's not referenced in here, but we have some folks in the room who participated, and that is the work that Commissioner Fritz and I and others were able to do around converting single-stall restrooms to all-user restrooms.
 And that, you know, on the scale of things, it's not the pinnacle of civil rights, but it did prompt near revolutions in North Carolina and Houston. And here in Portland, people shrugged. And, in fact, we're going to go to the next phase of this soon where we're going to be challenging the business community to model the actions of local government. And we're getting great support. Thank you.
 The report has a reference to some barriers we continue to face in extending programs from the city to people, particularly people who are low-income from communities of color, refugees, and immigrants. And the one that jumps out at me is the program that provides low-income discounts to people who are struggling to pay the utility bills. And I appreciate the collaboration on that, and we hope to get that right. We'll have more to say this year before council when we bring something forward.
 The work of providing opportunities for people with intellectual disabilities is critically important. Seattle is ahead of us, but we're about to catch up, and this cannot happen without a number of bureaus and a lot of people working together. The Water Bureau is proud to be in a position where they can pilot this program and work out some of the hard details, and then we hope it goes citywide.
 It's just we're long overdue in providing those kinds of opportunities. And as I learned recently on a trip to Seattle, they have figured it out and it's a win-win-win. It's just an incredible program and it just requires will. I want to compliment you for the way you've been working with all the Bureau Directors on the Bureau Equity Plans. I get regular feedbacks from my two directors and you in turn have given us feedback on the plans and you help them make them better.
 They are living documents, and they'll be updated regularly. But I thank you for the work. I'm grateful to Dawn for being here to present. And then just finally, we do have a lot of work to do. And I am so discouraged by some things that are going on in the world that I'm probably overcorrecting a little bit by looking for things we can celebrate locally because we're going to wear people out if we just look at the underbelly of everything.
 And it sometimes is a little overwhelming just to listen to the news these days. The way we move forward, though, is we set goals and we celebrate wins, even small wins. And that's also how we stay together. So I'm committed to this work. I appreciate the work that you do and all the people in your bureau. And I, as Commissioner Fritz said, I'm proud that five years later we're still – we still have an office of equity and we're still moving forward. Thank you. Hi. Saltzman. Thank you.
 Thank you, Director James, and all of the staff of the Office of Equity and Human Rights for the good work you're doing, and I do appreciate it.
 all the aspects that you've become involved in over the last five years. Although I'm very supportive, I think, of this new service role that you want to move into. I think it makes sense, and I think it's entrepreneurial. So I think that's the way to go. I obviously want to see more details in the budget and all that and how it looks, but I think that's the right approach. Thank you.
 And just thank you for your good work and appreciate all your counsel to the bureaus that I oversee and have oversaw as well. So thank you. Hi. Happy almost anniversary. Thank you.
 thank you director James oh oh eh our staff and to the public especially miss Gary Smith who if she hadn't have identified herself I think I would have recognized as Sharon's daughter for the fire she brought today I want to join the chorus of people in the room who
 was initially confused by the intent of OEHR as someone who cares about racial justice and someone who is the parent of a child with a significant disability. I was really excited that there was an office that we may be able to access to find out
 if our civil rights are being violated, and if so, what recourse do we have? So I just wanted to admit that and say that I think it's very honest confusion. And, you know, maybe we could expand our mission in that direction one day or have an outward-looking piece to it.
 I also am looking forward to digging into the budget and being supportive of expanding your programming. And I want to say something I've been thinking about a lot lately is that equal is not the same as equitable programming.
 And we haven't even reached equal yet if our employment stats are 21% when we know that people of color make up about almost a third of our population, let alone equitable, which would mean making up for decades and centuries of historic wealth.
 oppression and discrimination. So I just want to acknowledge that it's exciting, the progress that we've made, but acknowledge that we have a long way to go. And I'm excited and a little apprehensive about looking at my bureau demographics. I've only been here five weeks, so give me a chance if we're lacking in that department, and I'll also be meeting with my...
 i guess they're not liaisons but my equity uh managers in the bureaus so i i'm obviously going to support the acceptance of the report but i i want to say something just briefly which is that i have moved into an office upstairs that is stacked from floor to ceiling with reports
 And what I have heard and what I thought was underscored by the testimony today is that people want less talk, fewer excuses, and more action. And what I'm committed to doing, and as people in this chamber are well aware, I have this ability to bumble along. And particularly if we're talking about issues of race and equity, I have the ability to colossally screw things up.
 in the process. And that's where I think your office can be extremely helpful to me.
 If we can't get our act together internally, then we can't go externally. I don't think we're in a position to tell the rest of the community what they should be doing with their resources, their time, their assets, or their energy if we haven't figured out internally how to get our act together in terms of employment opportunities, advancement opportunities, putting people into positions of leadership, making sure that our contracting and procurement policies are reflective policies
 of the experience and the need that still exists out there in the community. And there's going to be nothing easy about it.
 And, you know, I'm compelled by what Commissioner Fish said in terms of becoming a model employer. I think we need to do that, and I'm not sure sitting here today exactly what steps one, two, and three are, but I do think we need to look at that, and I appreciate the people who came in to testify today. But I hope by accepting this report, we're taking that as a baseline of support for the work that you are doing in your office today.
 But I think all of us would agree, and you would probably be the first to agree, Dr. James, based on the conversations that you and I have had, those actions in and of themselves are insufficient, and they're not going to move the dial the way we want to move the dial.
 And so I want to say publicly what I've said privately, which is I'm committed to working with you to make that happen. And perhaps we'll bumble along together, but bumble we must, because as the last person testifying said, we need to get out from under the shadow.
 that has been haunting this community for a long, long time. And there is no time like the present to do it. So that's what we're going to do. I obviously vote aye. The report is accepted and we'll move on from here. And it sounds like we have a commission unified and city council unified in helping you and working with you to do that, sir. So thank you. Thanks, everybody. You testified. The report's accepted. Thank you. We're adjourned. A little.