Are you ready? All right, good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, February 7th morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Wheeler? Here. Here.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also ensure that decorum is maintained for all.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subjects they wish to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of resolutions and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 Please state your name for the record. We do not need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up. When your time is done, the red light will come on.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations, is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass.
 If folks would like to show your support for something, a simple thumbs up is good. If you don't like something, a simple thumbs down is equally good. The important thing here to understand is people who will be testifying will not necessarily share your opinion. That's okay. Please treat everybody with respect. Let them speak when it is their turn to speak, and you get to speak when it is your turn to speak. Thank you.
 So with that, please move to communications. First item, please. Item 111, request of Terry Pearson to address council regarding resolutions, Northwest Services. Good morning. Good morning. Thanks, Mayor Wheeler. Thanks, Commissioners Fish and Fritz and Commissioner Saltzman. I appreciate your time this morning. I'm going to be as brief as I can because I think there are some really important voices that you need to hear from today. Okay.
 My name is Terri Pearson. I'm the training coordinator with Resolutions Northwest. I've been with Resolutions Northwest for the past 10 years. I was the facilitation coordinator previously. As you know, we have a contract with the City of Portland through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. We do mediation and facilitation services for Portland residents, for ONI partners. And I just wanted to take a couple of minutes to share some of our work that we've been doing in the past year. Thank you.
 So one of the key elements of our work is that we, both in the mediation and facilitation programs, we offer volunteer cohorts. They get in-depth training and support to develop those facilitation and mediation skills, which they then bring to bear both with the clients and then also bring back to their workplaces, their families, their communities.
 This year we collaborated with the East Portland Neighborhood Office and Park Rose School District. We offered a six-week community dialogue, Reclaiming My Time. We had over 100 participants who showed up for that. Nearly 70% of those were people of color. They represented collectively over 60 different organizations, local nonprofits, and public agencies from around the area. Thank you.
 Excuse me. This is an interruption. Excuse me. Very good. Then we will work on it. But please do not interrupt. You can let the clerk know, and she will address it. They're working on it. Trying to reboot. Okay. Thank you. And I can leave a copy of remarks if that's – Why don't you just pause for a minute? Should I pause? Great. Thank you, Mimi. I'm not sure how long it will be. There's a connection problem with the closed captioner. Sorry. Thanks. Thanks.
 I'm sorry Mimi, I jumped on you a little too quickly there. Thank you for letting me know. We need to make it okay for our entire community. You're correct. Thank you. For those watching, we're just waiting for our closed captioning system to come back. Thank you. Thanks. Is there any chance we could look at a different captioning system? No. Oh really? Oh, you're kidding me. Obviously the auditor. I just didn't know.
 Thank you. I don't have anything yet. Nothing up there. All right. We'll take a 10-minute recess.
 I didn't do anything. I didn't do anything. There's no point hanging around while we're waiting for them to fix this thing. We'll be back. We're not hanging. We're staying. We'll get some more. It's nine minutes. I'm coming. I'm not hanging. I'm done. The spotlight is on you. I know. Let's relax.
 For the delay, we're back in session. Sorry about that. The closed captioning system wasn't cooperating the way we'd like it to. That's great. No, that's really important, and I think especially for the upcoming conversations, really important that everybody gets to be part of the conversation. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Yes.
 So I was talking about the Reclaiming My Time dialogues that we put together, one of the projects that we did this past year. And that was designed and facilitated by a team of about five of our volunteer facilitators, all black and lifelong or long-term Portlanders. We also had that supported by seven staff members and 14 additional volunteer facilitators who helped out with the small group and breakout facilitation.
 And throughout that session and at the close, participants committed to individual actions that they could then take out in their own communities to disrupt systems of structural racism in their organizations, their schools, their community spaces. As one participant shared with us, I started out on this journey to heal from the death by a thousand paper cuts called microaggressions that tried to silence my voice by suppressing it.
 This training allowed me to speak my truth in a space that made me feel productive. It made me center my experience as a black woman unapologetically by reclaiming my time to speak, to challenge the status quo, and to practice self-care.
 So this year we're really trying to solidly bring our equity work into the mediation cohort. We've added two extra days of training to really focus in on equity and interrupting racism with a training that's already really in-depth, 36 hours of basic mediation training, really wanting to deepen our mediators' understanding of privilege and oppression and how that may or may not impact the mediation situations that they're working with.
 and ultimately just really trying to shift our practice so that we're more accessible to Portlanders that have been underserved by our services over time. It just seems really, really important as in this point of time in our community, communities of color are under attack, communities are more divided than ever, really needing to see racial equity analysis and dialogue being integrated into those facilitation and training services. Thank you.
 So thank you for your support, your continued support. Thank you. And again, I apologize for the disruption. Yeah. No, it's important. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 112, request of Star Stauffer to address counsel regarding conduct unbecoming of an elected public official and police accountability. Good morning. Good morning.
 So, that was a star-stopper. That would have been my testimony, but something more pressing came up. So, unfortunately, I have to thank you for this opportunity. So, I'm here to talk about the Village of Hope, and as you can see, the Village of Hope is standing right behind me. They have faces, they have names, they are human beings. And they don't understand why they have been swept from a place that was so far from where it could even bother anybody else, with no solution of where they're supposed to go.
 But I didn't want to speak on behalf of them, but rather I wanted to speak using the words that they had asked me to say. So I'm going to go ahead and do that. This is the council of the Village of Hope. They've already formed their own government and system of accountability within their community. They would like and say that they need a small space of their own. It is only right that they have a place to take care of and to sleep.
 They wanted it mentioned that homeless folks take up space, so they will be occupying public land. The question is whether or not they will do so to the city's benefit or the city's detriment. The Village of Hope provides an opportunity for houseless folks to give back to the community that they live in. They have no way to do that when they're sleeping on a sidewalk, when they're scrambling to find a pallet or a tent or blankets that are dry.
 They have no way to do that when they're standing in line for shelters that may never open. They have no way to do that while they sit around waiting for you to figure out what affordable housing actually means and enforce that when developers come in and try to take over communities. They have no way to do that while you still have no plan to really tackle the problem of increasing rents.
 They have no way to do that when they're busy trying to field off all the illnesses that come with being houseless and all the things that make them vulnerable. Running from cops, running from other people who would abuse them because of how vulnerable they are. You expect them to pick up their garbage, but you give them no way to live like a human being.
 And then you call them animals and treat them like animals because they have garbage around or they're sleeping on the sidewalk. But you don't have any other place for them to go. And they don't have the time to wait until 2035, Wheeler.
 They don't have that. So while you invest over $300,000 in senseless speed signs, you sweep out this village and pay cops to terrorize these communities, you give them no solution. But they have proposed to you a nonviolent and very peaceful solution to the problem of houselessness, at least for the people standing behind me. You don't allow them to have that.
 You need to save the Village of Hope and stand behind these people that live in your community. They matter. Thank you. Thank you. Next. Excuse me. Excuse me. Next individual, please. Item 113, request of Lightning Super Watchdog X to address council regarding elected officials. Show me your tax returns. We'll be back. We'll be back. We'll be back. Be back.
 Is Lightning here today? Oh, there he is. We'll be back. Good morning, Lightning. We'll be back. We'll be back. We'll be back. We'll be back. We'll be back. We'll be back. We'll be back. All right, sorry for that. Go ahead, Lightning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superjustice Watchdog. Again, on my issue here is to review your tax returns.
 One of the reasons why I want to do that is I want to see if there's any conflict of interest, any consultation fees, any non-profits, anything I can begin to look at your business interests. And I want to make sure, just plain and simple, that from a state treasurer, I'll be honest with you, Mayor Wheeler, I don't have any concerns with you at all. I released my tax returns. And as I stated, I don't have one concern at all. So that's not an issue.
 But my concern is that I want to have a clear understanding that, such as this Water Bureau issue that we saw, $3 million going to John DiLorenzo and additional money going to other locations, anyone involved in something like that should have their tax returns reviewed. It's an issue. It's an issue that you have to look at. Whether there's guilt admitted or not,
 Anyone involved in that situation should have their tax returns looked at. And another issue that I have is that anyone stepping up in here to become a commissioner, the mayor at the very least or the auditor should review their tax returns for the last three years. Number one.
 Just make sure they're paying federal and state taxes. Number two, do a quick glance from an auditor to say, okay, everything appears to be fine. Because if down the line, if something goes wrong and this comes out that they might not even pay taxes. Because let me say this, who actually reviews any of the tax returns of anyone sitting up here? The auditor? No. The city attorney? No. No.
 No one. So I would expect at least the mayor's position and the auditor's position, just to do a quick glance, everything appears to be fine. Everything appears to be fine. I think that that is prudent business. I think it's the amount of money that we're dealing with here, it should be expected. Moving on to the next issue. Metro is doing an affordable housing bond of $500 million. Okay.
 That's being proposed at this time. Now, I'm going to be speaking to President Hughes actually on Thursday on this issue, and I'm hoping that other people within city will also have discussions on trying to move this forward. Thank you.
 Again, this is basically, in my opinion, kind of following the trail of Commissioner Salzman and what you're doing on this bond at this time, which again was set an example to follow and to maybe look at, refine, maybe even do something on the Oregon Constitution itself, on amending, on what you can do as far as on what you can use the money for, going in with private developers. So this is a very...
 Interesting time. President Hughes will be retiring at the end of this year. It's his end of his term. And I think this is really something to push forward and look at the positive things that can happen if we get that $500 million and up, possibly higher, upon additional analysis and data. So thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 Next individual, please. Item 114, request of Nancy Newell to address council regarding scramming Columbia Generating Station nuclear plant. Good morning.
 My name is Nancy Newell. I've been an anti-nuclear activist since the Three Mile Island accident in Pennsylvania, which I was a victim of, and have helped close three nuclear plants throughout the world and here in the United States. I also stopped the money for SMRs in the state legislature. I helped with that. And the reason I do that is we are continuing to be saturated with radiation products.
 by all the scrams, 25 scrams of this old nuclear plant, Westinghouse, completely poor design, which has been proven by three of them melting down, not just because of a tidal wave, but because of the structure of the building itself. We have so many problems in that plant, it should not be operating. It is criminal negligence, which I intend to start a case against,
 that they are operating it because they are releasing radiation. And they had a scram in December of 2016 and did not report it for five months. So this entire Northwest was exposed to radiation levels that are totally unacceptable. And the amount of cancers, we have record breast cancers here.
 We have all the results of a history that should be closed. And this, there's no excuse. The Bonneville Power Administrator is out of Enron. I don't know who appointed him. He's one of the crooks that engineered Enron's mess. And why hasn't he gotten rid of it? Because he's promoting this plant and not closing it. He's required to close it. Robert McCullough did the report on the economics. It is legal responsibility.
 And our senators, our congress, they're not speaking up about it. So I went to their hearings. I don't understand the silence. I don't understand the suffering. I don't understand why women have to live their lives with breast cancer.
 I don't understand the lack of attention to this very serious health crisis that has been proven time and again. What is the problem? This thing is worthless. California has excess capacity. They are now from San Diego, independent of all dirty...
 All dirty sources of energy. They have excess capacity that come right back up the Bonneville line, and the administrator, Elliot Maines from Enron, is one of the ones that is blocking some of this, and I don't have the exact record of that, but I believe it's a fact. So this council could call him in and ask some very important questions. You could be, and I know you support it, all the alternatives, and you've proven it, you've helped to prove it,
 Ask him why he's not doing his job. It's pretty simple. And we can get it done. And we can get it done overnight, just like Germany. The German chancellor has closed three right after Fukushima. What do we need to stop this insanity? This is material that goes to nuclear bombs and endangers any efforts at detente. So come on, let's do this. Thank you for your testimony. Appreciate it.
 Next individual, please. Item 115, request of David A. Nelson to address counsel regarding why the Portland police have not exhausted all resources to bring a person to justice. Mr. Nelson, are you here? We're still trying to figure out how to write the consent agenda. Yeah, I think I wrote it. All right. First time, the consent agenda, I know that one item has been pulled. Item 122 of others has been pulled. Carla? That's the only request I had. Call the roll, please. Thank you.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Item 116, please. Refer renewal of Portland's children's levy to city voters as a local option for five years, commencing in fiscal year 2019-20. Commissioner Saltzman? Thank you, Mayor Wheeler.
 I want to start off by extending a special welcome to those who have come out this morning to support renewal of the Portland Children's Levy on the May 15th ballot. Sixteen years ago, Portland became a model for other cities when voters decided to make children a priority and create the Portland Children's Levy. In partnership with schools, nonprofits, Sun programs, and an amazing group of dedicated organizations,
 Working tirelessly to support children and families, we've accomplished many worthwhile goals. We're providing children with the emotional and academic tools they need to reach kindergarten ready to learn. We're reaching students with after-school and mentoring programs that motivate them to stay in class, attain better grades, and improve their self-esteem. These programs help keep children safe long after the school bell rings.
 We're also helping parents deal with stress and trauma by offering respite care and other vital assistance so that they can become better parents and create safe homes for their children. We're supporting children in foster care with education assistance so they can experience success now and in the future by increasing their chance to graduate high school and go on to college. We're helping alleviate childhood hunger.
 so families don't have to worry about where or when their next meal is coming from. We know that hunger stunts healthy growth and makes children susceptible to illness and puts them at a higher risk for behavioral problems. We've also responded to the call for programs in the eastern portion of the city, and now 60% of the children we serve live east of 82nd Avenue. In 2002, 2008, and 2013...
 Portlanders said yes to the Portland Children's Levy because they saw the connection between strong, healthy children becoming future leaders in a strong, healthy city. And we're hopeful city residents will continue to feel that same level of commitment to our children in the May election. So we're pleased to have a number of speakers who will say a few words on behalf of the Portland Children's Levy. But first, we have a short video that will provide an overview of the levy.
 Created by city voters in 2002, the Portland Children's Levy invests in programs designed to prepare children for school, support their success in and out of the classroom, and reduce racial and ethnic disparities in children's well-being and school success. We know that there is a connection between food and health and learning, and the Portland Children's Levy allows that to all come together.
 It means a lot that it's here. Families really, really need it. Before I knew about the pantry, our food would run low, and we'd be waiting and waiting till the next month and our payday came. But with this little bit of help,
 We don't worry about it anymore. We have children and families that come from high-stress situations with lots of risk factors in their lives. And so we really try in our therapeutic classrooms to have it be a calm, safe environment. We want them to really become ready for kindergarten or Head Start. We've been a grantee of the Children's Levy ever since the beginning of the levy. That's been about 16 years, and you add up at about 150 children per year, literally probably thousands.
 of families and children that we have touched who have really needed the support. I believe early childhood education is very important. To see two-year-olds that are able to start writing letters and that are recognizing numbers and colors and shapes is amazing.
 A lot of times I get families that come back and visit me and the kids are older and they remember when they were here and their experience and the parents are like they're doing so great in elementary school because they had this early exposure to education. So the Portland Children's Levy has been funding our foster care youth services for going into our fifth year now. Kids in foster care endure additional transitions and instability compared to many youths. So
 So having that one person who's consistent to show up and knows you home after home after home, that can really make a difference in a child's life. Hi, I'm Samantha and one of the reasons I like going to Go Zinc is because everyone in Go Zinc makes me feel safe and that I can share who I am. I've had girls who were in foster care and some who are latchkey kids. Without these types of programs, it's hard to say.
 what all of them would be doing. College is going to help me support myself and my family. Also, I'm looking to go into social justice work. That's really important to me is that through college, I'll be able to help other people. My parents, they're very supportive of me going to college, but they don't really know how to support me in getting stuff done. And so having someone there to be like, Olivia, this scholarship application is coming up. The due date is super helpful and has really helped me
 get further than I thought that I would have been able to. A 5% cap on administrative expenses, citizen oversight, and annual audits allow us to funnel 95 cents of every dollar to proven programs that help our next generation build a safer and stronger city for all of us. Thank you, John. Now we'd like to...
 Part of the citizen oversight of the children's levy involves a five-person allocation committee. And we have several members of that allocation committee who are here today. I see Julie Young and Serena Stoudemire-Wesley. I'd like to invite them up to the table to say a few words. Oh, Mitch Hornecker, too. Okay, great. Welcome. Go ahead, Julie. Hi. I'm Julie Young. I'm on the Portland Children's Levy Allocation Committee. Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners.
 I'm here today to ask you to please refer to the voters the renewal of the Portland Children's Levy for another five years. Six years ago, this council appointed me as the city's citizen representative on the allocation committee. I've been reappointed twice. Thank you for this privilege.
 The levy has, as you hear, for 16 years played a critical role in leveling the playing field for children and families for whom historical and institutional barriers challenge their success in school and in our community. It's the generosity of the citizens of Portland that makes possible investments in quality, proven programs.
 Grants are referred to as investments because that is exactly what they are, investments in our children and in our city. When I make site visits to any number of levy grantees, I'm struck by several common elements, including these. First, the racial diversity of children served, which reminds me that services must be culturally informed, and I believe we have improved on this in recent years.
 I see direct attention to the children and families, whether they are toddlers experiencing a safe and nurturing environment at a relief nursery, or fourth graders enthusiastically learning stop motion animation while they're practicing cooperation and patience at a Saturday academy after-school program, or a Latino network Spanish-speaking parenting group I sat in on, where mothers and fathers role-played...
 parenting strategies and then critiqued each other. I see professionalism of supervisors, teachers, social workers, and specialists whose jobs are challenging but too often under-acknowledged. And I always see gratitude. Of course they're grateful for the grant, but I see more. I see gratitude for both the funding and for a community that cares about its children.
 You've perhaps heard this before. The traditional greeting of the Maasai warriors in Africa was this, and how are the children? Even warriors who had no children greeted each other in that manner. This tradition continues for the Maasai people. And how are the children? The answer, of course, is the children are well. They are well.
 This means the children are valued. Their well-being is a priority. And if the children are well, life is good. This should be true for Portland. If the children are well, the city is good. Thank you for hearing me, and thank you for your service to Portland.
 Thank you, Julie. Mitch Horniker, would you go next? Hi. Mitch Horniker. I'm representing the Portland Business Alliance. Well said, Julie. The Portland Business Alliance remains a strong supporter of the children's levy and hopefully will be arm in arm trying to get it reauthorized for another five years. We're especially gratified on the levy's focus on children and their families east of 82nd.
 in poverty, communities of color who've been historically underrepresented. And as the video said, we're now driving most of our money from the levy to those communities. And I think for well-deserved reasons. And we'd like to see it happen for an additional five years. Thanks, Mitch. That's Serena Stoudemire-Wesley. Good morning. Serena Stoudemire-Wesley. And I'm a representative from Multnomah County. And I...
 I'm going to echo what these folks have already said, but I will say that my hope is that it will continue so that we can start investing, as Julia said, investing in our children and starting at an early age, like early learning. We've made those big investments in learning.
 early learning, education, preschool. And it's really important because if we invest in our children early, then it sets the foundation for them to go on and to complete college as they transition to school and into high school as we talked about, chronic absenteeism and other things of that sort.
 If we start early, it helps to prevent a lot of those things. And also, I believe that it also helps these organizations who are holistically helping our children provide those wraparound services to them. So a lot of them is just a one-stop shop. And as we move forward, hopefully it becomes a no-wrong-door place for children and their families to go and get the services that they need to help them succeed and to thrive in this economy and in Oregon. Thank you all for being here, and thank you for your service on the Allocation Committee.
 Next, I'd like to bring up some of the organizations that the Children's Levy invest in. They have come with staff, students, and family to talk about how the levy has made a difference in their lives. First up, we have a group from Albina Early Head Start. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I'm going to start you.
 Good morning. My name is Helen Field, and I've worked for Albina Early Head Start for the last five years. And I've had the privilege over the last two and a half years to supervise our Portland Children's Levy funded home visitors. And because of the levy, we are able to visit 24 children. Most of our families we serve are families who are new to our country. And our home visitors help support them to be successful in our area.
 We provide once a week visits for 90 minutes and classroom experiences and field trips to the zoo, OMSI, etc. With the help of PCL and Portland Children's Levee, we are able to serve these families with dedicated staff and parents who rarely miss a home visit. The home visits, like I said, I think are 90 minutes. We provide child development information, social supports.
 We have lots of book programs and things that we make available to the parents. And many of our families return to their home visitors when they have more children, or if they become pregnant, we can serve them as well. And Albina believes that parents are the first and best teachers for their children, and the Portland Children's Levy helps us continue that mission and support.
 Helps us to empower families and support their children. Thank you. Hi, my name is Fatiha. And before I started working for Albina Head Start, I was a parent for one going for two years. And I'm a parent for two years.
 Before my son was enrolled in the program, I was... Well, I moved to Portland, knew, didn't really know anyone, didn't have a family. I was struggling with child care and trying to balance going to work and being able to also take care of my child. And I wasn't able to afford paying for child care and...
 Where I worked, if you called out three times in three months, you get written up. And I was really struggling, stressing, being a young mother. And when my child was enrolled in 12 Biner, I was able to just feel less stress and be able to have a place where it's cost-free to me, and I go bring my child home.
 And also, they give me a chance to go into the classroom and volunteer in my child's classroom, come in if I choose to have lunch with him. And I just seen, like, it's mothers like I that are working with my child. And I was able to, like, I was, he's my first child. So I'm like, oh, no, I can't leave him with, you know, anybody. So I was able to find comfort in the staff that,
 was there taking care of my child. And eventually I actually fell in love with the work that they do with my child. My child is like two now, and he can have a full-on conversation with you. Like, he's very talkative, very smart. And the things that they do with him every single day and every hour. And...
 I decided to actually apply for my, I volunteered in the classroom and decided to apply for the program as an assistant teacher.
 Less than a month, I was able to move up and become a head teacher, and now I actually am a head teacher at Franklin. And I just want to say I am very thankful for all that you guys do to allow us to have that program that cares not only for my child but for every parent that needs that and cannot afford to have kids
 like money to pay out for child care and also balance to pay for bills that we have to pay for. And I'm grateful. And I'll be even more grateful if you guys continue to support us so we can do the work that we do and our families can be served. Thank you. Hi, my name is Carmen English, and like her, I'm a parent. My kids have been in the program for three years, and...
 I had a rocky start. When I first found out about the program through another person who finished, I was actually homeless living out of the car with my kids. So this program in three years has completely transformed my life. I am now in a stable home for all of my children. Myself and my husband, we both were able to work because of the stabilization and the resources that were provided throughout Binding Head Start. We have just...
 Sorry, I'm getting totally emotional. My kids are, they've been greatly impacted from this program, just to say the least. My kids are performing above benchmark. They're now in David Douglas School District. They've transitioned out. The older two have. The younger two are still in the program. My kids that are in the preschool program still participating with Albina Head Start are doing the same work that my kids that are in elementary school have.
 The work is challenging. They're providing them with what they need, and now these kids are ahead and getting more advantages than the kids who did not experience the program. And the stabilization that the resources from the family advocates and all of the other programs that they're able to recommend you to through their social services
 has propelled my family, and I am moving forward, and now I am also transitioning to actually work for the program because I understand that this is something that's necessary for the community. This is something that the kids absolutely need to succeed. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much for being here and for sharing your stories. Thank you. And next I'd like to introduce...
 El Programa Hispano-Catalico's Puentes Primaria Afterschool Program. Welcome. Hi, my name is Jasmine Dominguez. I'm nine years old, and I also go to Wilkes Elementary. Puentes is helping me because we always have to focus on doing our homework first. It gives me the space to do it, Puentes, and ask for help if I need it.
 Another thing that Puentes has helped me with is learning more about our Latino culture. For example, we have made an ojo de Dios. We have learned about Dia de los Muertos and got to make sugar skulls. We also do baile flucorico and have learned about dance from Jalisco and got to perform it.
 I would love for Puentes to be at every school because I want others to get the help they need with their homework that they don't understand and so they can also learn about their culture. Thank you. Thank you. You have a good sleep time. My name is Clarissa Hernandez. I am 10 years old. I go to Wilkes Elementary. I like being a part of Puentes because we get to do a lot of fun activities. The first thing we always concentrate on is doing our homework. I love getting...
 that space because I can do it during the time and not have to worry about it.
 at home where I sometimes forget. We have learned many things, like when we practice our multiplication, we play fun games like math bingo. We have done a scavenger hunt to learn about coordinates and many other things. We also learned about our culture. For example, something that we have made is un ojo de Dios, which is made from a tribe in Mexico called Los Huicholes.
 We also do baile folklorico, which I love because we get to dance different kinds of dances. I really enjoy being in Puentes with a lot of my friends, and I hope I can continue being a part of it. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Jackie Dominguez. I'm 11 years old, and I also attend Wilkes Elementary. Some of the things that I do in Puentes that are helping me is that we get one hour to –
 do our homework, which is helping me a lot because I can have the help to do it here in Puentes instead of doing it at home, where I sometimes don't have someone to help me. Puentes makes learning about things fun. We also get to learn about our Latino culture by doing many crafts and dances. One of the things...
 that I have learned was how to make papel de mate, which is made in Puebla, Mexico, from a tree called the mate tree. We got to make our own colored paper and got to decorate. I really like being in Puentes with my friends and enjoy everything we get to do with Mrs. Eval. Thank you. Thank you all. Do we have some more that want to speak? Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Stacy Dominguez, and I'm 11 years old, and I go to Wilkes Elementary. I'm in Puentes, and some of the things that I have learned about is our Latino culture. One of my favorite parts of Puentes is . One of the dances we have learned is from Jalisco. We will be learning a dance from Veracruz, and we will be showcasing what we have learned. Every day in Puentes, we focus on doing our homework for at least an hour. So if we need help with it, we can do it during Puentes time. I enjoy doing my homework.
 during Puentes time for a couple of reasons. I like to get to do it with my friends, and I have someone who can help me with it almost all the time when I get stuck on something. And it makes it more fun. Puentes makes learning fun in general, especially because we have the best teacher ever, Ms. Isabel. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hola, mi nombre es Taya Cerosco Montalvo y tengo 10 años y voy a la escuela de Wilkes Elementary. En Puentes me gusta mucho porque nos dan una hora de hacer nuestra tarea y eso me está ayudando mucho en el inglés y en la tarea.
 y también me gusta mucho puentes porque hacemos muchas manualidades y juego juegos tradicionales tenemos un robot en nuestra clase de puentes que cuando vamos a clases tenemos que poner en el robot un ticket y a todos
 and we all work to fill the robot to go to an AC. So it's very important to come every day. Other things that I love about Puentes is our folk dance group. We've learned a dance from Jalisco and we're going to learn one from Veracruz. Veracruz and...
 I love coming to Puentes because it is so much fun and it's helping me understand a lot of stuff. Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Could we suspend the rules so that we can acknowledge these young kids today? Thank you. Thank you.
 I just want to say thank you real quick before we leave. I'm Isabel. I'm the Puentes mentor at Wilkes Elementary. These are my students, well, some of my students. I'm very grateful for this program at the school. I have about 46 kids enrolled. I wish I could have more kids, but...
 but there's no room for them, because it's just me by myself, sometimes with them. So I'm very grateful. You know, I see teachers coming up to me and telling me they have other kids that they would love to recommend for the program, because they can see that they're improving on their homework, kids are actually turning in their work on time instead of a week, two weeks late.
 I have parents calling me and also telling me, you know, I want my kids to come more days. Because sometimes coming home is not the best option for them. So they want them to stay in a positive place, which is a school with me. So I'm very thankful for this program. I hope it continues for a very long time at Wilkes and other schools. Because we're very grateful. I could see a huge improvement in my students, some that...
 like the ISC that barely can speak English, and her English is improving every single day so well. I have kids that are very shy and can't even talk that are now screaming in top of their lungs in front of people. So I can see a huge improvement thanks to programs like this, and I'm very thankful for them. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for being here. Thank you very much. Well done, kids. Thank you.
 I'd like to introduce our next group, which is ERCO's Refugee and Immigrant Mentoring Program. Oh, I'm sorry. Sorry about that. We have a interpreter here. Okay. Good morning. Muy buenos dias. Good morning. Al igual que estos niños, vengo representando el programa de puentes. Like these children, I'm representing the puentes program.
 This is a very important multicultural program. They're talking about their roots. I have a son in the program, and I notice how they're helping him with his homework and other things that he might need.
 There is a small problem. At the present, my son is only receiving one day, and I was wondering if we could give him more time, more days.
 No sé si es por los fondos, pero me gustaría que hubiera más fondos para este programa y que no se terminara para que así pudieran brindarle más ayuda y apoyo a los niños.
 El programa ha ayudado bastante a mi niño, ha notado bastantes cambios con la tarea ya que yo no podía ayudarlo. En el programa lo han estado ayudando mucho y espero continuar.
 de la ayuda con la tarea que yo no podía brindarle a mi hijo lo han estado ayudando así estos programas que continúen podrán ayudar a que los niños alcancen los niveles que ellos necesitan alcanzar para los que están más bajos sí, gracias
 Gracias. Gracias. Muchas gracias. Muchas gracias. Muchas gracias. Muchas gracias. Muchas gracias. Muchas gracias. Muchas gracias. Bien, ahora tenemos el programa de mentoría de refugiados e inmigrantes de ERCO. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes.
 Gracias por la mentoría de inmigrantes y refugiados. Estamos en la casa de África. Mi equipo y yo estamos muy emocionados por recibir fondos durante los últimos cinco años para el programa de mentoría. Y, como todos, hay mucho grado en las comunidades inmigrantes y refugiadas. Y los programas de refugio de aire y agua se han llenado de necesidad por dar mentoría basada en la comunidad en la comunidad de Manoma, en los distritos de la escuela que se centran en construir relaciones positivas
 entre jóvenes y voluntarios. A través de este proyecto de mentoría, pudimos servir a 67 jóvenes por año, de 7 a 12 años, en todas las distritos de la escuela. Actualmente, nuestros mentores y voluntarios han estado ofreciendo a nuestros jóvenes 10 horas o más de mentoría mensual.
 mientras que nuestro equipo de trabajadores que están aquí y sus padres están haciendo un gran trabajo en este proyecto. Estamos todavía en mucho trabajo por venir, que nuestros programas de mentoría...
 que todavía necesitamos para nuestros estudiantes. Los programas de mentoría ahora son muy cruciales y el éxito de la familia que sirve es muy importante. Este apoyo es esencial para eliminar las desesperaciones, cerrar los gapos de oportunidad y asegurar una mejor experiencia educativa para los estudiantes inmigrantes y refugiados dentro de los distritos de la escuela de Manoma. Así que ahora tenemos a uno de nuestros asistentes, Omar, quien va a hablar un poco sobre lo que están haciendo nuestros mentores en el trabajo de casa.
 Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Thank you for inviting me here today. Our work is to help our culture shock clients navigate through the new culture in the real city, plus living in the new country, facing the different barriers that come with it. As New Portlanders, we want our clients to give back to the community when they leave our program.
 RIM helps with mentoring, matching, enrichment activities, academic community-based activities. The culturally approached programs has helped clients integrate easier to society with culturally specific programming, including diverse staffs that come from around the world that speak different languages and are in-depth understanding of many cultures and how we can solve the barriers as they face every day.
 Our program is mostly specifically focused on academic community-based activities. Like every Saturday, we have a homework help tutoring club. We do outdoor activities like hiking, snowshoeing, Friday basketball help, traditional karate workshops, and mentor and mentee social hours.
 And those programs that are main focus for that will be to use a self-based approach to establish a supportive relationship between the youth and the mentor in order to provide guidance and promote social responsibility to increase participation in academic learning to build self-esteem and create a positive connection through a culturally specific programming. That's the main focus. Thank you.
 Thank you for the support. It's been very helpful. It made the youth an impact. And without the city's levy, it would make a hardship for us. But with the support, it has expanded our program all the way up to Washington County. So we really appreciate the work that you guys have been giving, and hopefully we can expand the program. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Commissars and Mayors. My name is Ashika Bharati and I'm from Bhutan. I've been working in Refugee Immigrant and Mentoring Programme for the past four years. I have here one of our youth parents to share the experience and the support that we've been providing in Refugee Immigrant and Mentoring Programme. Thank you. My name is Raj Bharati. I'm from Bhutan.
 My name is Mani Rajavarti and I came here as a Bhutanese refugee from Bhutan. I came in the US in 2009 and when I came to this country I struggled a lot with my youth. My parents took me to Africa Hospital and they took me there. They took me there to take care of my children. They took me there to take care of my children.
 When my daughters came to this country, they struggled with the American school system and also the culture to fit into the new country. And Africa House has been providing a lot of support to my daughters by giving mentors and providing the extra resources that they need academically to improve their school academic system. I don't think I have learned much from other people in the country.
 not only to my daughters but also Africa House has been helping all the youth from different communities as well रैस्तो अपिस्योर्ची मासिनों भन्दाची आजै कसारेन चब्बडेरा गाको चिमला खुशिये लग्छा you want to see this program expanded and get more support and resource to the all refugee and immigrant youth in the community तिसमा अर्थक मत्र न भर जस्तो बस्पास्थोरो भयो नानियोरलाई हमी
 कमाई न होने लाई बिजिली को अपिस्ट को बिल्ल होरु भायो, तेसमा धेहरे हैल्प गर्नुच ते यो अपिस्ट ले। न अल्ली देर एफ्रिका अउसल्स्य हैज अदर रिफ्रुसिस, लाइक आयाम पिजिली बिकोस आइ डोन वर्क, एन इट इस बिन एन एक्स्टर स�
 since my daughters were enrolled in the program, I can see the impact in their school work by giving them mentors and learning about the new American culture. So, we would like to thank him today by giving him to come here and sharing his experience in the program. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Karasis. Hello, my name is Prashant, and I'm from Bhutan, currently a 10th grader in Davidoff High School. And I've been in the refugee immigrant division
 ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത്ത് ത
 ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത
 ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത് ത്ത്ത�
 My name is Siat Hefo. I'm from Somalia. I'm a senior at David Douglas High School. I've been in the refugee immigrant program since my sophomore year of high school, so three years ago. Before I was enrolled in this program, I've struggled with English, writing, especially in English.
 ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത്ത
 Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Hayat Hassan. I am a senior at Reynolds High School. I have been a part of the RIM program since seventh grade year. RIM program has taught me a lot of things, like how to build leadership, how to speak up for what you think is important, but most importantly, how to be, how to succeed. I must learn how to succeed. How to persevere through obstacles and achieve success.
 your goals in life. Throughout my time being a part of RIM, I learned that no matter your language barrier, the background you came from, you can achieve what you want to achieve if you work hard towards it. Because I was a first-generation student, becoming a freshman at high school, it was scary. I did not know the system of being in high school, that you have to pass credit, you have to pass your classes in order to graduate.
 But RIMS staff members provided enough support so it wouldn't be as scary. I am glad that I have been a part of this program because now I know what I want to do later in life. And they have helped me so far that I can pass my classes, get good grades, and hopefully go to university next year. Thank you for supporting this program. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Muhammad Ali, I have a question.
 His name is Muhammad Ali Hirsi. He's from Somali, and he grew up in a refugee camp in Kenya.
 He has a family of eight people, and Africa House has been supporting him. We're in poor ground. Everything I need, they provide me. It's either going to the hospital or just canoes for his kids. He's just a little bit emotional right now, things that we have done for him. He's really thankful, and he's glad to have this poor ground.
 So thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you. Please refund this program. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have a group to talk about child abuse prevention, and it's El Programo's P-CHIP program, which is Child Abuse Prevention and Intervention. Good morning. Good morning. So good morning, Mayor. Morning. Commissioners.
 Thank you for hearing our testimony. My name is Gabriela Gomez, and I'm the Program Manager of Youth and Family Services for Proyecto Única. Proyecto Única is a domestic and sexual violence branch of El Programa Hispano-Católico that was developed in direct response to the needs identified by the Latino community. Thank you.
 Proyecto Única's goal is to provide support, advocacy, and opportunity for self-empowerment, which enables survivors to exercise free and informed life choices. Founded in 1992 in response to a high community demand for culturally and linguistic-specific domestic and sexual violence services, Proyecto Única now serves over 1,500 survivors every year.
 Domestic and sexual violence is a significant public health issue nationally and in Oregon. It is important to note that according to the Women's Foundation of Oregon Count Her In report, nearly half of female Oregonians have experienced a traumatic childhood event such as abuse or neglect, and about one million women and girls have been sexually assaulted. That is more than half of the female population in Oregon.
 Today we come specifically to testify about the impacts of the PCHIP program that is funded by the Portland Children's Levy. This program provides therapy, parent-child advocacy service, and a Saberes Poder, a culturally specific trauma recovery group, where members of the group learn and utilize tools to heal from the impact of domestic and sexual violence.
 The coping tools include self-care, self-esteem, having more options when a person feels triggered or upset, and ways to establish boundaries with people in their lives. During this grant cycle, 211 families, 512 children received advocacy services, and we provided 3,085 sessions of home visits and supportive services.
 Our therapeutic component served about 96 families in this grant cycle. The PCHIP program has four main outcomes of which more than 90% of individuals and families self-report having met these outcomes. Advocacy outcomes demonstrate that parents improve their parent-child interactions as well as increase their knowledge of the impact of domestic violence on children.
 Amongst families that receive mental health support, the outcomes indicate that children that receive therapeutic services increase their cognitive coping skills. Many survivors have lived in isolation and accessing resources or transportation is difficult, which is why home visiting programs such as PCHIP are so important. In the PCHIP program, we understand the complexities of domestic violence and highly value meeting survivors where they're at.
 Survivors who are connected to our program are coming from different points of their healing process. With the P-TIP program, we met them where they're at, experts of their needs, situation, family goals, barriers and strengths.
 Next, our parent-child advocate, Lorena, will share some information with you in quotes directly from our families about the impact of this program. Mayor, commissioners, thank you so much for receiving us today and hearing our testimony. Good morning. My name is Lorena de Garay, and I am a parent-child advocate. I currently home visit parenting survivors and their children in Multnomah County, and I am here to share the impact and testimony provided by survivors who, because of safety, were unable to attend today. Thank you.
 It is important that their voices be heard and their experiences be shared. First, I will begin by discussing evaluation findings from our focus groups with PCL participants. Parenting survivors have stated that unconditional support was essential to overcoming domestic violence. Individuals specifically spoke to the importance of feeling understood, having a support network, and how surrounding themselves with good people was essential to healing. I will read their original quotes in Spanish with an English translation.
 Regarding my relationships, the ones that I have now bring me emotional support. When I feel sad, my motivation is to get ahead with my children. I would like to add that the families I work with also discussed the importance of receiving services in Spanish that are culturally specific. Thank you.
 This allows survivors to feel understood, develop trust, and feel like someone from their culture was there to provide support without judgment. Sé que la violencia doméstica es un gran problema en todas las culturas, pero lo que temía siendo latina era que no había recursos para mí dentro de esta comunidad. I know that domestic violence is a big problem in all cultures, but what I feared being Latina was that there weren't any resources for me in my community.
 It is important to note that overcoming fear was essential to the healing process identified by survivors. In this process, survivors identified feelings of increased confidence in their own decisions, feeling more positive, increased energy, integrating new habits including self-care and exercising, feelings of overcoming the violence and having learned to seek help, staying away from bad influences, and speaking up for themselves. I would like to mention that feeling support and validation is important for survivors.
 Something that is stated in the following quotes. I felt like being in a support group where other people had experienced the same violence. I felt validated.
 Tenía miedo de ver a mi bebé en meses en peligro. Encontré la fuerza para salir cuando mis instintos de madre sufrieron. Tenía que proteger a mi hija. I was afraid to see my month's old baby in danger. I found the strength to leave when my maternal instincts came out. I had to protect my daughter. I would like to state that the funding for these services is essential because it saves lives, increases safety and provides healing and educational opportunities to families and their children.
 who have been impacted by the traumatic experience of violence in abusive situations. It is important to understand that while we speak of statistics, these survivors and their families are our neighbors, friends, coworkers. They are our community. I thank you so much, and I appreciate continued funding for this program. Thank you. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next group is the NAA, NAA's foster care program. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, everyone.
 Commissioner Salzman, members of the committee. For the record, my name is Alicia Bigback. I have been part of the foster care support program at NAA Family Center for two and a half years. First as a staff member, and then in the summer of 2017, I moved into my current role as the program manager. In my current position, I have had the honor and privilege to serve what I consider to be our most vulnerable and underrepresented population in the city of Portland, which is our foster youth. Thank you.
 The foster care support program at Naya Family Center has grown from the original number of clients served, which was originally written to be 50 youth, to its current number of 72. The program continues to gain recognition as a positive resource to the culturally specific population that it serves within the city of Portland.
 To be more specific, the outcomes being a positive or improved sense of cultural identity and a positive or improved sense of cultural knowledge and lastly, a positive or improved sense of hope. Each of the youth has found a connection to the program that is unique and specific to the youth in terms of support and positive relationships within the community.
 There are a number of things that I can highlight about the uniqueness of this program and the population that it serves, but I have brought a few of the youth and staff members that can attest to the services they are receiving at the NAYA Foster Care Support Program. With that being said, I would request that you please put the Portland Children's Levy on the May ballot. Thank you. Thank you.
 Commissioner Saltzman and members of the committee, thank you so much for your time today. For the record, my name is Alicia Lynn McConnell and I've been in the foster care support program at NEA for the past 12 years. This program has helped me become the first one in my family to not only graduate high school, but graduate on time and third in my class. I'm the first one to drive and to have my license and pretty much do anything legitimately in my family.
 Growing up and coming from homelessness as a child, this has all just been a huge success. With the support that I've received from the program, it's helped me get all the way here. Because of my involvement with this program, I now feel like I have a place inside my community. My dad was adopted from out of state and it took a lot of time to get into his records and just to find out that I was Native and then to find out my tribe and then just
 you know, get an in. All of the people that I found that I have in my corner as an adult were somehow I met through the system here at NAYA, like all of the people that, you know, who I call on whenever I, you know, my car makes a funny noise or whenever I have any problem, I can always call them and someone will pick up the phone. And, you know, I don't know where I'd be without the program or the funding. I, you know, I just really appreciate it. Um, and, um,
 Yeah, please put the Portland Children's Levy on the May ballot. Thank you for taking the time to hear how the foster care program at NAYA has helped Portland's children and family. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioner Saltzman and other members of the committee. For the record, my name is Sage Dupree. I've been a part of NAYA's foster care support program for two years. The program...
 I can't begin to explain how important a program like this is. When we're talking about foster youth, a lot of the times you hear negative things of how foster care youth are not supported. Foster youth don't have the ability to be able to go to school and have that support. Through NAYA, personally, I was able to graduate high school early, get the support of, you know, I've moved around home to home. I've been in six homes.
 So I just wanted an adult supporter to help me. I've always kind of been used to being my own adult. So when, you know, you go into the system and you get these people who are supposed to be your parents, you're like, I don't want to be connected with them. Going to NAA, going to school, and then also being in the foster care support program was just easy. It felt comfortable. You know, you go and you see the same people all the time. Specifically for me, what I...
 enjoy about the program is that because there are a lot of things that I do on my own whenever I do go to NAN, Alicia is my case manager I'm like oh I want to update my resume, can you help me? Or hey I just got my name legally changed do you know if I have to pay for a new social security card? Just basic questions about daily life. I don't know where I would be without foster care support program just because
 there's not a whole lot of other programs that are as best as NAIA's and I don't, DHS sometimes is really hard to have a connection with, especially when it comes down to culture or, you know, generational differences. So, yes, thank you for listening to my testimony. Thank you. For the record, my name is Aldo Scott, and I've been working with the Plastic Care Support for about,
 year or two. If it wasn't for them in general I wouldn't be here today talking to you guys. They've been a good support for me like in and out of school and they've been pushing me to graduate on time. I've been going to school every day since I've been working with these people and they're good people. I recommend
 this program to upcoming students that are going to my school. Like, they help me with anything. Like, I'm about to try to get my license and stuff and all this good stuff for when I'm going to graduate. And, like, they help me do anything. And I hope you guys keep doing all this. Like, help me help you, you know? And, yeah, thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Please put Portland Children's Levy on the May ballot. Thank you for taking the time to hear how the foster care program at NAYA has helped Portland children and families. Thank you. Thank you. Good testimony, all of you. Good morning. Hello. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Casey Womack. I'm a foster care support specialist at NAYA. So that's through the program funded by PCL. And I work with a lot of youth that have...
 worked with also a lot of professionals. And in that, it's really important to be consistent and safe and follow through. And what the foster care support program at NEA does is provide that environment for them. And that's through the building itself, and it's also through the people who work out of that building. We're a home-based program, so we go out to the youth, which means...
 that we're able to meet them wherever they're at. So that's at school, after their job, picking them up from their job, providing transportation, and all the while really focusing on building community and overall supports. And our focus in this program is building
 culturally specific. So that's building up their Native American cultural knowledge, their cultural identity and hope. This is huge because it provides a sense of connection and meaning in their life. So I see that every single day. I was with a youth recently that
 that recently lost their job and I was able to provide support kind of along the way of unemployment, going to a job fair. She received an interview and then you know another interview along the way and that was very recent. So that alone is a success and that's additional to really how we live as a people. So that's
 It's just a huge asset in the community to have this Native American resource. And I love that because any type of connection is building community. It's building a safe and supportive environment. And we each need that. And here it's definitely given. And it's given in a way that's one-on-one. It's given in a way that's in groups also. And kind of walking someone along...
 to make them feel comfortable with who they are, who they're with, and providing company and support to go out in the world and be confident and be a part of our society in a very positive and influential way. And that's what I see is happening constantly. And I appreciate the program and more than that, PCL.
 And just knowing how much PCL does for our community and the Portland area is fantastic. And that trickles along throughout Oregon because we serve so many tribes throughout Oregon and also throughout the nation. It's huge. And it's not just here. And it's not just with one person. It's with many. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for your... We suspend the rules in the city of East Junction as well. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, our last group is the Meals on Wheels Meals for Kids program. Good morning. I think that's just me this morning. We had a family who was going to come, and she ended up having to take her children to the doctor. My name is Suzanne Washington. I'm the CEO of Meals on Wheels People, and I'm here to talk about the Meals for Kids program, which is part of the Hunger Relief Focus area of the Children's Levee.
 As you know, that childhood hunger is a huge factor and results in poor school performance. It hurts physical, social, behavioral. If kids are hungry, then it hurts. Yes.
 behavioral, social, they have difficulties throughout their school life. So what we do is provide a healthy meal for kids. We do it through our model of our senior program where we deliver homebound meals to seniors. We use the same model. So we use volunteers to deliver healthy food to families directly where they are in their homes. The Meals for Kids program does an assessment and figures out how many meals the family needs.
 to get through the end of the month to meet their budget needs. The meals are healthy, providing whole grains, fresh fruit, vegetables. It is made from scratch in our central kitchen in Multnomah Village and delivered, like I say, through volunteers to the homes. What's great about the program is that for working parents, for parents,
 caregivers that work at night or work two jobs, the meal is already prepared. It's there in the home ready. Kids can heat it up and feed themselves. It's healthy, balanced nutrition, which many families struggle to provide. Whether they get food from other places, they still have to figure out how to make it work. So our meals are already healthy and nutritious and meet that need. The most important part, I think, is that
 It is tailored to families' needs. So we have a huge population of Russian families, for example, that they get a raw food component. They're there. They will cook the food for their families, and they get it raw. So they may get chicken, vegetables, fruit, and then they prepare it themselves. Many of the meals are ethnic. About 34% of the menu is ethnic, and it meets religious and vegetarian options as well.
 In the three and a half years we've been providing the meals, we have served over 235,000 meals to children, another 157,000 meals to their caregivers.
 And the cost of the meal is extremely effective. It's only about $3.44 all in delivered to the family. And this is possible because we have about 7,500, more than 7,500 hours of volunteer support providing the meals, which is the value is over $180,000. If you put it to a dollar figure.
 It also meets the Children's Levy's goal in that 68% of the families are from East Portland. Another 63% of the families, the caregivers, are people of color. And 76% of the children are people of color over the three and a half years that we've served.
 The big things and the value that we hear from the program is, one, as I travel through the region, many people ask me about the program, other jurisdictions, and they always ask once they hear about the program, how can we get that program for us? Gresham, for example, when I met with the mayor out there, he was wanting to know, how can we get this program in Gresham? Washington County, the same thing. Even Clark County, Washington. And so they all want to know how we can get the program because it meets families where they are.
 Again, it's simple, it's easy. We provide a loaf of bread, a bag of apples, gallons of milk, and then a prepared entree that meets those balanced nutritional requirements. One of the things is I was sitting in a school not long ago with, we provide community dinners at the low-income schools. And I asked a mother if she was interested in the program and she said no, she wasn't interested, and I asked her why not.
 And she told me that it was too hard to jump through all the hoops, that all these kind of programs, you always had to jump through hoops. And when I asked her to explain, she said, I don't want to prove that I'm poor. I can't prove it. I don't want to come up with a lease and signatures and all the documentation it takes.
 And even if I get through all that, then as soon as I get something that will help my family, I'm going to lose on the other end. And I know you're all aware that there's many times at poor families, they get 25 cents more raised for their job and then they lose part of their TANF resources or their child care support.
 So this program really doesn't do those kinds of things. It's low barrier. We get people in right away. We can get them served within several days. And then we get out and serve them in a way that meets their needs. Kids are waiting at the door if it's prior to school. Our families are waiting. And every time, they are so grateful to get the meal. And as we...
 As that mother said, the proof was when she found out it was a low barrier and that she could get in and she wasn't hurt on the other side, she started to cry. I mean, it was one of those things that it so helps the family and meets their needs. So we're very much in support. We have capacity, like I say, through our senior model is what makes it work, and we appreciate the Children's Levy providing it, and hopefully it will continue. Thank you. Thank you, Suzanne.
 That completes the invited testimony, Mayor. Very good. Public testimony, how many people do we have signed up, Carla? We have four people. Please read the first three. First three are Mimi Village of Hope-German, Julie Young, and Crystal Elinsky. Very good. Reminder, three minutes when the red light goes off, your time is up. Julie Young already spoke. We'll go with Star Stauffer. Very good. Good morning. My name is Mimi Village of Hope-German. Good morning.
 And I'd like to just start out by saying, wow, that was an incredible presentation this morning, and I was really glad to be here for it. It was overwhelmingly wonderful. And I'm glad that all of these kids in so many different facets of our city are getting taken care of. Chloe, your absence this morning during communications was really rude. To the resolution, please. Here, I'm coming back to it right now, but that had to be said.
 So I don't understand one thing. I understand the program, which is incredible. What I don't understand is, and maybe you can answer this for me, because I'd actually love an answer. How do we create such a callous divide between who we choose to take care of and who we don't?
 I don't understand why we figure out these incredible ways with money, with voters, with petitioning the people of our city, that we need to take care of our kids, but then it stops there. We don't need to take care of our houseless community. And what my question is, is where does that divide come from?
 How do we pretend or how do we continue to pretend that we're like a third world country where we get to say, well, we only have...
 the ways and means or the money to do this, but we don't have the ways and means because of something, X factor, to take care of our houseless community directly. Am I allowed to ask for an answer? I know you don't have to give it to me, but I'm asking because I don't understand that. I will give you an answer, and then we'll move on to Star. That's fine. We actually, if you look at the dollars that we are spending on youth,
 and compare those dollars to the dollars we are spending on the homeless situation, prevention, shelter, housing, mental health services, behavioral health services, addiction services, job training, the resources going to children is a tiny fraction.
 Just for a home for everyone last year was about $28 million. And it doesn't do anything. I believe that we are doing a compassionate job with all. Start. She's actually next. I am? If you'd like. We don't have all day, so one of you go, please. Oh, yeah. Let's be sarcastic. Okay. My name is Crystal Elinsky. I represent 10,000.
 And speaking to the idea of the third world country, this is what I see. I've worked for a lot of these agencies over the years that we just heard speak. And I think they're amazing. I'm glad they still exist and that we managed to figure it out and fund them. Sometimes we have to ask the voters to help again and again and again.
 And it makes me wonder why we haven't expanded it to streamline it and to incorporate many other things that we could be doing. I'm going to mention two that I think are so important. But first, on the other end, seeing things from the streets, seeing how hard it is to jump through hoops. And most people in the city don't know about the children's levy. They don't know about these programs.
 And so we are seeing what we want to see. When you're looking at something that's successful and that's all you see, you think the whole city is running that way, and it's not. The two things I would like to see we incorporate into the children's levy and all these programs is sanctuary. If we're a sanctuary city, we could actually, on the ground, work on it, make sure that these people are protected, right?
 And this is incorporating our law enforcement, unfortunately, which is a disaster. I mean, look at Baltimore. We need to have that kind of investigation here. Second is child sex trafficking. We don't talk about it enough. And there's been a few resolutions, whatnot.
 But I just remember that the first person to ever talk about it was Jimmy Carter when he came to town and he did that twice. And since then, nothing's happened. And these are agencies, organizations, volunteers, people that have ideas, and we have access to the people that are suffering. So we need to make sure that we keep our law enforcement in check.
 So that they're not part of the problem, producing the problem. Instead, they're helping us. And that will reach out to the people that are being left behind. There are so many people being left behind that don't know about the great things that we can do. Thank you for your time, Commissioners and Mayor. Thank you.
 Good morning again, Star Stauffer. I would like to see this program eventually not be on a ballot and instead just be a normal part of our society every single day, something that we are readily investing in, without having to bring this up for the potential risk of being turned down every five years or shorter than that, because there are...
 thousands of children at risk that benefit from this program. My son was one of them. My son is a sexual abuse survivor. And thanks to many of these programs, he has been able to grow up healthy and not traumatized and moving forward in his life as a
 lovely, wonderful, bright, educated young man. And I hate to say it, but $15 million is not enough when you're taking into account the thousands of children's lives that these programs and these volunteers and these staffers provide for these children.
 Like she said, sanctuary is a big part of this. And right now in our country, as you well know, we're experiencing an attack on sanctuary.
 That's another reason that $15 million is not enough. $15 million does not take into account the violation occurring daily in sanctuary cities for our at-risk community members, both black and brown. We need to be increasing these funds to offer even more protection so that children can safely participate in these programs alongside of their parents, whether they're undocumented or documented. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah.
 Halt and police. Next, is there other public testimony? That's all who's saying that. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your ongoing work on this. The testimony did raise some questions in my mind. I'm happy to discuss those later. Aye. Fish. It's been said before here that this will probably be the enduring legacy of Commissioner Saltzman's service on this council, that he was our champion for children who didn't have a voice. And, yes.
 Dan has announced he's going to step down at the end of this year, which means it's incumbent on this council to continue the good work. Thank you, Dan, for your leadership, and I'm honored to support this resolution. Hi. Saltzman. Well, I want to thank everybody who was here today to testify, particularly the younger people.
 And I also wanted to thank the staff of the Portland Children's Levy who continue to do a great job making sure that these dollars are accounted for and that we are getting outcomes from the organizations that we choose to invest in. And next step is on to the ballot, on to the May election. Hi. E. Bailey. E. Bailey.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, and thank you to all the community members that came out to support the children's levy today. I'm happy to vote aye. Wheeler. This levy supports 12,000 children per year, 71% of whom are children of color. This is not something that the council does independent of the community. Ultimately, the community gets to decide whether or not they...
 would collectively like to support this, and overwhelmingly they've supported it since 2002. I am proud to join my colleagues in referring this to the May ballot, and Commissioner Saltzman, as always, thank you for your vision and for your leadership. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Next item will be 131. Thank you.
 131, authorize the city engineer to waive city code upon receiving evidence to support an application to rename Southwest Stark Street to Southwest Harvey Milk Street and allow the Portland Bureau of Transportation to process the application in good faith. Commissioner Fish. Saltzman. Commissioner Saltzman. Saltzman. I'm sorry.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'll just turn it over to Stacey Brousser of my staff and Kurt Kruger of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. And I'm sorry, I don't know who you are, but you're going to add two as well. Thank you. This is Amy Hertzfeld-Koppel with co-executive director of Basic Rights Oregon and a member of the Harvey Milk Street Association.
 project committee that brought this to our attention a few months ago. So I'm Stacey Brewster, Commissioner Dan Saltzman's staff. I just want to thank you all, first of all, for considering this out of order. We have some distinguished guests who want to testify on this, and we really appreciate it.
 Before we get to questions, I just want to reiterate that this is not the actual street renaming. This is a waiver of a portion of city code that's required for the application to even proceed to the next step, which would be signature gathering.
 While Harvey Milk, the person, meets all city code criteria for who we can rename city streets after in Portland, the next section of city code on street renaming actually bars renaming streets that don't start and end within city boundaries.
 and bars the renaming of portions of streets. So Southwest Stark is 13 blocks on the west side and continues east all the way into Gresham. It is only broken up by the river and waterfront park, and the applicants, for reasons that they'll discuss, are only seeking to rename Southwest Stark Street, the 13-block portion that runs diagonally, we're getting a map here, between West Burnside and Nato Parkway.
 So again, I helped the applicants process this application a few months ago. We had a couple ahead in the queue, one that was in process, an application for a street renaming that has since been withdrawn, and another inquiry into PBOT for a street renaming that decided to go a different route, not street renaming. City code specifies that we can only consider one street renaming at a time and only do one major street renaming of collector streets or arterials per year.
 So as of just last month, the opportunity for this application to come forward is here, but we have to come before city council to waive the city code in these two specific areas for them to go through the process.
 Good morning. Kurt Kruger with Transportation. I'll be very brief and I'm here more for procedural questions if they arise. As Stacey mentioned, we can't begin the street renaming process without the waiver of this code for this particular application. The code does say you have to have streets that start and stop within the city and must terminate.
 It must be renamed in full continuity. And we've done this before recently. We did this about a year ago with Southwest 9th, which was proposed to be renamed as Southwest Park Avenue. That's the application that was withdrawn about a month ago and essentially put on hold for a period of time. So we run an ordinance very similar to this last spring. I'm available if you've got questions regarding the code.
 Super. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. My name is Amy Hersfeld-Koppel. I'm co-executive director of Basic Rights Oregon, the state's largest advocacy and policy organization serving LGBTQ Oregonians and our allies. Basic Rights Oregon is also a proud member of the Harvey Milk Street Project Committee. I'm here today to express our support of the renaming of the 13 blocks of Southwest Stark in honor of this LGBTQ hero.
 Harvey Milk was a visionary human rights leader who became one of the first openly LGBTQ elected officials in the United States when he won a seat on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 1977. Harvey Milk was out and proud during an era when few of us could be. He was out just eight years after the Stonewall riots where Marsha P. Johnson, Sylvia Rivera, and others launched the modern era LGBTQ movement protesting police brutality in New York City.
 He was out four years before the first cases of AIDS were reported, and he was out a full two decades before Ellen DeGeneres came out on national television.
 Harvey Milk was a bold and inspiring leader who believed firmly that for LGBTQ folks to be treated with dignity and respect, we have to be willing to share our stories openly and honestly. His life was tragically cut short when he was assassinated in 1978 at San Francisco City Hall just over a year after he was elected.
 Leaders like Harvey Milk, Marsha P. Johnson, and Sylvia Rivera are tragically absent from our history books. LGBTQ youth have few role models to look up to at a time when the federal administration is working to dismantle our progress on LGBT equality by undermining transgender equality, inclusion in the armed services, and the freedom to marry.
 Naming a street after an LGBTQ hero sends a powerful message to our youth who still face alarming rates of bullying, family rejection, and homelessness. It sends a message that you're okay, you were born perfect, and there is nothing wrong with you.
 As parents of a seven-month-old, my wife and I remain incredibly grateful to live in a state that has been on the leading edge of LGBTQ justice. Portland and this city commission have always been ahead of the curve, and your leadership remains so important as we face a vacuum of leadership on the federal level. Let's send a message to our LGBTQ youth and the rest of the nation once again that Oregonians believe in dignity and respect for all its people, no matter who we are or who we love.
 We appreciate your time and consideration, and we're hopeful for a unanimous vote from the commission so that we can start this process as soon as possible. Thank you. Thank you. I thank you all. So I believe we have some invited guests. Thank you.
 Just before you go, I just want to clarify that we're not actually voting on the name change today. We're voting on starting the process, and it will come back to Council at a later date. Yeah, they will. So, Commissioner Fritz, really important point. There are multiple steps in a street renaming process. This one allows this application to start. There will be a historical committee that's designated by the Commissioner of Transportation. There will be a presentation and hearing in front of the Planning and Sustainability Commission. And...
 And of all those forward a recommendation, it will come back to City Council for a formal hearing. Thank you. Thank you. Governor Barbara Roberts, Kathleen Sadat. Ourself. Ourself. It's good to see you. Very distinguished panel. Thank you for being here. What an honor. The big guns are here. Thank you very much for putting this in an order that allowed me to join you today.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the Portland City Council, I am Barbara Roberts, former Oregon governor and a resident of the Selwood neighborhood in Portland. I am before you today to enthusiastically support the renaming of these 13 blocks of Southwest Stark to become Harvey Milk Street.
 And before I make the rest of my brief remarks, I would like to add that I am here and been allowed to bring to you the greetings of Governor Ted Kulongoski, who could not be here today, but wanted you to know as a council and the mayor that he is also enthusiastically supportive of this effort.
 I am very proud to be a resident of Portland. I celebrate our parks, our rivers, our music and food scenes, and our history.
 But beyond that, I am proud of Portland's celebrations of our people. Cinco de Mayo, our famous Rose Parade, our ever-expanding Pride Parade, the annual Italian Festival, the Portland Marathon, the Susan Combs Walk, the AIDS Walk, and all the many, many celebrations that go on in neighborhoods across the city.
 But above all, I am grateful and proud of our city's recognition of some of our nation's most courageous civil rights heroes. When Union Avenue became Martin Luther King Boulevard, we opened our minds and our hearts with the public recognition that honored Dr. King.
 When 39th was re-designated Cesar Chavez Boulevard, we recognized that our city, our state, and our nation have more strength. We are stronger by the millions of immigrants who live as our neighbors. And Rosa Parks, by her courage and strength, earned the honor of a street name for her right here in Portland. It makes me proud.
 Today, I urge you to expand both the honor and inclusion that Dr. King, Cesar Chavez, and Rosa Parks have brought to our city. The effort to recognize and honor Harvey Milk is the opportunity to say to the LGBT community of Portland,
 we now recognize one of the most courageous and open civil rights heroes of this nation's gay community. I believe it is time for that honor. Now, before I close, I want to admit that in my home living room, I have a handsome bust of Harvey Milk.
 It was presented to me by the Harvey Milk Foundation almost three years ago for my history as a longtime advocate for the rights of gay citizens of our nation. I am very, very proud of this special award. And now I am asking you to bring that same pride to the gay youth of our city. Let them feel that pride. Thank you.
 and let them feel that acceptance. Please take positive action to give Portland a Harvey Milk Street. Make our city proud. Thank you very much. Thank you, Governor. Thank you, Governor. Kathleen? I knew I didn't want to follow you. Thank you.
 Good morning, commissioners and mayor. Thank you for hearing us this morning. I'm Kathleen Sadat, long-term activist around this issue. I worked with Keaston Lowry when I worked for Gretchen Capore to help write and advocate for the passage of our civil rights bill for Portland, our gay rights bill for Portland.
 I don't want Keaston's name lost. He was an important part of that whole effort. He was the driving force for much of the change that happened in this city. I think it's important right now for our leaders to make a statement about things that are right in our country. And this is an opportunity for the leadership of Portland to support them
 the people who live here who are members of the gay, lesbian, transgendered, questioning, bisexual communities. It's an opportunity for you to say, yes, you belong. I don't like the rise in hostility that I see happening in our country. And one of the ways to counter that rise is to speak out. And this is a way to speak out. I'm going to read you what I posted on the website for the name change.
 Given a history of bias and bigotry against the people who make up the GLBTQ community, we need to create cultural symbols that reinforce our roles as positive members of the broader society.
 Given the sadness, despair, and rate of suicide experienced by young people struggling with issues of sexuality, we need to help them reject negative labels and inspire them with hope for lives built on foundations of love and support. Naming a street after Harvey Milk will help accomplish both things by acknowledging our struggle and our humanity.
 I urge you to take the next steps necessary to change the name of Stark Street for those blocks to Harvey Milk. Thank you. Thank you. Darcelle 15. Thank you. Walter Cole, Darcelle 15. 51 years ago, I opened a bar in Old Town, no, Skid Row on 3rd Avenue.
 We started our shows and we didn't go outside of our doors. We got ready in the club and stayed dressed in the club. Not because of the city or the police or any city officials, only because of the nature of the people walking down the street or the people didn't understand what we were doing. Mr. Nadeau used to say, Walter, are you still doing that masquerade? Yes, I'm still doing the masquerade 51 years later. Later with you.
 The thing that has to happen is the hate door has been opened by the president of, I don't even want to say his name, and that door will close a little if...
 The people that we know and the people that don't even know who Harvey Milk is, they know that that street is named after a gay man that did active work. And we have to keep that going. We have to tell our young people just like we had to tell them about AIDS and keep them aware that it's not over.
 put the name Harvey Melk up and we'll make sure that people know who he was and we'll be stand behind what it means that we can be proud and Portland has always been proud of our community, whatever you're, whatever you, whoever you sleep with.
 Thank you. I hope so. And it's nice to see all your faces close up like this. It's nice. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for being here. And I think that completes our invited panel, invited testimony. I think we have one more. Oh, okay. One or two more. Thank you. One or two more. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Governor. Thank you, Governor. Thank you, Walter. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Jean-Pierre.
 I'm from Togo, West Africa. I was a gay activist in Togo before I moved here. In my country, they changed the law. If you are gay in Togo, you're going to be in prison for five years. Now I live in Portland and I got asylum. I have a store in Stark Street. For me, it's going to be nice to change the name to Have Milk because Have Milk represents...
 Something special for gay community. Yes, and I just want to give my support. And they're going to be happy for me to have my store in Half Milk Street. Thank you for doing this. Thank you. Appreciate it. Public testimony. How many people do we have signed up, Carla? I believe we have just two people left on the list. Mary Seip and Bill Dickey. Very good. Oh, I'm sorry. Crystal's still here. And Crystal Ilinski. Thank you.
 Hi, my name's Mary Seip, and I won't take up a whole lot of time. I just want to say I completely agree
 echo the words of the people who have spoken before me and completely support this idea. And I think it's just really, really great that we're recognizing a true hero and someone that I think, unfortunately, a lot of young people have no idea who Harvey Milk was and what he represented.
 The main thing I wanted to say is how much I appreciate the fact that we have a vehicle here whereby we can break down a barrier within our city code preventing a change like this from taking place. And I really appreciate the support from the Bureau in helping the people that want to move forward with this street name change project.
 by helping them come to city council and getting this barrier removed. I think that's really great, and I appreciate that we have that. Thank you. Thank you, Mary. Good morning. Hugh? Bill Dickey, business owner of Portland, Oregon. I really can't add much to the wonderful words that were spoken earlier, especially by Governor Roberts.
 It is ironic that just night before last, I was at home cruising the TV and on the Turner Classic Movie Channel, the 1984 documentary, The Life and Times of Harvey Milk, played. And I was like, wow, you know, it's ironic that this is playing tonight. And I got stuck on it and watched it and was reminded of how powerful this gentleman was and
 and the cutting-edge nature of his career in winning the Briggs Initiative in California, which would have made it legal to fire schoolteachers that were homosexual.
 and you know the same night as this as I was watching this movie a young friend of mine who had a baseball scholarship at OSU he's from Roseburg Oregon he's 25 now came out publicly on Facebook and I thought to myself I commented on his coming out story which he got 350 comments which is quite a bit for a Facebook post that
 It's ironic that you did this on the same day that this Harvey Milk documentary played where one of his main tenets was the importance of coming out. And it takes a lot of courage from Roseburg, Oregon to come out because life in Portland is sort of like Shangri-La for most gay people. It's a pretty accepting place to live. But in small-town America and where a lot of our young people come from,
 it's still a fearful experience to identify yourself as being different. So anyway, I just think that it would really be a powerful statement for the city to have his name memorialized so that we can teach our young people the importance of these types of actions. That's all. Thanks, Bill. Thanks, Bill.
 Hi, my name is Crystal Elinsky. I represent 10,000. I forgot to tell you about the Children's Levy pamphlet memorial. This is beautiful. We're talking about memorials, and it is really hard to say anything against former Governor Roberts, Kathleen Sadat, who told me...
 People need to get involved, even if their lives are really tough and they can hardly, you know, eat and sleep. They need to get involved. And then, of course, Star Soul 16, which is the first thing I did when I came to Portland, was go see her. However, this is a street renaming event.
 And I think we're misguided in this. We're going the wrong direction. We're talking about money we don't have to help the homeless and how we don't have enough to spread around with children's levy. So I want to remind you that changing a street is a huge expense, for one. And you're going to have a backlash from the business community like you did with Cesar Chavez. It's just a nightmare for logistics.
 Another point about street renaming, I mean I've lived in countries where streets get renamed every time there's a new regime, which is often, but it's chaos. It's a real mess. And I used to live way out on Stark, out in the Four Corners, Gresham, Troutdale, Fairview, Wood Village.
 And it would be great to have Harvey Milk out there for sure, but you're only limiting it to here. And when I take my kids through town and they don't even know what the names of the streets are now and what we're commemorating, I mean, I could see replacing something that had a racist past like Union to MLK. Cesar Chavez was a number. It took a long time for people to get adjusted to it.
 but we could be doing something where we're teaching people about what this name means because the average person really doesn't know and we could do it with memorials, we could do it with plaques we could do it with connecting points of interest in our city like a walking tour, like you could go for example um
 Well, anywhere. I mean, we've got a beautiful history here, and we could have a beautiful bust of Harvey Milk right down there. And in place of some of the ridiculous art we have in that area, like...
 Oh my God, it's so embarrassing to explain to people what the Green Man of Portland is, because what is that? And then those glass vase things with the lights. I mean, I think the money would be better put into something where the community engages and learns and shares their own history instead of just a simple, not even simple, a very expensive thing.
 Street change. Thank you. Thank you. All three of you for your testimony. We appreciate it. Is there any further testimony? That's all. Mayor, I have a motion. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, I have checked with PBOT and determined that if we were to put an emergency clause on this item, it would have the effect of accelerating the process of going out and seeking whether there's sufficient community support to move forward. And it has been blessed by PBOT. I spoke to Kurt directly yesterday.
 So I would move that we add an emergency clause to this ordinance. We have a motion. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted to the main motion. Please call the roll.
 Fritz. So this merely sets the process in motion. There will be plenty of opportunities for people to testify both in favor and against this proposal, and I look forward to having the next discussion back at council. Hi. Fish. I understand that there's a lot of support along this stretch of Stark from business owners and other folks to do the street renaming, but we have a process that engages the community fully before it comes back to us, and that's what we're launching today. Okay.
 It is a rare day indeed that we welcome Oregon's first woman governor, America's most famous drag queen, and a teacher and a leader and an activist of the substance and character of Kathleen Sadat. And that's as good a lineup as we'll ever have. And throw in our friends from Basic Rights Oregon, it's the dream team.
 So thank you very much for coming forward and making such a passionate case, and I am hopeful that you'll be returning to council in due course so that we can vote to move this forward. Aye. And by the way, Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for putting this on the agenda and giving us the chance to vote on this. Aye. Saltzman. Well, council does not take up street renaming every day. In fact, city code requires that the Bureau of Transportation consider only one application at a time,
 and only one renaming per year. The Harvey Milk Street Project Committee has been doing their homework and outreach for the last several months, and they've also been waiting patiently for the decks to be cleared at the Bureau of Transportation for this consideration. I believe they have made a compelling case for renaming, for requesting that this application move forward for only Southwest Stark and to move to the signature gathering stage, which can now commence immediately.
 So I want to thank my staff, Stacey Brewster, and also the staff at the Bureau of Transportation for walking the applicants through the process. And we look forward to joining you in the final steps as well. Hi. Eudaly? Eudaly?
 Well, I'd like to thank Governor Roberts, of course. I believe she had a little something to do with this whole thing. And just to say, if we didn't have Harvey Milk to name a street after her, I certainly think Kathleen Sadat and Walter Cole would be worthy recipients of that honor. Although, I don't, I'm not suggesting that, never mind. Okay. Thank you.
 I think I just realized some of the rules might, yeah, okay, anyhow. Please don't die. Okay. If there's one thing I've learned in the past year about Portlanders is they really hate change. And I understand that. We are experiencing some shell shock from the rate of change in our city.
 However, I think I've, I believe my office has heard from one single individual who doesn't like this change. So I'm very pleased to vote aye and see this project move forward. Wheeler.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for bringing this forward, the Transportation Bureau. Thanks to everybody who testified. And I know Ted Fulangoski, Governor Fulangoski, would have loved to have been here as well. So thank you, Governor Roberts, for mentioning him as well. This is a very important issue.
 And Kathleen had mentioned the importance of symbolism and the importance of us as a community not just assuming that things have changed for the better and therefore they will always stay better.
 We've entered a period in history where I think we understand we have to continually reflect on the battles fought, the victories won, and the importance of why those battles were fought in the first place. So I think this is an entirely appropriate and timely gesture on the part of the city of Portland. And I agree with the individual who testified who said there's some legwork.
 that has to be done here in terms of reaching out to people in the community, the people on the streets, other businesses that maybe have not been engaged yet. All of those things must happen, and as Commissioner Saltzman admonished us, this is really just the beginning of that process. So thanks to everybody who's been engaged and everybody who will be engaged. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Next item, 117. Item 117.
 Portland Streetcar Annual Report for 2017. Commissioner Saltzman. Now, before you get started on this, I know we have people here for other items on the agenda. Do we have a plan for how we're going to manage things? So, colleagues, we are...
 hugely behind and so I have two members of my staff doing shuttle diplomacy with members of your staff as we speak. I'm told I will get a new run of show very shortly and the likelihood is my items will be passed today and moved on to a different day. But I will inform you as soon as I know what our collective staffs have come up with. Thank you for asking the question. Thank you.
 Commissioner Salter. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you to our panelists for your patience today. This is the fourth annual report to the City Council on the Portland Streetcar's performance. And as we continue to see denser urban redevelopment in the central city and the influence that these fixed rails have in shaping our city and how people choose to get around.
 And how people do choose to get there does matter. Portland Streetcar provides transit service using 100% renewable energy to help meet our climate goals. And as we look forward to the continued growth in the multifamily urban housing, streetcar ridership, and streetcar ridership, we need to be thinking about capacity.
 and having enough vehicles available to support reliable, frequent transit service. So we'll hear a bit more now from Dan Bauer, Jim Mark, and Catherine Levine. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Catherine Levine from Portland Transportation. With me is Jim Mark, the Chair of Portland Streetcar, Inc., and Dan Bauer, Executive Director of Portland Streetcar, Inc.,
 Before I turn the presentation over to Jim and Dan, I'd like to take an opportunity to thank folks who invest their time and effort to make Streetcar a reliable transit service, specifically the volunteer members of the Streetcar Citizen Advisory Committee and the volunteer members of the Portland Streetcar, Inc. Board. Additionally, I'd like to...
 mentioned three partner agencies, each of whom had major public works projects occurring in the downtown in 2017 that affected Portland Streetcar. Each of those agencies worked very closely with us to coordinate, schedule their work, and problem solve in order to keep transit service moving. Thank you.
 First, TriMet with its light rail track replacement at 11th and Morrison. It was a substantial project, but we were back up and running the trains within two weeks. Secondly, the Bureau of Biomall Services with its Yamhill-Morrison sewer project understood the importance of coordinating their work with the TriMet work to minimize the congestion in downtown and also keep transit moving.
 And lastly, the Multnomah County Bridge Team, they have rather quietly, from my point of view, been working on the Broadway Bridge Rall Replacement Project. As you know, Portland Streetcar runs across that bridge.
 And their team over this past year has replaced four 100-year-old plus 56,000-pound raw wheels that allow that bridge to open and close. And they did that with as minimal impact to service in the downtown as possible. So we really appreciate the commitment of the other agencies to keep transit moving while they do their work in the downtown.
 So thank you, and I will return to Jim. I'm Jim Mark, and I'm chair of Portland Streetcar, Inc., and it's my pleasure to come before council today to talk about streetcar. 2017 has been a great year for streetcar, and specifically for the streetcar board, which we've had the opportunity to engage with the city and others on a lot of important and timely tasks. First, in terms of board membership,
 We work to better reflect our community and to address the pressing needs related to the housing crisis by adding several board members with backgrounds in affordable housing, including an affordable housing provider in REACH CDC. We continually are looking to broaden our board membership to better reflect our community. Secondly, we continue to push the mantra of how important streetcar is in our community and to the country.
 Portland Streetcar is still very much the national model for streetcar, and systems are opening in Cincinnati and Detroit in 2017, Milwaukee, Oklahoma City, and others in 2018, and major expansions in both Seattle and Tacoma. It's clear we need to continue our investment.
 in streetcar in Portland. And I want to thank the board for doing a great job and stepping up in terms of adding cars and prioritizing the extension of the system. One of the highlights from 2017 was working with our National Streetcar Community Coalition to bring in community engagement, excuse me, experts from Kansas City and Cincinnati to help the board and the Citizen Advisory Committee.
 In the public? That'd be great. Excuse me. It's pure. I usually can talk on and on and on. Thank you. That's good because Nick usually doesn't share his vodka with anybody. Thank you, Commissioner. And had to fight for the streetcar and apply those lessons to Portland.
 One item I would like to thank Council for is your willingness to work with Streetcar and the Rose Festival to ensure over 15,000 riders had access to the system during both the Starlight and the Grand Floral Parade. In 2017, we were able to provide services during the parades for the first time in the history of the system, and it was a really positive step. And sort of finally...
 In our report, you'll see the amount of people that are underserved in the community that Streetcar allows access to and from work, to and from services. 32% of our riders are under $30,000 income per year. And I think that's really important as we go forward and, again, look at others in our community.
 that are struggling, that Streetcar is something to everybody in Portland. And again, thank you for the opportunity, and it is my absolute pleasure to serve as chair for the last five years. Thank you. Thank you, Jim. We appreciate your leadership. Thanks, Jim. Excuse me. My name is Dan Bauer. I'm the director of Portland Streetcar, Inc. I'm going to move pretty quick here because you all have the report in front of you. And for those of you watching at home on TV, it's available online at portlandstreetcar.org.
 but very happy to be here again to talk about what's been going on with Streetcar and where we're moving in the near future.
 First of all, real briefly, just to remind everybody, we do run three separate streetcar lines right now, the north-south line from 23rd to South Waterfront and the A and B loops, which cross the Tillicum and Broadway bridges. Collectively, those three lines carry about 15,300 people per day. That is more than all but one bus line. That is more than two light rail lines, so a very, very heavily ridden system.
 And one of the most important things that you're going to hear from us today is our need to continue with investing in the system as the city is growing. A lot of, lot of investment occurring around our system and traffic congestion and housing and everything else is coming to bear. Real quick, in terms of the budget here, what we're showing is an increase in fare box recovery. We're at about 14% of our operation covered by fare box today.
 As has been the issue in the past, when we accept TriMet fares on the streetcar system, we don't always necessarily receive those fares to the city coffers. As we transition to the HOP program with TriMet, we're expecting to see a significant increase in the amount of fare revenue coming back to the city for the riders who are boarding our system with a TriMet fare. I want to just also emphasize that we are going to be full participants in the regional low-income fare program launching in July.
 Importantly, sorry this thing keeps cutting out. Meaning that low income folks would be able to get half price? Correct. Is this working okay? It feels like it keeps breaking out. Thank you very much. Okay. Importantly, is the connection between streetcar and housing and specifically affordable housing, and I showed this chart last year but I think it's worth showing again, that our success is directly tied to the success of the city and the success of housing investments in the city.
 Every time we add a housing unit along the streetcar line, our ridership goes up on a one-to-one basis. And last year, 54% of all the housing built in Portland was built on the streetcar line. And since we opened in 2001, 49% of all the housing in Portland has been opened on the streetcar line. That includes the city's largest investment in 50 years of Block 45, where we're adding 240 units of affordable housing with the city's assistance. That is directly on the streetcar line on the east side. So we're very, very receptive to those types of projects.
 Like I mentioned, we need to keep pace with growth. We need to manage traffic congestion on the east side. We certainly continue to have issues at the intersection of Grand and Davis where we have a planned project there to improve the travel time for the streetcar and the number six bus. And the hope is we can be able to serve those units in a much more efficient manner.
 I want to just highlight on page five of the report that one of our key metrics here is the collision rate. We measure collisions, the number of collisions per revenue hour. We had a significant drop in the last year, and that's largely due to the addition of a safety officer for the streetcar team. We're down to .41 collisions every 1,000 hours of service. And that may seem like a lot to certain people, but if you drive around for 77,000 hours a year with no steering wheel –
 That's actually a fairly good number. We're down. The collision rate has dropped significantly since we've really started paying attention to that. Moving on, I just want to flag something that Jim was saying. We know that from surveys that we did of our riders that our ridership very much matches the demographics of the people who live along the streetcar line. And we talked about this last year in terms of the income levels, race, gender, any other demographic you want to look at. Vehicle ownership is an important one.
 Those all match the census demographics of the people living along the system. So very much supporting the lives of people choosing to live downtown and get to work and do shopping. We talked about affordable housing earlier. Important to note that more than one-third of all affordable housing units in the city are directly on the Portland Streetcar alignment today.
 Just one quick anecdote from that survey we did. An interesting trend we're seeing is the reduction in car ownership, and specifically correlated with age, the younger populations on our system have very, very low car ownership rates. So 25 to 34-year-olds right now, 61% of our riders don't even own a car. They're living downtown without any vehicle. That's a big problem.
 That rate declines a little bit with age, but even at the highest rate, people 65 and older, 50% of our users don't own a car. So fairly significant trend in that regard. Real quickly, a few highlights from 2017. We had our highest ever average weekday ridership in the month of February, 16,300 riders per day.
 Very excited about that. We were able to add service to the north-south line in the morning, restoring peak frequency service beginning at 530 in the morning. That's helped out a lot with the commuters moving from northwest into south waterfront in our highest demand areas.
 And finally, we had a great sponsorship from our friends at Next Adventure. They stepped in when they found out that students at our schools were having to pay for streetcar tickets when they go on field trips. Next Adventure has stepped in and funded all field trips on Portland Streetcar for students. And they've been a great partner. We've done several media pieces with them. There's a movie on their website. They're very, very excited to sponsor the streetcar in a way that's adding value. So we want to make sure we thank them.
 Moving forward, we've got a couple of key investments in the streetcar system coming up. One is we're working hard to install cameras on all of our streetcars. It's probably a more complex project than maybe you might think, but that has taken some time, but I believe we're going to do it this year. It's going to happen. Okay.
 We talked about an enhanced transit project we have on Grand Avenue where we're planning to install those. It's called a business access transit lane on Grand between Burnside and Davis that will allow the streetcar and the number six bus to proceed through while making cars do a right turn at both Burnside and Davis. So limiting the amount of traffic using that right lane and moving the streetcar and the number six bus out of the freeway traffic lane on Grand Avenue. We hope to get that in place by April or May this year. Thank you.
 We are looking to add double-sided loading at the PSU Urban Plaza, which is one of our highest locations for boarding and deboarding. We are in an exciting phase around some preliminary engineering work for a streetcar extension in Northwest, where we're working with neighbors there and the businesses to have a really great discussion about an opportunity in that area.
 And I look forward to bringing more details around that in the coming weeks and months. And then importantly for us, and probably the most timely, is the procurement of more cars. And we talked about this last year, and we're going to be talking about it again in a few weeks. We are in a position now to be buying five additional streetcars. We are looking to buy two new cars, and we're looking to continue to buy three slightly used cars from the city of Seattle when the time is right.
 So all of those cars we hope to have online by 2020. Specifically the cars we're pursuing here from a new perspective. We're looking at this company called Brookville. They're in Pennsylvania. They used to make coal mining cars and what you see pictured here is a car they just delivered to Oklahoma City in the snow.
 But Brookville is a very, very good company, all American made. And what we're going to be trying to do is buy the streetcars off of Sound Transit and Tacoma's contract. Where they're already buying these streetcars for their system, we're just going to tack on an order of two more. So we get a lot of efficiencies in terms of engineering costs and the full delivery and testing. We're sharing all those costs with the city of Tacoma. So both of those paths end up being a very efficient way to go about procuring more cars, both professionally.
 pursuing used cars from Seattle to add to our fleet, as well as tagging onto somebody else's order. So I think I'll stop there and open it up for questions and then see if we have any testimony at that point. Colleagues, any questions? Very good. Thank you. Excellent report. Thank you very much. I'll entertain a motion. Move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll.
 Fritz? Well, once again, thank you for an excellent report. I'll be putting the paper document out in the front of my office so that people can review it. A good point about the hot passes, meaning that in the future we'll be able to get a better recovery rate, and also it's very convenient and inexpensive to ride it right now while paying the proper fare. So thank you very much for doing all that you do and for this report. Bye. Fish?
 Thanks for an excellent report. Thanks for your patience today. And to the chair of the streetcar, thank you for five years of service. It's been exemplary. Saltzman.
 Well, thank you all for your leadership in making our streetcar system more and more successful every day. That's indeed an impressive array of statistics and an impressive report, and it does certainly point out the need for more rolling stock or more vehicles, and so I'm glad we're pursuing purchases of new and slightly used streetcars to serve our residents. You daily.
 Thank you for the report, and thank you for your service. Aye. Wheeler? I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Good report. Colleagues, you've just received a revised run of show. Our staffs have looked at these, and I've received a couple of comments. If you have other comments, just write them on the piece of paper I handed you. Send it my way. For now, we'll do 1.30 next. Item 130. May I just say, Mayor, that if it's your desire, and I know there's tree code people here,
 we'd be happy to set 130 over to next week. Let's hold off on 130 and set that over to next week, and we'll move to 129. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Appreciate that. 129.
 amend regulations for trees not impacted by development and establish appeal procedures for trees in development situations. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. This is an ordinance to make minor changes to the Tree Code Title 11. And first off, may I be the first to say that there are many, many, many other changes that I would like to see made, and I know that the community and other members of the Council would like to see made.
 This has not been a council priority other than the street tree effort that's currently underway. But this one is an urgent change or three urgent changes which are not controversial and better align the code with practice and expectations. Emily Sandy from the Bureau of Development Services will provide the details, with Casey Jerks from the Urban Forestry Department of Portland Parks and Recreation available to answer questions.
 Thanks, Commissioner. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners, Mayor Wheeler. My name is Emily Sandy. I'm a Code and Policy Analyst with the Bureau of Development Services. And I'm Casey Drogerst. I'm the Permitting Supervisor with Urban Forestry. So we are here to present some amendments to Title 11 that affect when trees must be preserved and then conversely when they can be removed when they're associated with a development permit.
 for things such as new construction or additions or other ground disturbing activity. So first I'm just gonna remind you a little background about how Title 11 is organized and then what the current standards are. I wanna point out there's lots of little nuances to the code. I'm really gonna try to simplify things and just focus narrowing on what's proposed to be changed.
 So generally they're divided into regulations for development situations, so that's any time a development permit is required, a building permit or other permit. And then situations where a development permit is not required. And most commonly that would just be a resident that wants to remove a tree in their backyard absent of anything else going on in their property.
 So right now the trigger for using the regulations for development situations is ground disturbance that's associated with a building or other development permit. And it does not matter where the ground disturbance is located. And I want to emphasize that, especially in relation to trees, it doesn't matter where the ground disturbance is located.
 Once you've triggered those regulations, you can move on to the exemptions, and there are some exemptions for small sites, high-intensity zones, dead, dying, and dangerous trees, and a few others. So if you've triggered the regulations, so there's ground disturbance, you're not exempt, then the standard is that you must preserve at least one-third of non-exempt trees, and there's no replacement required.
 So the flip side of that, if you want to think in terms of tree removal, is that as many as two-thirds of non-exempt trees can be removed with a development permit. And again, this is regardless of where the location of ground disturbance is, especially want to point out in relation to the tree. The regulations for non-development situations, which are primarily implemented by Parks Urban Forestry, is a request for removal of a tree that's not associated with development again.
 And removal may be permitted depending on factors such as health species, size or location of tree. And then in some cases, you get into more discretionary factors such as the availability of practical alternatives, economic, community and ecological concerns. And then with the non-development permit, replacement is required. So the proposed amendment
 amends the trigger for utilizing the development-related regulations, and it says that the ground disturbance that triggers those regulations has to impact at least one tree. So again, right now there's no nexus between the ground disturbance and a tree. It's just any ground disturbance. And when we say impact, that is a measurable standard, and it's the root protection zone, which generally is one foot radius for every one inch of tree diameter. Okay.
 And then the amendment clarifies that if the development related regulations are not triggered, that if you want to remove one of the trees, you need to go get a permit from Urban Forestry using the non-development permit process, if you will. Right now, that's a little unclear in the code.
 So the primary results of the amendment would be, if we're talking about tree removal, the removal of trees cannot occur with development if there is no impact to a tree's root protection zone. And we anticipate that less trees will be removed through the development process. And for those trees that people want to remove and they have to get a permit through Parks Urban Forestry, replacement will be required.
 Here's just a simple graphic illustrating the change. This is an existing building with an addition. It could be anything. It could be a new building. And there's three trees. So under the current regulations, there would be ground disturbance with the new addition. And they'd have to preserve one third of the trees. And then they could remove two thirds of the trees. Under the proposed amendment,
 Since the addition is not anywhere near the root protection zones of any of the trees, there's no removal that's allowed through the development permit. Other amendments are that it codifies that tree removal allowed through the development permit cannot occur until that permit is issued. That's implicit, but there have been situations where that hasn't happened, so we're just making that explicit.
 One result of the amendment was that tree plans will be required for every development permit just to verify which trees are and are not approved through removal. This will help us with our data collection. And finally, we're codifying administrative review and appeal procedures for...
 decisions by staff that happen through the plan review process. And so those would first go to an administrative review by the BDS director or City Forester, and they can be further appealed to the code hearings officer. Any questions? Thank you. That's very clear. So the only question I have is that under the impact statement, it says no community involvement was conducted in development of this ordinance. Is that because –
 we determine that there's nothing which DRAC or some other body would have an interest in commenting on? Or this is so straightforward? Or what's the reason why there's no community involvement on this? There's a provision in Title XI that allows city council to make a decision if they determine that the amendment is necessary to bypass that process. Did you want to speak to that? Yes.
 Right now, I think it's clear that the purpose of the tree code and the development regulations are to balance the development allowed as expressed through the comprehensive plan while preserving as many trees as possible.
 But right now, there's no nexus between that development and the impact to the tree. And so this closes a gap, if you will, of situations where additional tree removal is happening that perhaps wasn't intended to happen, but it's still sticking with the purpose of the overall development regulations, which is that balance of allowing development to happen as it's envisioned to happen while preserving trees.
 Did we get any written testimony, pro or con, on this item? We did take it to DRAC. The Development Review Advisory Committee. Thanks. And they did not have any comments or concerns. So that's the end of the presentation. Carla, anyone signed up to testify? I believe they all left. Mimi, Crystal, Star, and Eli. Is there anyone present who would like to testify in this matter? No.
 Seeing none, this goes to a second reading. Thank you very much, Mr. Stock. Mayor gave me this without the stand. Oh, geez. A little lame. Try again. Thank you. That's much better. You're just in time to bail me out. Mayor, we're going now to 128. 128, please, Carla. Thanks, Nick.
 Authorize a grant agreement with APANO Communities United Fund not to exceed $33,000 to support the Asian Pacific American Communities United Against Hate Project. Commissioner Fritz. And...
 This is the second reading. The second reading. And so I'd like to... Commissioner Fritz. Mayor, I'd like to offer an amendment that this process has taken much longer than was envisioned and the urgent need is to get the money out to the community. And I hope I will be joined by others on the council in affirming that we have
 I have every confidence that APANO and the Asian Pacific Islander community will deal with the report that has been commissioned and will take appropriate steps no matter what that report says.
 that I have every trust in the community's ability to fix the problems that were identified by the community. This grant is for urgent life safety needs in the community, and it's really important to get the money to...
 that purpose as quickly as possible. And therefore, with the amendment that was passed last week that requires the mayor to make an assessment after receiving the report, I would move to add an emergency clause because of the life safety impacts so that once that report is received, the mayor can get it out rather than waiting 30 days from this action today. Commissioner Fritz, I'd like to second that. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz. We have a second from the mayor. Any further discussion?
 Call the roll on the amendment, please. Fritz. I do have every confidence that the community will do the right thing here. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Well, I just want to review that the amendment does say that the mayor will review the report, and I'd like to see the report as well, since I'm holding my signature from a grant agreement with APANO until I see that report. But if the mayor is not satisfied with the report, he will not sign the contract. That's what the amendment basically said that we passed last week.
 And I look forward to seeing the outcome of the investigation, as I do think the allegations were extremely serious ones. Aye. Eudaly? Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz. I think it is in everyone's best interest to expedite this, if at all possible. Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 I think this is very important that we do this, and I thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for bringing this forward, and I appreciate the conversations that I've had with you and others about this particular issue over the last week. I want to thank the people at APANO as well for taking what I think is very decisive action on this. I think the emergency ordinance is exactly the right thing to do. I vote aye. The amendment is adopted to the main motion. Call the roll.
 Thank you, Commissioner Daly, for your leadership with Portland United Against Hate, for your excellent staff work, for joining me and having confidence in the process here. And speaking up last week, I appreciated that very much in your partnership as we all continue to grapple with crucial issues that have to be resolved, both at the council and in the community. Thanks.
 Well, I'm pleased to support my colleague and friend's motion today. And I want to just say for the benefit of my friends at APANO, this is a question of nuance, not of any fundamental disagreement on the council. Reasonable people can agree or disagree about the approach forward, but this council has consistently supported the good work of APANO, which is making a difference in their neighborhood. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Aye.
 You daily. I always strive to improve my skill set as an individual and as a listener. And I felt that I could have done a better job of listening last week to Commissioner Udailey.
 who sponsored this ordinance, and I felt like I did not give her adequate time to speak last week, and so I want to publicly apologize to you and to Commissioner Fritz. Likewise, I want to thank you both. This is a good place we're in, and I look forward to receiving the report. Commissioner Saltzman, you have my word that I will not sign the report.
 unless it is adequate, and I will be happy to share it with my colleagues as well. I see no reason on this particular issue to be restrictive in this regard. So thank you all. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Let's move, please, to item 124.
 Amend contract with CSDC, Inc. in the amount of $2,331,589 for implementation, hosting, and maintenance of the upgraded Amanda computerized permit tracking system for Bureau of Development Services. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor. Okay.
 Thank you for being here today, Director Esau and Tom and Director Baer. As the directors of BDS and BTS for the city, I can't thank you enough for your important work on a project that, once completed, will make a huge difference in how we enable people to permit everything from a small bathroom or kitchen remodel to constructing a multi-story building. The Portland Online Permitting System, also known as POPs,
 My favorite acronym in the city, I think. It's pretty good. I really lobbied for that one. Not only will help customers, but will improve workflows and relationships between all of our city agencies involved in the development review process. Those are Bureau of Development Services, the Fire Bureau, the Transportation Bureau, the Water Bureau, Parks and Recreation, and Environmental Services.
 This will allow us to more efficiently and effectively serve our customers and the public. In 2017, BDS collected $195.9 million in revenue. That equals roughly $790 a day. The total valuation of all projects BDS and its partner bureaus permitted in 2017 was just over $3.1 billion.
 So in all regards, a record-breaking year. And I want to commend all of the permitting staff at all of the bureaus for handling an extraordinary amount of work and pushing really an unprecedented number of permits through. I don't think they get thanked or appreciated enough. So thank you.
 All of that was accomplished despite the fact that the software our staff uses is out of date and much of the review process is still paper-based.
 We upgraded our permitting system to a supported version of the software earlier this year, and we have agreed on a pathway to move to the latest version and implement online permitting. Salem, Oregon, Vancouver, BC, St. Paul, Minnesota, Burlington, Vermont, London, England, and many other cities throughout the world use the same software Portland will be using to process building permits.
 The goal is to enable people to do their development business with the city on their laptops, their cell phones, tablets, and increasingly via voice-activated smart speakers. I don't know how I feel about that, frankly, but I guess that is the goal. You might be hearing from my son, in which case he doesn't have my permission. Thank you.
 Online permitting has the potential to make the permitting process much more efficient while making customers' experiences interacting with the system better. Finally, I'd like to explain to the public where these funds are coming from because we hear from members of the public on a regular basis about their frustrations with our priorities and how we are spending our money.
 So in this case, I think it's important to note that we are not asking for general funds from the city. We're simply asking for the ability to increase funding for this contract. And those funds come from permit fee revenue.
 And much to my chagrin, this revenue cannot be spent on anything that is not programmatically related to the permitting stream it came from. Trust me, I asked for a detailed list of how this money could be spent. And there's really not a lot of fun to be had. It has to stay.
 Within the bureaus and the streams that it came from. So this means that we cannot give this money to other bureaus to be spent on other needs, regardless of how vital or important they are. Unfortunately, we are just prevented from doing that by state law. The good news is we have the money now.
 to fund this request. So, Mayor, unless you wanted to add any remarks, I'm going to hand it over to Chief Administrative Officer Tom Reinhart to fill in the Council and the public about our next steps with this project. I've got a couple of things I'd like to say, but I'm going to hold off on saying them until after I've heard what our panel has to say and after we've heard public testimony. Okay.
 On this item, I just want to say thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for your leadership, and I'm proud to co-sponsor this with you. Thank you. Tom? Mayor, Council, we've actually reorganized our presentation, so Rebecca's going to lead, and then Director Baer, and then myself. Very good. So, Director Esau, over to you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Udallian and council members. The request before you today is to amend the existing contract with CSDC, which is the vendor for our permitting software. Specifically, this amendment will increase the value of this contract by $2.3 million. CSDC is the lead vendor that is developing and supporting our online permitting platform. They have a high level of knowledge since they've been with us since the beginning.
 This amendment will carry us through the end of the current contract, which expires at the end of August. Between now and then, we'll be working on a new contract with CSDC for the continued development of the new system, and that includes the hosting and maintenance costs that will move POPs forward. We will bring that new contract to you this summer. Thank you.
 It is important to consider this request to add $2.3 million to the existing contract in the context of the volume of permitting work that the City is experiencing. As Commissioner Udailey mentioned, BDS handled in 2017 $195.9 million in revenue through its Development Services Center. That translates into about $790,000 a day in revenue.
 The project valuation, so all the buildings you see out there with the 30 cranes across the city skyline, the project valuation for that total $3.1 billion with a B. It's an incredible amount of development going on in this city, unprecedented. More than 48,430 customers came through the doors of the 1900 building and received services from our staff.
 and we're doing record-breaking business, and we need to update our existing software and improve our processes to better serve our customers.
 Like any computer system or smartphone you use, there's a need to regularly upgrade to provide the new features and functionality available. The city's permitting software similarly needs to be upgraded. It's really part of the cost of doing business for any city of this size. Internal and external users of the system will benefit from the new features and functionality available with the software upgrade.
 Thank you, Rebecca. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, members of City Council, Jeff Baer with the Bureau of Technology Services. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. And as you heard Rebecca talk and describe, we're here seeking permission to amend the existing contract that will provide a basis for launching an upgrade to the current Amanda 7 version this summer. And this phased approach that we're taking is supported by the Technology Oversight Committee, and it really lays the foundation for this robust online permitting system.
 And the importance of making this upgrade is that it will increase the accessibility, the efficiency of how we do the city's permitting system, and also build out a platform for adding new functionality, as was described earlier, such as a web-based service, mobile applications, analytics, improved reporting, and, of course, increased customer accessibility to our development services.
 And so working in conjunction with the Bureau of Development Services, we've been really leading this charge with city bureaus and been working on this project for a number of months lately and really working closely with our partner permitting bureaus with Transportation, Environmental Services, the Water Bureau, Fire, and also Parks. Okay.
 And we're also working on improving and strengthening the transparency in this collaboration between our bureaus involved in development review and permitting process. And as Commissioner Daly said, this is not a new system. We're not in any sort of a beta or testing environment. This is a well thought out system. And just to localize some of this information.
 City of Bellevue, Washington is one of the customers. Snohomish County is also another one. City of Austin and also City of San Jose. So in systems that are similar to the environment of which we work in. So I'll pause there and turn it over to Tom. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council Members. I just have a couple things to add. I want the Council to know that we have worked very hard collectively on governance clarity on this project. With a project of this complexity and magnitude.
 We have learned through some successes and some failures at the city that getting clarity on roles is pivotal. I want to give a lot of credit to the two leaders to my right. Director Baer and Director Esau have worked very hard over the last several weeks to ensure that we have the right model. I also want to tell you in no uncertain terms that we worked diligently and won a hard-earned victory with our bureau colleagues to make this the top technology priority for 2018.
 I think that's a very healthy step in the right direction for the city that we worked through a process about what we were going to prioritize. And we were grateful that our colleagues are giving BTS the room to put a lot of resources into this project because we will need them. I also want to underscore Director Baer's point about sequencing. We have also taken the best private and public sector examples about sequencing a project like this appropriately so we can bring you decision points.
 The first decision points will go through the two leaders on my right, and then you will get them so that we don't say we're just baked in for five years and then regret not checking in about where we're at and getting what we need out of this project. Lastly, I want to ensure you that I am taking the learning from my first year as CAO in terms of my role, and we have had some success moving the data center.
 moving people out of the Portland building, doing things at a large scale in terms of using the CAO's office appropriately as a check-in point and a way to also clear bottlenecks or help people make decisions when we're having a hard time making decisions. So we are going to be meeting every two weeks, and by we I mean Jeff, Rebecca, myself, other project leaders, just to check in, even if we just need 15 minutes.
 so that I can assure you as a council that I am providing some oversight and helping with any problems that may occur as we execute this contract. So with that, I will close, and I think the three of us have time to take questions. Of course. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. A comment and a question. Let me start with a question because we have Director Esau here. Director Esau, if –
 If I were to generalize about the emails I get from residents of Portland, they generally deal with the growing pains of a city that's rapidly expanding, where people are experiencing on almost every street corner some sign of development, a crane, a lane that's blocked, something going on, a renovation, a teardown, you name it. So that's the feedback I get from the residents of the city.
 When I meet with members of the development community, I often hear that we're entering into the Great Depression because of all the misguided policy decisions of the city council. And so what I want to ask you is, which is it, and what's the best indicator of the sort of health of our development in the city? I mean, at some point...
 we're likely to hit a speed bump because interest rates are going up. There's macroeconomic forces beyond our control. But I'm really struck by the contrast between the concerns raised by residents who are dealing on the ground with growth.
 And the cautionary tales we get from the development community about how some of our policies have made it almost impossible for them to proceed with development. You've had record revenue at the Bureau of Development Services. So can you help me resolve that apparent contradiction? Sure.
 I'll do my best. So at BDS, every year when we do our budget, we do a five-year financial forecast, and we meet with economists throughout the metro area and attempt to look in the crystal ball as to what is out ahead because we're almost entirely funded by fee revenue. Okay.
 We need to project what's out ahead as accurately as we possibly can. And what they're telling us is about a year and a half to two years out, they expect a small dip, a recession, but not of the depth and the duration that we experienced back in 2009 when we had to do the pretty massive layoffs. And that's the importance of setting aside reserves so that we can weather those downturns without...
 making huge cuts in staff, which is incredibly inefficient. Commissioner Fritz and I have been on this council long enough to remember when we had to go through that exercise. And actually, I think the fund was depleted.
 Not by me. Let me just be clear on that. Not by me. I'd just like to be very clear on that. Not by Commissioner Fritz. Nor anyone on her staff. Her chief of staff is here, so I want to just know. Nobody here. No one in this body here. Yeah. What we're hearing from the development community also is that the inclusionary housing regulations weren't necessarily calibrated right, or at least that's the opinion that they take and what they're observing here.
 and that we're seeing, and we are seeing a decline in the number of permits for mixed use and apartment projects. Sure. Well, with 15,000 to 20,000 already entitled in the pipeline, we may not see much for three years. Right. We expected to see that dip because there was such a rush at the gates right before those regulations went into effect.
 But the question is, at what point do we expect it to pick back up again? And we thought it would have started picking back up again, and we're not seeing that on the horizon for apartment projects. We have a lot of other projects going on, and it's all of that combined that's impacting the neighbors and changing the face of their neighborhoods. The other thing that I've heard from a noted developer that rents in my building is that,
 And he has opined to me that there's been both an overgrowth of certain kinds of apartments, that the inventory of so-called luxury apartments has sort of gone through the roof, and that he anticipates there will be some correction because we just don't have the incomes to match the kinds of aggressive rents. Is that a fair comment? Yes, I would agree with that. So thank you. And here's the – so that's the question I wanted to ask. And the comment that I wanted to make to the CAO –
 is that, and for the benefit of my colleagues, is we've got a lot of really complicated projects in the pipeline. And what I really appreciate with the way that we're addressing the big computer projects and upgrades to technology, the way we're dealing with the Portland building, the way we're dealing with the community benefits agreement, and on and on, is that, and it's my strong sense is that,
 that we're treating these as issues of concern to the council as a whole. And I think there was a time when it might have been seen as the province of the bureau that had the lead role. But the fact that we get reports from the Technology Oversight Committee, the fact that we get a report like this on a specific project, the fact that...
 baked into our community benefits agreement as a directive to the CAO to convene some folks and to give us updates. I think it's a really positive development. A, it rebuts the notion that we operate in silos. B, it acknowledges that these are citywide concerns, even if there is a lead bureau. I mean, the utilities will be doing a lot of CPA projects, but they're not exclusive custodians of getting – they're not charged with getting the CPA process right. The council has said it's a citywide concern. Okay.
 So I want to just acknowledge that I think this has been a really positive development and that by, in some instances, even over-consulting with the council and creating even more transparency, you help us understand how things are working. We build public trust. And I appreciate the approach, Tom, that you've taken in making sure that these are citywide concerns and not the province of just one bureau. Thank you.
 I'd just like to thank you for your comments, Commissioner Fish. I think it's clear that the complaints and the perception don't necessarily add up with the numbers that we're seeing. When I stepped into this role a year ago, I was hearing about how hard the permitting process is, that it takes too long, that we're going to see a downturn, and that downturn was due to IZ, a downturn at 18 months, and now a year later...
 We've permitted $3.1 billion in valued property. We have a glut of market and luxury rate apartments, which I believe has a lot more to do with why we're not seeing more, a lot more to do with the...
 than IZ does, but I'm certainly not opposed to revisiting IZ because we need to make sure it makes sense and works for everyone and it's not having a chilling effect. But we have a serious product mismatch in the housing market between what the developers are providing and what our city needs, and they need to acknowledge and address that problem.
 Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? Excellent presentation. Is there public testimony on this item, Carla? They both left. Is there anybody in the room? Very good. Call the roll. Fritz? Thank you, Director Esau. And I want to also thank you for your work on the tree code amendments that we just heard. Commissioner Daly also allowing the staff to work on that. Great work on that. Great work on this. Fish? Yes, excellent presentation and comments.
 Thank you, Commissioner Udailey, for shepherding this forward. Bye. Udailey? Thank you for the presentation. I will admit this was one of the most daunting projects, stepping into this role. And I'm pleased with the progress, and I'm looking forward to more, and would like to also...
 reiterate something that Commissioner Fish said, which is just how vital the relationships between all the permitting bureaus are. And so thank you. Thanks to everyone who's improving that situation as well. Thank you.
 Wheeler. So, first of all, thank you for the presentation. Thank you, Commissioner Udailey. The POP system, the Portland Online Permitting System, is obviously, as you've heard, it's of critical importance.
 to both of the bureaus represented here, and interagency partners, PBOT, Bureau of Environmental Sustainability, Water, Fire, and Parks, and frankly, everybody in the community who seeks to get a permit through the City of Portland. We're seeing, as Commissioner Udaly mentioned, a lot of activity.
 in this city and a billion dollars this year in value over what we've seen the prior years, so obviously that continues to be robust. Given the statistics that Commissioner Udaly cited right up front combined with an old paper-based system, obviously it's important that we
 We have to give the city's best efforts, and I think what you're here presenting represents the city's best efforts. So we're going to be upgrading our software. We're going to be moving from the paper-based system to electronic plan review. This is basically bringing us up to technological snuff. And so thank you, everybody who is involved. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, will you bear with me on two more short items?
 before we adjourn. Very good. Item number 122. That was a pulled item from consent. 122, authorize a grant agreement with Lewis and Clark College in an amount not to exceed $35,000 to support the community response and supportive engagement with those targeted by hate and bias project. Thank you.
 So, colleagues, this ordinance authorizes a grant agreement with Lewis and Clark College not to exceed $35,000 to support the community response and supportive engagement with those targeted by the Hate and Bias Project. The Community Counseling Center at Lewis and Clark will expand...
 no-cost to low-cost, culturally appropriate mental health and support services to those impacted directly by hate and bias. It will be a point of contact to report and respond to hate-related incidents that will expand outreach to the communities about these particular services. The Center for Engagement at Lewis and Clark
 will enhance the effectiveness of education and mental health professionals as agents of change by providing equity-driven professional development. Lewis and Clark is advancing the work of the Portland United Against Hate Coalition through two areas of work.
 accessible, culturally appropriate services for people experiencing hate incidents and capacity building of mental health care providers to be effective resources for those experiencing hate incidents. Is there any public testimony on this item? This was a consent item, and Lightning pulled it. I believe he's not. He's not. Here, call the roll.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. One, two, six, please. Declare property located at...
 1988 Southeast 3rd Avenue as surplus real property and authorize the Bureau of Internal Business Services to dispose of the property. Colleagues, this ordinance is to declare city-owned property at Southeast 3rd and Harrison as surplus real property. The property, which is almost half an acre in size, was acquired by the city's Bureau of Internal Business Services, BIBS.
 in 2015 from the Oregon Department of Transportation. Its intended use was as the proposed Right to Dream 2 relocation site from their current location or from their previous location at Burnside Street, Northwest 4th Avenue. However, in August of 2016, the State Land Use Board of Appeals determined the proposed shelter use was nonconforming. In the summer of 2017, the City declared the property as excess to the Bureau's needs.
 after a 60-day public comment phase
 BIB's wish is to declare the property as surplus and obtain authorization to dispose of the property. Funds acquired from the sale of this property will be used to help pay for the costs associated with the attempt to relocate R2-D2 at this site in 2016 and to help restore the fund established for R2-D2 by Ordinance 186463 in 2014. Here to present is Brian Eng and Pauline Goebel.
 So good afternoon Mr. Mayor and good afternoon Commissioners. Mr. Mayor, I think you summarized in terms of what we intended to put before you in terms of our consideration. I think there are some pictures we want to show you in terms of where the property is located.
 So just to give you a frame of reference of where the property is located, that's where it's located. The next one will show you how the property was assembled. As you can see, half the property was ODOT, and then the other one was the PBOT right-of-way. And then the next one, the next picture, will show you the improvements that were actually made to the site and the final piece.
 is the modular unit. So one of the things that you do not have in your proposal is, I just want to, by the way, let you know that there is a modular unit that was purchased with the proceeds of the R2D2 funds. It is currently sitting in Salem. It is not in the packet. We intend to sell that as part of an auction here, hopefully in the next couple of months.
 In summary, in terms of the R2-D2 funds, we received $858,000 as proceeds for their initial reserve. The city added $150,000 to it for a total of $1,008,000. That was our project proceeds. We spent about $73,000 more than what was available, and so we have a deficit in $73,000. Okay.
 So the idea here is to move forward with the sale of the property and then use the money to first pay for the property sale and then to reimburse ourselves, then fund the sale.
 the R2-D2. But my understanding now at this time is that there's a proposed amendment where we would actually take the proceeds and first replenish the R2-D2 funds before repaying ourselves.
 Commissioner Fritz, did you want to go ahead? Thank you for that presentation. Just a clarification, why isn't the modular? Do we not have to declare the modular surplus as well? Well, it's personal property. Okay. It's very nice, whoever is watching at home or elsewhere. Thank you.
 bargain, whatever it goes for. So I hope that's a lot of interest. So regarding the proceeds, I've handed out an amendment given to the council clerk, the city attorney, and there are copies available for anybody in the audience who's interested. And that is to...
 change the order of reimbursement so that it would first go to reimburse, obviously, the costs of the disposition, but secondly, to reimburse the funding sources other than the account used for the money.
 excluding the internal staff costs for the Bureau of Internal Business Services project management. And then to replenish the account. So basically paying for the cost of all the improvements that we've done, like the paving and the utilities. Again, a very nice property, ready to go, replaced the tree and all that stuff, basically.
 Then replenish the account that originally set up, and then use the funding sources to cover internal costs. If there's any left over, to allocate to campsite services. Can I ask a just clarifying question? Just to finish up the remainder of the amendment, that's also carried over into the now therefore the council directs. Commissioner Fish? So Brian, what was the purchase price of the property?
 The ODOT property was roughly about $257,000. So we paid $257,000? Mm-hmm. And then what were the improvements we made? We vacated the right-of-way, so that added more property. We paved it. We've built a sidewalk. Mm-hmm. That's great.
 Yeah, so we spent through Tappany for the construction was roughly about $275,000. Another $230,000 was for the modular unit. I'm giving you the large sums. We got about $132,000 in project management costs. And then we had to coordinate the site assessment was roughly about another $60,000 or $70,000. Okay.
 What do we currently believe the fair market value for the property is? Between 500 and a half. Can you speak into the mic? Pauline Goble, property manager in Bibbs. We have a broker's value of opinion over a million dollars for the property if it was sold for its highest and best use. So if we adopt this amendment and it sells for over a million dollars, what percentage of OMF's cost would be reimbursed?
 My understanding of the amendment, Commissioner Fish, is that the personnel costs will not be reimbursed. And that's because the general fund is paying those. So in terms of the buckets that's being proposed, if it sells for over a million dollars, and this has to be one of the best land –
 transactions in the history of Portland. We bought it for $250,000 and we're now going to sell it for over a million. We doubled the size of it as well. You're right. We put almost a million dollars worth of improvements. So I'm just curious. I am likely to support this, but why wouldn't we first cover the costs and then distribute whatever is net? If we've incurred costs and that cost led to the enhancement of the property, why wouldn't we first reimburse those costs?
 So that was the original proposal. We have an amendment to change the order. The staff costs, there were no additional staff hired to do this work. There were staff that were hired with the general fund and overhead funding who Mayor Hales and then Mayor Wheeler directed to do this work. So I'm not billing for any of the staff time in my office either.
 So I'm just not quite clear what you're concerned about not reimbursing? We're reversing the order of reimbursement here. So why was the original ordinance drafted to reimburse OMF first? So what we were going to do was to make sure that we recovered all of our costs. Okay. So what are the costs we were talking about? Project management costs. I think that's really the –
 It's only $73,000 that's running a deficit at this time. So the only dollars we have not received over and beyond the project costs, the deficit is $73,000. May I like to ask my Chief of Staff, Tim Crail, to come up because he's been following the money part of this. And what is the R2-D2 fund?
 So the R2-D2 fund was the agreement, I think, back in 2015 associated with the parking area that was over there by the post office where the city received roughly about almost $900,000 to be used to site the R2-D2 somewhere different than the parking area that was in that area.
 And so after we paid, I can't remember, some encumbrance of roughly about $50,000, we had about $858,000 left to pay for a site and make the improvements to accommodate R2-D2. So why would we be replenishing that fund? I mean, the money's been spent. R2-D2 is now comfortably situated across the river. So why would we replenish that fund?
 The current R2-D2 site is a temporary site, so the expectation is that we would eventually move them from the temporary site to a permanent location. And so what we would do is use the proceeds from the sale of this property to permanently relocate R2-D2. So that money can only be used for relocation. It can't be used for paying operational expenses of R2-D2 or salaries to R2-D2 tenants?
 Board members or anything like that? No, there are no, what do you want to call it, legal requirements that we couldn't use that money for something else that's associated with R2-D2.
 So, Tim, let me call on you because I think I'm prepared to support this. I think I'm just – I think I'm confused. So would you set me straight? Yes. Tim Crail of the Office of Commissioner Fritz. The purpose of the amendment is to split out those costs that are – costs that were used to make the improvements, the actual costs, physical costs, from the staff time in OMF.
 And so we would fund those direct costs for improvements of the site before any money went back into the pool. And the OMF staff costs would not be? Only if it was sold for so much that the fund was replenished. And to Dan's point, the balance would go into a fund which would be used at some point to help R2D2 move to a permanent site. And is that money subject to council direction in terms of how it's dispersed? Yes.
 I'm hearing yes. Okay. Then I understand where we're going. Thank you. So how does that council direction manifest itself?
 So what I know, let me say, I have the ordinance in front of me, Commissioner Saltzman, in terms of the original 2015. I cannot cite it for you at this time other than just give you the original intent in terms of the purposes of that. But I'd be welcome, like I said, welcome to come back and give you more particulars in terms of what are the city's legal requirements in terms of how to spend that money.
 Well, if it's subject to council direction, and I probably said this in 2015, I don't want to see any of this money being used to pay salaries or operational expenses of R2-D2. So I think it's fine to be using it to relocate to a different site, but my fear has always been that this money is going to find its way into paying salaries and things like that, which I think is inappropriate. There's no salaried people with rights to dream, too.
 So Commissioner Saltzman's concern is a good one, and that's actually why I support the amendment. The salaries within the bureaus have already been budgeted, and so while I acknowledge this creates an additional workload for OMF, it's already, I mean, it's now part of your job, and it's already been budgeted, correct? Correct.
 The technicalities there, Mr. Mayor, even though it is budgeted, those positions that typically work on these type of projects are what they call, quote, unquote, billable projects. So the expectation is that the project itself would repay for or pay for the salary of that position. So these positions are not funded. It's not required. Yeah. So otherwise, Mr. Mayor, what we'd have to do is use operating reserve to pay for these positions. Exactly. Correct. Good. Thank you. I second.
 So Commissioner Fritz moves. I second it. Let's take a do-it-all. Please call the – is there any further questions, Commissioner Daly? Should we just take public testimony before we do public testimony? Oh, you know, we forgot that. You know, before we go, we should do that. My last question. I'm still not sure how the oversight manifests itself. Who controls decisions to expend money from the R2-D2 fund? Sarda Lynch was called.
 I think heretofore we've worked closely with Commissioner Fritz's office in terms of providing project information. And with the mayor's office because ultimately since it's going through the Office of Management and Financing, the mayor has the ultimate call on whether money goes out the door. I have not issued any checks. Ken, thank you. Good presentation. Lest we forget, public testimony on this item. I know we have at least one person. I think just Cedric J. Wilkins is left.
 There he is. You've been waiting patiently. Mr. Shedrick is just smiling about how I remember this process about moving right to Dream 2 and it ends up at an $800 million fund or something like that. I'm laughing with the mayor because it's kind of funny. And then is it going to go to salaries? Oh, okay. You know, in a 20-minute conversation here.
 I forgot how I was going to link this to Haven of Hope, and I guess we'll forget about that one, except it's using a vacant land and then selling it. I am kind of weird, though, about, I'll stretch it, it'll be an unrealistic topic, about homeless people not monitored in a camp. I just heard on Monday somebody got stabbed near the bus station.
 And sometimes I think if the city council, when it voted 3-2 for Terminal 1, the stabbing, if these people were in a monitored place, getting food and stuff, the stabbing at the bus station, which I go to every... I was actually there that Monday.
 I could have been stabbed. Well, what's going on here, in a more monitored situation with homeless people or homeless encampments, these things might not happen, where you have homeless people just kind of loosely around, doing things in the corner, stabbing each other or whatever. Of course, maybe these were two businessmen stabbing each other, but I doubt it. They were probably people who were desperate for something and they got into a quarrel over something.
 Very good. Thank you. Please call the roll on the amendment, Commissioner Fritz's amendment. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Main motion. Call the roll, please.
 Fritz. So I started working on this project in July of 2013 when Mayor Hales assigned me to lead the Bureau of Development Services, an assignment which I was not particularly thrilled with at the time because I hadn't asked for it, and it was coming out of a period of great turmoil and lots and lots of cuts. Of course, I came to love the Bureau and everything that it does, and I'm happy that Commissioner Eudaly is continuing to support it.
 But it's taken this long because one of the first things I thought of that made me really interested in being in charge of development services was we can find a solution for Right to Dream 2. Because even at that point in July of 2013, there had been a long process of the occupation of the Forth and Burnside site and finding Right to Dream for living and for finding a private property owner that was willing to let them be on their property.
 So we worked on that. We found a site finally in 2015, Lot 7, by Station Place Apartments. The majority of the council, I believe with Commissioner Saltzman's support, agreed to accept the donation from Homer Williams and Dyke Dames, the money that's funded all of these improvements, with the understanding that it would be used for finding Right to Dream, an alternative site.
 It then took us a very long time to find an alternative site. We tried multiple other different places. Settled on this one as a place that...
 would be ideal, but for the fact it turned out after the Central Eastside Industrial Council appealed the move to the Land Use Board of Appeals, it's industrially zoned, and although our city attorneys had previously thought that this use would be allowed, the Land Use Board of Appeals said no, it's not. And that's why we are where we are today.
 I'm happy that we have made the improvements. I believe this is a very attractive site. It's already had some interest in it in the central east side industrial area. I will have to note that given the presentation we had last week from people concerned about people living outside in the central east side industrial district,
 I'm very glad that it's not because Right to Dream was moved, which is why people said that what would happen would be that lots and lots of people would be living outside in the Central East Side Industrial District should we move Right to Dream to this site. It turns out that has happened anyway, and I believe that having Right to Dream here would have been a good solution, providing bathrooms, laundry, storage facilities and other amenities, but the community chose not to do that.
 So we are now disposing of this property and we'll start again to look for another one. Although Mayor Wheeler and his team are going to be in charge of that, along with Commissioner Newdaily and her work with the Joint Office.
 So thank you in particular to Mayor Wheeler and your staff in finding its current temporary location, including especially Burke Nelson and Sarah Fee Allen. Also thank Mayor Hales and Rachel Wiggins on his staff, both of whom stuck to it and kept their promise that they would work with my office in finding a spot for Right to Dream. Thank everybody in my office team, particularly Christina Nieves, Claire Adamczyk, Dora Perry, and...
 previous Chief of Staff Tom Bissell and current Chief of Staff Tim Crail, the staff in the Office of Management and Finance, including David O'Longley, Pauline Goebel, Laura Pedersen, Lucas Hillier, and former staffers Ben Murrow and Bob Keeter, the architects, including Mark Lakeman, Tim Merrill, and engineer Tom Sissel, who contributed their expertise in kind to planning how this site was going to be used,
 Matt Rickstrom and Rebecca Esaw, and actually a host of others in the Bureau of Development Services, Linda Law in the City Attorney's Office, members of the Hossford Abernethy Neighbourhood Association, particularly Sue Pierce and Linda Netter-Koven, who were sceptical of Right to Dream 2's placement but were willing participants in the Good Neighbourhood Agreement process, thanks to Resolutions North West, who was mentioned earlier, for facilitating the community meeting that we held on this issue.
 And finally, thank you to the members and volunteers at Right to Dream 2 who continue to do amazing work fulfilling the organization's mission of providing safe sleep for people living outside at very low cost. And it's really evidence of the difficulty citing this move of an established respective community organization that illustrates why last week's controversy and this morning's demonstration about the community of hope
 why what was expressed was only half of the equation, that people who are living outside need water, they need electricity, they need services, they need nearby support, they need good transit. All of these things were considered when we were citing Right to Dream 2, and it's not just as simple as, oh, this is a nice natural area, let's support a large group of people living there. It just doesn't work that way, and I have...
 I will continue to be as diligent as I can in finding solutions. I appreciate Right to Dream, too, for what they're doing, and all of the work including Brian's engine, Pauline's got to go on this particular issue. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 As amended. Thank you. A couple of errata. Thank you to Commissioner Fish for allowing us to move Item 130 to the week of February 14th. I am moving two of my remaining items. Items 127 will be moved to February 14th on the regular agenda of the AM session.
 Item 125 will move to February 21st, again, to the regular agenda of the AM session. There being no further business, Commissioner Fish. The afternoon matter is budgeted for three hours, which would make it sort of a longish proceeding. Do we anticipate the full three hours? Is that –
 Is that because of the nature of the case? I believe it is due to the nature of the case and just looking at the basic facts. There's a lot of contention and lots of lawyers. So stay tuned. We are adjourned until 2 p.m. Great. Lots of lawyers. Thank you. Oh, good. Yes. Yes.
 We're in session. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council on Wednesday afternoon, February 7th, 2018. Carla, please call the roll.
 Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Seltzman. Here. Udailey. Here. Wheeler. Here. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern, in order for us to hear from everyone and give due consideration to matters before the council. We must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings.
 To make sure the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone to feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting to make sure the decorum is maintained. You should assume that people will come to the microphones who testify, and they will have a difference of opinion from you. It's not a good thing if a room this full everybody agrees on everything. So the name of the game here is hear everybody out, listen with respect, listen.
 Do not interrupt. If you are a lobbyist, please disclose you are a lobbyist. If you're here representing an organization, that's helpful too. If there are people here who are part of a group and you all have similar concerns, it's okay. If you want to appoint a couple of people to make your case, then you're free to come up and stand behind the individual representing your group. Sometimes people prefer that.
 People have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, you'll see a yellow light on the rostrum light up. When your time is up, you will see a red light. Please end your testimony at the red light.
 If there's any disruption, I will issue a warning that if there's any further disruption, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. If you're asked to leave and you don't, you're subject to arrest for trespass. That rarely happens, so we don't want it to happen, but those are the council rules.
 Before we get into today's item, I want to acknowledge some honored guests who are with us here today in the upstairs. We have Mr. Stephen Ying, and he is shepherding a group of eighth grade students from Beijing. So welcome to our campus. With that, Carla, will you please read this afternoon's report?
 hearing item. Item 132, appeal of the South Burlingame Neighborhood Association against the hearing officer's decision to approve with conditions McAdam Ridge, a 21 lot subdivision, environmental review with modifications, and environmental modification
 Violation Review for Vacant Property West of and Adjacent to 0319 Southwest Taylors Ferry Road, LU16-213734, LDSENMEV. Very good. Thank you, Carla. First, the city attorney will make some comments about the proceedings today.
 Good afternoon. This is an on-the-record hearing. It means you must limit your testimony to materials and issue in the record. The order of testimony is as followed. We'll begin with a staff report by Bureau of Development Services for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, counsel will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first, and we'll have 10 minutes to present his or her case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next. Each person will have three minutes.
 although as the Mayor noted, Council may amend the timing. The principal opponent, in this case the applicant, will have 15 minutes to address Council and rebut the appellant's presentation. If there is no principal opponent, Council moves on, but in this case we do. After the principal opponent, Council will hear from persons who oppose the appeal. Again, each person will have three minutes. And finally, the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the opponents to the appeal.
 counsel may then close the hearing, deliberate, and take a vote on the appeal. If the vote is a tentative vote, counsel will set a future date for the adoption of findings and a final vote on the appeal. If counsel takes a final vote today, that will conclude the matter. There are several guidelines for those of you who are addressing counsel today. First, as I mentioned, the evidentiary record is closed. It's an on-the-record hearing. It's to decide only if the hearings officer made a correct decision based on the evidence that was presented to him.
 This means you must limit your remarks to arguments based on the record compiled by the hearings officer. You may refer to evidence that was previously submitted to the hearings officer. You may not submit new evidence today that was not submitted to the hearings officer. If your argument includes new evidence or issues, you may be interrupted and reminded that you must limit your testimony to the record. Council will not consider new information, and it will be rejected in the City Council's final decision.
 Second, if you believe a person who addresses counsel today improperly presents new evidence or presents a legal argument relying on evidence not in the record, you may object to that argument. And you may either do so by coming and talking to me and we'll create a list or if during your testimony you may raise it.
 new issues. Under state law, only issues raised before the hearings officer may be raised in this appeal to city council. If you believe another person has raised issues today not raised before the hearings officer, you may object to council's consideration of that issue.
 And finally, the applicant must identify constitutional challenges to conditions of approval. If they fail to raise constitutional or other issues relating to proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit court. And that concludes my remarks. Very good. Thank you. Do any members of the council wish to declare a conflict of interest?
 There are no conflicts of interest declared. Do any members of the council have ex parte contacts to declare or information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose? Yes. Commissioner Fritz. I visited the site at the request of one of the neighbours before the application was submitted. I gave general advice such as review the approval criteria, don't be rude to people, and stay focused on the issues within the report. And I have not heard from or visited the site since.
 Does anyone present in the Council Chambers wish to ask Commissioner Fritz about her ex parte contacts or information that she may have received? I see no one in the Council Chambers. Is there anybody else who would like to declare an ex parte contact? There are no other Commissioners who are declaring an ex parte contact. Have any members other than Commissioner Fritz made visits to the site involved in this matter?
 No other commissioners have made visits to the site under consideration. Do council members have any other matter that need to be discussed before we commence the hearing? There are no matters to discuss. With that, then, we'll call for testimony. We'll start with the staff report. Approximately 10 minutes. Come on up. Please introduce yourself for the record.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council Members. My name is Sean Williams, and I'm here today with... I'm sorry, Sean, your mic is turned off. If you hit that green button. Green button. There we go. And stay about six inches away from it. Good afternoon. My name is Sean Williams. I'm here with my colleague, Kate Green, who's representative of Real Development Services. We're here today to present an on-the-record appeal hearing for a land-use case file...
 16-213-734. This review is for a subdivision, environmental review with modifications, and environmental violation review. Project's also known as McAdam Ridge. This first slide that you'll see here is of the zoning for the property. The property is in the red hash marks. The base zone for the property is R10. It's residential 10,000. Allows the maximum density of one lot per 10,000 square feet. The property's approximately 14 acres in size.
 Almost the entirety of the site is located within the environmental conservation and protection overlays, with the higher level protection overlays being located over the waterways that are on the site. There is a scenic corridor overlay that is present over Southwest Taylor's Ferry Road, and the site is entirely within the landslide hazard overlay. For some context, here we have an aerial photograph.
 The site is outlined in red and has primary frontage on Southwest Taylor's Ferry Road. Additionally, it has frontage on Southwest Ruby Terrace and Southwest Hume Street. The site's located within the South Brantley Game neighborhood. The South Portland neighborhood also borders the site to the north. One thing you'll notice here, the site's heavily wooded and traversed by both Stevens and Ruby Creeks. The site's...
 adjacent to Riverview Abbey Mausoleum and across the street from the Riverview Cemetery. Other landmarks you'll notice here is I-5 to the north and the Willamette River to the east. So the map that you see here is of the preliminary subdivision plot. So the proposal is for 21 lots, ranging in size from 5,000 to 7,924 square feet. Three tracks are also proposed to be created as well, as listed here. The proposal also will create new public streets and a pedestrian connection.
 In addition, new utilities will be extended on the site to serve the development in the form of water, sanitary sewer, and stormwater. In addition to the land division review, there's also an environmental violation review. This review is to resolve unauthorized work that occurred within the environmental zone that included cutting and topping of trees and shrubs in addition to some ground disturbance. Thank you.
 This review was found to be met, or the approval criteria found to be met, subject to replanting of the disturbed areas. It should be noted that there's no objections to approval of the environmental violation review noted in the appeal. So the hearings officer approved the decision for Land Division to create 21 lots, 3 tracts, new public streets. An environmental review was approved for the proposed disturbance area.
 Two environmental modifications were approved in addition to the environmental violation review, and these approvals were based on the approval criteria for land divisions in open space and residential zones, environmental review, environmental modifications, and corrections to violations. This decision was appealed by the South Burlingame Neighborhood Association for the following reasons, and I will go into these in more detail in the subsequent slides. First.
 The first being in regards to the issue of due process. What you'll see here is kind of a timeline of the review process. In here you'll see when the application was deemed complete, when a recommendation was made to the hearings officer, when the hearings occurred for this review as well.
 There were two opportunities provided to submit and address new information throughout this process, which were established at the discretion of the hearings officer. These timelines were in accordance with accepted practices. Unfortunately, there wasn't an additional time to be provided for more opportunity to provide comments because we're at the end of the state-mandated timeline for land use reviews.
 which brings up my next point that we need to make a decision on this appeal hearing today in order to abide by those timelines. Could you tell me, please, what are the consequences of not abiding by those timelines? I would like to defer to the city attorneys if I could on that.
 Can you stop the clock, Carla, please? An applicant has the opportunity, if the city doesn't abide by the 120-day timeline plus any extensions they've granted, to seek writ of mandamus in circuit court. Through that, they could obtain approval of the application and attorney fees. Thank you. Can I just say, hasn't it been our practice in the past if –
 Council needs more time to, if it determines it needs more time to deliberate, that we ask the applicant if they would consent to an extension? We have. In this case, we're at a year plus. I see. But, yes, that has been council's practice in the past. Okay. So moving on to the next appeal point is regarding the environmental review.
 So environmental reviews are to, what we do as a part of those is look at establishing the limits of disturbance for a proposal that presents the least amount of detrimental impacts to the resources on the site. Mitigation is then required to compensate for those impacts. What you'll see here in this slide is a picture of Ruby Creek, which is a location where stormwater will be discharged via an outfall. It's also the location of where new sanitary sewer main will be connected.
 And then additionally, the plan that you see here is the construction management plan, which identifies the limits of disturbance for the proposal. The decision found that this criteria could be met subject to conditions that would allow for final determination of disturbance area through permits associated with street and utility construction. And the appeal indicates that the proposal does not present the least amount of detrimental impacts to identified resources.
 The next appeal point is regarding environmental modifications. Some modifications to lot dimension standards or site-related development standards can be requested as a part of environmental reviews if it's found that they could provide greater protection of resources and, on balance, be consistent with the purpose of those regulations. What you'll see here in this picture is the proposed conceptual development plan for the lots.
 So two modifications were requested. The first is to reduce the minimum lot area for lots 9 through 23 from 6,000 to 5,000 square feet in area. And the second is to reduce the minimum side building setback for each lot from 10 to 5 feet. The decision found that this criteria could be met based on substantial conformance with the criteria. And the appeal indicates that the proposal does not...
 not provide greater protection of resources, at least in respect to the modification to setbacks for lots three through eight based on those lots meeting the lot dimension standards for the zone. The next appeal point is for tree preservation. Okay.
 Tree preservation requirements apply to land division proposals. When there's a concurrent environmental review as a part of a proposal, then we're really, for the most part, looking at maximizing tree preservation to the extent practicable. What you'll see here in this picture is of the upland forest area on the site. You'll see a lot of mature trees in this area. The decision found that this criteria could be met and implemented,
 The appeal is contending that tree preservation is not maximized to the extent practicable because the environmental review disturbance area is unresolved. The next appeal point is... Sorry, and questions don't count against anybody's time here. What do you mean it's unresolved?
 So the disturbance area has not exactly been worked out because there's still some technical issues as far as how the streets and utilities could actually be constructed. And so because we don't know whether or not it's feasible to construct what's proposed, we don't know how much disturbance area would be associated with that. Okay, thank you. I'll hold my further questions on that until later. Okay. Okay.
 The next appeal point is regarding landslide hazard overlay. The entire site is located within this overlay, and what this criteria requires is that you locate development on the most suitable portions of the site so as to limit the risk of a landslide. In order to address this criteria, the applicant provided geotechnical reports and landslide hazard studies, which found that there would be no hazards generated from the proposal whatsoever.
 The site development section of BDS reviewed these documents and concurs with those findings, and they're available today to answer any questions you may have. The appeal contends that the site is not suitable for development based on the presence of a historic landslide on the site. The final appeal point is regarding transportation impacts.
 So this criteria looks at evaluating the transportation system and ensuring that it's going to safely support the proposed development in addition to existing uses in the area, considering a number of evaluation factors. Some of the pictures you'll see here in the slides are of Southwest Taylor's Ferry Road, the top one being in more close proximity to the frontage of the site.
 and the bottom one being at the intersection of Taylor's Ferry and Southwest 2nd Avenue. You'll notice there there's a TriMet bus stop in that location, and then across the street there is the entrance to Riverview Cemetery. Some of the issues that were identified throughout the review process in regards to the evaluation factors are for safety for all modes and the availability of transit. The decision found this criteria to be met subject to either adding or improving a transit stop
 and removal of some vegetation to improve sight distance. This criteria is being appealed on the basis of lack of access to transit service on the south side of Taylors Ferry Road. We additionally have Bureau of Transportation staff here today to answer any questions you might have on that. So the alternatives presented before you today are to deny the appeal and uphold the hearings officer's decision to approve the application with conditions.
 Deny the appeal and uphold the hearings officer's decision to approve the application with modifications including revised conditions. Grant the appeal and overturn the hearings officer's decision, thereby denying the application. And finally, to grant the appeal in part and overturn the hearings officer decision, thereby denying the application, with exception of approval of the environmental violation review with conditions. Thank you for your time. Very good. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. On slide two, if you could go back to slide two, please. Yes.
 Why isn't the light pink part of that entire property, why isn't that part of the site? So that's indicating the property that's also owned. I thought that the definition of site means everything that's in the same ownership is contiguous. Not for the purposes of a land division. Okay. How was the determination of practicable made? You know, this number of lots is the minimum number that makes the whole thing penciled.
 I think you would have to have the applicant respond to that. Okay, thank you. There was a condition about what the urban forester and the city engineer having to approve tree removal. What if they say no? I suppose if they say no, then the proposal couldn't be approved. Yeah, okay, thank you. And then I do have a question for transportation, either now or later. Yeah.
 And that question is, why are half-street improvements on Taylor's Ferry not being, on the Taylor's Ferry frontage, why isn't the half-street improvement being required? We are, Commissioner Fritz, Crew Group of Transportation, we are requiring half-street improvement, sidewalk improvement along the limited frontage. It still would leave a significant gap down to McAdam or up to the top of the hill to Boones Ferry. Thank you. So I just wanted to ask, could you once again explain...
 What is the condition for developing in a landslide hazard area? Basically, the criteria asks that you demonstrate that the site is suitable for development. And in order to do that, what we require is a landslide hazard study that is provided by an engineer and a geotechnical engineer. And basically, they are evaluating whether or not the site is suitable for what is being proposed.
 And we do have our site development staff here that could go into further detail on that too, if you'd like. So if the applicant has a study by a geotechnical engineer that says you can do development in this site...
 even though it's a landslide hazard area, that satisfies the criteria? It does, yeah. So the landslide hazard overlay is pretty much over almost all of West Portland. You know, it's just an area that has a lot of these types of issues, so we asked for this kind of extra layer of review for these reviews. Thank you. I'm just curious, what, if any, impact is there on the Riverview natural area that may be relevant to our consideration? Sure.
 Hi, I'm Kate Green for the record. We would anticipate that there wouldn't be any impact. The idea of the limits of disturbance is that there are no off-site or no impacts beyond those limits of disturbance. So no stormwater runoff, no other detrimental impact to the sensitive streams and other habitat within the natural area?
 In order to satisfy the approval criteria, they're supposed to delineate the limits of disturbance and demonstrate that they're not going to have any off-site impacts. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. We might call you back up later. The appellant, 10 minutes. And legal counsel, you will, of course, let us know if any of our questioning is not consistent with the standards you laid out at the beginning of the hearing. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Honorable Mayor and Commissioners, my name is Carrie Richter. I'm an attorney at the law firm Bateman Seidel. I'm here today representing the Appellant South Burlingame Neighborhood Association. I don't know if you need my office address, but it's 888 Southwest 5th Avenue, Suite 1200, 97204. Typically, just so everybody knows, we don't need your address. Just name for the record sufficient. Just my address. And your affiliation. Okay.
 This appeal raises two categories of issues. Questions of whether the hearings officer properly applied the applicable standards and two, whether the applicant provided substantial evidence to show that these standards are met.
 The applicant continually focused on the substantial evidence issue, claiming that plans were revised by qualified experts as the process went on to reflect shortcomings as they were identified by staff and they were submitted into the record. The staff didn't object. Voila! Approval.
 And I think that what we've submitted to you in writing and the people here testifying today are going to show you that the criteria were not met in the first instance, putting aside the evidentiary challenges. Four of the seven city bureaus noted defects in the proposal throughout the process. The applicant will say that they didn't comment during the final period, so they must have been satisfied. I urge you to ask them whether or not they were satisfied by the materials that were submitted.
 Rushing to revise the proposal left staff and the public shortchanged in its opportunity to review, resulting in a design that was not fully considered or refined.
 compromising the environmental review. Examples of these shortfalls in evidence include failure to include riprap and rockery retaining walls and stormwater containment solutions within the area subject to disturbance. I believe Mr. Williams mentioned that determining where the roads will be will affect the area of disturbance. Until we know what the area of disturbance is, we cannot know whether the mitigation plan is sufficient.
 A couple of background facts that are essential to understanding this case, and Ms. Green mentioned them, so I won't delay the point, but we've talked about how this entire property is encumbered by various environmental protective zones. You've got the environmental protection area that protects the creeks themselves, and no development is allowed there. It will never be allowed there. The rest of the property is encumbered by a conservation area,
 The reason why this other area was encumbered by a conservation overlay zone is because of its upland forest. The Southwest Hills Resource Protection Plan identifies and maps the 4.57 acres subject to development as an upland forest area that is significant for its second growth stage forest cover that is home to over 60 birds and 30 mammal species.
 Therefore, the protected resources in this case are not just the streams, but the upland forest area as well. And that's why it's encumbered by ECs.
 In contrast, the applicant identified three significant resources that are worthy of protection. Stevens Creek, Ruby Creek, and the forested area in the north section of the property. The reason for concluding that the northern one-third of the site, away from the riparian areas, was more significant than the forest areas on the rest of the site was not because of the forest characteristics.
 And it was not because of the wildlife that lived there. It was because the forest provides shade to Stevens Creek, which lowers the Stevens Creek temperatures. The functional value identified and acknowledged in the Southwest Hills Resource Protection Plan, the upland forest resources, and the wildlife that call it home were never given any value by this applicant or the hearings officer.
 The upland forest on the north side of the property was valuable for what it gave to the creek and not for its own intrinsic value. As a result, this 4.57-acre upland forest is slated to be clear-cut to accommodate a 21-lot development. The zoning code 33430.017 requires a design that will prevent harm to identified resources and functional values.
 Protection of the functional values of the valuable upland resource area required customizing and innovating the development to have the least impact on extensive timber resources. It required nestling the houses amid the forest rather than eliminating a large swath, four plus acres, to accommodate a development.
 The hearings officer also erred by interpreting the obligation to have the, quote, least impact on protected resources based solely on the total percentage of overall disturbed land area, which they say is 29.5%. One of the environmental review criteria requires finding that the proposed development have the least significant detrimental impact based on a consideration of significantly different alternatives.
 All of the attorney considered focused solely on the percentage of disturbance impact. For example, in order to compare whether the disturbance area of 29.5 was an appropriate amount of disturbance, the applicant directed the hearings officer to other cases where the city has granted environmental review where disturbance limits were much higher.
 And in one of those cases, the impact area was greater than 29.5% in an upland forest area. But in that case, only five trees were removed.
 However, in this case, the proposal is to remove 478 native mature trees between 6 and 54-inch diameter and another 3,326 trees at 13 inches or greater to be clear-cut. This illustrates that the obligation to have the least amount of detrimental impact should not rise or fall on the total disturbance area. Ms. Richter, I'm sorry, would you say that again? Yes. Last, what you just said.
 With the number of trees, could you just go back two sentences and say that again? Sure. In review, this approval will result in the elimination of a total of 478 native mature trees and 3,326 trees of 13 inches or less. Thank you.
 Further, it's our position that using the term 29.9% as a basis for evaluating the limits in the disturbance area is subject to manipulation. The applicant's claim is suggest that the site was otherwise developable. The EP zoning along the riparian quarry takes this area of land out of the total that could be considered.
 And so, again, if you took the EP zoned land out of the total, the amount of land impacted would be higher. So, again, we have concerns that that 29.9% is not really, is just subject to manipulation in the way you look at it. One of the points that Commissioner Fish, or Commissioner Saltzman asked about was the question of landslides and erosion and what criteria. And I want to point out another criteria that I think is really relevant and distinguishes this case. Okay.
 The obligation for environmental review is preventing harm to resources. And the Southwest Hills Resource Collection Plan points out that site soils are prone to slide and slumps when saturated. At particular risk are the steep sloped ravines. Erosion caused by the failure of these slopes would negatively impact the habitat and the water quality.
 The applicant will respond to this claim explaining that their area was extensively tested and the development will reasonably limit the risk of landslide under zoning code 33, 632 that Mr. Williams talked about. But these studies failed to address and consider the significantly different alternatives.
 Whether there were significantly different alternatives that would protect the functional values of the natural environment better to protect the wildlife and the upland forests from risk of landslide, which is specifically identified for protection in the Southwest Hills Plan.
 The applicant says it considered different access configuration, different lot configuration, different housing types, but they did not consider whether it was possible to preserve a significant grove, a particular wildlife habit, or a 200-plus-year-old 54-inch tree by customizing a development that would work with the trees and work with the forest and work with the wildlife.
 Finally, ZC 430.250A1C requires the provision of a mitigation plan which demonstrates that all significant detrimental impacts on resources and functional values will be compensated for. Again, the hearings officer and the applicant gave no value to the upland forest values that make up the Southwest Hills plan and led to the EC zoning in the first instance.
 The mitigation plan was submitted by the applicant in January of 2017, before the hearings process commenced and before there were substantial changes in the proposal.
 The hearings officer's decision does not reflect changes to the mitigation plan resulting from excuse me, the hearings officer's decision does reflect changes to the mitigation plan resulting from the additional detail, but it doesn't talk about overall project mitigation, overall protection of the forest generally. Coming back again to sort of the opening concern, the mitigation plan is deficient because the disturbance area was not known.
 The applicant recoils at the idea of setting disturbance areas citing the need for flexibility. And generally, unknown construction activities happen and you have to make adjustments. But the code clearly requires that an applicant within environmental review set a clear limitation on disturbance within resource areas. Clear limitations are not boundaries that are adjustable when it is convenient for the construction crew.
 With this, I ask that you uphold this appeal and overturn the hearings officer's decision. I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have. Perfect timing. Commissioner Fritz. Do your clients have any opinion on whether the environmental violation review should be approved? I think we would be fine with the mitigation that a city has identified. Thank you. I have a question. Commissioner Fish. If we're not clear about...
 defining the disturbance area and we're building in a certain level of flexibility and we get it wrong, what's the remedy? A loss of habitat, I think, is the remedy of getting it wrong. I mean, as far as an enforcement action, we've blessed it at that point. We have signed off on it. That's why this is so dangerous. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Next up, supporters of the appeal.
 You can sign up. I believe the sign-up is still in Carla's hands.
 Again, you don't have to use your full three minutes. If you want, you can just say, I agree with what the last person said, or you can say, I agree with the first two points and want to add one more. Or if you prefer, you can just stand behind whoever is representing your interests. You are, of course, entitled to your three minutes. I just want to suggest alternatives that people would prefer. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? We have 35. So? 36. 36.
 Thirty-six. So the question now is how long do you want to sit here? So if you start hearing testimony that sounds a lot like yours, just come up and say, my three points have already been made, but me too, or whatever you'd like to say is sufficient. That's good. All right. First three, please. Are Carol Hazard, Marilee Carr, and Matthew Boyes?
 And they'll be followed by Jan Friedman, Dave Polson, and Krista Peterson. Again, name for the record, when your three minutes is up, the light goes off, and that is when I would like you to end your testimony. Thank you. Would you like to start for us, please, today?
 Yes. My name is Carol Hazard. I live at 3232 South East... You don't have to give your address. Pardon me? Don't give your address. Yeah, we don't need addresses. Just name for the record is sufficient. Thank you. All right. I've been a Portland resident for 52 years, living all that time on the east side. My husband and I lived in Alameda for 38 years. We lived in the Reed neighborhood for the past 14 years, and our children and grandchildren...
 live in Portland. As a concerned citizen, I recognize the need for new development in our city, but my greatest concern is that development should be safe and in the best interest of all citizens. It is my opinion that this development will put hundreds of people and their homes at risk.
 Hearings Officer Oden Orr failed to apply Code 33.632.100 that states that the development site must be suitable for development in a manner that reasonably limits the risk of a landslide affecting the site and adjacent sites. He did not give nearly enough credence to the known factors that reactivate landslides. This decision clearly puts families at risk.
 The State of Oregon's Guide to Landslides states the presence of previous landslides is one of the biggest and most obvious risk factors for recurrent landslides. This site is a translational site, which is commonly triggered by heavy rain, rapid snow melt, earthquakes, grating, removal material from bottom of the slope, adding loads to the top of the slope, concentrating water onto a slope as with landscape irrigation, roof downspouts, or broken water sewer lines.
 Essentially, five of the seven points to avoid reacting a landslide will occur with the McAdam Ridge development. They are upland forest that stabilizes the ground overlaying the landslide, will be clear-cut and will be replaced with impervious surfaces that will concentrate water on the slope,
 Land will be graded and cut from the bottom. 20,000 cubic yards of infill will be added as a load to the slope. Tons of building material will add to the load and will create impervious surfaces, which will concentrate water on the slope. Since there is no mitigation for uphill groundwater, water will be concentrated even more on the slope.
 The applicant has chosen to place this nearly five acre development on the most unstable ground they own, an ancient landslide, and to add insult to injury, their plan completely removes all the existing stabilization from the nearly 500 big trees and thousands of small trees that will be clear cut.
 There are nearly 15 acres on the site and the applicant never considered an alternative that would have completely avoided this large high-risk hazard. The hearings officer should have weighed the considerable risk thoroughly before approving this development because the environmental codes for type 3 land divisions require the significance detrimental impacts are to be used for the development. Therefore, I believe the subdivision application should be denied. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and city councilors, my name is Marilee Carr. I am the team leader of the Neighborhood Emergency Team, or NET, in South Burlingame, the neighborhood of the proposed development. My concerns are my own. I do not speak for the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management, which runs the NET program. However, thank you for your participation. We appreciate that very much.
 Sure. NET members are volunteers trained by Portland Fire and Rescue as amateur first responders. We can and will be on the scene of disaster before professionals with heavy equipment arrive. As I assess hazards around my neighborhood, I look at houses set on slide-prone ground as coffins.
 These houses on unstable land that has slid before will sooner or later give way in a big rainstorm or an earthquake. Building the proposed development will further increase the precariousness of this slope by removing the trees whose roots are now holding the soil in place. Nets are trained to extract people from rubble.
 but not from mud. If you allow these coffins to be built, my team will be there when they slide, trying to save our neighbors' lives and living ever afterward with memories of partial success, if any.
 My neighborhood holds other coffins too, structures that pose extreme seismic danger. They are homes built of unreinforced masonry, or URMs. They will collapse in a strong earthquake, threatening lives both inside and outside the house with the rain of bricks. No one can build URMs anymore because Portland's seismic vulnerability has literally made itself felt.
 Our vulnerability to landslides is also well-established but more recent. In February 1996, heavy rain and snowmelt caused 700 landslides in metro Portland with major damage to more than 100 homes.
 Building on landslides should be as unthinkable as building unreinforced masonry. I hope you agree and vote to stop this ill-considered and dangerous development. Thank you for the opportunity to explain our concerns. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Hello, Mayor Wheeler and City Council members. My name is Matthew Boyes, and I'm a resident of South Burlingame.
 Thank you for taking the time to hear our neighborhood association's appeal. The SBNA has been working as an engaged group to positively influence this land division for many years without success. We have serious concerns we will share with you today, but the most grave is in regards to the landslide and traffic safety. Devastation to the habitat and wildlife in the proposed land subdivision and the value of its unique resources will be articulated today.
 Out of respect to you and your time, we have prepared and organized our testimonies to be as succinct as possible. We have asked people to allow a few of us to express all of our concerns as a collective, and with many more showing their solidarity behind us today. While we are not opposed to developing this property,
 We feel the current application has too many risks. Our goal is to share with you evidence and testimony that should compel you to deny the McAdam Ridge application, as Riverview Abbey did not meet the burden of proof required by Mr. Odin Orr to approve the application. And these are going to the clerk. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 I'm Shannon. I'm part of SB&A. I'm helping to navigate the PowerPoint for our group. Is it possible I've expanded it, but it doesn't appear to be showing on the video? There it is. There, I fixed it for you. I hope you're happy. Thank you. Very good. He is the mayor, after all. You're good. And if it breaks again, I've delegated the duty to Carla over there. Because she's really the genius here.
 Very good. Thank you for your testimony. The next three are Jan Friedman, Dave Polson, and Krista Peterson, and they'll be followed by Carol Lidberg, Lorraine Sunwalt, and Scott Richman. Okay, and just so I understand the logistics of what you're proposing, that legal counsel understands what you're proposing, you're still going to stay within your three minutes, but while you are testifying, there will be a PowerPoint. Is that correct? Yes.
 Correct. We will, I believe we have 23. Can you speak into the microphone? And if you could just identify yourself again. My name is Shannon Hiller-Webb. I'm part of South Burlingame neighborhood. We have 23 people representing our neighborhood in our narrative. So the PowerPoint will follow the entire 23 pieces of testimony. Okay, very good. And you have no problems with that legal counsel? I, I, I, this is, I mean, my sense is this is unusual. So I'd be interested in what legal counsel says. Okay.
 So I'm assuming that it's probably more efficient rather than having each individual person click on the button for their slides. So I'm assuming that what she's doing is providing technical assistance as we might when we have presentations by staff members. So I don't consider the slides to be
 Shannon's testimony. I'm assuming it relates to the testimony, and I also assume that both staff and the applicant will let me know if there's any new evidence that shows up in the PowerPoint. Very good. So we counsel, then we will rely on the city attorney if there's something that isn't in accordance with the hearing structure to let us know.
 Very good. Thank you. Sorry for the delay. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jan Friedman, and I'm a member of the South Burlingame Neighborhood Association. I've lived on—is there a problem with the sound? One second, Jan. Let's make sure we get this straight. Janet, is that what's supposed to be up there right now?
 Yeah, this is Jan Friedman. Okay. So we don't – is it your intent that we actually – oh, I see. Okay, sorry. I was just waiting for her to finish. So I've – We screwed you up. Do you want to start over? Yeah. Okay. Okay.
 I am still Jan Friedman, and I've lived in the Southwest Burlingame neighborhood for the last 19 years. I live on Southwest Ruby Terrace. I live in the landslide zone, and I'm part of South Burlingame Neighborhood Association. I've been a citizen of Portland for 30 years, and I've been a practicing attorney in the civil rights arena mostly for the last 28 years.
 I'm here to ask you to deny this application and overturn Mr. Odenor's decision. There are many bases for this. The one I'm going to address is due process, which, as you recognize, is a fundamental constitutional right that all of us share in this country. It involves notice and opportunity to be heard. It also interfaces, in this case, with the Administrative Procedures Act.
 which says that the officer presiding at the hearing shall ensure that the record developed at the hearing shows a full and fair inquiry into the facts necessary for consideration of all issues properly before the presiding officer in the case and the correct application of the law to those facts. That's ORS 183.417 sub 8.
 So there have been numerous instances where our due process rights were violated. Thanks, Carol. Do you want me to keep going? Yes, please. One of them was on October 30th, we showed up for the hearing, and hundreds of pages of information were given to us. We were prosaic.
 and a lot of key information was given at that 11th hour. Now, the applicant will say this is a four-year process, a four-year process, but we have neighbors who aren't represented getting hundreds of pages of documents with one week to respond. Mr. Odenora at that time said, I wish I could give you more time, but he didn't. But later...
 did, through an interim order, provide some additional time, but that was over the Thanksgiving holiday, and it was on the 20th, starting the 20th. So we were really not able to mobilize and to get information in a way that would be meaningful. He also violated our due process rights. If you look at the decision, 100 pages...
 We are listed on the last page in the exhibit. We're listed for oral testimony, although I'm not listed on October 16th, even if I did provide oral testimony on that day. And we're listed on page 10, which is a site to the Bureau of Developmental Services, quoting a synopsis of some of what we had to say. And that was from October 16th.
 The matter didn't end on October 16th. So basically we were ignored in this decision. Mr. Odenor looked at the applicant, looked at the bureaus, looked at the applicant and said, okay, I go with the applicant and I'm going to add some conditions. So what that did was it excluded us from being heard. Where are we in there? Where's the substance? There's really no substance provided in terms of what the 86 written testimonies were and all the oral testimonies were.
 Thank you for your consideration of this important and complex matter. Thank you. You bet. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is David Polson. I'm the senior principal engineer for Pace Engineers in Lake Oswego. We're a company of about 80 total consultants focusing mainly on land use planning, civil engineering, and environmental engineering.
 We were retained by the South Burlington Neighborhood Association to provide an oversight of this development application. And I want to read from an email that I wrote after, and I'll explain later why I wrote this email. Per our scope of services, Pace Engineers was retained to review publicly available documentation submitted from McAdam Ridge and offer our opinions regarding whether it was consistent with the development code.
 Moreover, we understood that through the course of the McAdam Ridge entitlement process, SBNA was seeking professional services that could review and respond to engineers and consultants that the developer has retained. It is common and reasonable for SBNA to retain these professional services to provide knowledgeable and qualified responses, as would be appropriate for any Type 2 or Type 3 land use process. Thank you.
 When PACE agreed to provide these services, it was with the understanding that we could develop an open and productive dialogue with the City of Portland and with the developer in the interest of gaining an understanding of all perspectives and representing the interests of SB&A.
 Public comments provided by SB&A members and others, including peer-to-peer exchange among professionals, should not only be freely encouraged, but strongly desired by all parties as an important aspect of facilitating a comprehensive entitlement process. That's the introduction.
 We just began our services. We did a couple thousand dollar cursory review of the project, and then we attended one of South Burlington Neighborhood Association's meetings to discuss the project. I had a couple of consultants, an engineer and environmental planner, attend that meeting and offer their initial comments from their initial review. After that meeting, we got a letter. I received an email from Mr. Griffiths.
 the developer that says this. It says, my family owns the property in southwest Portland that is being developed from McAdam Ridge Housing. I've got much time. I've got much time.
 I'll skip the introduction. I attended the SBN meeting last night at Capitol Hill School. During that meeting, you both heavily criticized McAdams Bridge development. I'm very troubled by your statements. My development partners and I have vested over $500,000 over a period of four years to obtain entitlements on the property. We've been damaged by your actions. You illegally obtained information by trespassing on our property. Our property is poached with no trespassing signs. Thank you.
 You slandered the engineers and consultants that we hired from McAdam Ridge. You made multiple inaccurate statements. Sorry, my time's expired, but I'm saying that I think you would have heard a lot more today had I been retained and didn't have this intimidating email sent to us. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Krista Peterson. I'm an 18-year resident on Ruby Terrace, and I am a member of the South Burlingame Neighborhood Association.
 I am here today to express extreme concern about the transportation impact, approval criteria 33.641.020 and 030, on the surrounding neighborhood and thoroughfares for our citizens. To begin, a few facts that are widely acknowledged and accepted regarding Taylor's Ferry, where the McAdam Ridge development is fronted and observations to evidence presented. Taylor's Ferry Road is unsafe for pedestrians, bicyclists, and mass transit riders due to limited sight distance, blind spots, and a lack of methods to safely cross the street.
 Taylor's Ferry has no roadway shoulders, only drainage ditches on both sides of the street. There are no sidewalks or curbs present on Taylor's Ferry except small portions intermittently placed at business fronts. There are no sidewalks from bus stop to bus stop. The intersections at Southwest 2nd and Taylor's Ferry and Southwest Tolliger and Taylor's Ferry currently do not meet City of Portland operation standards.
 The 2015 traffic counts submitted by the applicant do not reflect true traffic flow because Selwood Bridge traffic was non-existent due to the closure and long-term sewer work was being completed on the Terwilliger Boulevard extension. Taylor's Ferry is massively overburdened during morning and evening rush hours at the intersections of Terwilliger Boulevard to the west and McAdam Avenue to the east, making access in and out of the neighborhood difficult. The adjacent neighborhood populations do support transit. Consistently low ridership is due to lack of access and unsafe nature of these locations. Thank you.
 PBOT has denied this application for reasons that remain unaddressed by the applicant. It should be noted a devastating crash occurred February 17, 2016, whereby a pedestrian was struck not once but twice by passing vehicles after exiting a TriMet bus while attempting to cross Taylor's Ferry from the south side. In this case, the team narrowly escaped.
 The teen narrowly escaped death and is still rehabilitating to this day. I shudder to think that a death is required before any action is taken. These facts are undeniable. Herrings Officer Odin Orr did not correctly apply the following code criteria. Availability of transit service and facilities and connections to transit and impacts on the immediate and adjacent neighborhoods.
 At this time, all eastbound bus stops along Taylor's Ferry should be considered unusable for those on the north side of Taylor's Ferry until there is a safe way for pedestrians to cross the street. The south side of Taylor's Ferry has no residences, only a cemetery and green space. All pedestrians would come from the north side of the road.
 TriMet's published bus stop guidelines referenced in Michelle Weifel's October 25, 2017 communication with Mr. Kobach state, it is essential that bus riders have safe access to their bus stop. Walking on narrow roadway shoulders through mud or puddles or through ditches is unacceptable to most riders and is often unsafe. I'm going to run out of time, so...
 Mr. Kobach's assertion that the evidence of TriMet's response to this issue is critical, based on Weifel's assessment that a full sidewalk along Taylor's Ferry is not necessary, is contradictory. If TriMet does not hold responsibility for construction or maintenance of sidewalks or curb ramps, why would this opinion be critical? Has anyone even visited the site in this past year? The intersection of Southwest 2nd, Taylor's Ferry is completely inaccessible. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please.
 are Carol Lidberg, Lorraine Zumwalt, and Scott Richman, and they'll be followed by Shannon Hiller-Webb, Dave Hennington, and Robert Lennox. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners, my name is Carol Lidberg, and my family has lived on Southwest Ruby Terrace for more than 15 years. I am also part of the South Burlingame Neighborhood Association and strongly oppose this decision by the hearings officer.
 I would like to speak briefly about safety for all modes. That means pedestrians, bicycles, cars, and transit users should have equally safe passage on our city streets, while other areas and streets of...
 Portland are maybe more significant for their accident rates and challenges in Southwest Taylor's Ferry that does not diminish the factors that currently exist on this section of the road and will only get worse with this construction unless the applicant is forced to follow code and reflect necessary changes in their design proposal the Griffith family business is adjacent to taste
 adjacent to Taylor's Ferry, and I'm sure one or more of them spend time in the building. However, they still do not live in the neighborhood like most of us speaking today. And when the development is built, they still won't, but we will.
 The applicant needs to be held to the letter of the code and make necessary changes in concert with TriMet and PBOT to the access points of this development with both Taylors Ferry and Ruby Terrace neighborhood. They've been given ample time to do so, more than four years, and still have not made the appropriate effort. There are no consistent sidewalks. Bicycle riders are forced to ride in the travel lanes and cut through the Riverview Cemetery
 And the lack of development along this area makes speeds increase and elevation changes and curves equal hazard all around. The best we can hope for at this time are some improvements to the transit access.
 The final decision does require the applicant to trim bushes and prepare a pad for the stop on the new sidewalk, but we don't feel that is enough to make the road safe for pedestrians. At the very minimum, we ask that a crosswalk be included in the requirements for safe crossing from the eastbound bus stop to the proposed development on the west side of the street. Taylor's Ferry is dangerous for all modes of transportation today and will remain dangerous if McAdam Ridge is allowed to happen.
 My hope is that the Riverview Abbey Mausoleum and the Griffiths consider people's lives above profit in pursuit of this development. The irony of this statement is chilling. Living right next door to the mausoleum could be a constant reminder of a life cut short.
 In concert with PBOT, I ask that you deny this application and reverse the hearing officer's decision. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Lorraine Zumwalt, Mayor Wheeler and Council Members. Thank you for your time. I grew up in southeast Portland and have lived in South Burlingame for 29 years. I'm a registered nurse and have spent my career as a pediatric nurse.
 So the concern in welfare for safety of people has always been sort of my priority. So I'm here on behalf of our neighbors, and the teen you heard about when Krista talked, I'm going to read a letter from his father. He couldn't be here today. Excuse me. I have lived for 21 years at Taylor's Ferry Road next to the proposed development. On this stretch, the speed limit is 40 miles an hour. Residents have complained for years about endless traffic accidents.
 The cars and motorcycles continually drive at 45 to 50. There is no sidewalk, bike lane, walking lane. It's hazardous. Despite the claims to the contrary, the applicant's counsel said there is considerable bicycle and foot traffic every day on this stretch of road. I've seen mangled bicycles, badly injured people on the ground, dead deer, coyotes on the side of the road, four snapped telephone poles, many cars off the road and smashed fences.
 Two years ago, on February 17th, my son got off the TriMet bus, coming home from school, using his Wilson High School bus pass. After exiting the stop in the dark and the rain, he tried to cross three lanes of traffic and was hit by the cars. There was no provision for safely crossing Taylor's Ferry Road. He spent the next three months in the hospital, and his life will never be the same. The pain and heartache that our family has endured cannot be put into words anymore.
 I appeared at the public hearing on October 16 and explained this to the hearings officer. As an expert in data analysis with a master's degree in mathematics, I also submitted documents identifying the fundamental methodology flaws and factual errors that the impact study had that was submitted by the applicant. The hearing officer brushed aside the clear recommendation of PBOT against the McAdam Ridge development.
 So I'm asking the City Council to consider the health and safety of our children and deny this application. Sincerely, Michael. Excuse me, Baroneau. Baroneau. That's Kate. And as a mother and as a nurse and as a concerned citizen, I'm asking you to deny this application for safety reasons. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. My name is Scott Richman. I'm a resident of South Burlingame. I've been for about 15 years, and I'm our Neighborhood Association's representative to the Southwest Neighborhood Inc.'s Transportation Committee. I'm also on our Neighborhood Net team, as Mayor Lee Carr spoke earlier.
 I'll keep this brief as others have voiced concerns that I plan to raise regarding transportation, in particular about my concerns about the deficiencies, the current deficiencies of Taylor's Ferry Road, the closest arterial that will directly serve the proposed development. The developer applicant...
 in their favor has case law precedent that they cited about, uh, um, disproportionate exactions. And so, um, uh, the city is somewhat hamstrung in terms of, um, how, how much, uh, they, they could, uh, burden, so to speak, the developer with, um,
 what the developer is saying are potential off-site improvements. But I would encourage you to not approve this application in large part, in addition to the concerns raised earlier about environmental hazards, land size, and so forth.
 Just about the inadequacy of the transportation infrastructure, the developer is proposing, at least considering, has a condition to improve a TriMet bus stop, a pad, that would serve...
 one direction of the Route 43, it wouldn't do anything to address the direction of travel from the development to downtown through McAdam and John's Landing into downtown using the 43 route. That would be considered an off-site improvement, but I urge you to strongly consider the current efficient system, including Taylor's Ferry, and as Merrilee noted about
 the future residents of such a development and us needing to respond to them in the event of a landslide. I'm also very concerned about a lot more flashing lights from ambulances, paramedics, and so forth because of the risk that we're taking on by approving additional travelers along Taylor's Ferry Road at that location. Thank you. Thank you. Next three are Shannon Hiller-Webb.
 Dave Hennington and Robert Lennox, and they'll be followed by John Holderness, Michelle Lennox, and Carol Hazard. May I request that I stay here because I have to control my own media, which is a video? Yeah, of course. Okay, great. So, Mayor, this is the city attorney speaking. Okay.
 Wait a minute, not so fast. One of the things that's difficult about the PowerPoint is that in terms of looking at the hearings officer's decision to determine whether these materials have been previously submitted, if somebody is having slides associated with their testimony, I would appreciate if they would identify whether those materials were submitted before. Okay.
 I mean, for example, the emails that were submitted in the KGW article. I don't have any way of looking at the hearings officer's decision and the list of exhibits to determine whether those were previously submitted. May I follow up with that? You may. We've cited all of this referenced in our PowerPoint in various documents, whether they've been introduced into evidence or we're relying on city council recognized and approved ordinances.
 Okay. So you would like us to identify when it was introduced into evidence, if at all possible, each time? It would be useful, but if you don't know, we'll end up having to figure it out later. Okay. Well, happy to be helpful.
 But for instance, with that newspaper article just saying this was submitted to the hearings officer, that would be what we would need. And in that case, that was submitted with Michael Baroneau's testimony on October 30th. It was... Wow. No, I don't need all that. Just tell us. Yeah, that's perfect. Thank you. Okay. Good job. What time of day was it? What was the weather? I'm happy to find that out for you.
 Okay, so if you just give me one second just to get my media set up.
 My name is Shannon Hiller-Webb, and I have lived in South Burlingame for 33 years, and I'm a native Portland resident. I want to state my position is that I support development in our city, but just not at all costs. And this development harms valuable identified resources and risks the safety of my current and future neighbors. I come to you today having carefully considered this project. I ask that you respect that five...
 of seven of your bureaus denied the McCadden Ridge application, and I believe the hearings officer erred in his decision in applying multiple codes. I would like to share a video of the area we are discussing that I introduced to the hearings officer with my oral testimony on October 30th. As the video plays, I would like to share how the land has been characterized, demonstrating its value by BES and the Southwest Hills Protection Plan. One second. Sorry. Technical difficulties to transfer. Okay. Okay.
 This isn't the... We loaded... I'm sorry. We loaded this video... There we go.
 The forested Southwest Hills form a backdrop to the city, and their destruction would result in loss of identity, uniqueness, character, and value. There are 130 plant species that include Douglas firs, western red cedars, Pacific dogwoods, as well as protected Stevens and Rubies creeks that are critical to endangered Chinook salmon and steel-held trout migration. In addition, there are 31 mammals and 74 nesting bird varieties, including the northern flying squirrel, the only flying squirrels found in North America,
 Bird species observed include great blue heron, cedar waxwing, golden eagle, red-tailed hawks, owls, and ducks. Pileated and downy woodpeckers, which are native to Portland and the largest woodpecker native to North America, are found here. Mammals in the area include mule deer and foxes. In addition, the forest mutes the noise of highways I-5 and 43, absorbs some air pollutants caused by audio and industrial emissions, and moderate...
 climate extremes. The forest cover is in its second growth stage with a 70% deciduous and 30% coniferous composition. Red alder and bitter cherry are common associates of the maple. Several unusually large specimens of Pacific dogwood and cascara are present and the understory shrub story provides wildlife food and cover. There are six perennial creeks including Stevens Creek,
 This site has important visual resources. The tree-covered condition of the site contributes to the neighborhood character. Because of the relatively high ridge elevation, broadness, and tree cover, this ridge is an important feature of the West Hills and the surrounding region. This entire 4.6 acres will be clear-cut to make way for homes, and 478 native trees ranging between 6 and 54 inches in diameter will be sacrificed.
 Simply put, once destroyed and built upon, we will never recover the functional value of the environmental ecosystem and the habitat loss. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Council and Mayor. My name is David Hennington, and I'm here today to present my perspective as both a human and as an individual educated and trained in environmental sciences and land use planning. My hope is that this will help convince you to reject the approval issued by Mr. Odenoer.
 As a human, I have lived immediately adjacent to this impressive, intact, temperate rainforest for nearly eight years. I have seen and heard dozens of wild animals, such as those listed by Shannon previously. I have also seen and heard the terrestrial mammals that face the daily struggle of navigating the increasingly rigid and dangerous confines of our man-made landscape, such as deer and coyotes.
 Hiking nearby at night aided by a headlamp, I have seen the watchful glowing eyes of multiple coyotes wary of my presence. There is no doubt that this is truly a wild place, and as a human I am compelled to speak up in defense of it.
 As an individual whose education focused in large part on urban forestry and whose professional experience includes reviewing residential and commercial tree plans, I see a large, intact urban forest composed of hundreds of significant native specimens, some of which can be clearly classified as old growth and many others as second growth. Looking at the plans, I see an outdated approach that assumes a clean slate is best practice and disregards the functional values of the trees it so callously disposes of.
 You've heard the 478 number on the mature trees. I'd like to point out, in addition, 59 native trees of 21 to 25 inches at breast height, 19 of 26 to 30, and 53 above 31, including one that is 54 inches. These are all trees that are likely to be at least 100 years old, and the biggest one is estimated to be around 270. As shown in supporting documentation,
 the site is a critical link as part of an established wildlife corridor. And, you know, this whole part really stuns me. So BDS staff have determined that the most recent version of the submitted application does not adequately address a lengthy list of critical environmental review approval criteria. And, you know, there's a quote I've added that basically just shows that
 that that's the case. And so with these facts and with the obvious criticality of this mature temperate rainforest habitat in mind, I am shocked that this proposal could have so casually been approved.
 I call on you as passionate leaders of our community to defend the laws, policies, and plans of our community. I call on you to defend the processes and labor of the professionals within your bureaus. And I call on you to right this wrong and overturn Mr. Odenhorst's approval. Thanks so much. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Councilmembers. My name is Robert Lennox. I'm the president of South Barlingame Neighborhood Association.
 I'm also a professional land surveyor. I've been practicing for about 20 years in the state of Oregon.
 I'm going to get into code. So approval code, Criteria Code 33430-250.A4C, talks about design, including building sites, vehicular access, and utilities within the resource areas of a conservation show must have the least detrimental impact on identified resources and functional values as is practicable.
 Significant different but practical development alternatives, including alternative housing types and reduction in the number of proposed and or required lots, may be required if the alternative is less impactful on the environment. So to describe, the north half of this site is encumbered by two creeks. It also has a portion that's a landlocked upland forest that they've called out. It's also somewhat of a remnant parcel where...
 encroachments or development has happened on multiple areas. So it's a really unregular shape, making it very hard to develop. Basically, the proposed areas focus on the south 4 1⁄2 acres of the property. The Southwest Hills Protection Plan lists resources and includes many things, but two to note are the ancient mapland site and the trees to the southern side of the parcel near Terry's Fairly, which includes the 54-inch diameter tree. So what we have here is a –
 Look at the evidence that's been put in the record. This has been put in by their attorney. The first four are the alternatives that were submitted with the application. 4A is the preferred, and the rest of them were submitted at the time of the hearing. The next slide is basically just zooming in on them and making them all the same size. This slide basically highlights the lots, and it highlights the roads. This is the proposed area of impact. This is what we're talking about.
 The first two, these two that we have access through, the applicant said that they weren't practicable. One of them was designed in 1890, 1840. It ignored all topology, ignored all the streams, ignored everything. The other one has a bridge going over the protection zone and wasn't practicable to build. The remaining ones we're going to show here as they overlay on the screen basically follow the same design.
 They basically discount everything on the south side of this creek, all the trees, the 505 trees, everything else that's down there. You'll notice that there's no proposal of innovation and planning. There's no multifamily condos done. There's no cluster homes. It's very intensive, and it's very hard on the upland forage.
 So basically, also the analysis was basically reduced, as our attorney said, to percentage of lots in an area. So we felt that Oldenor failed in his application of this code to require multiple alternate block analysis. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next three, please. Are John Holderness, Michelle Lennox, and Carol Hazard. And they'll be followed by Roger Zumwalt, Linda Meyer, and Seth Dryden. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Mayor, City Council, my name is John Holderness. My wife and I live on Ruby Terrace in South Burlingame. We particularly value Portland's green spaces, and we hike on the city's trails regularly. I'm a retired technical writer. I'm also a net volunteer. To save time, I'm leaving out some details that I included in the written version I sent you earlier today.
 I'm here to state my view that the hearings officer, Mr. Oden Orr, did not correctly apply City Code 33.430.250 and 33.630, as most of his findings directly counter the expertise and code requirements outlined by BES. I'll be focusing on two valuable resources, Stevens Creek and the 54-inch Douglas fir on the site.
 The city has invested over a million dollars to improve stream conditions on Stevens Creek by repairing a sewer line along the course of the creek, reconstructing the stream bed, and restoring native vegetation. Groundwater mitigation is absent in the plan for this development, and therefore Stevens Creek and the city's investment are at risk. There's also, as you've heard, a 54-inch diameter Douglas fir tree on the site.
 It's estimated to be over 200 years old, maybe 300. It was here before Lewis and Clark. Due to an oversight on the applicant's part, the city didn't notice this high functional value tree at first. The applicants claimed the tree could not be saved because the city's comments came late in the review process, essentially blaming the city for the applicant's error.
 The applicant said it had to be cut down because to save the tree, they would have to redesign the subdivision, and the cost of redesign was too high. But there's no way to put a price on this tree, the largest and therefore the highest functional value for habitat of all the trees on the site.
 The Code requires that this site, with its protective environmental overlays, be developed first and foremost with sensitivity to the high functional value of all the assets within the conservation zone. Code 33-
 Point 430.A1A says, quote, trees that are healthy, native and non-nuisance species, 20 inches or more in diameter, and tree growths are the highest priority for preservation. The hearings officer failed to apply this code correctly in his decision to approve the application. This was an error. We asked the council to protect the Stevens Creek watershed and preserve this tree.
 I request that you overturn the hearing officer's approval on behalf of this watershed, this tree, and we, the local citizens. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Perfect timing. Extra credit. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and city council members. My name is Michelle Lennox. I am a property owner that is adjacent to the ravine that supports Ruby Creek.
 I've been a resident there for 23 years and I support the South Burlingame Neighborhood Association's assertions. The hearing officer erred in approving this application because it does not meet the Southwest Heels Resource Protection Plan policies.
 In particular, Environmental Code 33-430-250-A1 and Code 33-632-100 requires this project be suitable for development in a manner that reasonably limits the risk of landslide affecting the site and adjacent sites.
 The hearing officer erred by not requiring the applicant to identify the upland forest located in the southerly region, which happens to be the area of primary disturbance, as a functional resource and value from the beginning. He failed to consider forest ecology as one of the key functional resources that must be preserved. To quote from Southwest Hills Regional...
 resource protection plan, the balanced relationship between the areas' geologic formations, soil, and groundwater features is protected by the extensive canopy cover and root system of the forest, which shelters and stabilizes the hills and slopes. Thank you.
 Activities which disturb this fragile relationship can substantially degrade resource values by causing landslide, flooding, erosion, and sedimentation. By stabilizing the soil and reducing runoff and erosion, the forest protects the community from landslides. Resources should be understood as interconnected.
 stands of complex ecological webs. The interconnectedness of the trees and the roles they play in this forest for absorbing water cannot be overstated, particularly because we live in a rainy climate.
 To clear-cut the trees does not protect them as a resource. It destroys them as a resource. The landslide cannot be engineered to never slide again. The development is proposed over an existing landslide. It's not if, it's when it will slide again.
 17 families live uphill from the proposed area, the disturbance and within the known landslide zone. The city should not allow 21 more families to be located in this zone. It's too much of a risk. The hearings officer approved this application is in error for the reasons I've stated. I ask you to overturn the hearing officer's decision. Thank you. Very good. Thank you.
 Carol spoke earlier, so we can probably go to the next three. Very good. Thank you. Next three are Roger Zumwalt, Linda Meyer, and Seth Dryden. And they'll be followed by Jim Hussey, Lee Cannon, and Scott Burns. Next slide.
 Good afternoon.
 Second, I request you cease and desist in your efforts to misrepresent our development. Basically, he was threatened with a lawsuit, so he said, I'm not doing this because I'm not going to make enough money to bother covering this. So that's that part. Next up...
 We've got a little bit of a sink in our slides here. But I think that speaking for Carol Hazard, these were the issues that have to do with what creates landslides, what triggers them in virtually all cases of the type ancient landslide stuff. So we're talking about not holding water, which you've heard, adding a load, putting heavy soil, more soil on there or fill, especially on steeper slopes. I mean, that's just physics. We all get that.
 I'll skip the next one. It said avoid excavating on or at the base of steep slopes, and that's a concern that will come up again in our conversation. But there's a nice graphic there that illustrates what's caused many slides in our city.
 So to my testimony, what you're basically going to see here is three slides that follow. They're from River Tech's geological report of January 2017, figures one and three. It identifies an ancient landslide, and it shows the existing nearby homes in purple. Slide one, I guess I just hit that. Slide two overlays the two with the development shown in red.
 slide three shows that sourced from their report enlarges the landslide and it highlights the landslides in brown a light light yellow a gold which is the beginning of the slope which called the headscarp and then the red are slide activations that have happened in the last hundred and fifty years so to call it ancient and it's never active is not an accurate description this
 This was submitted by the applicant. Thank you. Yes. Let's see. I would point out that in their geological report, they call 81 and 82 don't matter because they aren't being developed. That's a pretty close call. 82, if you see it here, is right on the edge of, well, it's actually right on the edge of where one of the lots is placed. Then I would go to the...
 bigger one in the center 85 and you can see it just barely pokes in there but the headscarp the darker brown at the top if that that's where it started to break away if it continues to break away it touches several lots across the back so i would say that this is landslide activity with no man-made disturbing influences in fact in this area ancient landslides have reactivated here and it's looks safe or it's kind of okay is really not very reassuring um
 And we have 17 families that currently live on this landslide, and the development position is 21 people that are really at the risk of catastrophic harm, which has been already reported. And I would add that there are multiple examples, current and in recent history, of ancient landslides activating again. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Linda Meyer. Thank you, Mayor.
 My family lives on this landslide, and I am concerned for the safety of all families who also will live on this landslide into the future.
 My piece is to talk further about the Landslide Hazard Code. The code's purpose statement says that the approval must ensure there is limited risk of landslide recurrence. This has not been proven in the Landslide Hazard Study, specifically as it relates to the problem of excess groundwater which can trigger a landslide.
 The conclusion of that study states the development will not adversely impact Stevens Creek watershed or produce hazards to life safety. But after this, there is a very long limitation statement. It says construction of the recommended drainage improvements for the groundwater problem associated with the project will serve to improve the overall slope stability of the site, including the flow of water, and the flow of water will be reduced to a minimum of 3.5 meters.
 It's our opinion that the risk of future slope instability in the development areas that have been modified by ancient landslide activity is low, assuming our design and construction recommendations are followed. The problem of groundwater is so significant that this report encumbers the conclusion statement with limitations that require mitigation for groundwater.
 What was the mitigation design? Trenches, to collect groundwater with the utilities and between the development and the upland neighborhood homes. But what happened next? This mitigation, the trenches,
 They were removed in July. And no other mitigation for groundwater was created. And the natural mitigation, the trees that use up the groundwater that's there now, will be gone. No statement is made as to why no new mitigation is needed or created to replace the trenches that were the design requirement for the assurance of low risk.
 We conclude that the removal of the mitigation for groundwater invalidates the statement of low risk. This finding invalidates their conclusion that the building of this development will not harm the environment or the people on the land. The hearings officer failed to notice or discuss any piece of this critical plan change.
 that endangers the lives of all citizens who will live on this land into the future. He then erred by determining that the code for landslide hazard could be met. The decision should be overturned for this reason. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Mayor and city council members, my name is Seth Dryden. I own the property that directly abuts lots 3 through 8, along with my wife and two children.
 As a third-generation Portlander, I am proud to call the City of Portland my home. As a homeowner whose home directly abuts the proposed McAdam Ridge subdivision, I feel compelled to speak about the landslide race that puts my family in danger. I am here to specifically speak to the Portland City codes that were not applied to safeguard public and private interests. I feel the hearings officer did not provide an adequate review of materials before providing a narrative that served only one interested party.
 Other evidence points to the hearing officer not considering all the evidence in record. One example is that he did not reference evidence of a city-requested 2013 master's geology thesis overseen by landslide expert Ph.D. Scott Burns that has studied the Stevens Creek watershed. Odinor never referenced the serious issues raised that the watershed, and this is a quote, the watershed is prone to slope failures if the soil becomes saturated. They are all likely to fail.
 As part of this thesis, an avoidance area map was generated for groundwater infiltration that advised neighbors to avoid soil saturation, which leads to slope failure. This avoidance area entirely encompasses McAdam Ridge.
 Additionally, the hearings officer's findings did not entertain evidence that the Portland West Hills are composed of Portland silt and the Southwest Hills Resource Protection Plan states on page 41, Portland Hills silt has important implications for land use and development. The silt becomes unstable when wet and the potential for silt failure is particularly high after the winter rains have saturated the soil.
 Many sites in the Portland area have a known geology that is susceptible to landslides as well, steep slopes. Adding an abundant uncontrolled groundwater to the site further adds that risk. One of the slides that's been presented numerous times here is directly from a publication that is published by the Oregon and Washington state governments called the Homeowner's Guide for Landslides for Washington and Oregon. In that, you will see the water is heavy and pushes soil forward.
 particles apart, which reduces the soil strength, increasing landslide risk. The same guide also states live tree roots strengthen slopes. I will remind you that over 500 trees are expected to be cleared as part of this plan. Plus, actually, I heard it was over 3,000 earlier.
 I believe the risk in this known landslide site is significant and the hearing officer failed to apply the provided evidence in his findings. And there is insufficient water mitigation and did not address the applicant's changing approach throughout their application. We see the water clearly concentrated on the slopes and we know there's a trigger for recurrent landslide. Water does not obey property lines.
 I believe McAdam Ridge application should be denied due to safety concerns not adequately addressed, appraised, or acknowledged by the hearings officer response. And I believe that my family's safety is at risk if this development is built as currently planned.
 Thanks. Thank you. Appreciate it. So, Mayor, may I ask Mr. Dryden and Ms. Heller-Webb to address a couple of items? I've provided copies of the materials to the applicant, and they've identified some things that they're not sure are in the record, and some of those relate to your testimony. So I just want to deal with those as they come because there's –
 So many pieces of evidence. So the first, the slide that you showed with the saturated soil, wet soil, dry soil, you said that comes from a homeowner's guide? That was put into evidence by me. It's Exhibit 29, each 29. So each of those is from the same. Or it might be 30, yeah. Okay. Second, there are a number of...
 pieces of factual information, Mr. Dryden, in your letter, so I can look at them, and you just read that as your testimony, related to damage to a number of homes during the 1996 floods, a statistic about 76 percent of the landslides. Is that information, that data, already in the record somewhere? That was, I believe, an outdated document that you were provided there.
 We construct that. We might have had clarity issues on that when we included it, so I apologize for that. Okay. I'm going to suggest that in Seth Dryden's February 7, 2018 letter, the paragraph beginning in February 1996, continuing for the next three paragraphs with the sentence saying reduces soil strength and increasing landslide risk, I would request that that not be considered by council. We will consider that new evidence and reject that.
 Without objection. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it. Next three are Jim Hussey, Lee Cannon.
 Sorry. And Scott Burns. And they'll be followed by Mike Andrews, Eliana Andrews, and Robin Harmon. So, Mayor, I apologize. We're heading into a portion where I'm going to have a few comments. Before Mr. Burns testifies, I'd like to have a bit of a discussion with the testifiers about what information is appropriate and what is not.
 That's fine. Would you like us to take a two-minute recess? No, no. Well, before he testifies, I want to talk. I don't know which of you is Scott Bernstein. That's me. You are. Maybe I could grab him for a moment and just. That's fine. We'll start at the other end of the table, and we'll work our way down. And if you could just step over and chat with the legal counsel for a minute. Yeah. Thanks. Thanks.
 Good afternoon. James Hussey. I've been a resident of the South Burlingame neighborhood for 15 years. I had planned to speak about the landslide risk and the water drainage problems and how I felt that the House officer had not thoroughly addressed this and that a hydrology report at least was needed.
 All the points I was really going to make, I think, have been covered now. So in an effort not to be redundant, I'll just end it there. Very good. But you're on the record in support of these positions. So thank you for stating so. Good afternoon. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for hearing this today. My name is Lee Cannon. I'm a licensed insurance agent for over 20 years in the state of Oregon. I'm here to provide information regarding to coverage for a land side loss for families within and adjacent to this development. Bottom line.
 It's going to be very difficult, if not impossible, for these families to secure landslide coverage for their homes. Excuse me, has this previously been submitted to the record? This was submitted in Linda Meyer's testimony. Excellent, thank you.
 Thank you. You're brilliant. Okay. So it's, forgive me there. Sorry. And just so people know why we're being sticklers, it's just because this is a formal evidentiary hearing. And so it's very important that we get all these details knocked down. So sorry about that. Not a problem. Okay.
 So it's important to understand that landslide is a risk that's not covered under a homeowner's policy. So when you have insurance and a loss with a landslide, it's not covered under the home policy that you get. It's not available for coverage under the federally backed FEMA policies for flood. Typically, the only coverage that's gonna be available is what we refer to as a difference in conditions policy. The other options, forgive me here.
 The other option is looking at our state and local governments, which we're doing today, and that's through our building and ordinance codes and approval to decide beforehand to protected citizens if this is a safe place to develop is really the only recourse and that's why we're here today.
 So some of the difficulties that these folks are going to have in getting coverage for this particular area is that first, the homeowner is going to need to supply a self-paid for geotech report for each of their properties. These can be very expensive. This is required before they can even get a quote for coverage, and there's no guarantee that they'll receive a policy in such a case. Okay.
 Additionally, this area has been identified as a high-risk landslide area, and most of the carriers will not cover this. The carriers we're talking about essentially are surplus lines, not admitted carriers backed by Lloyds of London.
 Next, the structures are often required to be built on firm and natural ground. In this particular development, they're looking at potentially 20 tons of fill material, which will essentially bar those coverages, those new developments, from getting a landslide coverage. Thank you.
 Should they somehow be offered a policy? We're looking at tremendously high premiums, very high deductibles, and very limited coverage. So bottom line, the homes that are newly constructed and adjacent to this property are going to have a very difficult time in getting coverage.
 Ultimately, when there is a loss, the homeowner is going to be left to face a lopsided battle against developers, engineers, and contractors, assuming they're still in business. And ultimately, it's you, the City of Portland, and we, the taxpayers, that are going to be looking at defending these costs and claims. That's why, in looking at today, we have a time through supporting this appeal to go ahead and protect those citizens. I want to take the rest of my time and introduce...
 Scott Burns, who's a PhD chair in geology and professor emeritus at the Portland State University. He's worked in the field of geology for 47 years, 35 of which specializing in landslide and training geologists in this area. He's examined most of the significant slides in the Northwest, and he is broadly considered the foremost expert nationally and often appearing as an expert witness in landslide cases.
 Professor Burns has voluntarily offered his testimony as a demonstrating expert after reviewing the evidence in this case. His motivation is appearing for this egregious to defend those for this area so that we don't develop homes in this area to have families. Thank you.
 Appreciate your testimony. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, Mayor Ted and the rest of the council. Scott Burns, engineering geologist at Portland State. What does an engineering geologist do? Site evaluation is the heart of everything that we do. Before you build something, you want to know if there's going to be any geological problems, especially hazards. I led the team that mapped those 705 landslides that was mentioned earlier here, and last winter I visited 66 landslides here in the Portland area.
 And I'm not paid for this. I do this as reaching out, and I'm a free consultant for the city of Portland, on anything to do with slope stability. I'm going to be focusing in primarily on the landslide and reactivation of the ancient landslide, which has been mentioned a lot before. This landslide is a big one. The scarp is 50 feet high. It's one of the biggest ancient landslides that we have in the city of Portland.
 And there are nine houses that are actually on the landslide that are built right now. The project that is coming up.
 21 additional ones. If that particular landslide reactivates, what will happen is those houses will be moving. It's not going to be like an Oso and a catastrophic one, loss of life, but the infrastructure is going to be hurt. One of the bottom lines that I talk about over and over and over again, landslides are not covered by insurance.
 And so those houses will lose if it starts moving, and then the nine houses that are already on the landslide will also be a major concern. What's going to happen is it'll go to lawsuits. Who's going to get sued? The city of Portland and the developer.
 And my 35 years of research in the Pacific Northwest, one of my major important things that I've come up with inclusion is building on old landslides because of the potential for reactivation later on. What are the two things that are going to make a landslide reactivate? They've been mentioned before. High water input and then earthquakes. We have the big one. The last one was 318 years ago. Okay.
 When we had the one 1964 up in Alaska, Turtigan Heights, 70 houses moved down as a result of that earthquake. And then in the Pacific Northwest, we have many examples. And so if you want to know some of those examples, I will mention them because they are very important. Each one of those, the geotechnical report that came in before said this is stable.
 But it's the extreme events that we are not prepared for. Number one, huge rainfall events. And as the climate is changing, we're getting more of those. Secondly, the earthquakes. Are we prepared for that? And so as a result, those are some of the things that I wanted to mention there.
 I have read the report of the particular site. I know the two engineering geologists, geotechnical engineers. They are very, very qualified. So that was a very good report for what they had to do. I have concerns about putting 20,000 –
 cubic yards of fill on there and then removal of all those trees. A tree is a natural pup. It is pulling water out of the ground and therefore increasing soil stabilization. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. All three of you. Before that group leaves the table, Mr. Cannon in particular –
 Could you address, and I'm sorry, I'm pretty sure everyone's really annoyed with me, but this is a really challenging record. No, it's fine. We all get it. No worries. Mr. Cannon, in terms of the insurance information, the applicant is not aware that the information about homeowners insurance, so in your letter from the second paragraph, I don't know if you read it.
 basically through the end, that that information is not in the record about insurance. Can you identify if that information has been placed in the record before? I think it's in letters. It's in letters. Can you come to the microphone, please, so that the captioners can get it? Thank you. That's included in my letter of November 5th, which I believe is 95H. Okay.
 Did you include evidence regarding the specific difference in condition policy? Yes, I did. Okay. Let's see. In terms of Mr. Burns' testimony, I think counsel, I would be very surprised if there was information in there, evidence that Mr. Burns had made a statement about the quality of the engineers for the applicant. I would assume we should strike that. Okay.
 Unless anybody's telling me that information is in the record. Okay. You did not go into any of the sites, the other pieces. The applicant, did you note anything else in there that would have been new information from Mr. Burns' testimony? Or do you want to address that during your... Could you come to the microphone, please? Okay.
 If you wouldn't mind identifying yourself. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Wheeler, Chris Kobach, I represent the applicant. On Mr. Byrne's testimony, he's made a couple statements like the city has no liability and our experts are qualified. I think those are the same. So I just think they should be treated the same. I mean, if it's all coming in, I don't really object to it. But I don't think you should cut out some and keep the other stuff. Okay. Okay.
 When we prepare findings, we'll just make sure we are consistent in treatment of that piece of information. Thank you. Good. All right. Thank you for clarifying that. Next three, please. Are Mike Andrews, Eliana Andrews, and Robin Harmon, and they'll be followed by Robin Bessay, Fred Hazard, and Mary Holderness. Good afternoon. Would you like to start, sir? Yes. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. It's a pleasure to speak before you today, and I appreciate your time. My name is Mike Andrews. I'm a resident of South Burlingame since 2001. The McAdam Ridge development should not be considered for approval at this time. The development...
 The development proposes an increase in housing density on lots smaller than the R10 standard, minimal 10-foot front yards and razor-thin side yard setbacks with nearly identical 40-by-40-foot building pads with a probable building height of 30 feet. And I want to reference one of the documents from the consultant that states...
 Building size is anticipated to be similar to the closest neighborhood lots on Ruby Terrace of about 2,800 to 3,000 square feet. How's my mic coming through? It seems like it's cutting out. Yeah, it's fine. With limited time, I will focus primarily on two environmental modification concerns, minimum lot area and side yard setback. Zoning for the proposed McAdam Ridge development is R10C. Okay.
 See the zoning exhibit and preliminary site plan for A. The subdivision is closest to the houses on Southwest Ruby Terrace to the west and within the South Burlingame neighborhood zone R10. Can I make a request? Just shove the mic about six inches away. It's really sensitive. There you go. Perfect. That's perfect right there.
 The subdivision is closest to the houses along Southwest Ruby Terrace to the west and within the South Burlingame neighborhood zoned R10, illustrated in light yellow highlight. To the north is the South Portland neighborhood, which is also zoned R10C, where existing housing abut the proposed development. This proposed development is closest to the houses along Southwest Ruby Terrace within the South Burlingame neighborhood.
 and include 10-foot side yard setbacks and 10,000 square foot lots. The R10 zoning is located to the south of the development. Both neighborhoods have R5 zoning. However, this zoning is much further away from the proposed development than the abutting houses in the R10 zone. The greater the housing density, the greater the subsequent impact to the environment, including trees and the existing landslide area.
 As a refresher, R10 zones have a minimum lot dimension of 6,000 square feet. The proposed development is pursuing 14 lots below the R10 standard. The staff reports that adjacent properties nearby to this development are R5, and that is not correct. It's R10. The nearby and closest properties are along Southwest Ruby Terrace.
 Smaller lots are not the only way to reduce the possible impacts to the permanent project resources, protected resources. This can be accomplished by simply reducing the number of proposed lots for the entire development and increased space between buildings. Additional testimony has been provided and I won't be able to get to it. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for letting me speak today.
 My name is Eliana Andrews, and I live in the South Burlingame neighborhood. I'm a student at Lincoln High School, and I am 15 years old. I was born and raised in Portland, Oregon, and I love trees and the environment. I will be speaking today about the lack of required street trees on this project. I'm requesting that the McAdam Ridge development not be considered for approval due to the failure to comply with the City Code Title 11.
 I'm concerned with the proposed development and the lack of required street trees in the right-of-way near Lots 3 through 11 and Lots 15 through 20. The way it is currently designed, there are engineered stormwater planter boxes instead of planting area for street trees. You can see the exhibit. Site Plan 4A does not provide adequate quantities of street trees on public street aid.
 The street tree standards require street trees in the right-of-way for each full increment of 25 linear feet per side of street. Based off this requirement, there should be an additional 36 street trees and adequate planting area to accommodate their growth. Design 4A has not addressed the requirement for street tree planting, and the engineer had the opportunity to do so.
 This design should have been coordinated with the urban forester, but it was not. Nothing in the record demonstrates that the applicant or the project urbanist consulted with the urban forestry staff regarding the options for the right-of-way design.
 Street trees not only make the street more livable, but will reduce the stormwater discharge and soften the vertical buildings. With the reduced front yards to 10 feet and public utility easement contained within them, adequate planting space is not available to allow the homeowners to plant significant trees in their property. The lack of adequate planting area in the private front yards strengthens the argument requiring street trees in the right-of-way.
 On a separate but familiar note, I'm very sad and very discouraged to hear
 that about 500 trees are intended to be removed from the site. This property is located almost entirely within a protected conservation zone. The removal of so many trees indicates that the engineer was not sensitive to the site and did not find a creative approach to take the existing trees into consideration. This proposed subdivision should not be approved as designed. Thank you for listening to my concerns.
 Thank you very much for your testimony. Well done. Ms. Andrews, I just have to say, I don't often get schooled on land use cases, and I had not noticed that point, so well done. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Robin Harmon, Mayor, Commissioners. My husband and I have lived in Portland for 16 years. I know a little bit about land use because I got involved with the Residential Landfill Committee project. I went to the first meeting, and then I went to the mall. I was called the 27th member of the committee.
 So I'm aware that there are often conflicting needs between owners, residents, and preservation. But I'm here today because this property has unique and irreplaceable value. Allowing this subdivision would endanger current and future residents and destroy the precious, critical natural resources that is vital to all of our well-being. Our neighborhood recognizes the need to keep pace with the growth of our city.
 and we welcome new neighbors. However, we also want to ensure that safety is a major consideration, as well as protection of our dwindling natural resources. As you know, city codes were established to protect the qualities that make our neighborhoods desirable and our city great. We ask that you adhere to those codes. These ordinances are for the collective good of our city. We are united in our defense of protecting valuable resources and safety.
 We've spent our time, our expertise, and our resources in this cause because we believe that we have a responsibility to stand up for what is right. The hearing officer's decision is flawed. He made a decision with conditions, which implies that burden of proof has not been met by the applicant. After four years, a consensus has not been reached, and the officer has deferred to the bureaus again, who have maintained they lack the necessary information from the applicant to make a determination."
 Odinor's decision lacked analysis and provides no clear definition of why he gave approval. Page 9 of the decision references neighborhood review in which nine written responses have been received in support of the proposal. The next sentence reads, letters were also received from SBNA and Collins View Associations. After spending four years of dedicated effort, it was offensive to us that he made no mention of our opposition.
 and no reference to the 56 letters received nor the experts hired to offer their opinions. To that end, we are in support of accepted principles that define smart and balanced growth, mixed land uses, advantage of compact building designs, walkable neighborhoods, preserve open space, farmland, natural beauty, and critical environmental areas.
 and encourage community and stakeholder collaboration in development of decisions. That means not a dog and pony show, but listening critically to the concerns of neighbors and not having a deaf ear to it. We strongly recommend the City Council deny the application. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three, please. Our Robin Bessie, Fred Hazard, and Mary Holderness.
 This is the conclusion of SB&A's presentation, though. And they'll be followed by Pat Dennis, Jay Jones II, and Carol Porto. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, City Council. I'm Robin Veazey. I actually live north of this proposed development on Canby Street. Most of my yard is a conservation zone. Some of it a protected zone.
 Although I agree with all the points that have been made thus far, I'd just like to give you a little history about the City of Portland identifying Stevens Creek that transverses this area as a significantly threatened and degraded waterway due to untreated runoff from impervious surfaces upstream.
 Forty percent of the Stevens Creek sub-watershed is covered by impervious hard surfaces, where runoff can lead to increased erosion, damage to the stream bed and its function, destruction of native species habitat, and additional pollution load on the Willamette River. Reducing the impact of this urban runoff is key to...
 developing a healthy watershed. In 2004, the City of Portland identified protection of watershed areas with the highest remaining function value as a cornerstone for effective watershed management and identified the Stevens Creek as an area worth protecting. Thank you.
 In March 2006, the City Council adopted the Portland Watershed Management Plan to address these issues by identifying watershed health goals. It's because of this large development that there would be more associated hard surfaces and that would not be compatible with Portland's goals. I ask you to overturn the hearings, officers. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council.
 I'm a 50-year resident of Portland, and I ask that you do not allow for the building of this critical piece of natural land in our city. I ask that you deny the application. Thank you very much. Ah, the beauty of brevity. To the point. No mistaking your position. Absolutely. Sir, put your name in the record for me. I'm sorry. My name is Fred Hazard. Good afternoon.
 I'm Mary Holderness. I live in South Burlingame. I'm also worried about the landslide risk and harm to the environment from this potential development. Please reverse the hearings officer ruling and deny the application. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please. Are Pat Dennis, Jay Jones II, and Carol Porto?
 And they'll be followed by Bob Sollinger, Sydney Valanueva, and Brendan Appleberry. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Patricia Dennis, and I live in the South Burlingame area. I'm a member of the Board of Trustees of the University of North Carolina.
 I agree with the speakers today who are asking you to reverse the ruling of the hearings officer. I also ask that you deny the application. Thank you for hearing us. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. Hey there. My name is Jay Jones. I also live in South Burlingame on Ruby Terrace. I support everything that my friends and neighbors have attested to, and I would hope that you would approve
 approve our appeal and deny the applicant. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Carol Porto, Me Too. I volunteer and live in Portland. I serve as the Southwest Neighborhood Secretary. I'm the chairperson of the Public Safety Committee for Southwest Neighborhoods, and I'm on the South Burlingame Board. Thank you.
 and one of Merrilee's assistant team leaders on our NET team. So we have an active group of citizens who really care about southwest Portland and south Burlingame and about our safety and livability. So please support the appeal and deny the application. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. The next three are Bob Sollinger, Sidney Villanueva, and Brendan Appleberry.
 And then the last two will be John Lavielle and Maria Baker. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Commissioners, thank you for your opportunity. My name is Sydney Villanueva.
 I'm a resident of Berlin-Games, South Berlin-Games as well. It seems that I may be the newest resident from today's testimony. And as I was sitting here, it occurred to me that I might be more reflective of the neighbors that are going to be moving into this area than the neighbors that I'm hearing and sharing concerns with today. So as you guys consider this application today, I just really would urge that you consider young families like mine moving into this area
 I live up on 4th Avenue, which is a bit higher. We do have sidewalks starting on 4th, but the neighborhood within South Burlingame is not walkable. Sidewalks start and stop. And one thing that I haven't heard addressed today...
 And I apologize if it's new evidence, but really I'm just asking that you consider it as that the traffic coming from both Terwilliger and Taylor's Ferry into South Burlingame is very aggressive. People are trying to beat that traffic during commuter times, and it makes for a very unsafe area for small toddlers like my son to be out and about. And that's something that this new neighborhood, I think, would be inflicted with as well.
 It was only a few weeks ago as I was driving down South Taylors Ferry. I actually had to stop in the river, turn around and come back and pick up literally a grandma carrying her toddler, you know, grandchild up the street because there's no sidewalk and it's not safe for that kind of transportation. So as you review this record, I just urge that you consider it's not just that the box is checked, but is this going to be safe for people like me and my young family?
 Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Sorry, I'm out of breath. I just ran into my meter. Thank you. You need some three-hour meters around City Hall. So my name is Bob Zellinger. I'm the Conservation Director for the Audubon Society of Portland, and we are here today to support the appeal and urge you to overturn the ruling of the hearings officer. As you're well aware, this is an important natural resource site. It's part of the West Side Wildlife Corridor.
 There's an amazing number of trees on it, steep slopes, earthquake risk, stream corridors. It's a site that we need to take the environmental codes very seriously on. And from our perspective, the hearings officer failed on that and basically ignored the environmental concerns that were raised.
 The appeal failed to meet the requirement that the development minimize the impacts on natural resources in an environmental zone. We feel that there were other alternatives that they could have developed that would have had less impact and met their needs. The hearings officer also ignored BES concerns that the plan did not meet the level of engineering specificity that's required for environmental review, specifically regarding stormwater facilities, outfall modifications, sewer pipes, storm pipes, etc.
 and a new outfall on Riverview Creek. Basically, he substituted his own opinion for the expertise of your own expert bureaus, and we think that's a really bad precedent. We think it's important that when you have technical experts at your bureaus that weigh in, raise concerns, and say they don't even have the information they need in order to make a real assessment...
 that the hearings officer should have required them to go back and get it right. So we urge you to support the appeal and to reverse the hearings officer. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thanks, both of you. Was there a Brendan Appleberry? Then the last two will be John Lavielle and Maria Baker. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Maria Baker. I live on the east side.
 And I'm here today to support my South Burlingame neighbors. I'm very concerned about this project, and I think it was a mistake to approve it. I don't think that the hearings officer approved a project that reasonably limited the risk of landslides. And I don't know if this is new information, but I did a couple months ago call my personal insurance company of 20 years to ask, if I were to buy a piece of property up on this hill...
 in a high-risk landslide area, could you offer me some insurance? And the insurance company said, sure, if it's under earthquake insurance. And I just said, no, not an earthquake, just lots of water. And maybe if my house was built on infill or whatever. And they said they didn't, but they could try and refer me to some special, unique individual.
 independent group that would give me an individualized plan. I think that's unreasonable to expect families to take the burden of this risk. I would like to protect them now, prevent it. Thank you for being here. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. My name is John Lavelle. I'm an owned property and a resident of the South Burlingame neighborhood. I'm not going to talk about the
 The landslides and those types of issues that the other neighbors have talked so eloquently about, all I can say is when land's been denuded and the trees are gone, we only need to look to our neighbors in Southern California to see what happens when the heavy rains come.
 So we've talked a lot about access to the property and increased traffic, and we've talked mainly about Taylor's Ferry Road and the dangers there and the dangers of sight lines and not being able to see up and down the street. I'd like to just talk a minute about internally within the neighborhood we call South Burlingame. I have a pretty good perspective because I live on a corner where five streets intersect,
 One of those streets is Ruby Terrace. Ruby Terrace is the main street that will provide access to this development outside of a Taylor's Ferry. Ruby Terrace, the street is narrow. It would probably be substandard today. It's in bad shape.
 If two cars are parked opposite each other, it's difficult to get another car to be able to pass through them, let alone a larger vehicle like a fire truck. In fact, Ruby Terrace was in such bad shape that a group of the neighbors banded together and repaved it at its own expense because the city couldn't get around to repaving it because the street was falling apart. So I'd like the council to consider the impact on the neighborhood itself of these additional vehicles
 The wear and tear they're going to cause on the street, and the streets are already burdened, overburdened, and stressed. And the effect that's going to have on the people that live there with the additional traffic that's going to come with this development. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you both. And that is it for public testimony on the supporters of the appeal. So next up is the principal opponent. You have 15 minutes, sir. And again, if we interrupt with questions, that does not count towards your time.
 Your Honorable Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Chris Kobach again, and I represent the applicant Riverview Abbey Mausoleum Company. I only get to speak once. The appellants get to address you again. And so the only thing I'd request is if you have questions or comments on my presentation, I'd really appreciate it if I could answer them while I'm here, because once I sit down, like I said, I'll get another opportunity. Okay.
 Mayor Wheeler, you said something about how if everybody in one of these proceedings agreed, it wouldn't necessarily be a good thing. And as you might expect, my clients view this proposal from a different perspective than what you've heard. The environmental regulations, the purpose is to protect the environmental features on a site to the extent reasonably practicable, but allow environmentally sensitive urban development.
 My clients started out with a proposal that they felt was consistent with all of the regulations. And in the staff report from October 6th, staff commented that the basic approach was consistent. Staff did need details, and there were questions in the staff report and comments where staff wanted details to show how the proposal could be brought fully into compliance.
 And over the course of a couple of months, my client worked very, very hard to provide all of that detail. And they arrived at a final proposal that was approved that I believe and my clients believe is a good example of a very responsible, sensitive development. I wanted to list a few elements of it.
 So the site is 14.2 acres, and it has what our consultants identified as three most significant resources, and that's Stevens Creek, and others have talked about that. There's Ruby Creek, and then there's a mature forest. Our consultants found that the one-third northern portion of the site had the best habitat for the reasons you heard, that it provides an added enhancement to the other resources.
 The proposal, after considering 12 alternatives, and that's in the record at Exhibit H-107N, 12 alternatives, some of which had different access points, different housing types. Alternative 5 was a multifamily development. Our proposal...
 restricted development to a four-acre portion of the site that is the most flat portion of the site. It's the area that any development of this property would have to go to, given the significant resources. The proposal preserves the rest of the site, 10 acres, in a permanent protection tract, and it's been offered to the city for free. My clients have offered to donate that.
 They've reduced their proposal to 21 lots. Now, the maximum density is 52 on this site. So they're at roughly 40% of that already. The total disturbance area you've heard, it's a little over 29%. 70% is undisturbed. We have about 72% of the lots are below the minimum lot size. And my client had to process an application to get that.
 And that was encouraged by staff and supported by staff because by moving to reduce the lot size, we could put the lots on less and less property. And that was one of the goals of the proposal.
 There is no permanent disturbance in any of the resource areas, the significant resource areas outside of this four acres. There's a limited temporary disturbance, and some of that's real important because there's a failing stormwater outfall at Ruby Creek. It's not my client's outfall, but our proposal has that being rebuilt. There's a failing sanitary sewer line that's right in Ruby Creek.
 And BES has acknowledged it's failing and it's not a good thing. Our proposal removes two-thirds of that at our expense, routes it through the development with a new system, and back connecting. So two-thirds of it will be new and never have to be worried about at all anything.
 Our proposal is to remove over the entire site significant invasive non-native species of plants, enhancing what's already there as a valuable resource. The mitigation is extensive. There's over 12,300 trees and other plants that are being planted. And that's in addition to preserving 1,400 trees already.
 So it is true, 470 trees approximately will be removed in the development area, the disturbance area. But 1,400 trees across the site are being preserved. That's 70%. Now, the code has a requirement to preserve 35%. So this proposal preserves 70%, and that's in the staff report as well.
 Excuse me, I just need to get a clarification there. What do you mean the code requires 35%? Well, what staff said is the basic requirement for tree preservation on a site is 35% under the code. And this proposal preserves 70%. Now, this proposal has to be viewed in a little bit different light because it's in an environmental zone. So we have that added layer where we have to do a little bit more.
 which I believe we've done. Yes, so the 35% is not applicable, right? Well, no, it's applicable, but I think it's overridden by our need to do the alternatives and come up with the best proposal to preserve the resources that's practicable. Right. Thank you.
 As was mentioned, the Hume Street right-of-way is already there, and that's where the 54-inch tree is. It's directly in that right-of-way. It's an existing right-of-way. Our proposal has that being improved as connectivity to Ruby Terrace, and that provides a secondary emergency access for fire and ambulances to get to the neighborhood to the west.
 We are building a TriMet bus stop at the request of TriMet. We asked them, what improvements do you feel are necessary? TriMet's email is in the record, and TriMet concluded that based on the very limited ridership, off-site sidewalks all the way to the bus stop are not necessary, and they didn't recommend them. They recommended a new bus stop, and it's either going to be where the existing one is or part of our frontage improvements. And we've agreed to do it wherever TriMet wants it done.
 And lastly, this provides 21 homes for families in Portland, and homes are needed. I want to talk a little bit about how we got here. Through this process...
 all of this information that was coming in and responding to staff, neighbor testimony was coming in, it all went to a hearings officer, a hearings officer that the commission retained to make important land use decisions like this. Now he's now no longer a hearings officer. He was appointed to the bench recently. But the Honorable Mr. Odenaar –
 He evaluated the evidence in a process that is sanctioned by state law in your code. He followed the procedures in ORS 197763, which is an evidentiary process where the parties are. That's the purpose is to present new evidence. And we've pointed out in our written material that the number of documents, the pages we submitted, is grossly overstated. At one point, somebody said 500 documents at the hearing.
 It was closer to 200 documents, but 96 of those were two land use decisions that were given to the Neighborhood Association two years before that. So there was some new information at the hearing, but it was not nearly as extensive. Mr. Odenaar gave everybody a fair and equal opportunity to present evidence. And the appellants requested an open record period. He granted that.
 and they were allowed to submit evidence. He even gave them an extra period to submit new testimony. If you read his decision, and I'm sure you likely have read it, the hearings officer carefully considered the evidence. He recited in his decision on six pages, 13 through 17, he talked about all the alternatives the applicant had submitted, alternative development plans, in some detail.
 He addressed the issue over lots three through eight and why it was appropriate to preserve 34 mature trees there because they were valuable resources and why it was acceptable to put those under a deed restriction. And that area also provided transition between the neighbors. And many of the neighbors testified at the hearing that they supported that. He detailed on pages 23 through 29 the final disturbance area. And I want to talk about that because...
 It is not as if the final disturbance area is not known to reasonable particularity. As of November 6th, the layout was done. The streets were done. Nobody, even the bureaus, were suggesting that the internal streets or the lots were going to be reconfigured at all. There was an issue from the BES on the red line of a concept drawing. The conceptual development for the stormwater facilities go through reviews.
 BES redlined the first one. We responded. Right during the hearing process, towards the end, BES gave a second redline version. And it tweaked the size of the swales on the street going through the development, Street A, such that BES said you may need to build another stormwater facility, a general one at the end of the cul-de-sac.
 Our experts jumped on that, and they designed that swale, if it's needed, and it would add 1,300 square feet of disturbance area. And then significantly, all of our other experts, environmental consultant, who determined the resources that would have to be mitigated for, and our arborists who defined the disturbance area, they submitted updated drawings. That was all known.
 Before that, they had also updated their drawings to increase the disturbance area for the reconstruction of the outfalls, as staff had suggested. So we added 30 feet of disturbance area. But all of the other documents that go along with that to show how that was mitigated for, they were all updated as well. So at that time, until BES made that statement, the disturbance area was done. What's left is the final approval of those BES drawings and those swales. And it may...
 to moderately, even modestly, increase the disturbance area. But there's going to be a technical review of plans, and there are conditions to cover that. It's not as if this proposal is going to change and the disturbance area is going to go from 29% to 50%. Given everything in the record, and if you examine that evidence, I think you'd conclude that it may increase slightly more than 29%, but still stay under 30%.
 Could I ask you a clarifying question? So that's the disturbance of the total site? Yes, that's the final disturbance area for the development. Okay. And can you tell me how much of the disturbance area is in this landslide area that's been discussed and that is in the record? Well, I believe most or all of it. Most of the site is in a landslide area. And that's what I was going to talk about. Very good. Okay.
 There was a question, even staff mentioned this, Commissioner Fish asked the question, how does the landslide regulations work? Well, they work like this. When you're in a landslide, and there's a lot of areas in Portland R, you have to submit informed studies for the city to evaluate before you develop. You have to establish through expert reports that it's reasonably safe to do that.
 And in the decision, the hearings officer notes four different reports that the applicant put in. The last one was a supplemental slope stability analysis. All of those reports went in, and the city's experts in site development reviewed them, and their conclusion that I recited in my written material, they concluded that that was an acceptable response under the code. Those are experts.
 Concerns about landslide, I'm not diminishing the concerns that neighbors have, but the code has a process for how that is handled, and concerns without expert analysis are just concerns. We followed the code and submitted what was required, and the city experts viewed it and felt it was sufficient. The other thing I want to talk about, because I'm running out of time, is the transportation. One of the testifiers earlier said...
 The off-site impacts doing all of these improvements along Taylor's Ferry was not proportionate. And that's right. Even transportation staff didn't find it proportionate. But everything that you've heard about the transportation issue are existing conditions. Nobody is denying that Taylor's Ferry cars go fast, and there's a lot of cars.
 Nobody's denying that there are safety issues on Taylor's Ferry. But the requirement that the hearings officer looked at is, to what level can I go to expect a private owner to improve an existing problem? I have to find that their impacts create the problem. And I think he...
 absolutely applied the constitutional law correctly and found that the improvements, the frontage improvements that the city required were appropriate. They're on our frontage. The TriMet safety to transit or access to transit was acceptable, but he agreed that he could not in his decision require massive offsite improvements along an existing stretch of highway to account for existing issues that have been there for many, many years.
 I do want to talk briefly about the conditions because I think they're important. There's numerous conditions to assure compliance. A lot of them go to this final disturbance area. There are technical reviews required in those conditions, and it's important, I think, to note that those conditions, other than a couple that the hearings officer imposed on his own, came from staff. Okay.
 BES said if this is approved, these are the conditions we want, and they're technical in nature, and they're in the notice of the hearing here. Those are in the decision. We proposed them. Transportation recommended conditions. We included them. Site development proposed conditions. We recommended them in our final submission.
 Those conditions are, if you read them, and I think you will, they are very technical. They're consistent with all of their approvals that go through this process, and they will ensure compliance with the regulations.
 criteria. I did want to mention one thing is the tree issue. I know that the tree issue was addressed. In the staff report on page 37, staff lists those technical requirements that come later. And when you get a building permit, you need to have the street trees addressed. They're called on page 7, they're referred to by the city as other technical requirements. Commissioner Fish would like to ask you a couple of questions. Sure.
 Mr. Kobach, you're about to run out of time, and my colleagues may also have questions, but I appreciate your presentation. There was something in the appellant's presentation that troubled me a little bit, and I wanted, in fairness, to give you a chance to address it, and that was the communication between Steve Griffith, who is the applicant-slash-owner, and someone who was being considered as a consultant.
 There were two things about that communication that struck me as odd. One was it was a communication from the owner and not you as his representative. And the second is I think any reasonable reading of that communication was there was an implied threat. That's now been placed before us. It may or may not be material to whatever decision we make. But in fairness, I wanted to give you a chance to respond to it.
 Well, I didn't author it. It wasn't done at my direction, I can assure you. Mr. Griffith is here. He's one of the people that will testify, and I think he can give you a better firsthand version of why he wrote that. I can tell you he was concerned that false statements were being made about the proposal and his expert's work, and he didn't think it was appropriate for somebody to make those statements.
 And you understand why, in terms of just playing referee in this process, that would be of concern to us? I do. It is a concern. Mr. Griffith can explain it. But I don't believe it was intended as a threat. I think it was intended to more or less, in Mr. Griffith's standpoint, level the playing field. Well, I think it's open to interpretation, and I think that's one of the problems because –
 It's an unusual document, and it's not something we typically see in these kinds of land use hearings, and it apparently caused someone not to provide professional services. And that, again, serving just as the referee here and not the decider, that troubles me a little bit. But my second question to you is, if the council determines that the appellant's issues have merit, obviously a couple things might happen. Number one.
 you could appeal this decision forward. Or number two, I suppose you could go back to square one. In the conversations that you've had with the abutting neighbors and the neighborhood association and interested parties, have you determined whether there is an alternative that might be more acceptable to the community? My perception is there will be no proposal that it will be deemed acceptable other than no development.
 The 12 proposals in the exhibit that I referenced, there's a narrative explaining how those were presented to the Neighborhood Association. So the Neighborhood Association didn't want a different access point. They didn't want multifamily, but then in opposing our proposal,
 approval, they now argue that we should have considered multifamily, which we did. At one point, we had very small, a PUD, alternative five, small, very small lots. The Neighborhood Association didn't support that. And then later in the approval process, they claimed we should have done small lots. They're saying we've got large lots, but then... So you're skeptical of that. But then my final question is...
 You heard from Mr. Salinger that this is not only part of a Westside View corridor, which is of great significance, dating back 100 years, actually, to the Olmsteads, but it also is a heavily protected piece of property, as evidenced by the environmental zoning. Is it your view that if the ultimate resolution of this was the land could not be properly developed under the applicable law, that that would be such an extreme measure that it would constitute a taking?
 I believe under Oregon law that would. The test is if you're deprived of all viable economic use of the property, and if it can't be developed, there is no viable economic use. Okay. Thank you, sir. Tuitioner Fritz? I would just have to say to that point that just one house is allowed under Oregon law, and that would be allowed use. So that brings me to my question, which I asked the staff. How did your client determine what was practicable use?
 Well, there are a number of things, and Mr. Griffith, I think, will expand on this, but it's a large tract of land. It's very expensive to prepare for development. They can tell you what it took so far. They've held it since 1945, paying taxes on it. I think their proposal—
 that this is not just about maximizing lots and money because they removed two lots in the process and created a scenic tract out of them. But there's certainly some point at which it doesn't make economic sense to develop
 And the evidence we saw about the disturbance area, the four alternatives that were considered seriously looked like very much similar disturbance area. Were the other eight that I don't have in front of me, were they significantly different? Very different. And at what point were those entered into the record and considered by the hearings officer? They were provided to staff before the hearing in late October 2018.
 So they were provided a staff before the hearing. And the neighborhood and the hearings officer both got to look at all 12 of them? Yes, the hearings officer on pages 13 through 17 discussed them in some detail. Thank you. Could I ask a question with regard to the safety question that you raised in your testimony? Absolutely. And I just want to have...
 clarity on your view of what the process is. So you had said that you did not feel that it was appropriate under this process to hold your client accountable for existing safety issues, and you stipulated that the road has a number of safety issues.
 So from your perspective, if this council came to the conclusion that adding this development would increase those safety issues, you do not believe that is something that we can take into account as part of these proceedings? Is that a correct interpretation? No, Your Honor. I think if there's evidence in the record that the impacts of the development create safety issues, new safety issues on top of what's already there,
 That could be the basis for a decision to require mitigation for those specific impacts that you believe the evidence supports. The evidence is that there's a 0.07% increase in traffic on Terwilliger from this development. That was a big part of the evidence we relied upon to argue that the massive improvements that PVOT was asking for were highly disproportionate, 0.07% increase.
 against millions of dollars of off-site improvements to address largely problems, maybe all problems that are already there. To ensure France. Thank you for pointing me to pages 14 through 17 about the alternatives analysis. The hearings officer says that number 5 to 11 alternatives below were also carefully considered, but ultimately considered not practicable for a number of reasons.
 But then the hearings officer says, however, very little information is provided regarding options 5 through 11, aside from the number of lots.
 So I'm just questioning how much discussion was there of the alternatives, because as I said before, the four that were really looked into in depth had almost exactly the same disturbance area. After he said that, if you continue to read the decision, he then discussed a lot of details about those alternatives, and where he obtained that information is there is a specific exhibit as part of Exhibit 107N...
 where each of the particulars of the alternatives that were considered were described, and the decision process for not pursuing them was set forth. So there was a lot of evidence in the record on what process the applicant went through to evaluate those, including meeting with staff and getting staff input and meeting with the neighbors, right?
 Did any of them have these Hume streets moved so that it avoided the 54-inch street? Some of them had a different access point off Front Street, which is another right-of-way that intersects perpendicular, more perpendicular with Taylor's Ferry.
 and there were significant issues that staff identified as well as the applicant grading and other issues that prevented that from being used so hume street was ultimately settled upon as the appropriate right-of-way to improve to connect to the other neighborhood and to provide access to the development but yes other access points were considered and if the alternatives are all there you can see some of them would not have impacted the tree there would have
 There were efforts made to avoid the tree, and because that right-of-way is the only practicable way to get access and the tree is in the existing right-of-way, the arborist looked at it and said, there really isn't a way to save the tree and put a road in. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, I just have one additional question. Mr. Kobach, what if the consultants that you retained are wrong?
 And there simply is no way to adequately mitigate against the risk of landslides? Well, if they're wrong, the conclusion – there's a lot of things they said. But if they're wrong on their ultimate conclusion that this can be developed safely, as long as their recommendations are followed, then the conclusion you would have to draw is it likely can't be developed safely. But there's no evidence in the record to contradict their reports, right?
 The only evidence of anybody reviewing them was the staff, site development staff, who concurred, and Mr. Burns, who thought they were excellent consultants. And if that were true, I don't think you could approve any development on a landslide because there's always the possibility that a qualified, even an excellent consultant was wrong once. So if that's the standard, I would just question when could a landslide site ever –
 be developed in the city of Portland? Case-by-case determination. But it would be based upon whether the consultant is right or wrong? No. I think in this case we'd have to take into consideration a number of factors, including the environmental zoning designations. I mean, this is a heavily protected piece of dirt that also happens to have a landslide potential. Right.
 and other factors adjacent to a sensitive natural area. I think we can all agree this is a unique piece of dirt. Whether it meets the test or not is a separate matter, but this is not a garden variety piece of dirt coming to council on a land use proceeding. It's not a flat, unprotected site. I would agree with that. There might be other sites similar to it somewhere in Portland because we have a lot of hills, but it's not a garden variety site.
 Thank you, sir. Could I just ask one more? And I'm sorry to sound like I'm nitpicking on this. I just want to make sure I understand it. So you said the traffic on Taylor's Ferry would be increased by 0.07%. Was that your testimony? That was our consultant's report. The consultant's report. It was a traffic engineer. I think we all agree it's a de minimis impact on a major thoroughfare. The question really for me I'm trying to get at is safety. So you have some number of houses. You have –
 an outflow going on to Taylor's very
 the number of cars may be minimal, but you have more people using the bus stop, for example, and it might be a significant increase in the percentage of people using that bus stop. What can you tell me about the relative safety of Taylor's Ferry as it relates to the circumstances of the people who would be in this development? Well, I know from TriMet's email that it has very, very limited ridership on those two stops. Okay.
 Our proposal has a pathway for people to go up to Ruby Terrace, a pedestrian pathway, to get to a safer route to the bus stops up by Taylor's Ferry, or to Terwilliger. So that was one way we identified a way to provide a safe means to get there. Now, the ultimate way to get people to the south side of Taylor's Ferry safely would be to put a stoplight on Taylor's Ferry,
 And PBOT would have to approve that, and they didn't recommend it even. Or to build an underground tunnel or a sky bridge, which we would get into the proportionality. How many people do we have that would possibly use that? That could justify that type of engineering and expense. And not to mention, we don't know if we could get the right-of-way on the other side necessary to build a tunnel. Now, I did hear a comment about a crosswalk.
 And there's conflicting views on this, and we've been through this during the hearing process. If you put a crosswalk on that street, are you inviting pedestrians into a dangerous situation?
 what we suggested is by putting improvements at our frontage, the new Hume Street, it is a little bit safer place to cross because the lines of sight are better. Our traffic consultant had to do site analysis. So by putting improvements on our side, we feel that it is safer to cross to the south side of Taylorsbury. Now, if the council imposed a condition that we stripe it with a crosswalk and PBOT supports that,
 I can speak for my client. They would not have a problem with that condition. Very good. And could you tell me, again, I know you gave a number during your testimony, and I'm sorry I can't find it in the notes I took. You mentioned how many trees you were intending to cut. Could you give me that statistic again? Well, I was reciting from the appellant's testimony that said 474, and I...
 I believe that's consistent. It sounds a little high, but I think Mr. Griffith has the exact number. It's in that area, though, and they're all in this disturbance area where we're concentrating the 21 lots. Very good. Good. Great. Any further questions? Excellent. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you.
 And we, of course, reserve the right to ask you back up if we have further questions. It would be my pleasure. Thank you very much for your testimony. Next up, we have the opponents of the appeal, three minutes each. How many people do we have to testify? Six people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Steve Griffith.
 Barbara Griffith and Jennifer Adeline. Very good. And again, same deal. When the red light comes on, your three minutes is up. Please just state your name for the record. We don't need your address. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Honorable Counsel. I'm Stephen Griffith. I am the applicant as well as a member of the South Burlingame Neighborhood Association.
 And my family has owned land in the Espionage area since 1932. We own and operate Riverview Mosleum Company on Taylor's Ferry to this day. My grandfather built a home in South Burlingame in the late 1940s and, in fact, developed Ruby Terrace as a builder. My wife and my brother and myself are Espionage members.
 The SPNA has really changed over the last couple of years. They went from a kind of a democratic organization where everyone could vote to a board-centered group where basically the board only gets to vote other than to elect board members. So it's really not representative democracy like it used to be.
 And currently the highest ranking board members live on Ruby Terrace, and there's really a situation where it's not in my backyard. It literally is in their backyard, and there's four board members that live on Ruby Terrace, some of whom testified today, including President Robert Lennox.
 I was actively involved in the hearings process and have heard the hearing officer's decision. Melvin Oden Orr is a distinguished member of the Oregon State Bar. He was recently appointed by Governor Brown to be on the circuit court of Multnomah County. He's a distinguished legal scholar, and I don't think he was given a lot of respect today for his opinion. He was put in that position for a reason, and I think his opinion was correct.
 McAdam Ridge is actually a showcase for environmentally sound development, despite all the critiques we heard today. Ten acres of the 14 acres we have offered to donate to the city as a permanent nature park or park.
 whatever kind of development you want to put on it, but it would be offered to you, the city. 1,400 trees are preserved. The tree cover along Ruby Creek and Stevens Creek is preserved, keeping the water temperatures cool. The sanitary sewer in Ruby Canyon will be replaced at no cost to the city. It's failing and needs to be replaced. Failed stormwater outfall in Ruby Canyon will be replaced at no expense to the city.
 Acres of invasive species will be removed. Thousands of native shrubs and trees will be planted, as well as extensive ground cover. Neighborhood connectivity will be improved. Emergency access will be improved for all existing residents as well as new residents. Access to tri-met buses will be improved as well. McAdam Ridge is good for the city of Portland and good for the people of Portland.
 Last fall, over 62% of the voters voted on a bond measure to increase housing for low-income people. Our housing development is for middle-income people, but we think a lot of people would benefit from it. And we ask you to affirm the hearings officer's decision. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and the city council members. My name is Barbara Griffith. Thank you for your time and consideration for our application and your patience today.
 We are not developers. We are a family. We are small business owners who have counted it a privilege and honor to serve the citizens of Portland. We offer employment, we pay taxes, and contribute to various charities. We are here today due to an appeal of our favorable land use decision. I have learned in life that there are two ways to make decisions. I call them the two F's. Fear or factual.
 When we make decisions based on fear, our imagination begins to think of all kinds of scenarios to justify not doing something. It becomes an emotional decision. If you read what has been posted to livablepdx.com or what has been written from the Neighborhood Association, there is a lot of imagination going on right now. Yes, there will be land disturbance and trees cut to create our lots.
 just as there was to create their lots in the homes we're living in today. The SBNA has been, shall I say, unkind. Things have been said about my family that are not true, and things are being said about this development that are not true. They are playing a game with fear and emotion.
 We have gone from approximately 60-lot multifamily configuration, ending up with a 21-lot single-family configuration based on feedback from the neighbors and the city. We need to consider facts. My family has spent years and a lot of money to make sure that we have a safe building site that is environmentally sound. We have worked with the neighborhood association as well as the city trying to accommodate both.
 It has been a long, hard road. However, with giving the extra time and money with experts, we have reports based on facts. When hearings officer Odom Ora looked at all the reports from two expert engineering companies, geotech experts, environmental experts,
 tree experts, and land use experts, he saw the facts and gave a favorable land use decision. In fact, Governor Kate Brown recently promoted Odomor to serve as a judge in the Multnomah County Circuit Court. Judge Odomor knows the facts as well as the law.
 I ask that you too would deny this appeal and affirm support for the hearings officer favorable land use decision based on facts, not fear. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Honorable Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Jennifer Edeline. Thank you for this opportunity to provide a statement in relation to the McAdam Ridge development.
 Today I'm here on behalf of my family, our business, as well as our community, in support of the affirmation of the Meccana Bridge development and in favor of denying the appeal. I also object to the manner in which the South Burlingame Neighborhood Association has handled this appeal. They have not accurately portrayed this development and driven out many of the people that are in favor of this development.
 As you know, Portland is now one of the top 25 largest cities in the country, as well as once again the number one city to relocate to, and rightfully so. It's beautiful and it has a lot to offer. As a human resources professional, I hear on a regular basis the challenges individuals face with their families in mind in finding quality and affordable housing in or close to the City of Portland. This development is a low-hanging fruit for the city to increase availability of homes for our community,
 As the population continues to increase, this development will assist increasing the supply of housing and reduce pressure on housing costs. Furthermore, benefits of this development, aside from the jobs it will create, are the opportunities to enable increased cultural and ethnic diversity amongst the neighboring community and the population as a whole.
 as well as the million dollars in tax revenues it will generate for the city to continue to fund many of the programs that positively impact the poor, vulnerable, and underrepresented men, women, and children of our community. I have no concerns about this development, as in it was carefully designed to provide the least impact to the environment and the adjacent residents. In fact, this development was crafted to preserve over 70% of land, which is delivered in the form of a donation of 10 acres of untouched land to the city.
 This preservation plan includes 1,400 trees as well as protecting Ruby and Stevens Creek. In addition, this development will not only preserve trees, it will also plant additional native trees while removing invasive plants. What I do have concerns about is if the decision of the hearings officer is not affirmed and the appeal is not denied, the impact and disappointment of the citizens directly and indirectly affected by the rejection of this housing solution.
 Today, I ask you to take this content of the statement in deep consideration as you look to move forward in affirming the McAdoo Bridge development and denying the appeal. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Griffith, I have two questions for you. One is, and maybe your attorney might want to answer the second question, but you mentioned that the houses would be priced in the...
 Middle income range? Yes. Is that the word you used? Okay. So, yeah, what does the middle income range mean? Well, the current houses on Ruby Terrace are in the $600,000 to $700,000 range, and I think it would be probably higher than that, probably $750,000 or thereabouts. We're not builders, but we've been told that approximately. So sort of...
 Two, three-bedroom, four-bedroom type homes? They would be probably a three-bedroom, I would think. I think we're talking in the neighborhood of 3,500 square feet. Okay. Two-story. And the other thing, our attorney, I guess, it came up at the beginning of this hearing that we have to make a decision today in order to stay within our state-mandated decision window. Is that what you want to see happen, a decision rendered today, or are you willing to give us more time to...
 Ponder it, Assume. Well, I mean, Mr. Odenhorst spent two months evaluating a plethora of evidence, and these documents that I brought in with me here represented some of the submittals over four years. I mean, this site has been heavily scrutinized. We spent hundreds of thousands of dollars. We don't want a bad decision because you want it made in a few minutes, but I don't know what the laws are about what the rules are.
 We certainly want this thing to end. I mean it's torturous and it's not beneficial to anyone
 to have to have us keep spending money to develop property and then have people just throw every rock they can find at it. And we've tried to make the neighbors happy. We've tried to make the city happy. We've talked to BDS. We've talked to BES. We've talked to the PBOT. We've talked to everyone. And we've spent many, many hours. And to come down to making a decision in an hour or two, I mean, it's pretty tough. I agree. It's tough. Yeah.
 Thank you. Thank you. Next, please. Excuse me, Mayor. Sorry. Mr. Griffith, before you leave, you had been reading your testimony from a letter dated January 31st, and I think there are a few things in there that were not previously in the record, so I want to identify them as things that council is rejecting. So pretty clearly none of us knew that Judge Oden Orr was going to be appointed, so anything relating to his appointment was not in the record before, correct? Correct.
 Okay. Okay. And the other is it's been brought to my attention by the appellant's attorney, that information about the SBNAs, the language relating to exercise in democracy, to board vote-only body with extreme agenda, and the location of where SBNA board members live, but that was also not in the record before the hearing started. I disagree. They submitted letters, and they included their address, and those are in the record, and I've thoroughly examined the record.
 Okay. In terms of the SB&A becoming a board vote-only body, was that in the record before the hearings officer? Yes, it's in the record because the minutes were in the record, and the records record the number of votes. Before the hearings officer? I'm sorry? The record before the hearings officer.
 That's what's relevant, is what evidence was placed before the hearing. Well, it was part of the appeal process. When they applied for their fee waiver, they included a vote. So that would have come after the hearing's officer's decision. Therefore, it would be evidence that's not in the appeal. I will just identify in the decision portions of this to strike that are information that came about after. But we don't need to wordsmith it line by line right now. Out of traction. Thank you.
 The last three are Anna Griffith, Robert Griffith, and Jacqueline Griffith. Welcome. Three minutes. Name for the record, please. Hi. I'm Anna Griffith, and honorable council members and Mr. Mayor, the planning of this development has been going for over four years now. City rules indicate that maximum number of lots available for the site are 52 lots. Thank you.
 In September of 2015, the applicant voluntarily reduced the proposed development from 46 to 23 lots in the hope of gaining approval of the neighbors and to reduce environmental impacts. We listened to the neighbors and downsized the development in half. Later, neighbors wanted more space between the new development and their homes. We heard them, and we added a buffer green zone.
 The thing that we never heard from our neighbors was a thank you for your consideration. Twelve different alternatives were explored for this development, and the best one was selected with the least environmental impact. Unfortunately, the neighbors opposed every one of their alternatives, including multifamily designs. The development footprint is in the flatter part on the side, away from the canyon and a good distance from the Stevens Creek.
 In the final alternative, lots were reduced from 23 to 21 lots to be sensitive to the comments of the staff and to reduce environmental impact. We hire highly trained professionals to make sure that development is safe and environmentally friendly. Several GEO tech expert reports are in the record, and the city staff agree that these conclusions are the site for safe building.
 The neighbors are playing on people's feelings and fears, ignoring the fact that they have been in the record and the site is safe for building. Neighbors state in their own opinion, but do not have any expert reports or testimony in the record for geotech issues. The application met all the criteria in all areas, and that is why the hearing officer approved this application. In conclusion,
 I'd like to say that there is really nothing new was said today. It is more of the same thing. The neighbors have not made any arguments to overturn the decision of the hearing officer. He confirmed that we have met all the approval criteria based on evidence in the record. Honorable Council Members and Mr. Mayor.
 A respectful request that you deny the appeal and uphold the decision of the approval of the hearing officer. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Robert Griffith, and honorable council members, thank you for taking your time. It's been a long day. I'm here to express my family's enthusiastic support of this decision, the approval by the hearings officer. This is an environmentally sensitive development by any objective standard.
 It marks an appropriate conclusion of a very lengthy process that's been very draining upon our family and our team. The design team has much expertise, environmental, geotech, trees, traffic, engineering, and they've met all the approval criteria. This comes as a great joy to us and our family, having held this property for 70 years, because we want it done right.
 The hearing was fair and everyone had the opportunity to be heard. The hearings officer was very attentive to everything that the neighbors said. He listened to them carefully. He was engaged. He asked follow-up questions. Their input was heard and considered. After two and a half months' time,
 to go through all this information, he was able to come to his decision and was based on substantial evidence in the record. On page 35, he indicated that significantly different alternatives were required, and it was based on information in the record, and that there likely could be no practicable alternatives that would be less detrimental to the identified resources and functional values than the preferred alternative.
 Also, he indicated that there's substantial evidence in the record that environmental review can be met with conditions. There are many merits to this plan. I'd like to highlight a couple. One, this fundamentally, this plan honors the base zoning for the site, which is residential opportunity, but it does it in an environmentally sensitive manner. We're talking about developing just four lots, 29.5% of the site,
 in giving the rest of the site for permanent protection to the city of Portland. I don't think you see that very often, where 70% of the site is being given to the city of Portland. That includes many valuable assets, Stevens Creek, Ruby Creek, and the forest. 1,400 trees, significant upland trees are being preserved on the north portion of the property. Many large and significant trees
 are there. Also, there's extensive mitigation that's been there in the conditions. It doesn't appear that the SB&A or their council saw them because there's some 799 trees, 12,297 shrubs, Douglas fir, Oregon grape, and many things that will improve the forest understory. This is going to be a beautiful place when it's all done. A vibrant new neighborhood.
 We respectfully request that you deny the appeal and allow the hearings officer approval to stand. Thank you for your time. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I am here on behalf of my family, our business, and community in support of the McAdam Ridge development and denial of the appeal. I believe that development will have a positive impact in improving the housing shortage in Portland and has limited impact to the environment.
 As a fourth generation affiliated with ownership of the land and family operation of the Riverview Abbey, I'm here to defend my great-grandfather's dreams in building this development before he became ill. Please take this statement in consideration when making a decision and affirming the hearings officer's decision of approving this development and denying the appeal. Thank you so much. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Was there three more? I'm sorry. That's all who signed up. That's all. Very good. Okay. If they so choose, there's an opportunity for a rebuttal by the appellate. Five minutes. Thank you. For the record, again, my name is Carrie Richter, and I represent South Burlingame.
 The appellants. I just want to clear up a couple of facts. There's been some questions about the number of trees that are going to be removed. H100B is the November 3, 2017 shot study that the applicant prepared. It said there will be 505 trees removed. 478 of them are native. The applicant has proposed to plant 350 trees.
 There wasn't enough room on the site to plant enough trees to make the city's mitigation requirement work, so they've proposed to plant understory. I think that our position on all of that is what does that do to the wildlife? What does that do to the corridor that exists in the West Hills here for the movement of animals? We don't know.
 We've got this corridor. I think the evidence showed that we have this corridor. And the applicant, instead of pushing the development as far towards the existing development as possible, in other words, making these lots 3 through 8 as shallow as possible...
 Pushing lots back into what we call the transition area, which is the area that's on the edge of a conservation zone. Moving those lots back could have made the actual open space remainder bigger. Instead, we've cut a hole right through the middle of this corridor. This is the kind of clustering, this is the kind of alternative that we're talking about here. We're talking about...
 Moving roads, reducing the width of Front Street or otherwise changing. Front Street is the street where the 54-inch tree is. We're talking about reducing the width of that road, figuring out a way to relocate some of these houses to allow the environmental resources to remain. And those are the kinds of things that, alternatives that were not considered.
 The applicant talks about the 11 alternatives and that there was a multifamily proposal included. That multifamily proposal was for 42 lots, 2,500 square feet a lot.
 with eight single-family lots and a bigger disturbance area. So, of course, that multifamily alternative is going to have greater impact on the natural resources than the 21 lots that are now proposed.
 I want to talk a little bit about whether or not there's anything that the neighbors would be satisfied with. I think that you've heard a testimony after testimony today from members of the Neighborhood Association that they understand that this land will be developed and that there is a development that is appropriate. Is it a development that is compatible with and fits within the...
 is visually subordinate and allows the wildlife corridor to continue to remain. And that is what the finding that the hearings officer didn't make. The applicant talked about how they were able to produce expert testimony and that the expert testimony was what was relied on by the hearings officer making the decision.
 I would be remiss if I didn't point out that the neighborhood association tried to get expert testimony to counter that testimony and was intimidated out of producing it. So it's not as though the hearings officer was able to weigh expert testimony on both sides because the neighborhood's testimony was silenced.
 I've talked a little bit about the ability to reconfigure this neighborhood, to reconfigure this slightly. And I think that that's the point that staff was making and I think it's the point that a lot of people have made is that this development just isn't fully baked yet. We haven't evaluated the disturbance area.
 The hearings officer couldn't find that the disturbance area was certain at this point, so he had to impose conditions. And our concern is that the imposition of conditions could alter the disturbance area and impact the mitigation. And there are a number of LUBA cases that say you cannot defer a discretionary determination to a further hearing without providing notice and opportunity to participate. Okay.
 So if these decisions are going to be made in the future, the public should have an opportunity to participate. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer any questions, and I appreciate your time. Commissioner Saltzman. So your clients would support the clustered...
 proposal that you just articulated a few seconds ago? No, because the disturbance area was bigger. I think we would support a cluster development that had a similar disturbance area. Again, that is, that complements... The option you just described of narrowing lots three through eight
 Clustering the development is not an option that your clients support? They would support it, I believe. Oh, they would support that? No, because I think that would allow for a greater protection of the resource. I mean, again, that wasn't one of the alternatives that was proposed. That was not one of the 10 or 11 that was proposed? Commissioner Fritz, did you have a question? No, thanks. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Did you have a question?
 Okay, good. So, colleagues, we are at the end of what I would describe as the public participation part. The conversation can go in any number of directions. We know what the various alternatives are. We can close the record if that is our thinking. What I'd recommend is maybe to help.
 focus the conversation or shape the conversation if I could get a sense of what people are thinking at this particular stage, having heard all of the testimony and the evidence both sides. It is extremely unusual for us to get a case like this where five city bureaus are saying no, recommending that they don't have the information that they need to support the application. And I've
 I can't remember how the scene, it's not in the record, but the current hearings officer's decision copies and pastes from the application or from the applicant's assertions to a remarkable degree. I can't find where the hearings officer says that this can be addressed with a condition of approval. There are places where I can't find that condition of approval, in particular with the landslide hazards and the
 grading that would be necessary for that. I'm also very concerned about the trees, both the street trees that are not present. Thank you, Miss Andrews. But particularly the biggest tree on the lot, which was pointed out, is under the Southwest Hills Protection Plan and the Environmental...
 review criteria, we're supposed to consider which the subdivision, the whole plot is supposed to look at preserving the most significant resources and it seems that that has not happened. Instead this hearings officer has given a condition of approval that the city forester has to approve tree removal. Well the city forester has said no we shouldn't be removing that tree. So I'd
 that it has been a long process for everyone. I am not convinced that the alternatives analysis has been fully vetted. I would be willing to approve the environmental violation review, which would mean that the restoration could start taking place. And then I believe that the applicants and the neighbourhoods should maybe go to a mediation for a new application that fully involves the staff right from the beginning rather than...
 the hearings officer having to make multiple determinations based on evidence that's submitted very, very late in the process. Thank you, Commissioner. Anybody else? I guess if I'm forced to make a decision today, I would try to get to a win-win decision. I think there was a lot of merit, obviously, in what the neighbors had to say about their concerns, but I also found a lot of merit in what the Griffith family had to say about their efforts to make something work here. And I think that if I was...
 if the other members of council were supportive and not it's legal for us to do that i would specify that we save the 54-inch tree as a condition of approval that we require the the clustered development that narrows lots three through eight as being the the chosen option and i would support that i think there is a need for housing in the city and i'm you know i i do agree with that we want people to be able to live and work in the city
 And I think there's a lot of merit in the proposal in terms of replacing sanitary sewers in Ruby Creek and protecting Stevens Creek further. So, yeah, I think there's merits to both sides, and that's what I would propose as conditions of approval. Commissioner Fish? So, Mayor, someone mentioned this has been a long day. The council started at 9.30, but...
 I don't remember a more thoughtful set of presentations, and I also appreciated all the testimony. And even when we have a long day like this, I find these land use proceedings fascinating because we're getting at fundamental questions about the kind of city we want to live in and the future of our city. When we are called upon to make a decision because we're up against a clock or because we have to, this body has demonstrated time and time again they're willing to make a decision.
 I am frequently surprised by where we end up, which is another way of saying it's an honest process where everyone comes, listens to the testimony, and gives their best judgment. So I defy anyone to handicap the outcome of these kinds of things because we come with an open mind, and often the discussion that we have as colleagues shapes the final outcome. If I am required today to vote on this, I will vote to uphold the appeal.
 And I will do so largely on the basis of what Commissioner Fritz just identified, and I thought it was the most compelling part of Ms. Richter's closing. It was the last thing she said. There are simply too many Bureau conditions that have been deferred that require discretionary actions which will have to be decided, perhaps or not decided, because the Bureaus may not, under a feasibility analysis, reach any kind of agreement. And those decisions will not be subject to any further hearing in public testimony.
 And Commissioner Fritz is absolutely right. There's a difference between putting conditions of approval that are sort of plain vanilla and simply punting on a whole host of things where the bureaus have significant disagreements about the project and expecting at some point it will be deferred, like, for example, BES on the feasibility of a stormwater facility in the disturbance area.
 It's a very big deal, and if I learned anything, that has potentially significant impact on the stability of the site and some of the consequences to neighbors. So if I have to vote today, Mayor, I would vote to uphold the appeal. I may do it on a narrower basis than Commissioner Fritz has proposed, and she's historically been the expert on this panel on these matters, so I would follow her lead on what we would be upholding. I think what Commissioner Saltzman has proposed...
 as potentially a win-win always has merit. I am reluctant to decide here in my seat what should be the elements of a deal acceptable to the neighborhood and the developer. I just, while I respect Dan has listened carefully and is in good faith offering a path forward.
 I think we've had more success getting in those situations where there is a genuine willingness to reach an agreement. We've had more success in the past simply calling a timeout, getting an agreement to stop the clock, which is at the applicant's discretion, and then either setting up a mediation or a process where it comes back to us knowing we are going to decide the case. So the incentive is either you work it out or there's going to be a binary choice, and you may or may not like it.
 And so we've done that. So, Mayor, if I am required to vote, I will vote to uphold the appeal largely on the grounds that Commissioner Fritz has articulated. And I think Ms. Richter made very clear in her closing statement. My preference always is to have the parties reach their own mediated agreement because it's more sustainable. And I think there was a lot of nodding in this room when someone said that if not this development, there will be some future development, that we're not going to stop this –
 One cannot stop development on this property. The question is what's the character of the development and how is it done? So I would welcome an opportunity to have the parties have some further dialogue, but that solely rests with the appellant, excuse me, is that right? The applicant. The applicant, because only the applicant can waive the clock that we're under. And if we don't have additional time, then the council will, as we do in any case where we're required to, will render a decision. Commissioner, are you daily?
 I'm agreeing with Commissioner Fritz and Fish. I have significant concerns about the wildlife corridor, about the landslide issues, the trees. And it seems like almost everyone today has been saying things that were not previously in the records. I'm hesitant.
 to say this, but if... I do want to say I'm disappointed to hear that multifamily was rejected. If we are going to have a sincere conversation about affordable housing and increasing our housing stock and density, then multifamily shouldn't be off the table, but frankly, $750,000, 3,500-square-foot homes are...
 are not going to help either. So yeah, that's where I'm at. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, you wanted to speak. I appreciate all the comments of my colleagues and I know the mayor hasn't had a turn yet. I just wanted to weigh in again and say that this, we get one application fee and the staff has put an enormous amount of work into this basically pro bono at this point that the taxpayers have been funding all of our staff's work. And it's,
 not possible to condition an approval based on saving that tree because the entire subdivision is based on having the street in that location. I would also agree, concur with Commissioner Udaly, and in fact, I would also, I'd go further and
 I asked the question at the beginning about the definition of the site, and my trustee staff gave me the information from the zoning code, saying that the applicant can choose to define the site as the portion of ownership that is proposed for development. There is actually more property that's in the same ownership that is further towards the northeast side,
 that might be appropriate for some multifamily units that would be much closer to McAdam that would have better sight lines on Taylor's Ferry. And so I believe that the best option is to start over with the understanding that I'm hearing from everybody that something should go on this property and that there needs to be a very good faith working together, recognising that we certainly... I don't think anybody wants to get to this point again...
 whether it's quickly or slowly. We want to get a better design that has full engagement by everybody from the beginning. I agree with the thrust of my colleagues. And so as the applicant, you can count the votes. And my suspicion is you don't want us to take the vote today. But it's your call. And so if you're willing to take another swing at this, this is your call. I happen to agree with a lot of the public value concerns.
 that you've put on the table. There is a significant amount of public value being put on the table. I am very concerned about the city's own process, and I'll have a different conversation with different people about that at a different time. But it is very notable that we had a hearings officer come to a conclusion with so many critical city bureaus still not confident in the answers that had been provided.
 And in my opinion, that is an unacceptable place to land. And I'm not willing to leave the unanswered or the open or the ambiguous questions to chance. They're too significant in my mind. So we can take the vote and we can go home. Or if you'd like.
 Commissioner Fritz? I just would like to get staff's assessment on the feasibility of just continuing this process versus starting over.
 because I'm very concerned about the precedent we set. I don't think it needs to start over. I think my – It looks like – Dan, after – If we vote to uphold the appeal, then it either starts over or gets appealed. Yeah, that's correct. Dan, just listening to the – and weighing the evidence came up with one possible reasonable solution. I'm not saying that is the solution, but –
 I don't think you have to start from ground zero. I think there's an opportunity here, as Dan said, for a win-win. But, again, it's not our call. That's the applicant's call. Assistant Attorney wants to say something. Generally speaking, we don't really like to give you legal advice that –
 boxes you, I want to make sure you have reasonable options. I'm a little concerned on this particular case. We often, as you mentioned, we often give the parties the opportunity to go back, talk, figure out another option. In this particular case, state law has some limitations on how many extensions we may grant, and we're there. And if the applicant wishes to
 Talk about that, that's fine, but I want to make sure that's on the record. Fair enough. We had a request for staff, city staff, to come back, please. Commissioner Fritz. I just would like your experienced assessment of the question of staff time and whether it would be better to start over or to try to amend this proposal. Can you try to speak to that again on Kate Green? Is your microphone on, Kate? Yeah, it is. On. Oh, there you go. There we go.
 As a reminder, this isn't on the record hearing, so there really isn't the opportunity to accept new evidence, such as an alternative new plan that hasn't been presented or discussed or evaluated. And the plan that was mentioned as far as clustering and modifying to preserve a tree or other trees, that plan isn't in the record, and there's been no evaluation of such a plan yet.
 And I believe that a new application would be necessary to undertake that evaluation. I think that's right. I think it's cleaner, too. I mean, it says – I think, Mayor, it was useful to hear from a number of people that development is inevitable. So this is not a question of holding back progress forever. But if –
 Given the state of the record and the fact that so many bureaus have hedged their bet and deferred doing analysis, landing on some of the questions that they were asked, I think in some ways it's more productive to go back to square one, have a different set of alternatives presented with a friendly admonition that should it ever come back to us, it is not helpful to our determination to have both sides agree.
 say disparaging things about each other. And I would say to those who are opponents of whatever is being proposed, I think we all ought to adhere to high standards of how we engage in these processes. And likewise, when we have the other side commenting on a hearing officer or the level of behavior, that doesn't help us make a decision. When we have records in the evidence about e-mails that are open to interpretation, that does not help us reach a decision.
 What helps us reach a decision is have the parties, has the applicant put a reasonable proposal on the table? Does it conformity with state law? Has there been an honest engagement of the neighborhood? And then and only then does it come to us if there's something to be resolved. That this body would much prefer to have those decisions decided by the applicant and the community that's impacted. And usually we get better outcomes when that happens. I have two cents. Thank you.
 So I move that we approve the appeal of the South Burlingame Neighbourhood Association against the hearings officer's decision to approve with conditions McAdam Ridge, a 21 lot subdivision, environmental review with modifications, but approve the environmental review section of this application. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz. We have a second from Commissioner Fish. Did I state it correctly, City Attorney? Yes. I think you said...
 You want to approve the environmental violation review. I think you said... Did I not say that? I think you said the environmental review. Oh, sorry. Thank you.
 Let me try again. It's very late. I'm reading from a paper and I literally did not do it correctly. Uphold the appeal of the South Burlingame Neighbourhood Association against the hearings officer's decision to approve with conditions McAdam Ridge, a 21-month subdivision, environmental withdrew with modifications.
 Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz. And then approve the environmental review. Violation review. Violation. Council, what do you want us to do? I did it again. So the environmental violation review. Thank you. Got there. So, Sean, would it be possible to put that language up on the screen from your staff report? Is that too challenging? Oh, that would be very, very helpful. I was trying to find that and I couldn't at this hour. Dig that out.
 Was there a second to mine? Mission. While you're finding that, I would just note that the applicant gets to choose at the very beginning of the process whether this appeal was on the record or not, and that's why we're in this situation. And to be clear, it's a tentative vote, and we'll be coming back with findings next Wednesday morning. Thank you. It's the 14th, right? Yeah. Thank you.
 So, Commissioner Fritz, are you identifying the fourth motion as your motion? The one that's currently highlighted. With the exception of approval, yes, that's the one. So perhaps we could get a new second because the language has changed a bit. We need to update the second. It's getting a little time. All right.
 So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz. We have a second from Commissioner Udailey. We'll take a tentative vote. This is a tentative vote. The final vote would be next Wednesday, February 14th, during the council's a.m. session. Call the roll. We need to state the time. Yes, we need a time certain, please. It will be 1130. 1130, February 14th, will be the final vote. I'm sorry. One time certain.
 11. I've got a couple other items here. And by the way, given our recent history, Mayor, I think we should let people know that's probably closer to 12. Or three. So this is a tentative vote. The final vote will be on February 14th, Wednesday, 11 a.m., Portland City Hall. Be there. On the tentative vote, call the roll.
 Fritz. This has been a really great hearing. Lots of really good testimony, very well organised. I'm very, very impressed with everybody who spoke. Thank you to the staff. I know that you have worked really hard to try to get to. Yes, I do believe that this property will be developed and I think everybody's aware of that. So I think there's a lot of scope. It's a big property. There's lots of different parts of it. I hope that when...
 I hope it doesn't come back on appeal because I hope you can get to something that can be approved by the hearings officer. If it does, then I will be looking for significantly different alternatives that greatly reduce the disturbance area, do look after the values of the upland forest. I think
 I think that was part of the testimony that was very compelling to me, is that the resource values identified in the Southwest Hills Protection Plan include values of the Upland Forest by itself rather than just as protectors of the creeks.
 And I also am very concerned about the landslide hazards. Usually, given that the whole of West Portland is in a landslide hazard area, I don't give much credence to that. I think the testimony that was presented today and that's in the record is compelling, that this site needs particularly careful evaluation for both the streets and the lots to see improvements.
 to make sure that landslide hazards is diminished both during construction and afterwards. And to me, that would entail retaining some of the trees both during and after construction. Fish? I want to echo what my colleague just said. I think this has been an exemplary hearing. I think it's important that we acknowledge the Griffith family legacy of how they have managed this property and the business.
 It is my hope that as a result of our action that there can be some resolution of the differences and a proposal that gets approval. I would hope this does not come back to us, assuming this is not appealed. If it does, I too will be looking closely at impact on trees, impact on the wildlife corridor that the Olmstead brothers over 100 years ago identified as one of the most significant natural features of the west side. Thank you.
 erosion control and impact and mitigation measures, and how the stormwater is managed on site. Hi. Saltsman. Well, I – excuse me.
 Well, I see heads nodding about this property will ultimately be developed. I'm not sure I'm totally convinced. That's the sentiment of everybody who may be most affected by development of this tract of property. And that's just kind of the way we are in Portland. Intellectually, we all accept growth and density and all that, but when it comes right down to something in our backyard, it's an entirely different issue. So I'm not going to impugn anybody's motives here, but I will say this.
 that I think we're better off having this property developed by the Griffith family than some out-of-town developer from California that's going to swoop this up if the Griffith family tosses their hands up and says, we can't do anything with it, you try. And they're going to have a lot more resources to bear, and I think this council has spoken, just about everybody here, saying we see this being developed too. So I think it's just a question, it's,
 My admonition to everybody here is you should come up with a solution that works with the Griffith family. I think that's the best bet to environmentally sensitive development that will provide homeownership opportunities. Now, I would like to see a multifamily option considered as much as anybody else because it does speak more to the affordable housing crisis. But as I said earlier, homeownership is a good thing, period, for people to be able to live near where they work.
 So that's where I'm coming down. I'm going to support the appeal at this point, but this isn't going to go away, and I think the neighbors are best dealing with the current owners of the property to come up with something. And I think the current owners of the property have gone a long ways, I think, towards offering some options here that do provide public open space as well as environmentally sensitive development. It's not totally there.
 I'd like to save that tree. But it's probably closer than we're going to get with some out-of-town ownership coming in to develop this piece of property. Aye. Udaly? As is often the case with these land use hearings, it's really preferable –
 if opposing sides can come to an amenable agreement. Because as Commissioner Saltzman mentioned, sometimes there's a much less desirable alternative than what either side is hoping for. So I vote aye, and I hope this can move forward. I want to thank Dan for setting the right tone.
 which is we want to get to a yes, win, win on this. And I want to acknowledge the Griffin family. You are an old Portland family. You have contributed mightily and positively to this community, and you've put some wonderful ideas on the table. And to the community, I would say this. You've raised very reasonable objections today, compelling objections.
 objections in terms of where we are today. It is my view that this is a complex site for obvious reasons. It has all the overlay issues, but ultimately it is a developable site, and it is my belief that it will be developed eventually.
 And so now the question is simply how do we shape that development and where do we take it from here? So I hope all of us can take this as a serious challenge, rise to the occasion, and get to the point where we are saying yes.
 So I concur with my colleagues on this. Thank you for everybody who is here today. I know that ultimately there are many people disappointed by this decision today, but I think it is the right decision for today. I vote aye. The motion is approved 5-0. We are adjourned.