Yes, I am. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Thursday, February 1st, 2018 session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Here. Wheeler? Here. Wheeler?
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also ensure the decorum is maintained for all of us. There are two opportunities.
 for public participation. Excuse me, today there is one opportunity for public participation. If you want to sign up for public testimony, please do so outside. There's a little table. Otherwise, please, like Carla, know that you'd like to testify. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. Thank you.
 When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up, and when your time is done, the red light comes on. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that any further disruption occurs. Anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest immediately.
 for trespass. If you want to show your support for something, thumbs up. If you don't like something, thumbs down. In this chamber, we do not catcall people. We do not hiss. We don't make comments about them behind their backs. We assume that when people come to the microphone, not everybody has the same opinion. So let's all just be respectful of other people and give them the opportunity that they have earned to speak their opinion. So...
 So with that cheerful note, please read the first item, Carla. Item 109, adopt the allocation methodology for the local transportation infrastructure charge, establish a maximum fee, amend charge required code, and direct staff to develop additional components of Neighborhood Streets Program. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Since we last met on this topic in early December, I'm going to take a moment to thank the committee for their support.
 Staff have been meeting with you, you being the council, and making updates to the original exhibits. Therefore, I'd like to withdraw the amendment from December 6th and offer the substitute Exhibit A and the substitute Exhibit C in front of you. Any objection? Okay. Not seeing any objection, the substitute is accepted. Thank you. And have we had that prior to today? Have we had what? The substitute. The substitute.
 Has that been circulated prior to just now? Yes. Yes, it has. Additionally, I'd like to add to the record a letter of intent dated January 21st or January 24th, 2018, and that's also before you. And staff will now review these updates and additions. So...
 Please introduce yourselves and take it away. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, Mayor Wheeler, and the rest of City Council. My name is Anne Hill, and I work for the Portland Bureau of Transportation as a program manager in the development, permitting, and transit section. I'm here with my colleague, Kurt Kruger. Introduce yourself. Kurt Kruger, transportation.
 Kruger Transportation Division Manager for Development Services. He's going to be in charge of the slideshow and also up here to answer any of your questions. Today I will briefly review highlights from the December hearing presentation, including providing some background reviewing the LTIC maximum, the allocation methodology, and the additional code updates that we have made since then. I will then close the presentation and open it up for questions.
 So really quick, we did go over this in December, but how big is this problem? Again, it has been decades in the making resulting from annexation. While Portland has had these 250 miles of unimproved residential side streets for decades, the cost of the city's backlog of transportation projects is far greater than the city's available transportation funding.
 This requires the city to prioritize our transportation investments, and the city has done so with grants and opportunities that prioritize projects that carry more people, shift modes, and achieve the goals of Vision Zero. The LTIC was developed to specifically address one aspect of the city's problem with unimproved residential streets. The fact that infill development was occurring throughout the city –
 and in many situations was not contributing anything to solve the city's infrastructure problem, other than signing waivers of remonstrance. The LTIC guaranteed that all new development would contribute to solving the problem through paying a fee, unless frontage improvements were made on site. The LTIC is not an in-lieu fee, it's not a tax, and it is not an SDC. Instead, the LTIC is a transaction fee.
 So just as a refresher, applied to single dwelling zones on local service streets, the charge is $600 per linear foot based on the total linear frontage of the property adjacent to the local service traffic street. As of July 2017, $1.8 million had been collected. This map before you shows the collections by Neighborhood Coalition.
 The estimated cost to improve all 250 miles of unimproved local residential streets citywide is $1.5 billion. That calculates to $6.3 million a mile. Thus, the LTIC revenue by itself will only be sufficient to address a very small fraction of the city's unimproved local service streets.
 When the city adopted the LTIC, the city council directed that all LTIC revenue would not be spent until council approved an allocation methodology, specifically how decisions will be made in the future on expending the LTIC. So today, what we are asking support for is the LTIC maximum, and then several updates we'll go through with you later.
 that are code amendments, so the low-income owner-occupied exemption, the appeals process and finance option, the LTIC allocation methodology, and the code amendments. As we discussed in December, PBOT found that LTIC to pose a financial impediment to residential development for a small subset of properties with abnormally large frontages on unimproved streets, especially corner lots.
 the LTIC maximum establishes zone-specific per lot maximum numbers to the LTIC. While it is anticipated that revenue could be impacted by 25%, because many projects are on hold as a result of this fee, we anticipate some of those projects being implemented, thereby neutralizing the impact of the maximum. Staff has spent...
 The past two months addressing several equity concerns of the LTIC charge through changes in code. And I believe in your exhibits, the highlighted sections are the ones that we added since December. The first code and rule update is an owner-occupied low-income exemption to complement the affordable housing exemption under consideration.
 In this case, a low-income applicant intending to live in the house or on the property may request an exemption for development of a property on which their primary residence is located if the applicant has a gross income of less than 50% of the area median income as established by HUD.
 This process and its requirements are consistent with the Bureau of Development Services administrative rules for low-income fee waivers for land use review applications. The second code and rule update is to allow LTIC exemptions to be appealed to the PBOT Administrative Review Committee. Notice will be provided pursuant to City Code Chapter 3.130. What is the PBOT Administrative Review Committee?
 Commissioner Fritz, when we did the co-location reforms in 2009, we created two appeal processes that I think you're familiar with. The appeal panel, which includes members of the public, and then the appeal board was the chief engineers.
 We, after about two years of working with those two groups, decided that there needed to be an administrative level review that is composed of section managers from transportation, water, and BES. And so we vet most appeals today through that group, and only a small segment worked their way up through that. So we proposed that administrative review group to be the representative.
 the review in this exemption process. And that's within transportation? And is it staff only or are the citizens on it? It's staff only. Finally, the code will allow staff to promulgate rules to establish a financing mechanism for LTIC applicants to consider. So now we've covered the LTIC maximum, which we talked about in December, and the code and rule updates that we've made since the hearing. Okay.
 Now we're going to turn to the Neighborhood Streets Framework, specifically the blue section on your screen, the LTIC financed improvements. But quickly, moving clockwise from the blue section, the remaining three elements of this chart, the maintenance of 50 miles of dirt and gravel streets, pedestrian improvements for under-improved residential collectors, and residential local improvement district, or LID, enhancements,
 will not be funded using LTIC funds. Instead, PBOT is committed to working toward identifying different revenue sources for these elements in the future.
 And what was the rationale for not allowing LTIC to be used for the neighborhood collector pedestrian improvements? We can use the LTIC funds for the neighborhood collectors. It's just there's so many neighborhood collectors that we also feel that we need to continue to work on specifically addressing those. So they absolutely are allowed to be used. We can use LTIC funds. There's just not enough funds to address that issue, and we wanted to keep that issue at a forefront. Thank you.
 So moving on to the LTIC allocation strategy, as reviewed in December, the team used the outreach process to answer a series of questions before you related to finance and budgeting of the funds, what types of streets these residents wanted to live on, so sidewalks, pedestrian improvements, stormwater, and how to select the projects.
 This feedback was used to develop a set of clear and equitable principles to guide future decisions on funding allocations, street standards, along with the allocation methodology for project selection. I did want to remind you of the Bureau of Environmental Services' partnership with PBOT on LTIC-funded projects because of the recognition of stormwater volume that originates from streets.
 the portion of capital costs for local street improvements related to stormwater management, and the limited availability of LTIC funding. Any BES funding contributions would be directed towards stormwater system benefits. This partnership will include a financing structure to accelerate project timing and provide long-term program certainty by combining resources citywide rather than geographically segregating pots of money.
 So the city may be able to improve 1.5 to 3 miles of streets every 10 years leveraging the LTIC funds. The second area of program development related to the types of streets the city would complete.
 Since Council has adopted alternate transportation and stormwater standards to be used on select streets, and community feedback supported a desired flexibility when addressing safety, mobility, and feasibility, LTIC-funded projects will use a standard strategy adopted from the Tryon-Stevens Neighborhood Plan to match the best option to the street segment being reviewed. Thank you.
 After all, not every street needs two sidewalks and a traditional street standard. However, stormwater, pedestrian improvements, and traffic calming elements are the priority.
 With the financing model and street standards matrix in place, the third leg is the design of the allocation methodology for project selection. Again, this methodology is intended to be repeatable, anticipating recurring rounds every 10 years of capital investment.
 So the slide before you shows the allocation methodology does stay consistent with the city's equity goals, ADA requirements, and adopted neighborhood transportation and stormwater plans. It responds to public input, seeks to leverage other available funding sources, and uses the best available data and methods for identifying high-priority transportation and stormwater improvements.
 The LTIC allocation methodology establishes three fundamental criteria to determine a short list of the highest priority unimproved local residential streets projects to be funded with LTIC.
 The first criteria is equity to prioritize improvements that are in areas with high concentrations of underserved populations to ensure that everyone has access to opportunities necessary to satisfy their essential needs, advance their well-being, and achieve their full potential. This was reinforced by results of the online community survey and was especially true for Portlanders who responded to the survey in languages other than English.
 The second criteria is effectiveness. To prioritize projects that support connectivity and fill critical gaps in the city's transportation and stormwater infrastructure. Effectiveness for transportation emphasizes roadways that can serve as safe, ADA accessible, multi-modal connections to neighborhood parks, schools, transit, and nearby amenities.
 Residents on unimproved streets that participated in focus groups placed a high priority on projects that will make the most positive impact on the transportation and stormwater systems.
 The final criteria is efficiency. So to prioritize projects that are consistent with adopted plans, informed by the results of robust community involvement efforts, cognizant of other related CIP improvements occurring in the city, and that make efficient use of limited city resources by leveraging other funds.
 So the allocation methodology establishes these three long-term guiding principles for project selection, driving database decisions and city need. But what does the allocation methodology look like for the 2018-2028 funding cycle? Beginning with equity, we will use three of the factors from the Transportation System Plan, or TSP process, the percentage of low-income households, the percentage of communities of color, and the percentage of runners.
 The areas were scored with three factors, being the darkest gray if you had three and zero for the factors if you had zero factors. To better identify where these communities are, we used block level versus census tract data because it's more granular. Addressing effectiveness, the connectivity factors we considered include safe routes to schools, bike routes, pedestrian routes, and proximity to transit.
 So these streets were scored, and projects must score a 4 or a 5 to be considered. It should be noted that the metrics for determining stormwater priorities are yet to be determined, awaiting refinement of the new spatial data sets for stormwater infrastructure on residential side streets. And finally, efficiency. So after we looked at the first and the second criteria, we still have too many streets. There's far too many streets than there is funding.
 So the third thing we looked at was efficiency. Together with the neighborhoods, three neighborhood street plans, Cully, Division Midway, and Tryon Stevens, were developed focusing on quiet residential streets. These plans develop strategies for improving local traffic streets in single-family neighborhoods.
 These three neighborhood street plan areas contain multiple miles of unimproved residential side streets that are also high priorities for transportation connectivity and with high concentrations of underserved populations.
 Finally, before you in your packet is a letter of intent the Commissioner referenced in his introduction. In response to Commissioner Fritz's questions during the December hearing regarding the areas in Southwest that would be under consideration for the 2018-2028 allocation for project selection, staff reviewed the findings of the equity analysis and will extend the LTIC target area in Southwest Portland slightly south to include the neighborhood with the highest equity score.
 And so when you're looking at the map in front of you, it's the bottom darkest blue section. And for the purposes of this map, we did include the blue are the LTIC eligible streets. Those are the streets where currently the funds are being collected. And you can also see the orange streets, which are the neighborhood collectors. So those would also be streets that would be considered when we were looking at how we would allocate the money.
 As a quick reminder, for 2018 to 2028 round of LTIC project selection, PBOT NBES staff will first identify appropriate LTIC-funded projects in southwest Portland within the expanded boundary by including the consideration of eligible neighborhood collectors without curbs, the use of alternate street standards, and coordinating with other city capital projects.
 Once staff apply this same process within the Cully and Midway division boundaries, those proposals will be reviewed with the respective neighborhood coalitions and associations to solicit feedback before coming to Council with the financing package. In closing, we ask for your consideration and approval of this LTIC maximum, associated code amendments, and the allocation methodology for the purpose of expending LTIC revenues.
 Additionally, we ask for your consideration and direction to further develop the Neighborhood Streets Program, specifically the development of a maintenance program for ongoing grade and gravel of gravel streets, a proposal on development of the 2018-19 budget, and support for the letter of intent to expand the Tryon-Stevens project area for consideration of the allocation.
 This concludes this afternoon's presentation. PBOT staff, Christine, Leon, Kurt, myself, Jody Yates are here, along with BES staff, Ivy Dunlap, and Tiberius Solutions Principal Nick Popanuck are here and available for questions. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? Could you please go back to the map of the whole city with the equity scoring?
 So after that one. I think you have to go before it. Yeah. No, it's like three from the end of the presentation. Do you want the one of Chion Stevens? The one before that, please. So that's one, but one before that. Okay, so I appreciate that you've added the most vulnerable area in southwest Portland. Mm-hmm.
 The map also clearly shows that there are three most... ..that the number three most vulnerable neighbourhoods in North Portland are left off, and several of them in Mid-East Portland and Outer East Portland. So that remains a concern. If you could go to the next slide of the Tryon-Stevens plan. So there we're seeing that that's... We've added the area with the Factor 3, but we've still left on areas...
 with zero vulnerability factors. And so I would suggest that we need, if we're really going to start with looking at equity, start with looking at equity and start with the purple area and the blue one, but then also potentially looking
 look at other areas of the city, where they start with looking at the most vulnerable streets, rather than necessarily where we've done a planning project. So there's that piece. We did get another letter from the Ombudsman and the Office of Equity and Human Rights addressing continuing concerns. Would you like to outline those concerns and what your response is? Or would you like me to...
 So there's still a concern about the very low income definition and how it's scored? For? For the exemption for individuals who are considered very low income. Mm-hmm. The office...
 I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz, as stated, we as staff looked at just for continuity what the Bureau of Development Services is doing with relation to the administrative rules for low-income fee waivers for land use review applications. That's how we arrived at the 50% of the area medium income as established by HUD.
 So you just disagree with the letter from OEHR? That's just our explanation for why we settled on 50%. If there's a desire for us to go higher, we absolutely will do so. Just at that point, is it 60, is it 80? Where would we like to...
 residents of properties they own. So I think there's still some work to do there. I'm also wondering about the provision of loans and where would the money come from for those loans for people who qualify? For the financing? Yes. So the financing would be similar to what happens with LIDs currently. So it would just, it would be placed on the title.
 Okay. We have not, we just didn't have time before the hearing today to actually come up with a complete financing.
 model and so we are committed to putting that in place. We just need the time to work with the auditor and staff to figure out which makes the most sense. So BES has some models we could look at but they're for much less money like $3,000. Yeah. So we just need to some of them we can't use because they're state regulations so we just need to do a little more homework on what would make the most sense. Yeah, and
 And then there are three factors in the Office of Equity and Human Rights and Ombudsman's letter. They do call out about the appeals should go to the hearings officer rather than this internal PBOC committee. What's your response to that? The appeal is really a review of an exemption, and it's really to make sure that
 Somebody filled out an exemption form appropriately and then to verify that the number is... It's a relatively simple exercise. This is an appeal of whether or not you agree with the charge being assessed to the property. It's did you complete the form and do you have the documentation to support the exemption being requested? I don't think that warrants a hearings officer review. It still seems like it's...
 the people who have made the decision are then going to rule on the appeal. So if there's a way to have at least some citizens involved in one of these committees, I think that would be helpful. But then that leads to the third point, which you're saying is just like a technical, did you fill out the form correctly? They are suggesting that we need a process for other individual circumstances or other hardships for PBOT to be able to make determinations, which then would be,
 have presumably some criteria which a hearings officer could evaluate as well. So our intent was wanting to make sure council was supportive of the proposal before you today. And after that, we were going to start working on administrative rules and that exemption documentation to be filled out. We intend to include a hardship provision in that exemption process.
 similar to what BDS uses for hardship exemptions and model it that way. So that's our next step provided council supports the action today. And would that come back to council for our approval? It wasn't intended to. It was intended to be adopted as an administrative rule. We can certainly route the proposal to council office before we adopt that rule.
 I'm sure we'll get some testimony. There was just one other thing that I noticed. This was in the original code in Section 1788090, Section C. We say payment of a local transportation infrastructure charge will exempt the subject property to the application from future local transportation infrastructure charges. Is a local improvement district defined as a...
 local transportation infrastructure charge? It is not. The intent of that was if we charge an applicant today and they were to raise a structure 20 years from now that we don't come back and charge them the same LTIC again in the future. So how did we deal with the issue that they're paying into this fund now and then maybe they've got a waiver of remonstrance on an LID and they might have to pay again to actually have the street fully improved?
 I don't think we formally put a proposal in front of council. I think we're going to wrestle with that when we bring in LID. That might also include properties that have paid the LTIC. I don't want to solve that problem right here, but one solution would be to credit those properties for what has been paid, but accounting for the fact that,
 and cost of doing construction increases over time, if we collected money today and 10 years from now that project expense goes up by 15%, do we want to have the ability to capture the delta between what was collected today and that project cost? That's a conversation that we can have today, but I think could be...
 had during an LID formation hearing. Well, I remember it was either in December or in the previous December when we had that concern raised. So I am concerned that we don't seem to have solved that problem. I think if I can capture, I think, your intent from when we adopted this a year and a half, almost two years ago, then the direction to us was to continue to collect the waivers of remonstrance to give us the –
 the future ability to form LIDs even if we're still collecting funds today. Okay, so I'm going to look into that. There'll be questions, I'm sure, after we've had public testimony. So those are mine for right now. Thank you. You're welcome. Very good. Hi, Carla. Public testimony, please. Yes. Three people signed up. The police coming up are Robert Evanson, Marianne Fitzgerald, and John Cohen. Okay.
 Three minutes, please. State your name for the record. When the light comes on, your three minutes is up. My name is Robert Evanson. I'd like to read a short narrative into the record. I'm calling this fair share or unfair share. Southwest Fairmont Boulevard is a well-known residential street used by hikers, bikers, runners, walkers, and homeowners. Fairmont Boulevard is largely fully developed in that there are very few residents.
 undeveloped lots left to build on, much like southwest Portland streets that are fully developed and functioning without curbs and sidewalks. My wife and I bought our lot on Fairmont Boulevard about 40 years in order to build our future retirement home on.
 During that 40 years, we gladly paid our fair share of real estate taxes on that lot to pay for city services. That time has come, and we are planning to build a modest 2,600-square-foot home on Fairmont Boulevard hopefully next year. Based on a street frontage width of 84 feet, the proposed PBOT infrastructure charge of $600 per foot will come to over $50,000 for our lot.
 This transportation charge is in addition to all of the other systems development charges that are required to build a new home in Portland. Since Fairmont Boulevard is one of those many streets that are fully developed without curbs and sidewalks, all of the other existing homes on Fairmont Boulevard, as well as other fully developed streets, will not have to pay a penny towards this proposed transportation infrastructure charge, although they will continue to use the streets.
 In addition, this $50,000 charge to us will go to pay for street improvements in another part of the city, not improvements on Fairmont Boulevard. I have here a copy of my current real estate property statement, which shows that everyone's real estate taxes go to fund 19 separate city and county entities. In addition, we all pay separate monthly water and sewer charges to the city. Conclusion
 PBOT and the City of Portland need to fund street improvements as part of every citizen's real property taxes in a manner that is fair and equitable to all users. This charge can be viewed as a legal taking on a few. No one should pay our fair share of street maintenance. No one should pay an unfair share. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler. I'm Marianne Fitzgerald, and I submitted written testimony on Monday the 29th, so I am assuming that you've already had that. I'm going to stick to that for my comments today. The first thing I want to say is to please direct staff to remove the stakeholder working group roster from the rules.
 the stakeholder working group had no input into the rules, the public had no input into the rules, and I am offended that my name is on there, looking like I was part of this proposal when I disagreed with this proposal for a very long time.
 The second thing is to oppose the LTIC fee. It's already artificially too low. I oppose the maximum. I don't think that there should be a lid. The $600 per linear foot was based on LIDs, mostly from the east side, and according to staff documents, did not include any stormwater improvements.
 And I have talked with many people who are now looking at LIDs, and the cost in southwest Portland is closer to $15,000 per linear foot, not $600 a linear foot. So this gentleman has the choice of improving his street. He could pay for the street improvements. There's a development going in near me that will be paying for half-street improvements on an LTIC-eligible street.
 you know, they can pay it. But by making it artificially low, you have less money and just 25% less revenue in the fund. And, you know, I'm sorry I get so upset about building one and a half to three miles of street improvements every 10 years. That's nothing. When the city has offered like 15,000 waivers of remonstrance, I have a folder here of pictures of all of the improvements in the last two years combined
 where most of the staff sitting behind me were staffing these reviews, and no infrastructure, no stormwater, and now...
 The Bureau of Environmental Services is using our ratepayer and our taxpayer dollars to deal with the stormwater issues in Basin 3 off of Capitol Highway. So you're kicking the can from the builder or the developer of the property to the homeowners who can't afford the improvements in the future. And while this document before you did not say anything about local improvement districts, the City of Portland's budget request that just came out this week says,
 says that LID projects often rely on public subsidies to make the project affordable for the benefiting property owners. However, there is no funding available to subsidize new LIDs. Without a new public funding source, the LID program for local streets will likely be very limited to commercial or developer-requested LIDs.
 So that gives me little hope that LIDs are going to solve this humongous problem that's been going on for years and continues. In the documents before you, the BES says that they would only participate if there was citywide benefit. I don't know what that means, but it doesn't show me a lot of commitment. And I'm out of time, but I have more I'd like to say. We don't have a ton of people signed up. Why don't you take 30 more seconds and wrap up your thoughts? Sure.
 Okay. Regarding public participation, some of what Anne showed today about the new Southwest Portland boundaries is news to me. She came to Southwest Neighborhoods in October, said, what do you think? We hadn't seen the details. And now every time I've talked to her since then, she's surprised that we don't love this program.
 So there is no public notice about the Appeals Bureau or the Administrative Review. There is no public participation in which streets get selected. And as far as we are on Capital Highway Project, which needs every penny that it could get to make it whole, we should be spending these scarce LTIC funds to leverage the Capital Highway Project rather than some obscure street on their little map.
 Because half the money was raised in Southwest, I'm glad that we will see some in this first allocation, but there's no guarantee because all of the stuff is done behind closed doors without any public participation through public notice.
 And finally, the fiscal impact statement only talks about the fiscal impact to the developers or the property owners, not to the people living in the neighborhood who are stuck with these potholed, stormwatery, flooded streets that they are expected to fix. Very good. Thank you. Other than that, you love it, though.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I'm seeing in your written testimony that you also are concerned about the LID issue and that I'm right that in 2016 we were going to look into how do local improvement districts fit in with this. There is language in here that says we looked at it, but I don't know what they did. I mean, you know, you can ask staff what they did to look into LIDs. It doesn't sound like much, but they are expensive. Yes.
 And so I thought when we discussed this in 2016 that there was going to be community input out of all the choices. I mean, even with the money that would be raised under the maximum, there's not nearly enough to do all of the streets in even the most needy areas. That's right. What's your understanding of how or whether the community will be involved in making these choices as the money starts to be allocated? Well...
 So far, the amount of dialogue has been through the Sweeney Transportation Committee. And that would be nice if we would know ahead of time that this was going to be discussed and we could, you know, through our neighborhood channels, get the word out. When Ann came in October, we had three other things on the agenda and didn't really have a lot of time to talk about it. So it wasn't really as meaningful as it should have been.
 Moving forward, if there is a certain amount of money, I know that we're doing – is the Southwest in Motion plan still moving forward? 4.30 this afternoon is our fourth meeting, yes. And that's designed to try to prioritize some of the communities? Yes. Because like East Portland in that – Yes, and there's an online survey right now as we speak.
 Okay, so that's potentially a way for community involvement in directing the use of these funds? Yes, and actually there's no one here officially representing Sweeney, but there was a motion that was approved by the Sweeney board last week that specifically requests that the LTIC funds be prioritized using the SWIM criteria, but the SWIM criteria has not been developed yet.
 Okay. And I see another of your points is that this money should stay in the area in which it was raised. Yes.
 Can you see any deviation from that? We saw on the map that East Portland has a lot of need, but not much money. Right. Southeast Uplift, Woodstock, whatever neighborhoods, Brentwood, Darlington, where they've raised fees, I feel bad that they're not going to see any improvements for at least 10 years. So the areas that are experiencing the infill without infrastructure are not necessarily the ones that see the improvements. Right.
 And actually, if you look at the City of Portland street surface data, the street surfaces in southwest Portland are far worse than the street surfaces in east Portland. The difference is people are getting killed in east Portland as recently as yesterday, and that's intolerable. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is John Cohen, and I am a real estate broker. And I came across this issue recently on doing some research on behalf of one of my clients who wishes to split off a quarter-acre parcel of their property in order to possibly sell it off. It's an estate situation. Okay.
 It's a triangular piece of property that borders one unimproved street and one under-improved street in southwest Portland. And to give you an example, 264 feet and 134 feet of frontage.
 And the charge under the existing fee system would be $236,000, which by most estimates is perhaps what the property is worth. But even capped at $60,000, that charge is going to be a third to a quarter of the value of the property that would be borne by the property owner in a state that has no cash.
 And in order to divide it off, they would have to pay the fee in order to get it finalized. My concern is, is there a mechanism to assess the fee at the development stage down the road? The sale of the property could build that in, you know, build in that cost so the developer pays a little less but then has the money to pay the charge, whether it's upon approval of –
 Building permits or sale of the property once it's completed. But to put that burden on the homeowner, like the gentleman said earlier, is onerous.
 especially in that situation. So a lot of my comments also mirror what he was saying earlier about, you know, basically 20 percent of the property owners on unimproved streets are paying for 100 percent of the improvements in the city, where years and years ago the city paid as it went along, and there's that unfairness that applies that's just too difficult for a lot of people to understand that,
 when they're facing these huge numbers to pay for the whole system. And I think that's – and the piece that there's no assurance that this property in the outer southwest hills would ever see any improvement –
 even though $60,000 or $230,000 goes into the fund. And that's just not equitable. Those are my thoughts. Thank you. And I apologize if a lot of these have been taken up, and I came into this very late in the game. Good testimony. Both of you, appreciate it. Does that complete our testimony? That's all who signed up. Could we have staff come back up and maybe respond to a couple of things? There were a few just –
 very specific questions that were raised that were interesting to me. First of all, the stakeholder working group has been included in the rules, and you heard one person testify that they'd prefer that be left out. Why does that need to be included, or does it? So when the rules for the LTIC were...
 established in 20, I believe it was 2015 or 2016, the rules had that list in the front of it. And so actually what we did, if you look at Exhibit C, we did establish, because that was a concern I raised, was that it was going to, how would you know when the amendments were made in subsequent years? So there is a history section on the front that says adopted on May 20th, 2016, and then the
 What we've done now is this is the... We'll add to that history that they were then amended. We can certainly...
 remove that cover page, but these were the rules that were adopted by the Assistant Director in May 2016 with that list in the front. And that list actually does say May 2016 at the top of that of the list. So we can certainly remove the names. Is that normal for your administrative rules to have the committee's names on it?
 No. That's what had been adopted. I think it was probably done with the project. Instead of removing it altogether, that was our remedy, was to establish the history on the front. And this is an administrative rule, so the council...
 Council doesn't have to put anything into the ordinance. You can just take it out. Right. And, in fact, we brought this to you. I mean, we could have just posted this on the auditor, but because we were adding some of this language to the rules and not just the code, we wanted you to see everything that we were adding, which is why it's here as an exhibit.
 I personally don't feel strongly that it be included. I don't know how other people feel, but I guess it's an administrative decision. It's unusual. I have never seen them in any other ones, so I'd prefer to take it out. We'd be happy to. I mean, we can absolutely. We can also make it like an appendix or something in the back, too, if there's a need to keep the names. That seems reasonable. And then the second question was just the question raised about
 The lid on the LTIP, could you explain the logic of that for all of us? Oh, the LTIP maximum? Yes, please. So when we looked at the LTIP maximum, you know, if we – there's been discussion, you know, if you cap the LTIP maximum, let's say at $30,000, then –
 Someone at an R5 versus an R20, the R20 is going to see $100,000 savings, and somebody at an R5 would potentially see maybe a $50,000 savings. So in sort of the interest of working to be equitable in terms of the size of frontages and that what we were seeing in our analysis, that it was really based on if one had a property that –
 that either was a corner lot or some sort of angled lot, what if we looked at the frontage of the zone? So that's how we calculated the maximum. Very good. Any further questions, colleagues? Sorry, Commissioner Fritz. So I'm continuing to be concerned about the low-income exemption and looking at page 14 of the administrative rules. 50% of the area medium income seems really quite low there.
 as an expectation that people are going to be able to buy and own or occupy a property and pay this amount of money. So is there a process for changing that? Sure. I mean, if the council would like to offer an amendment, we'd be happy to change that amount. The way we came to that amount, again, we explained how we came to that. But again, if council would like for us to change that, we'd be happy to do so.
 I had also raised a concern that it was too low, and I understand you based it on some BDS code, and unfortunately I didn't get the information that I had asked for, which was how many people are applying, how many, if any, are applying for this, because it's so unlikely that someone that low income would be developing property or looking into land use. And we've had not. I'm not increasing it, but I just don't know that it's...
 very meaningful at... Well, and actually, the Ombudsman and Office of Acting Human Rights say that 50% is very low income. That HUD says 80% is low income. So I would move that we change it to 80%. We have a motion and a second. Can I call that Fritz Exhibit A? Call it whatever you like, Mayor. Very good. Further discussion? Questions? Commissioner Fritz? The hardship exemption
 So tell me again how you're going to deal with figuring out what the criteria are. Just a quick trip down memory lane on the administrative rule. We tried to anticipate hardships when we first set the program up in 2016, so we carefully crafted language that anticipated a fire damage situation. A fire occurred, somebody needed to spend some time dealing with an insurance company to get funds secured to replace that structure, so we created a two-year exemption program
 that if you're homeless, damaged due to fire, and you're replacing it, we wouldn't come in and charge this program. We're trying to expand that to a hardship, those cases that we don't know what might come at us, but set a system in place where somebody can make a hardship case come before the committee and have that evaluated. We frankly have had one situation that I can think of in a year and a half. It's one that was in the Willamette Week, a unique situation.
 The hundreds of permits that we've processed in the last year and a half, we've had one that doesn't fit into that category. Yeah, and for the most part, people are building really fancy new homes that may not qualify. But the one in Willamette, it was a manufactured home. As we look at more tiny homes and more minimalist ways of developing, it would seem like we should have something that, if the value of the improvement is less than X, or less than X percent of the...
 that that should be thinking about. So I guess I'd like that process to come back to council because at that point then we could decide actually it shouldn't be long as an administrative decision for the appeal. It should go to the hearings officer. So for instance, the gentleman who gave the testimony about his clients who want to subdivide their property...
 and it currently would cost them as much or more than the value of the property, would that be a potential hardship exemption? That would not. Okay. Okay.
 I don't want to spend too much time here today. What we don't want to do is create an exemption or an appeal process that gets us back into the same situation that got us here in the first place. As Ms. Fitzgerald pointed out, we have thousands of waivers on file where we've created exemptions and not required improvements. And so this effort was really to correct that practice and start collecting funds.
 I appreciate the gentleman's concern. I'm going to talk with him after the hearing. I think there's a couple creative ways that we can do as he was asking and moving that collection to a building permit scenario. That's a unique one. Most of the time when we're working with applicants that are dividing a property, we're working with a developer, and it's a little unique that we're dealing with an estate situation. Happy to take a look at that. Okay.
 Very good. So, Commissioner Fritz. Well, sir, my outstanding concerns are the issue of allocation to the, beyond those two, the three areas that have street plans, to focus at least some of the resources on the area scoring three under the equity analysis within each of the areas where it's being collected. Okay.
 The issue we have is there's too many streets. And that's why when we did the equity screen as the first step and then we looked at the streets as the second step, because we had too many for the amount of money, that's why we then looked to those neighborhood street plans that had neighborhood commitment. Because what's difficult is if you just look at those areas and you still have too much, you've still too many streets for the amount of money, what happens?
 How do you choose? Well, yes, I agree. I understand that. I guess I'm disagreeing that I think we should go back to the equity scores and include the neighbourhoods.
 and that there should potentially be some benefit to the area, even the coalition area, South East Upland is a very big area for them to get. None of the money doesn't seem fair or reasonable, particularly when there are neighbourhoods like Brentwood-Darlington that are not particularly affluent in fact on the lower end.
 So I would like to see something that involves the community in that allocation. I mean, even within what you've defined, we don't have enough money. So there should be, I think, opportunities like we just had this great example of the LID over on 82nd near...
 80 of the Mill. 80 of the Mill, right, yeah. Near the school where lots of different bureaus are putting money in and so the whole thing gets to be bigger than the sum of the parts, which is great. And it seems to me that we want some opportunities to do that. I'm also interested in East Portland in action and Southwest Portland in action. Essentially, if there's more need than...
 funds available, giving the community the choice in a robust, equitable public process to decide what is...
 their choice. When we did that in Southwest for things like prioritizing sidewalks on neighborhood collectors, surprisingly, people think, oh, everybody's just going to advocate for their own area. And just like the process I did for where should we allocate park system development charge money, actually, people do care about giving more for people who need it more. So I would like us to look at, I'd like you to look at some method of doing that.
 And then my final concern is the LID issue. And I can just see coming to council with an LID where somebody's already paid it, and we have no policy guidance at that time to say, well, this person just paid $60,000, and they've already paid at the office, they shouldn't have to pay again. Okay.
 Thinking a couple steps forward. So this effort was trying to get us to focus areas of the city where we think we could bring projects back to city council with some funding. We're going to be back in front of council to actually select projects and get your endorsement of those projects. So we will be back in front of you. Okay. I think we can take your concerns as we look at those projects and come back and respond to your concerns.
 Yeah, I think I would not want to vote for yes, go ahead and do this project unless that has been decided. And I think we'd like to commit to you that we also look at the issue of the LIDs because I think it probably is going to involve some future conversations and look at some different nuances of that before we make that decision. But we can bring back that discussion with the project selection. So just one point of clarification. The allocation methodology are just the three steps used, right?
 Once council says we agree that equity effectiveness and some sort of Looking at where there's been neighborhood involvement that those are the three steps once that's approved then we have to go Figure out the neighborhoods and we have to go to the neighborhoods Figure out the streets that make sense if we're going to do a financing package with bes We have to come back to council for that financing package so this step is
 Does council agree with the three steps of equity, effectiveness and efficiency? That's the allocation methodology. The selection in 2018 is the next, will be the next step that we have to come back to council with, absolutely because of how we plan to finance the money. But step three is just based on the three that we happen to have done.
 So I guess that's the one I have the most concern about. That's for 2018. The step three is just once you have those first two, like you're suggesting, we were working to be careful that in 10 years from now we didn't say you absolutely had to use a plan or you absolutely had to go to a coalition because what if the coalitions were something else in 10 years? So we said, I think what it says in the rules is that...
 that third step is, hold on, I'm working to get to the language. It says it right here on page, it's on the last page, page 18. It says, the project would be consistent with adopted plans or respect the results of previous community involvement efforts and other related improvements occurring in the city and make efficient use of city resources. So we, this is on page 18 of exhibit 13,
 So it doesn't specify what those adopted plans are? Right, because this is just the methodology. Because in 10 years, those plans might be different plans. Right. Well, I would encourage you not to just stick with those three particular street plans. No, that was our proposal for how we spend it in 2018, that we use those three plans for the first round. Not that that would be where we would spend the money every time.
 Thank you for the clarification. But what I'm hearing you say is that even in respect to that, you would still like us to re-look at even how we're looking at applying this third step and not just look at those three plans. Well, go back to within those three.
 If that's how you want, we're doing it this year, look at where are the most needy areas within those plants. And involve the neighbourhood. Yes. And the other community groups who might want to be involved in, you know, we've got this amount of money. Right. Yeah.
 Absolutely. And just for clarification, you know, we've been meeting with the neighborhoods and the coalitions since the spring. We also sent, as I said in December, 20,000 postcards to every single person who lived on one of these streets because we really wanted to dig in about the LID question and their appetite to pay and what they thought about that.
 We additionally did the focus groups. We did a special focus group for neighborhood leaders. And then we went back again to do the community surveys. So we sort of built this based on that feedback we got throughout the process. And we are planning to go back with whatever streets we think about in terms of...
 The one thing that we talk about in the city is if we want to leverage these funds, which is a conversation we heard here at council in December,
 We at least have to do that first work to be able to go out to a neighborhood and say, this is where the CIP projects are planned. This is where there's some SDC money being spent so that they have that full picture when they then look at where those segments are. So we would start internally to put that map together to then take to the neighborhoods. Yes.
 I do appreciate it. There's a lot of work being done, and you certainly spent a lot of time with me going through it. I think there's still some refinements. This is a problem that we'll be grappling with for at least the 25 years I've been involved in city issues. I would like to see the hardship criteria and to consider whether it should be the hearings officer who hears the appeals rather than the administrative. I'd like to see the plan for the LIDs, a proposal for who...
 Do they have to pay again? And then this final piece of including the community in, you know, very soon after you start doing your analysis, ask the community. So you want us to come back with something on those topics for the second reading? I'm sorry? You want us to come back in response to those for the second reading? That would seem like a tall order to bring back next week. But do we need to amend the ordinance to specify when that would come back?
 Yeah, we could do something like that. Can we commit to bringing the answers to the questions or responses to the questions when we bring the project selection back? And that will give us time to have some of that community conversation. We're not going to spend the money until we come back to council asking for approval. So that seems like a good time to come back and respond to it.
 Yes, except that I'm really hoping when we get to that point, we don't have people coming in saying that they haven't been fully engaged and that they don't support the choices. So that's going to need to inform how you come back to us. And I'm going to prompt the council before you vote, if there was an appetite to consider an emergency ordinance today, only that we had...
 I need to look into it. I'm sorry, Kurt. No worries. Because, you know, I'm also thinking about these hardship waivers. And so people come in, you know, as Commissioner Day just said, or the testimony we heard. There needs to be, I think, more information on that. Is that something that could come back next week or when you bring it back? Yeah.
 I'll turn to them and ask them. Is that pushing it too soon? So we have a few things here. So we're going to amend. We're going to address the 50% and 80% by amending today. Then we have the hardship criteria, how we're going to adjust that component, and how we are addressing if someone pays an LID. So I think those are things we could – I'm looking to Kurt since he –
 I'm selfishly looking at a very intensive appeal that is going to be before city council next Thursday afternoon. And there's a fair amount of time that is going to be involved in preparing for that appeal. So I want to be fair in the commitment to council and response. And I'm not sure we could deliver. What if we set it over to you?
 Two weeks from now for a second reading. That would be great. Or even three. Or even three. And then in terms of the community involvement, I think to the extent that – so the allocation methodology, again, what this is passing is just that three-step process. But if there is a desire to add in an amendment or something to the ordinance to reinforce that when we come back with the project selection that there are –
 Something about the community involvement, robust, we're happy to add that to the ordinance. And that where there are adopted plans like the East Portland in motion, as Southwest in motion will be adopted, that those are kind of...
 part of the adopted plan consideration also. Sure, sure. Yeah, so we don't actually have to specify when you bring this back, Commissioner. It's up to you to schedule when you want to do a second reading. As I said, it's been 25 years in the making, so it'd be worth getting a little bit further this time around. The piece that the developers are interested in that we keep getting calls about is the maximum because they're waiting to file...
 their plans because if the maximum goes into effect, then they're looking at paying potentially less money. So that's the piece that we're getting calls about. And I don't know if anybody has any qualms about that piece. I mean, we did hear testimony on it, but I tend to think that there has to be some kind of upper maximum, especially as we start doing this. So is there a way for us to do that in a more expedited way, just pull that piece out?
 Certainly council can adopt this and then direct us to make it retroactive so anybody that submits, we can go back and refund appropriately for the cap. I think we're hearing that message was made very clear that we can communicate that to applicants from this point forward. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions?
 All right. We have an ordinance before us today. The ordinance has exhibits. Exhibit A would make amendments to city code. Exhibit C would make changes to the policy TRN-1.26 governing the LTIC. The LTIC before us is a substitute exhibit A dated 2118. This includes changes that were discussed earlier but not yet adopted and also new changes that are highlighted. Likewise...
 Before us is a substitute Exhibit C, dated 2118, that includes changes that were discussed earlier but not yet adopted, and also new changes that are a highlight. Commissioner Saltzman, you made a motion to adopt Substitute Exhibit A. Legal counsel would like to clarify a second. Second. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Please call the roll. Fritz. This is merely substituting the new proposal. Aye. Saltzman. Aye.
 Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Substitute Exhibit A is adopted. Commissioner Saltzman also made a motion to adopt Substitute Exhibit C. Could I get a second? Second. Commissioner Udailey, second Substitute Exhibit C. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Okay.
 Substitute Exhibit C is adopted. Commissioner Fritz had offered up an amendment with regard to adjustment of the lower limit. Legal counsel wanted a clear statement on that for the record. Help me out, Kurt. Where is the language in this for that? It's on page 14 of Exhibit C. It's highlighted, number 2.
 Under low income? Yes. So on page 14 of 18, low income owner occupancy under number two, change 50% to 80%. So this would be an amendment to substitute exhibit C, correct? Correct. Very good. Call the roll. And Commissioner Udali seconded that amendment. Commissioner Udali seconds. Call the roll, please. Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Item 110, please. Thank you.
 Amend the building demolition code to implement Senate Bill 871 and add dust and site control requirements for residential demolitions. Amend fee schedules. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, I'm very pleased to be bringing this to you today. Lead-based paint and lead-contaminated dust in older buildings are the most common sources of lead poisoning.
 Children younger than six are especially vulnerable to lead poisoning. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 535,000 children have blood lead levels high enough to damage their health, but lead poisoning is 100% preventable.
 That's why I supported this policy work at BDS, and I'm bringing it forward for consideration today. Dangerous asbestos and lead-based paint can spread to neighboring properties during demolitions. In 2016, council passed an ordinance requiring homes and certain other buildings built in 1916 or earlier to be deconstructed rather than demolished in order to keep reusable materials out of our waste stream and toxins out of our air.
 Unfortunately, this left significant areas of our city, such as East Portland, with little to no protection or benefit because so many of their buildings were built after 1916. This ordinance fixes that unintended consequence by protecting all residents equally.
 In 2017, the state legislature, led by Speaker Kotek, Senator Dembrow, and Representative Kenny Geyer, enacted SB 871. The legislation does two things. Number one, it allows cities to require a copy of the asbestos survey. And number two, it directed the Oregon Health Authority and DEQ to develop a menu of best practices for addressing lead-based paint.
 This ordinance adopts some of the best practices that the Oregon Health Authority and DEQ developed for lead-based paint control during residential demolitions, and it requires a copy of the asbestos survey to be provided to BDS. The process to develop the ordinance was thorough. BDS, other city staff, and many stakeholders participated in the state's advisory committee that developed statewide best practices.
 Many of those same agencies and stakeholders concurrently participated in BDS meetings to develop this ordinance. The cooperation and collaboration among all the parties made the process efficient and the policies stronger. I'm going to save my further acknowledgments and thank yous for the conclusion of the hearing and turn it over to Nancy Thorrington to walk us through the details of the ordinance. Welcome, Nancy. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Nancy, can you turn that mic on? Sorry, it got turned off. There we go. Okay, thank you. Nancy Thorrington for the Bureau of Development Services. First, I would like to thank Speaker Kotick's office and Senator Dembrow and Representative Kenny Guyer in their efforts to get SB 871 passed.
 It's been a really good and productive process. These are some of the stakeholders, and I would in particular like to thank Perry Cabot with Multnomah County Health Department for his efforts in this, and our Development Review Advisory Committee, the...
 Our subcommittee on demolitions, and in particular Mary Helen Kincaid, she actually started getting these agencies working together several years ago to talk about some of the issues with the demolitions, and that transitioned basically into some of the things that are before you now, 871 and this ordinance. So I really want to thank everybody for that.
 It goes that way. Okay. So SB 871, as the commissioner just said, it basically addresses there was a gap because there were no regulations for lead-based paint in residential demolitions. Okay.
 There was for asbestos, and so this allows basically, it required the Oregon Health Authority to sit down with DEQ and other stakeholders to develop some best practices. And it also allows jurisdictions to require a copy of the asbestos survey, which it wasn't required previously.
 As Commissioner Udailey noted, we worked on a parallel track with Oregon Health Authority and DEQ, and that was really a very beneficial project way of approaching it for everybody because we definitely were able to bounce ideas off of each other and come up with much better best practices at the end of the day. So this is a summary of the ordinance itself. Thank you.
 It applies to one to four family or unit structures and the accessory structures that are over 200 square feet. The 200 square feet is what's required for a building code. So that's where we got that. We estimate that this is going to cover about 700 projects a year.
 That would be 300 single-family and duplexes that we currently have some regulations for, and then it would add the three to four units and approximately 300 accessory structures. There would be about another 50 in the three to four units, so that's where you get the 700. It requires the best practices include creating a demolition plan,
 for every site that outlines the dust and site control measures that would have to be done. One of the big ones would be removing all the exterior painted materials. We talked through that quite a bit with the stakeholders and it was determined from the subject matter experts that removing the exterior materials was the most efficient way to do it. There obviously will still be some interior painted materials
 but with the other dust control measures like wetting down, we felt like that was going to cover it and make sure that everybody was safe. The ordinance also requires that the neighboring properties within 150 feet get posted with door hangers. Again, this was an issue that we discussed quite a bit. We talked about whether to go 400 feet, which is the farthest distance
 that uncontained dust has been found to travel in scientific studies. But we chose 150 feet because we said, well, we are doing dust containment, so we don't necessarily have to go out the full 400 feet if you're already containing it. What's our current demolition door hanger? Only the 10 surrounding houses. So this extends that probably about a little more than double. Okay, thank you.
 Let's see, so there can't be any mechanical demolition if the wind speeds exceed 25 miles an hour.
 and there will be two additional inspections per project. Right now we only do a post-demolition inspection to make sure that the site has site control measures on it. So this would add two more, a pre-demolition inspection to make sure that the demolition plan is adequate and correctly tailored for that particular project.
 and then a during demolition inspection to make sure that they're complying with the plan, and then again the post-demolition inspection to make sure that the site is secure. The pre-demolition and post-demolition inspections will be mandatory.
 We recently added a component that would make the during demolition inspection discretionary. And the reason for that was in talking with our site development inspector, he said that there would be some of the projects because now we're including accessory structures, which we've never done before.
 So he indicated that there would be situations, for example, where if they go for the pre-demolition inspection and they're on site and all the machinery's there, the wind speeds are under 25 miles an hour and everything's looking good, then they would have to, for let's say a 200-square-foot, if you've got a garage or something, and they've got all the machinery there and they're going to be doing it that day
 then it wouldn't make sense. They would either have to sit there and wait until the project's underway, which could be two or three hours, in which case they can't do any other inspections, or they would go out and do the other inspections and it would take them a couple hours and by the time they got back, the site could already be demolished. So in a...
 I tried to craft some language that said, well, okay, maybe just an exception for accessory structures, but an accessory structure can be 1,500, 1,800 square feet. So we didn't want to just say all accessory structures wouldn't have to have this during demolition inspection, and vice versa. You could have a small house. You could have a 400, 500 square foot house.
 So I couldn't really craft language in the ordinance that could quite cover it. So we're considering probably some admin rules that we can take some time to look at. So that's another big piece in this.
 And one of the big incentives to comply with this is that we won't issue the building permit for the replacement structure until they already have the demolition permit finaled. And, you know, we had quite a few builders on our stakeholder group, and they said that actually is a bigger incentive to comply than, you know, some of the fines. Okay.
 How did you pick 25 miles an hour for the wind? That's just from the subject matter experts. That's pretty standard. Thank you.
 So these are the enforcement mechanisms that we were looking at. Basically, we really want to focus on gaining compliance through outreach and education. I mean, we don't want to fine anybody, but, you know, we're going to. Can I go back to Commissioner Fritz's question? Sure. What do we know meteorologically? How often is the wind blowing over 25 miles an hour?
 I don't have that information. Again, because this is all brand new, we're going on what other jurisdictions have done. I know that, for example, the city of Eugene, that's 25 miles an hour, all of the other cities that we've looked at.
 That's their point, and Oregon Health Authority and DEQ. So I would have to rely on the subject matter. Is that based on science? 25 miles an hour is actually a pretty stiff wind. That's not an inconsequential breeze. That's a robust blow, as they say. Yeah. And I'm just wondering if there's science behind that or if it was an arbitrary thing.
 That's a good question. I don't know. I really would have to rely. We took that number because that's not our purview either. So we looked at what was already being done in other jurisdictions and what our subject matter experts said. I can share with you that 7.9 miles per hour is the average wind speed in Portland and that kind of a normal...
 Wind range is 10 to 25 miles per hour, so it is on the upper end of Cornwall. And is it the inspectors who, when they get there, they've got a wind speed gauge? They will, yes. Yeah, I've been told that you can buy them for about $25 at Home Depot, so they're not...
 you know, anything that... Is that the velocity at site? Yes. Okay. Yeah, yeah. We, you know, we tossed around the idea of whether to make it site-specific or, you know, you could look up, you know, on your cell phone. But because the conditions vary depending on where you are, we decided it was best to do site-specific. Okay.
 okay thank you sure um so again we're our compliance we want to make sure that uh that we reach out and we do as much education as possible we'll be conducting lunch and learns and reaching out to the development community talking to the home builders association and others and we'll go out to the neighborhood associations and do as much outreach as we can to make sure that everybody knows
 what the requirements are. And then once it goes live, the first step will be if we find somebody out of compliance, they'll get a correction notice that basically says, hey, this is what you did wrong, this is what you need to do to fix it. And then if they still are out of compliance, then we have the ability to go in and issue a citation and fines. We've made the fines fairly significant, hopefully enough to get people's attention.
 The implementation costs, because we're adding two additional inspections, we would like to add two new site development inspectors who will be dedicated to doing just this. And basically to fund those new positions, we're proposing increasing the permit fees by $180 per demolition permit.
 And then the door hangers were already, as Commissioner Fritz noted, we already do some door hangers. But instead of having 350 approximately projects per year, we're going to have upwards of about 700. So we looked at the cost, and basically it will be about 300 per year. So that's not terribly significant. Thank you.
 So in summary, our recommendations are to adopt the ordinance, to create two new site development Inspector 1 positions and hire for those positions.
 to amend the building and other permits and fee schedules to increase the demolition permit fee by $180 per permit, to amend the enforcement fee and penalty schedule, to add the fines. And we are asking for an effective date of July 1st because we need to ramp up for this. This is a brand-new program for us, so we have to hire those two new inspectors, which has to go through the city process.
 and we have to train them. They will be required to have asbestos and lead-based paint certifications, which are currently not required for our inspectors, so this is going to be something new. And then, obviously, we have to do our internal staff training, change certain computer programs to accommodate the new inspections, potentially create some admin rules. Okay.
 And so finally, we will be looking to follow up. We'll monitor this, as we always do with our ordinances, potentially adopt some administrative rules. And we'll be continuing to meet with the DRAC Demolition Subcommittee, and we propose coming back to Council in January of 2020 with a report on how it's going. What would it take to expedite this?
 How can we speed this process up? So I spoke with our HR person, our head of inspections, and our finance person, and they were the ones that gave me the July 1st date. They said the hiring and going out.
 for the process, the hiring process, the long and short of it, hiring and getting the right people in there with the certifications and getting them trained would take that long. So...
 And could you be a little more specific about the certifications that are required? Sure, yeah. So there is an asbestos certification, and I think it's a – I'm going to let probably Perry Cavett correct me on this, but it's a few-day training on that. And then there's a lead certification that also is another few days.
 Are there people on staff currently who we could get skilled up with those certifications so that we could speed the process up? The issue is that we're already maxed. So they already are – I mean, we're hiring as fast as we can for other positions that already have been in the budget for a long time. And we have –
 inspector positions that have been open for months and months. It's really hard because the good news is the economy is doing really well, and so the building industry is very robust right now. The downside is all of the jurisdictions, including Portland and the whole metro area and the whole statewide, are trying to get the same group of people for the inspector positions, and
 Is there another way to think of this? Instead of looking for senior-level inspectors with a broad skill set, could we create –
 a category of inspectors in the near term that are specifically trained to this skill set and not the wide range of skill sets? So we're only looking for Inspector 1s. That's the lowest level that we can do, and we're bound, if they're going to go out and inspect a site, they have to have the state certifications. We can't circumvent that process. Could we hire inspectors?
 A firm that provides those skills while we're pending us staffing up to that? That's a good question. I mean, BDS, we've done that before. Yeah, that's true. We have used outside help. Sure. I mean, we can look at those options. Yeah, I'd be happy to contract in the meantime, but there's just an issue of a lack of qualified candidates because of how competitive they are.
 And this will be a very specific set of skills in terms of they're going to have to know the erosion control side. Because, you know, what we did on this was we were trying to focus on the dust control and the site control piece first.
 we're focusing on having them comply with the existing regulations rather than trying to create a whole new set of regulations. So the person would have to have that site control piece and then get trained up for the other parts. Maybe there's a possibility to bring back some recent retirees.
 on a temporary basis until we have the positions filled full-time. If I might just suggest that, obviously, this has been a priority for Commissioner Eudaly, and she's anxious, or more anxious than anybody, to see it implemented. So presumably we can set the implementation date of July 1st, and if any of these suggestions pan out, you could come back and say, we're going to implement it, you know, set a new date. Okay.
 Yes. Thank you. I hear the mayor saying that he wants us to start as soon as possible. Understood. And I concur. And the July 1st is not, you know, that's not a hard and fast deadline. If you could stand it up sooner, you could do that. I mean, honestly, what can we do in less than six months in city hall? Yeah, I hear you, Commissioner.
 I mean, we have to have an implementation date so people know that it's going to be by then, but we could always come back if they're ready at the beginning of June, come back with an ordinance to say implement it tomorrow. In the meantime, we could kind of peer pressure people into safely demolishing their houses. I'm not opposed to that. Well, in the meantime, it's probably going to rain, so it will. Oh, yeah, yeah, it's raining, so. Any other questions?
 Not immediately, colleagues. All right. Thank you. Well, thank you, Nancy. It is my pleasure to welcome our special guests up next, Senator Dembrow and Representative Kenny Geyer. All right, special guests. Thank you for being here today. Thank you for having us. Yes, thank you very much, Mayor, Commissioners. Delighted to be here.
 You know, Representative Kenny Guyer and I are preparing for a legislative session that's coming up. We're laser focused on looking forward. We're exhausted already, even though this has not started. But, boy, what a pleasure to be able to look back and see something that we worked really hard on actually come to fruition. And I have to say I'm really excited with the program as it was described. It really fulfills what we were hoping for.
 We've been working on this issue for several years now, and I want to say that this really is the culmination of a long process, but a process that really...
 It did it right. This is what government should be doing. This issue had its genesis, actually, in a monthly constituent coffee that I have where some constituents – and, you know, I never introduced myself. Do I need to do that? Yeah, why don't you do it for the record? Michael Dembro, I'm the senator for District 23. That's northeast and southeast Portland.
 So I had some constituents from my district come and raise this issue of the health effects of demolitions if done wrong. And there had been conversations about demolitions and their impact on neighborhoods and livability, et cetera. I was certainly familiar with that. But the issue of what happens when buildings come down that likely –
 contain lead and asbestos, I hadn't thought about. But I promised them that we would see what we could do. And that led to what was then, I think it was 2015, was it? Senate Bill 705, which...
 which at the end of the day, it turned out that at that time, really all that we could do was asbestos. We wanted to do lead, too. Lead is a very serious problem. But just for organizational, bureaucratic reasons,
 the state agencies were not prepared to take on lead. And so we decided, okay, we'll move forward, deal with the asbestos problem immediately, come back and work on lead. And we did that. We passed Senate Bill 705.
 But then it turned out actually in the rulemaking on Senate Bill 705 that our initial expectation that cities like Portland would be able to create their own programs and that would have a lot of latitude to enforce the program, actually the rulemaking showed that that was not possible and that all the enforcement had to be done through the state agency, DEQ. On
 on a complaint-driven kind of process, which was very much unsatisfactory to us and to the city. I have to say I really want to compliment Nancy Thornton for working with us on this. I know she was frustrated by it. And so we decided as we were moving forward,
 with the attempt to include lead, that we would also give cities the discretion to create their own programs. You know, the challenge here was that...
 your colleague cities had concerns about this becoming an unfunded mandate on them to create a program such as this. And, you know, I know that you all are very jealous of your prerogatives. And I would say that generally it's, you're correct.
 in doing so. So we set up the process so that cities could opt in to this program to the extent that they felt comfortable doing so.
 And one of the things that really excites me about this process or, you know, the ordinance as I see it is I see a real model for the rest of the state. And if the city of Portland can do this right, I can certainly see other cities taking this up and taking this on because their residents are equally concerned. So I want to thank you. I want to thank Commissioner Udaly for...
 for really putting together a good process. I will say as we were working on Senate Bill 871, we were able to get a number of stakeholders together to bring this to consensus in the legislature. I don't know if it passed unanimously, but probably pretty close to it.
 Your government relations staff, Dan Eisenbeiss, was just invaluable. I really want to compliment him and all the work that was done. Of course, my colleagues and Amy Beth Stevens on behalf of Speaker Kotak.
 And I'll turn it over to my dear colleague. Okay, great. Thanks. I'm Alyssa Kenny-Geyer. I represent House District 46, which is parts of Southeast and Northeast Portland. It's the first time I've testified in front of this city council in your current makeup, and it's really exciting to be here.
 I have had the great honor of working with my own senator, Dembro, on a number of different toxics reductions issues. One of them I want to just mention is also reducing toxics in schools. And I know that you heard a lot about lead in the water in Portland Public Schools. And so when we had introduced prior legislation on reducing radon in the schools and we were like, what? We don't test for lead?
 So it was really a wake-up call for us on that and a lot of different issues that we have paired up and worked on. So I came at this particular issue, asbestos and lead, in demolitions from three different places. One is I share half of his constituents, and I was hearing a lot about this,
 Two, I am the chair of Human Services and Housing, and so I was certainly hearing about demolitions, often from people who are very upset about demolitions and wanted to make sure that we're preserving our stock of affordable housing. So I do want to say on that note that I want to thank you for the city's support.
 of House Bill 4007 coming up in the legislature to increase the document recording fee that goes to affordable housing. Some of that is geared toward home ownership, and some of those home ownership dollars are used not only to help people with down payments and financial education,
 but also for home repairs. And so the more that we can get money into home repairs so that people don't feel forced out of the affordable housing they have because they have a leaky roof or something like that is really important. On the other hand, I'm very supportive of demolitions when it makes way for more multifamily affordable housing. We need to have more density. And so we need to do it in the safest way possible. So the third way I come to this
 issue is I have a public health degree and I serve on the healthcare committee and everything that we can do to bend the cost curve and reduce costs that are related to people who get sick because of exposure to toxic chemicals is really important. So I am really delighted. We were back there just like
 nudging each other about all the work we do in the legislature and then we see how the work continues in implementation and the eagerness with which you want to implement this ordinance is really gratifying to us.
 So just delighted to be here in a state-city partnership. Again, I want to thank all the partners, DEQ, Oregon Health Authority, Brett Sherry, people like that who worked with the city counterparts who did a fabulous job, as well as Metro, as well as private stakeholders who were part of this. So it was a great process. I'm excited to see the product, and I can't wait for you to pass this. Thank you.
 All right, next up we have a few of our key stakeholders. Perry Cabot from Multnomah County Health. Tony Green, Deputy City Ombudsman. I love that word, Ombudsman. Mary Helen Kincaid, the former chair of DRAC. And Paul Grove from the Home Builders Association of Metro Portland. If you could all come forward. Someone's going to have to bring an extra chair and make sure and state your name for the record.
 And while they're getting situated, I just want to thank Michael Dembrow and Alyssa Kenny-Geyer for not only being here today, because I know you're very, very busy. Thank you for your leadership down in Salem, and best of luck to you during this session, and I know we'll see lots of you. Thank you. Right to left. Welcome.
 I'll start if that's okay. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Tony Green. I'm the Deputy Ombudsman with the Office of the Ombudsman, a division of the City Auditor's Office. I'd like to thank Commissioner Udaly for inviting me to speak today and for your office's early and sustained leadership on this matter. My goal is to explain the involvement of the Ombudsman's Office and provide some additional perspective on the ordinance before you today. Thank you.
 Fourteen months ago, our office received a complaint about an impending demolition in northeast Portland. The complaint offered a wide-ranging critique of the health risks posed by demolitions and the lack of regulations in place to protect the public, especially children, from the known hazards of exposure to toxic dust.
 In the last 15 years, about 1,300 homes have been demolished in Portland. If they were built before 1978, more than likely they contained lead paint. And certainly they were torn down without any requirement to prevent toxic dust from contaminating neighboring properties.
 Prior to the ordinance before you, the City did take a step towards curbing the health risks posed by demolitions. Two years ago, City Council adopted an ordinance that requires houses built before 1917 be deconstructed and most of the building materials salvaged for reuse. The deconstruction ordinance was primarily designed to keep construction debris out of the landfill and reduce carbon emissions.
 But deconstructing a house provides an additional benefit. It reduces the spread of toxic dust to neighboring properties. But for now, the ordinance only applies to houses built before 1917.
 That year was chosen for practical reasons. It covers the oldest housing with the most valuable building materials. It also was selected to limit the number of deconstruction projects. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability was concerned that choosing a later date at the launch of the program might overwhelm the fledgling deconstruction industry. Choosing 1917, however, had an unintended consequence.
 It resulted in geographically disparate community benefits. And I'll try to explain this point using a map that should be showing up on your screen shortly. That was short. There it is. You got it. Last. This map shows the age of housing in Portland. The darkest purple is housing built before 1917 and currently covered by the Deconstruction Ordinance.
 The lighter shade of purple is housing built from 1917 to 1930, which isn't covered now but is expected to be as the deconstruction program expands. The housing in the green areas was built since 1941. The green areas are not likely to be covered by the deconstruction ordinance in the foreseeable future.
 That's primarily because the quality of building materials dropped off after World War II. The deconstruction business model relies on the resale of materials, so it isn't currently economically feasible to dismantle most post-war homes. As a result, we're likely to see deconstruction occurring in the purple areas of the map and demolition occurring in the green areas. As I mentioned earlier, lead paint was banned in housing in 1978.
 So any house on this map, purple or green, more than likely contains lead if it were built before 1978. But only the families and children in the purple areas get protection from the deconstruction ordinance. And, as you can see, they fall overwhelmingly in affluent and gentrifying neighborhoods. By contrast, families and children living in that big green area east of Interstate 205 will continue to be exposed to toxic dust stirred up by demolitions.
 When our office discovered this disparity last spring, we recommended that the city adopt regulations to contain dust during demolitions. All families and all children should be protected from exposure to lead. Of course, this is much easier said than done. At least nine federal, state, and local agencies have some jurisdiction over demolitions and or lead. Each brings a different focus, but none comprehensively addresses the release of toxic dust during residential demolitions.
 To make matters more challenging, very few jurisdictions around the country have even attempted to address toxic dust suppression during demolitions. There is no model ordinance to borrow and easily adapt to the pattern and volume of demolitions in Portland. To overcome the regulatory and governance gap, our office recommended that the Bureau of Development Services and the Multnomah County Health Department jointly tackle the problem.
 The ordinance before you today is the result of the cooperative effort of city and county staff, leadership and commitment to health equity from Commissioner Udaly's office, as well as Senate Bill 871 directing the Oregon Health Authority to develop best practices for containing lead dust during demolitions. This ordinance is a vital step in protecting all children and neighborhoods from the toxic and potentially devastating consequences of lead exposure.
 It is also a model that other cities in Oregon and beyond can look to. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. I'd like to turn it over now to Perry Cabot with the Multnomah County Health Department. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Perry Cabot. I'm a Senior Program Specialist with the Multnomah County Environmental Health Services Program within the Public Health Division. I serve as Multnomah County's Subject Matter Expert on Lead and Lead Poisoning Prevention.
 I'm pleased to be here today in support of the city's efforts to protect our community from the impacts of toxic lead dust generated during mechanical demolition of older homes. The dangers of the heavy metal lead are well known and understood. Ben Franklin wrote in 1786 of the, quote, baneful particles and qualities of lead.
 And yet, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, approximately 500,000 children in the U.S. today have blood lead levels at or above the CDC's current public health action level. Lead-based pain in older homes is the leading cause of childhood lead poisoning in the nation. There is no safe level of lead in our blood, and the neurological and cognitive impacts of even low-level exposures are well-documented.
 Recent studies show that mechanical demolition of lead paint-containing structures may disperse lead dust as far as 300 feet from the worksite. And yet, as I speak to you today, there are no rules in Oregon and few in the nation requiring demolition contractors to take steps to control the release of fugitive lead dust from demolition projects.
 Over the last five years in Multnomah County, there were 291 confirmed lead poisoning cases in children under 18 years of age. More than 50% of those cases were determined after environmental investigation to be caused by lead-based paint or dust. While federal and state rules were enacted almost a decade ago to reduce lead poisonings due to renovation and painting projects in older housing, demolitions were not covered by these rules.
 and remain an activity with the potential to contaminate the environment where we live, work, and play. The ordinance before you today is among the first and finest of its kind in the nation. It is the result of a year-long, highly collaborative process across multiple agencies and involving key stakeholders with diverse perspectives.
 Multnomah County is pleased to be a partner in this work, and we welcome the enhanced public health protections born of these efforts. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm Mary Helen Kincaid, and today's the first day I can say publicly, former chair of DRAC. My terms ran out. And also today is the eighth anniversary of when I retired and became busier than when I worked. It's been interesting to me to sit through. I sat through the LTIC as well as this and to hear the different perspectives and the people in the community involvement. And so...
 I don't want to take issue with what anybody said, but when they say that bureaus and agencies tasked with handling this issue with demolitions and dust, it was really the citizens that started it. It wasn't government. It wasn't regulations. And I was, when I was the chair of DRAC, and back in March of 2014, several citizens were
 and I'm going to call her out because she was the one that really took me aback. Kimberly Kohler from Eastmoreland was aghast that right across the street from school, a house had been demolished. And she literally grabbed my shirt and said, you have to do something about this. So she was a part of the group, United Neighbors for Reform. John Sandy is here today. And that started a whole interesting dialogue. It began a conversation because I, being part of BDS,
 had to be informed that handling demolitions and permitting, but they didn't have control over the lead and asbestos handling. And so I said, well, let's get those people. Who are they? And worked with Nancy Thornton and tried to get those people together, and it was kind of a nightmare trying to find all these people because there was no –
 conglomerate of people to handle this issue. And as Perry mentioned, it's a wide and varied group.
 There were way more than nine or ten agencies. I started calling DEQ, started calling EPA, sort of got nowhere. And unfortunately, in North Portland in the Canton Firehouse where Representative Kotick has her office, so I spoke with her staff, Amy Beth, I don't know if she's still back there, but she was back there, and said, how do I get a hold of somebody that can do something?
 I was shocked that the next day around noon, Audrey O'Brien from DEQ, who was head of inspections, called and said, what do you need? And I thought, wow, that really worked really well. But I was also shocked that there was no way to bring those people together. I...
 We had a meeting, I wrote the date down here, October 20th, 2014. 19 people showed up at BDS. They got us a room, and most of the people had something in common. EPA at that time gives their jurisdictional handling of hazmat materials to DEQ, and then they farm that out. So at that first meeting, there were many people that are not in the room today, but...
 came to be a part of that meeting. Nancy Thornton worked with OHA and PERI, and the group continued on.
 But I think had not Kimberly spoken to me and the citizens did something, we wouldn't be here today. So I really want to emphasize that part. John Sandy from UNR worked very closely with Mike Dembrow's office because that was at the state regulation. I would say it's hard for citizens because those processes ran parallel. And I think this whole process is indicative of how –
 Even UNR and DRAC don't agree on all things, but we work together to get this process through. So I think this, more than anything, shows that good work can come of sometimes contentious meetings. I really applaud the effort and was glad to be a part of it. I also wanted to recognize Logan Giles from Mike Dembrow's office. He was instrumental in bringing people together to meet.
 And the EPA, for all the bureaucracy and stuff we hear today, I forget the woman's name, but she was very helpful in providing direction of federal regulations, state regulations, that sort of thing. I think it was Nina. Wasn't it Nina? Pardon? Nina. Yeah. I think, is that? Kim Barnum. Oh, Kim Barnum. Okay. Okay.
 We were able to address a number of issues that people had. There was a good result from all of it. And I wanted to comment because I made a note. Organizational bureaucratic issues.
 setbacks. There were a ton of those. But I really want to applaud all those agencies for coming together to do that. And it was also informational. The other comment that I just wanted to make in regard to this, and I don't have the ordinance in front of me, but you were talking about getting it implemented as soon as possible. I think in the amendment if you just said implement by July 1st, so that's a drop-dead date, but if you do it
 If you walk out there and somebody walks up and says, hey, I can do this, that might be a possibility just to put that word in and then it won't hold back a set date. Because I know there's great anxiety that why can't we do it sooner. I'm going to go back to organizational bureaucratic stumbling blocks.
 I want to applaud everybody that worked on this and my fellow members of the DRAC subcommittee because they recognized that this was important and not necessarily in our mission statement. There were three different points.
 three different commissioners in charge of the Bureau through this process, and all were very agreeable to the work that we did, even though it didn't specifically speak to permits. It spoke to the work that the BDS does. So thank you, and I guess most of all, I think the city should take credit for the citizens bringing something forward.
 Thank you, Mary Helen, for your leadership throughout that process from 2014 on. I know that Commissioner Saltzman joins me in thanking Commissioner Udeli for bringing it over the finish line, but I also thank you. My understanding is that the Development and Re-Advisory Committee voted unanimously in support of this proposal. Thank you.
 Is that correct? Yes, yes. So that in itself is a major accomplishment, and I appreciate all that work. And they were actually quite involved with the discussions of how this could best work. Yeah. And then in the spirit of giving credit where due in the United Neighbourhoods for Reform, the map that was shown by the Deputy Ombudsman, it was mostly neighbours in the purple areas who were doing the advocacy on this. And so it's an example of how you would think that the homeowners who were working
 some of the major participants were able to put their time in and it then benefits the whole system including people in areas where they maybe have less have less opportunity to go to neighborhood and city council meetings so it was really it was a citizen driven thing and it's it's taken a lot of people to get it over to get it done thank you mary helen
 Thank you for the record, Paul Grove, with the Portland Metro Home Building Association. I appreciate the opportunity to testify today with respect to the implementation of Senate Bill 871. I'd echo a lot of Mary Helen's comments. I'm kind of new to this game and this issue. But from my perspective and the perspective of the association, it was very collaborative work.
 the input was indeed meaningful and that started really from my perspective from the top down and kudos to Commissioner Udaly and her office.
 It took a great deal of time and effort to come in, to talk, to walk through things, and seek members' input, not just through the association but through DRAC and elsewhere. And as the process continued and unfolded, a lot of kudos to BDS, from Rebecca to Nancy to others. It was very much, again, meaningful input. And I can't tell you how much that goes in terms of policy development to be able to have that feedback
 dissected and debated and whether incorporated or not, know that it's a welcome year at the end of the day. And so that allowed us to get to a comfort level with this. And then at the end of the day, I think moving forward with prospective policy, proportionate
 I think using DRAC as that vehicle to vet, to seek input. It's a great cross-section of neighborhood developers and others that bring unique perspectives to policy development. I think it's a tool that can be further realized on other matters moving forward, unfortunately, without Mary Helen at the table. But nonetheless, I know she will still be present. So thank you very much for the opportunity. It's nice to be a part of an invited panel for a change. So thank you.
 Thank you. Very good. Thank you all, four of you. Thank you, Mary Helen, for your great leadership. We appreciate it. It's been fun. But I have more fun things to do. I was going to say there's plenty of fun to be had yet. I was just glad I wasn't here yesterday. I know. Representative Kenny Geyer said this was the first time she testified in front of city council. I felt a little...
 In front of this city council, you haven't really gotten the full welcome yet. So we'll have to invite you back on a different day, perhaps on Wednesday morning. Wednesday morning, yeah. So we now have public testimony. Very good. Carla, how many folks do we have signed up for public testimony? We have three people signed up. Very good, folks. Three minutes, name for the record. Please come up. John Sandy, Margaret Davis, and Ramona Runkle. How are you today? Good.
 Good. Excellent. Why don't you start us off, please? Name for the record, three minutes. When the red light goes off, your time is up. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, my name is John Sandy. I'm a resident of northeast Portland, and I'm also a member of United Neighborhoods for Reform, UNR. About just over three years ago, United Neighborhoods for Reform presented to City Council a proposal or a resolution backed by over 40 neighborhoods
 that dealt with concerns around new development infill, as well as responsible practices during demolitions of existing houses. The ensuing years of UNR enlisting community, city bureau, and administration, as well as state legislative support, as obvious from previous speakers, has resulted in the proposal that we are discussing today. UNR enlisted.
 UNR is encouraged by and supports this proposal, albeit with some further discussion on a few points. The city proposal is modeled after Senate Bill 871, Best Practices Advisory Group, which included statewide representatives from the many stakeholders involved in residential demolition activities. As a member of this advisory group,
 I was encouraged by the broad support of developers and construction companies who recognized that these practices would help level the playing field between companies striving to be responsible and those not so much. Since compliance is key to effectiveness of any ordinance, proper inspections and meaningful penalties are a must. Therefore, the quicker, as has been mentioned, the quicker the proposed additional inspectors are trained and performing their duties, the better.
 And echoing some other comments, you and I would hope that accelerated target from July 1st should be a priority within BDS.
 In addition, the proposal only requires, and Nancy Thornton made some comments on this, only requires pre- and post-demolition inspection, but states that inspections during the actual demolition itself may occur. Since this would be the most critical inspection point, the ambiguity within the code language is of some concern.
 But as I've talked with Nancy, BDS personnel have indicated this ambiguity will be clarified through administration rules. And we will hold them accountable to that commitment. UNR has lobbied for the notification area to be expanded to 400 feet rather than 150 feet, as the proposal states. As the 400-foot distance represents the extent of potential significant lead dust fallout, as determined by a number of studies.
 The argument that 150 feet is adequate with the implementation of this best practice ordinance only holds up if the demonstrated compliance is near or at 100%. Therefore, this should be a performance measurement tracked by BDS and available to the public. Also noted within both the SB 871 recommendations and the city best practices is
 proposal is the use of full deconstruction as a means of removing residential structure. I'm just finishing up. UNR continues to advocate for this method to be the preferred choice for any and all residential demolitions, regardless of the date of construction, as construction material suppliers cannot guarantee that asbestos-containing materials will never be imported and find their way into American homes.
 Thank you very much. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Margaret Davis. I've worked with United Neighborhoods for Reform and also the Roseway Neighborhood Association. But today I'm really talking for all the Portlanders like me who have experienced and will experience demolition within 400 feet. Anti-demolition activists have long sounded the alarm on the release of hazardous materials during demolitions and here at least since 2014.
 Thank you to everyone who helped craft this public health and safety measure. However, I call your attention to the proposal's exemption for unsafe and hazardous structures. That's at 24.55.205C8, under which certain demolitions would not have to follow the lead hazard reduction requirements. Thank you.
 If a structure to be demolished is deemed unsafe and hazardous, then its owner should provide expanded notice to neighbors that corresponds to the increased dispersal of hazardous materials. Well-known studies, including the major and recent HUD analysis, show that most hazmat fallout from a demolition occurs within 300 feet of a demolition. It's not until 400 feet that measured particulates return to background levels.
 If we only ask for notification to neighbors within 150 feet of the demolition site, we're protecting less than half of the people and properties that will be exposed. I actually have a little graphic to show you. John's going to hold it up. So if each of these lines represents 100 feet, we're just about here in our notice. And if we're not applying any measures to mitigate, we'll be spreading it all the way out.
 In meetings of the DRAC subcommittee, I've brought up these statistics, but committee members say expanded notice costs too much. Whatever the expense of expanded notification, I am sure it is less than tutoring for a kid with developmental disabilities or managing illness or brain damage brought about by ingesting lead and or asbestos.
 Please add a expanded notification to neighbors living within 300, ideally 400, feet from a demolition if a building is deemed unsafe and hazardous. Otherwise, ironically, unsafe and hazardous will refer to anyone living, playing, breathing within that 400 feet. Finally, please keep on applying the pressure to move up that effective date.
 We've discussed this basic public health protection for years, and even moving up the state by a few weeks, months, will protect thousands more people from known toxins. Also, don't forget the cheapest, greenest building is the one already standing. This week, I've looked up Craigslist. There's a thousand, almost a thousand listings in one day for rentals.
 So we've gone from a housing crisis to a housing glut with units going vacant and a lot of people really wishing for those cheaper, well-built houses that were put in the landfill. Coming back to this topic, hopefully we will see the fertility, the expense, and unnecessary loss involved in demolitions and stop them altogether. Keeping our viable, affordable housing and building only on vacant land.
 So again, expanded notification for demolitions that are exempted and for the love of Portland and its people, move up that effective date. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Davis, thank you so much for your leadership over the years. You've put a lot of effort into this. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Ramona Runkle. I'm 11 years old. I live in a very old house across the street from Unthink Park.
 And when I was eight months old, I had an elevated lead level of, what, six micrograms per deciliter? I might be pronouncing that wrong, but I'm probably not. My mom took me to get tested for lead poisoning. She took me to the Josiah Hill III Clinic, which no longer exists. Okay.
 If I had even just a little more lead in my blood than six micrograms per deciliter, I could have suffered from permanent learning and social disabilities, as well as a plethora of other health problems. But my parents took the steps needed to make our house safe for me, and my lead level quickly dropped to undetected.
 passing this ordinance would make it possible for other kids to be safe from lead paint, which is terrible for brains and for blood. And this ordinance is very important so other kids don't get sick and get developmentally disabled. And it just...
 This is a good ordinance, and it should be passed. That's all I have to say. All right. Well said. Cut to the chase. Right. Good job. Ramona, is this your first? Have you testified here before? No. You have done an outstanding job. Thank you. Can we suspend the rules? Yes. Rules are suspended. In case anyone is wondering, that is the daughter of my chief of staff, Marshall Runkle, and his lovely wife, Mal.
 I thought I saw a resemblance. Yes. Carla, is there anybody else signed up for public testimony? So I have a couple amendments I'd like to make. Number one, I might need a little bit of help with the...
 I mean, I regret that we couldn't move this forward months ago. Obviously, we needed something to change the state level before we could really do this at the local level. And I agree that we should move as quickly as possible, although I can't guarantee that we can move much faster than five months. But as Mary Helen suggested, we could certainly change the language under there for item G. It currently says this ordinance will take effect...
 On July 1st, 2018, if we change it to by July 1st, 2018, does that allow us to kick into gear if we are able to hire the needed staff? Commissioner Udaly, there are certain provisions of this ordinance that kick in on the effective date. So, for example, under the therefore clause in D,
 There are fee increases that go into effect. And then in E, there's a fee and penalty schedule that goes into effect on the effective date. So for those reasons, you need a firm effective date when the ordinance will go into effect. And to say sometime between now and July would not give that firm date to say when the fees would go into effect, for example. So what you could, what you...
 What you could do is, I think, amend G to read, this ordinance shall take effect 30 days after passage, which is the case for all non-emergency ordinances, and shall be implemented no later than July 1, 2020.
 to give the effective date for when the ordinance takes effect and then give the Bureau time to implement it between then and later. Okay. We have a motion. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udali, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Presumably there's then mechanisms within development services to tell everybody that it's happening on a certain date. You could put that through the plans examiner or something.
 Is that right? Yeah, Nancy's also nodding. Thank you. And then my second amendment is that I do want to increase the notice perimeter from 150 feet to 400. Second. We really, you know, 150 feet is assuming the best about every developer, about every company doing these demolitions. And I...
 While I'm not disparaging anyone in particular, I do not think that is appropriate. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, a second from Commissioner Fritz.
 So I'm just wondering, I mean, obviously the expense to the city is not that much more, was given $300 for the door hangers. Having delivered flyers in my neighborhood and thinking about what a radius of 400 feet would be, that would take a fair amount of time to do that door hanging. Is there a way of doing some of the notification by mail? BDS routinely...
 Could you come to the table, please? Because BDS routinely notices land use notices by mail. So when DRAC accepted that same issue about the 400 feet, I think I got sort of one of those misquotes, not misquotes, but quote taken out of context. And being part of the DRAC subcommittee, I think Perry Cabot has a science on that. Or maybe you do. Can you, I mean...
 When that issue of 150 to 400 feet? I'm not the scientist, and we relied on Perry. So the studies that are out there talk about completely uncontained demolitions of residential structures, and the data that are available now, the study that's been done that's quite a well-done study, shows that I believe it's at 300 feet there is a noticeable dustfall increase of lead detected on sidewalks.
 with no controls. So I think the 400 feet extends that even a little bit further to just sort of give a zone. But 300 feet, I believe, is the number that comes out of that study. And that was uncontrolled, but if they do the containment measures of watering down and containing it, it's 150, and I think that was where that amount came from. Yes. So are you recommending 300 feet rather than 450?
 I don't know if it's my place to recommend one or the other, but from a perspective of the science, the data that's out there on this kind of activity, if it's completely uncontained, so if we assume that there is going to be some noncompliance and we have a dry summer day and the wind's blowing maybe not at 25, but, you know, I think it's possible that dust can go 300 feet. That's what this study shows, so...
 300 feet would be probably the number that I would settle on if I was looking at this from the lens of, like, maybe there will be people that just don't follow these rules whatsoever. I'm pretty sure there will be. But I'm not – I'm the health department. I'm not – yeah, so I just – And then to the question as to whether we can mail these notices rather than do door hangers? To the wider area, I suppose, I was thinking. Okay.
 Sure. I mean, or we could do some sort of hybrid. I don't know what you're thinking, but we do have to make it clear in the ordinance, whatever you decide, whether it's door hangers for 300 feet or 400 feet or, you know, the door hangers, I think there's a level of effectiveness because the issue with the mailing, just doing a mailing, is that, you know, if you have a renter, then it's going to go –
 on our records, it might not get to the person who's actually living there. Okay, thank you. Okay, so I'm going to amend my amendment. We're going to do door hangers to 150 feet, and we're going to do mailers to the next 150 feet to get to that 300 feet.
 Can I just put a comment out there? And I'm happy either way. But that starts to get really complicated. It might be simpler just to say door hangers to 300 feet. Okay. I mean, that's just my gut is telling me we're outsmarting ourselves. A few bucks on door hangers. And, of course, you know, we're going to come back, you know, if that's your final decision.
 And, you know, if we have issues during implementation, we'll come back to you. Okay. Final amendment. Door hangers. And I accept the change. 300 feet. Who's responsible for putting on the door hangers? Is it the developer or the city? The door hangers, the developer. Mailed is the city. Anything that we mail, we do it. If it's door hangers, then it's the developer. Door hangers.
 Yeah, so I'm just thinking there may be some pushback that it would take too much time to put them, but we can give it a whirl and change it later. Okay. So did I get a second on my third amendment? It was an amendment to the amendment. Yes. So the mover and the seconder both agreed to change it to 300, so we still have that out as an amendment. Very good. Any other amendments? Yes.
 All right, very good then. With regard to what we'll call... Sorry? Commissioner Fritz? Should we put an emergency clause? I was just going to say, do we want to add an emergency clause? It doesn't make any difference because you're going to start doing it anyway, right? But we can give our thank you. It would be nice because then we could do our thank yous to our... We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz and a second from Commissioner Ely to put an emergency clause on the ordinance.
 enacted as soon as possible. Very good. So let's go through these in reverse order. Please call the roll on the emergency ordinance. Mr. Mayor. Stop. Wait. Legal counsel is chiming in. Let's hear it. So the emergency clause, if you attach it, it would take the place of G, right?
 And so you would have the ordinance would become effective immediately because it is an emergency. And then the other motion that was pending was to make it effective 30 days from now with the proviso that it would be implemented no later than July 1st. So it's in conflict with Udaily 1, in other words, Amendment 1. No, just slightly. Is that what you're proposing? Yes.
 You said implementation date no longer. You just changed G to the implementation date will be no later than July 1st. Correct. Second. Correct. Correct. All right. So there would be a motion to strike G to add an emergency clause so it was effective immediately. No. Then you can add...
 another GF to say it will be implemented no later than July 1st 2018 and then the third motion would be to change 150 feet to 300 feet both in the ordinance and in the exhibit A. I think another way of saying that is to change G to this ordinance will be implemented no later than July 1st.
 Yes, but then you need to say the ordinance is effective immediately, so the fees are in effect immediately, the changes to the code are in effect immediately, and then give the Bureau until July 1st to implement all of the changes and get the staff on board to carry it out. The permit changes aren't being changed immediately. We're not going to charge people a permit fee for a service they're not going to get.
 If you add the emergency clause and make it effective immediately, then the fees in D and E, so the fee schedule to increase the demolition and deconstruction fee by $180 per minute, is effective on the effective date of this ordinance. So if it is effective immediately. We change it to the implementation date rather than the effective date in D and E. I think that would work. Isn't that what you're saying?
 There's a difference between effective and implementation? So you changed it. Yes. Effective and D changed that to implemented. Don't attach an emergency clause if it's not taking effect until July. It may take effect sooner, and we wanted to acknowledge the people in the room and let them see this vote. So I think you could change effective to implementation in D and effective, the second effective, to implementation date in E. Okay.
 My preference would be that we not add the emergency clause at this time, and it gives us the opportunity to thank everybody twice. They won't be here next week. Let's vote on the amendments. Let's do the other ones first. So Udailey 1, which is referencing the timeline, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Mr. Mayor, can you please state exactly what the amendment is? Commissioner Udailey, could you state Udailey 1, please, with regard to the timeline? Okay.
 It's going to be changed to by July 1st? So amend G to by July 1st instead of on July 1st. Yes. And I vote aye on that. Is that clear, legal counsel? If this is a problem, this is the time to speak up. Mr. Mayor, I think you need to have a date where the ordinance is effective.
 so everybody knows when the law goes into effect, and then you can give the Bureau and staff time to implement it. The ordinance goes into effect 30 days after we pass it by city code. We don't have to state that in the ordinance. That's correct. So you can be silent and it will be in effect in 30 days. You can state it expressly.
 as you have here where it takes effect on July 1st. You can attach an emergency clause so it's effective immediately. All we're trying to achieve is to give us the flexibility to implement the policy before July 1 if we've hired the appropriate staff. So what's the easiest way to achieve that? Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. I believe Commissioner Fritz had the right solution to...
 amend D to say the implementation date, amend E to say the implementation date, and then remove G and replace it with an emergency clause so it's effective immediately with an implementation date of no later than July 1st, 2018. Except we just decided not to do the emergency clause. I don't know if we're going to do it now, so go ahead. All right.
 I accept. That is now my amendment. Thank you. That is fabulous. So we're withdrawing the previous motion, and I didn't vote on that. What I'm voting on now is to add the emergency clause with the implementation by July 1st. Very good. And I vote aye. She votes aye. Saltzman. Aye. Aye.
 Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Now with regard to Commissioner Udailey's 300-foot notification, please call the roll. Fritz? Again, thank you very much to United Neighbourhoods for Reform and for everybody who's worked so hard on this. I think this is a final piece. Thank you, Commissioner Udailey, for being willing to make the change at the hearing. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye.
 All right, you guys are gonna love this. It's perhaps my longest. Thank you list ever. So please bear with me I am that amendment. Yes, we're all ready to go Me I Sat here through the presentation. I was polite to everybody. I didn't kick Joe Walsh out. I want my vote All right, the amendments adopt okay, I
 We need a drum roll. Anybody? So we've already amended D&E, have we? Or do we need to vote on that? I believe that was encompassed under the first. I believe that has been withdrawn. So now we're voting on the underlying ordinance. That is correct. Because we have now basically put the emergency clause on. Is that correct? Yes.
 You have adopted two amendments, one of which includes an emergency class. Correct. Very good. Now to the main motion. Call the roll. Well, it is very, very satisfying to see this come to fruition. Thank you, Commissioner Daly, for your leadership in bringing it. And thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for not letting it die after you were assigned the Bureau. I want to thank former Director Paul Scarlett, who was very committed to this issue, Mary Helen Kincaid, and just everybody who...
 cares about the whole city, whether this is a factor in your neighborhood or not. As I said earlier, it was mostly people who had the capacity to go to neighborhood meetings who were able to push the city and then the state into making these changes. So thank you very much to everybody. I would ask a point of privilege to let Commissioner Udaly go last and have the final word on this. Thank you. Saltzman?
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Thank you for everybody who worked hard, including our legislators that were here earlier. But all legislators, as Senator Dembrow said, started with somebody asking him a question at a town hall meeting, and that led to what we're doing here today, adopting a local ordinance to implement this. So it's a true testament, I think, to how things can work and work well. So thanks. Hi. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 I think this is a great example of what happens when the community works together. And we heard all the pieces represented here today. We heard people talk about citizen engagement and citizen activism. We heard about some of our advisory groups coming together in a –
 thoughtful and meaningful way. We heard about how state government worked effectively with local government to help pass legislation that was required for us to
 to be able to enable this kind of an ordinance. And the media played an important role in daylighting the issues that were raised by citizens, and there's a number of media folks here today who followed this story, wrote about this issue, gave it the prominence that it ultimately had, and...
 That's so important, and it required a champion here at City Hall, and that's why I wanted Commissioner Udaly to go last so I can embarrass her a little bit. It required good leadership and consistent leadership here at City Hall. And while I certainly acknowledge there were many people over many years who worked hard on this, it always takes somebody to run the ball over the –
 The last yards across the, what do you call it, touchdown line? Touchline? The end zone. The end zone. Gosh, I knew it would eventually come to me. Sports ball. It's all about sports ball. But it really is, I think it's been a great example of how to do policy right. And frankly, it inspires me to think about the other issues in our community where we're not this well organized and we're not on the same page. Right.
 And we don't have all of these things coalescing, all these different people, individuals, groups, organizations coming together in a way to help push our common agenda. And I think this just is a great example. I vote aye. You, Daly. All right. So at the end of the day, I think it's important to say that we're not going to be able to do this without the support of our community.
 some of the people I was hoping to thank have left the room, so if you know any of them, please pass this message along. At the top, I want to echo Mary Helen's and the Mayor's sentiments that once these issues trickle up
 to this level, it's easy to forget who brought them to our attention to begin with. And we really do need to give credit where credit is due, and that is to citizen activists and advocates and to local media who, in this case, really helped daylight this issue. So with no further ado, here are my thank yous.
 I want to, of course, thank Senator Dembrow and his staff, in particular Logan Giles, Representative Kenny Geyer, Speaker Kotek, and Amy Beth Stevens from her office. We also want to thank the Oregon Health Authority, Department of Environmental Quality, OSHA, Construction Contractors Board, and the U.S. EPA.
 Perry Cabot from Multnomah County Health Department, lead program. Paul Grove from the Oregon Home Builders Association. Mary Helen Kincaid, former draft chair. And if she were here, I would tell her congratulations on your second retirement. Please go have some fun now.
 Jeff Fish of Fish Construction, Justin Wood from DRAC and Fish Construction, Bryce Jacobson from Metro, Scott Yelton of the Rebuilding Center, Lydia Ness from Restore Oregon, Claire Carter, DRAC, and she's a neighborhood representative on DRAC, Robert McCullough from Southeast Uplift,
 United Neighbors for Reform, of course, Al Ellis, John Sandy, John Hauer, Margaret Davis, and Barbara Strunk, Michael Molinaro, a local architect, and Dan Forbes, local journalist. And last but not least, our city staff, Dan Eisenbeiss from Oregon Government Relations, Sean Wood of BPS,
 Brandon Spencer-Hardell from BPS, Nancy Thorrington, Terry Whitehill, Rebecca Esau, and our whole BDS team.
 This would not be complete without the thank you to my Chief of Staff, Marshall Runkle, who very obviously had an incredibly personal and vested interest in this issue. And finally, Ramona Runkle, who joined us here today and sat through what I'm sure was some pretty tedious information to give her very important personal testimony. Thank you all. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended.
 And we are adjourned.