Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the February 12th meeting of the Portland City Council would you please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome everyone we have a single item on the agenda this afternoon so we know why you're here and welcome. We're continuing and I'll get Carla to read the item in a moment continuing our discussion of these changes to our code regarding demolition.
 We will get the item read and then we'll take staff presentation and testimony. For those of you who have spoken here before, you know the rules, but for those who haven't, you don't need to give us your address, just give us your name. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization, you do need to please disclose that under our city code's requirements.
 With a long agenda like this, or a lot of people signed up, we typically ask you to hold your comments to two minutes, so please try to be succinct. If somebody else has said what you want to say, feel free to give them a thumbs up or wave your hands, and if you want to, wave your moment to speak, but you don't have to. The point of that reminder is we like to let everybody have their say, so please don't make any vocal demonstrations in favor or against your fellow citizens' point of view, and I think they'll do the same for you.
 So welcome, and Carla, would you please read the item? Item 169, amend building demolition code to require notice and delay for all single-family residential demolitions in areas with a residential comprehensive map designation and make other changes. Mr. Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thanks to everybody who's been engaged in this process, both volunteers and staff. It's been a very constructive set of discussions, and I'm happy to be here today with a substitute ordinance. So I'm going to invite Nancy Thorrington from the Bureau of Development Services to come up and explain what the substitute is. I think I'll move the substitute first so that we just have it on the table. Okay, there's a motion to put the substitute before us. And second. Second.
 Further discussion? Then a roll call to put the substitute on the table for us to discuss. Prince? So Nancy's going to go through and explain what all the changes are since the December version, and that then will form the basis of what we'll be asking everyone to comment on. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Thank you, Council Members. I have a question.
 PowerPoint here that should be coming up in a second to help us go through this because it's been nearly two months and a lot of information here. So this first slide is basically, this is an overview. I'm going to just go over what was presented originally, our proposed changes, and then some of the cost issues here.
 So in December, we came before you with an amendment, a proposed amendment, that would add mailed notice to the properties within 150 feet and door hangers
 to the notice of the demolition. It would make all the residential structures subject to the initial 35-day delay and change the current 120-day extension and replace it with a 30-day extension and then remove the current exception to that notice and delay provision.
 The other amendments were to add definitions to the code. Right now, there is no definition of demolition either in state law or in our ordinance, so we wanted to add those in there. We also added a category for major alterations and additions because there was a lot of input from the community about what essentially are called these virtual demolitions. So that provision addresses those. We are not proposing any changes to that one.
 This slide here gives you at least an idea of the numbers that we're looking at for the residential permits for 2013 and 2014. The total permits in 2013 were 281. The total for last year were 312. We're on course to process about 370 this year.
 So the next column shows the number that are exempt under the current code. You'll see the difference in 2013, it was 212, and last year it was 177. And the reason for that number going down was about mid-year, our director, Scarlett, changed the interpretation so that fewer of the permits were exempt.
 covered by the exception. And so you can see the number then reflected in that were subject to the notice. And of those, the number where there was 120 day delay requested in 2013, it was two and in 2014, it was five. Those, those aren't huge numbers, but you can see the trend upward in terms of the number of
 the exceptions or the delay exceptions, I'm sorry, extensions that are being requested. So in response to the hearing on the 17th, we went back to address the demolition delay extension because that was really the issue that the public was concerned with. So we met with the Development Review Advisory Committee, subcommittee, the FULDRAC, the United Neighborhoods for Reform Committee.
 Restore Oregon, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and our code hearings officer to address this issue of the demolition delay extension. And we reached consensus among these stakeholders for the proposal that's before you now. This next series of slides is, I put it in these three columns to help give you an idea of the first column is the existing code, what's in there now, what we presented on the 17th, and what we're proposing now.
 This first one is the notice provision. So right now, if you come into BDS and you ask for a demolition permit, you get this huge orange poster that gets posted on the site. And we are proposing removing that requirement based on input that those basically attract demolition.
 criminal activity and don't really give the notice that is very effective. So in lieu of that, we are recommending having the properties within 150 feet get mailed notice and also to the recognized organizations.
 That isn't changing. We are just adding a recommendation to include the Architectural Heritage Center and Restore Oregon to the organizations that would get notice to help get that further out into the community.
 The demolition delay, right now in the code, all demolitions are subject to a 35-day delay, except if you're going to have a one-for-one replacement. And what we have proposed is to eliminate that exception, so everything would be subject to the delay. Okay.
 This is where we get into the real meat of this, the extension period. Who may request it? Right now in the code, any recognized organization whose boundaries include the site, we are recommending adding any interested party.
 The time of the extension. So right now it's 120 days. And all that has to happen is the recognized organization sends BDS a letter and requests the extension. And that extension is automatic. It's for 120 days. And when you add that with the 35 initial delay, that's a total of 155 days.
 What we presented on the 17th was a 30-day mutually agreed-upon notice, and that was the issue that people were not happy with because there was not enough –
 It was mutual, so there was no teeth in it, there was no way to enforce it, and they said it was too short. So what we're proposing now is a 60-day delay in addition to the initial 35, which would give a total of 95 days. And that would be granted, or what would be required for that would be that the appellant submit
 and application for an appeal to BDS for a hearing for the codes hearings officer, along with a fee or a fee waiver and supporting documentation showing that they're actively pursuing an alternative to demolition.
 So, again, who can appeal under the current code? It's the applicant for the demolition permit is the appellant now. And what we're proposing is to switch that so that whoever is asking for the extension is the one who has to request the appeal.
 And right now the burden, therefore, because the applicant is the one who is filing the appeal, they have to show that the recognized organization that requested the extension is not making a good faith effort to work on an alternative to demolition. And they have to pay the appeal fee, which at this point is $1,300. Okay.
 What we're proposing now is to shift the burden so that the appealing party shows that they're actively pursuing an alternative to demolition. And what we've got here are four criteria. The first one is showing notice that you've tried to contact the owner. And this we're doing via certified mail, although we certainly will encourage people to talk directly to the property owner, but at least...
 certified mail, we know we have an objective criteria to know that they've actually reached out and tried to contact the property owner.
 The second one, this one is the property has some significance to the neighborhood as demonstrated by architectural significance, the age and condition of the house, or some other factor. This is in response to some feedback basically that the council, you know, gave at the September 17th hearing that, you know, obviously not all old buildings,
 buildings are worth saving and, you know, so there should be something that shows why this particular structure is important. In addition, a plan to save the structure. So, not just saying, okay, we like this building, but what are you going to do? What are you
 Show us something concrete that shows that you can do this. And then the last one, I really appreciate the input of the United Neighbors for Reform because they helped us craft this one. Actually, they crafted it.
 which is great because it gives some nice objective criteria for the hearings officer to apply, which includes providing a pro forma budget and evidence of either funds on hand or a fundraising plan sufficient to meet that. So that creates basically what the code hearings officer would use to determine whether they're actively pursuing the alternative to demolition.
 This slide shows what happens as a result of the appeal. So if the burden isn't met, then right now under the ordinance, if it is met, I'm sorry, then the BDS can issue the permit, and under the proposed revisions, if the
 the applicant meets, if the applicant for the appeal meets the criteria, then they get an additional 60 days in addition to the initial 35 days. So that's a 95-day window. If they don't meet that burden, then BDS can issue the permit any time after receiving notice of the decision. So what we were trying to do was create a finite universe so that it can never go past the 95 days.
 So this third bullet basically explains that. So let's say somebody comes in on the 35th day and they file their application for an appeal. And then...
 If the code hearings officer doesn't get to the hearing for another 30 days and then their decision doesn't happen within that 30 days after that, you've got your 95 days have expired. If that happens, then BDS can issue the permit regardless of whether the hearings officer has rendered a decision because it's a 95-day maximum cutoff. So that gives the balance, we think, between the finality for the property owner and 95-day expiry.
 when the issuance of the permit has stayed. And then this just shows again that the exception to the notice and delay, we are recommending removing that. One of the other issues that's been raised with in conjunction with this is the deconstruction issue. And it came up a little bit at the last hearing, and we've talked with BPS and DRAC and UNR. Deconstruction is kind of just a slow process.
 and green version of demolition. So we wanted to make sure that we address this properly, and we think that BPS and BPS thinks that they're the better organization to be taking the lead on this with input from DRAC.
 One of the issues is the code that's before you is basically regulatory, what you can do, what you can't do when you're engaging in a residential demolition. And deconstruction is different because it's an incentive program. It's, you know, what are we going to give you for,
 doing deconstruction instead of demolition. And so it really is different considerations that I don't think belong in a code, and the stakeholders pretty much agreed that it was better to put that off and discuss it with the right stakeholders and all of the right stakeholders, because we were focused on the demolition process
 pieces that we had. We didn't have any deconstruction experts and we didn't fully vet it. This last one here is just the major alteration and demolition comparison. Just briefly on the major alterations, all we're doing for that is seeking, it gives a 35-day delay from the time
 that somebody posts notice. They have to put door hangers on the surrounding properties and email the recognized organizations. And the purpose of that is to make sure that the surrounding property owners know if there's one of these big alterations where they're taking down half the house or they're adding a story or something like that. So that's just a recap.
 These last two slides are on the fees. The appeal fee is $1,300 and it's a fee that's charged by the Code Hearings Office. It's not a fee that we can waive.
 And they won't waive it. They don't have any way of doing that, nor will they. So basically it's something that if we want to waive the fee, we have to come up with the money from somewhere because we can't use our permit fees. State law restricts how we can use our permit fees to things related specifically to the implementation of the permit and inspection program.
 So on this last slide here, this shows the total cost. The first part of this is the notice, and we project about 370 permits for the demolitions and about 3,500 for the major alterations. And so that just shows the mailing costs and the staff time at about $46,000.
 Then related to processing the appeals and any of the other associated tasks with this, we anticipate it might take up to a full-time employee at $80,000. And then we're kind of shooting in the dark here on the appeal fee waivers. We have no idea how many are going to come in. So we just made a projection at 20%, and that's what that $97,000 is based on.
 So with that, I will take any questions. To be clear, we're not requesting that right now. The Development Review Advisory Committee subcommittee is going to continue working on the issue of what fees could be added to the permit fee and what cannot. And then we'll be rolling that, having a late add into the budget or perhaps into a bump. Okay.
 so that council will have that decision to be made separately. We just wanted to highlight for everybody that there are costs involved and not all of them can legally be assigned to the person applying for the demolition. So there will need to be some general fund allocation.
 And the waiver policy that we have for neighborhood associations applies on the appeal side here as well. It does. It's very similar to the land use review process. However, with land use reviews, it is legal to tack that additional cost onto the upfront permit application fee. It's not for this process. So we wanted to mirror it so that no neighborhood association is prohibited from appealing because of the cost.
 On the other hand, we don't have a readily available bucket to get that from. And so we wanted to flag that for you, ma'am. Good. Thank you. I have a question. And it has to do with the requirement that the –
 On the burdens, when you listed the burdens that someone has to meet to get the extension of delay, you have in there a certified letter, a copy of a certified letter to the, I guess, developer. The owner. The owner, yeah. The owner, yeah. That's a pretty high bar. Send a letter, certified mail, return receipt requested?
 Well, I'm just saying it's a high bar generally because, like, as a recovering lawyer, you know, you can send a letter as a lawyer and just attest that you sent it, and there are very few requirements in the law that require certifications. But I had a different question. Let's say you're up against a deadline and someone comes in, and they've given actual notice, but they don't bring you a certified letter. On that technicality, could they be denied their relief they seek? Sure.
 The way this code is written, yes, because what we're trying to do is keep BDS staff from having to make that determination as to whether what you've done is sufficient. So in my experience in code writing, it's pretty common to have a certified letter requirement. We have it in the zoning code as well. It just is all you have to do is show that determination.
 you know, piece of receipt, you know, that's stamped by the post office that you sent it certified. It doesn't have to have come back. I understand. That's why I'm thinking, I mean, I'm just imagining someone coming on the last day you can do this and it's a national holiday or there's some other reason. Is there a – are we giving you the discretion to –
 to waive that requirement if someone presents evidence that they've actually contacted the landlord. But how would they do that, Commissioner? I understand the concern about the burden that you raised, but if we need proof that the property owner has been told, how would you get that but for –
 the certified mail mechanism. Well, you actually have no proof that the certified mail has been received. Well, that's fair. Well, return receipt requested, though. That is true. And like I say, we're encouraging people to at least, you know, to in addition, you know, make actual contact. But in talking with staff, there was just really no way to,
 write it into code that, you know, all of the different possible permutations. I mean, you know, there might be something in an implementation in an administrative rule that said if you had something signed by the property owner saying, you know, yeah, we've been in discussions. Okay.
 I understand why you'd want a certified letter, but I'm just thinking of the hardship case of someone who otherwise complies with the spirit of the rule, but because of a national holiday or something or some life event can't get to the post office. I mean, it's not...
 I can't get to the post office with my day job. So it's just I'm just sometimes in hearings all day. So I'm just wondering if there is that exception. Fortunately, most people have normal jobs like ours. Hopefully they wouldn't wait until the last day either. To the regs at some later date. Other questions or issues to flag? Thank you.
 And I'm sure we'll have more later on. But we have some folks signed up. Now, I believe we first have some people who signed up to testify at the last hearing but didn't get the chance. So we should call that roll first. And hopefully many, if not all, of those people are here. And then we'll move to people that have signed up to testify on the amendments today. The first three of the previous testifiers I have are Scott Yelton, Shane Endicott, and Cliff Goldman. Come on up.
 And then I have them followed by Tamara Derrida, Justin Wood, and Jess Larson. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Go ahead. We go time? You go ahead. All right. Well, first of all, thank you for this opportunity. As you know, I just missed the deadline last time, and I was really afraid I wouldn't be invited back. Thanks for your consideration about that. Put your name on the record, though. My name is Scott Yelton. I'm here wearing a lot of hats, but one of them is I work for a company called Lovett Deconstruction. We are a deconstruction company. We basically do demolition by hand. So we are tearing down structures, buildings.
 using our hands and hand tools a lot of what we do is salvaging materials and what we are doing is releasing that burden on the environment did you know that one-third one-third this blows my mind of all landfill material is from residential home demolition debris
 We cut into that. We salvage materials that can be reused in the rebuilding process. Two by fours, two by sixes, the structural lumber that can never be replaced unless we, of course, clear cut old growth forests, but if we do that I'm going to come back and testify again that we shouldn't. It's a solid service we're doing to the environment alone and it's a material that's in demand.
 I think one of the unheralded benefits, the unheralded benefits of demolition is that it takes time. And that's, I can hear the eyes roll behind me because those developers want time now. There's not enough time in the day. But we have the time to run safety protocols. We have the time to identify and dispose of toxic materials such as lead and asbestos. This is completely opposite of what you get with a backhoe and a guy who can raise a cloud of dust in one day.
 But I think most importantly is we have the time to actually touch base with the community. Time and time and time again, I've seen it on the project site where the community neighbors come up to us. Typically not on the first day. It takes them a moment to sort of realize what's going on.
 and express their fears, express their concerns, express their anger at times with us. But we have that time because we're there in day in and day out listening, also expressing our opinions and our objectives that we are salvaging this material, that we can reuse this material. Yeah.
 so i think there's a bridge there that we're making that demolition does not do a guy in the backhoe does not do so i know we are given a wink and a nod that will kick deconstruction down the road but i hope the spotlight doesn't fade and that we can stand up and make a mandate for deconstruction thank you so much thank you thanks very much welcome
 Are you ready with your PowerPoint? I am. Thanks. Thanks. My name is Shane Endicott, and I'm the executive director of our United Villages and the Rebuilding Center in Portland. We're a 501 nonprofit started by all volunteers here in Portland. It took two years, and we launched the Rebuilding Center in 1998, and we still have a lot of volunteers. But we also have paid staff in six departments.
 A few things I want to point out is that I'm really excited to share information about deconstruction, because when we started this, there was no all-year-round deconstruction program in the United States. And today, they're popping up all over the country. And also, it's that deconstruction is very aligned with the city's political goals, even on the website and all the visioning and other projects that have been going on.
 I'm going to share a video here. So I think the light is up. And I don't know if we can do the lights, but this is a demolition. And I just want to show the comparison and I'll share some information as it's running. So as you can see, it happens very fast. But what's tied up in there is a lot of old growth. And actually, if that stuff was still in the forest, it would be protected. And it's worth a lot.
 a lot more than anything you can buy today. In fact, you can't get the material that's tied up in there today. And if you notice, you'll see one gentleman jump out of there. Now, the next video you're going to see is deconstruction. And we create six to eight jobs for every one job in demolition. Six to eight using deconstruction for every one. Livable wage jobs.
 Also, it supports small businesses all over the city. A lot of people buy the materials to feed their businesses. If you've been in any of the – some of the big stores in little – any business district in Portland, you'll find used materials incorporated. It's beyond in style. It's an ethos. And we're just fairly tapping the opportunity that sits there economically with jobs as well as savings to our community. So since the Rebuilding Center was open, we have –
 raised over $25 million, but it's equated to $75 million of savings to our community. And we're just scratching the surface. We're barely touching it. So there's literally millions of economic dollars to be reinvested back in our city. And I can add up easily around 1,000 jobs of how it all feeds. And we have people coming from all over the country. Am I over? Yeah.
 Yes, you do need to finish. It was three minutes last time. I apologize. That's fine. No, very well done. I appreciate the videos. Those are pretty amazing. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, you're next. Oh, you also have graphics. Okay. I got a picture. All right. It's worth a thousand words. Often. Mayor Hale, city commissioners, my name is Cliff Goldman.
 I live in northeast Portland. I want to thank you for this opportunity to make my comments to you as a resident of the Beaumont-Wilshire neighborhood. Ground zero for demolitions and building of tall, skinny houses.
 Mayor Hales, the Oregonian on January 31st had this article in the newspaper about you're going to be running in 2016. I'm very encouraged by the speech that you made at the City Club and the policy prospects. I think they're great. I hope I can support you then, especially like the policy prospect of demolitions.
 Hales wants to create rules on neighborhood infill to make, quote, Now, Oregon's population is growing, more people, and people have to live somewhere. I'd rather see greater urban density as opposed to ever expansion, pushing out, if you will, of houses beyond the urban growth boundary.
 This is Oregon. We're different here. This is Portland. I don't think it's weird to want to preserve the character of our neighborhoods. Now, developers want to make money. Construction workers and contractors want to work. I understand that. Houses don't last forever. The construction of new housing is inevitable. The rebuilding and or refurbishing of what is is natural, but it must be done right. Thank you.
 We shouldn't build a new home without an eye to architectural compatibility, I believe. A picture is worth a thousand words, and you can see that the tall, skinny house there is out of place. This home on Skidmore, northeast Skidmore, does not fit. There's something wrong with this picture. Thank you.
 Not just the aesthetic insult to the eye, but blocking of solar access, eclipsing the sun, affordability in the sense of marring of the neighborhood. I had three minutes last time. Let's go ahead and reveal where we have to, but to do in a way that enhances the neighborhood's cohesiveness is pleasing rather than shocking to the eye. We in the Beaumont-Wilshire neighborhood care about what the neighborhood looks like. The developers do not.
 Can't we rebuild, have new homes that are included rather than simply being imposed upon us? Please do what's in your power to do zoning changes, height limitations, and accordance with the surrounding homes to make the city that you rule...
 to be worthy of the hard work that you do in making our city livable for all, not just profitable, the blind profitability for some. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all for coming. Thank you. The next three are Tamara DeRitter, Justin Wood, and Jess Larson, and they'll be followed by Karen Carlson, Becky Looning, and Tanya March.
 Tamara, I think you're on first. Okay. I'm Tamara DeRutter. I'm chairman for Rose City Park Neighborhood Association, and I'm here to speak on their behalf. The Rose City Park really supported the UNR resolution in intent, and not some of the specifics, but the intent. And I want to encourage all of you to support the mayor in the creation of the infill task force.
 And with that, look beyond just cosmetics of the house, but also at dealing with the massing and the rhythm. Because there's other things such as creating three homes on a corner lot, which causes a mass much bigger than what is typical. And there's also split lots. And so add that to your list, if you would.
 Also, deconstruction, as mentioned, is to be looked at and should be looked at. It's an important part of our heritage. And I also wanted to make sure that you didn't miss updating the Historic Landmarks Commission inventory. Right now, nothing east of 82nd is on that inventory, and that's because we didn't annex it until later. So please don't miss that.
 One thing about the ordinance change, I'd like you to take a look at Section J. In that, it makes no sense that it adds 60 days from the day BDS received the complete demolition permit. It should be after the 35-day notice. If you're adding 60 days, it shouldn't be prior to the five-day notification period that the staff has.
 And then on top of that, there's a 35-day notice to the public. So if you'd look at Clause J for that issue. Okay, thank you. Okay, thank you. Thanks very much. Yes, I'm trying to look at whether the modification of J that's described in the amendments. Yeah, in the amendment, in the middle of it, it says...
 60 additional days from the date BDS received the complete demolition permit application. All right. And so that doesn't make sense. Okay. Because it reduces it down to a total of 55 days. Supposed to be, yes. I get it. 60 plus 35. It does say 95 days in the. Yeah, it should be 95. So it should be after the 35-day notification period. Okay. We'll check on that. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Wood. Good afternoon and thank you, Mr. Mayor and members of the council. My name is Justin Wood. I'm with the Home Builders Association of Metro Portland. I'm also a builder with Fish Construction. We do a lot of infill housing. I'm a local second generation builder. I want to thank staff, BDS, DRAC, and all the staff that worked on this.
 I do have several thoughts and comments about design standards and compatibility, but I'll hold those for a separate hearing where they're relevant. City Council tasked the DRAC back in 2014 with solving the issue of demolition. I think DRAC has worked hard on this issue, has come back with an initial proposal.
 City Council asked them to go back and make some tweaks, which they have done, and they've seeked out the approval from different groups such as UNR and Restore Oregon. So I think they've done what they've tasked, and so I would ask the council to support the resolution that they have in front of them. Additionally, I'd just like to add a little bit of commentary regarding the importance and need of demolition, redevelopment, and infill to our area.
 For one, our company, most of the houses we build are geared towards first-time home buyers. A lot of them are built to people buying at or below median family income.
 This argument lately about demolition seems to be painting the picture that every house that's been torn down has been a big house, and every house that's replaced has been a half a million dollars or more. I can specifically tell you, and some others will hear as well, that a lot of these houses that are being torn down are small little houses, and they're being replaced with small houses for starter families. So keep in mind that there is a spectrum. It's not just large houses, and it's not just McMansions, if people want to call it that.
 This has also been described as not being a density issue, yet in 2013, the City of Portland reported 283 demolitions, resulting in 553 new units. So it is an increase of 100% of density on those lots.
 Lastly, much has been made that we can put all our new growth and development in this region into the centers and the corridors and the downtown areas. Yet I think it's important for neighborhood associations and residents of the city to know that as Metro and the City of Portland are working on their growth projections for the region, that the City of Portland says, as part of the 2014 Urban Growth Report, that they can handle 15,000 new single-family homes within the City of Portland.
 And of that, 9,400 of those are through infill, and this is in the next 20 years. And I can tell you as somebody who looks for land and buys land, there's not 10,000 vacant lots in the city of Portland. If we are going to meet what we're telling Metro that we're going to do based on our growth, we have to have infill and demolition to do it. If we don't want to do this, then that's a separate conversation that we need to have with Metro. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners, for welcoming this testimony. My name is Jess Larson. I'm with the Welcome Home Coalition. And we are a group of housing advocates, affordable housing providers, and community members, educators, health care providers, labor folks interested and concerned about affordability in our community.
 And we are grateful for all the work that's gone forward to get us to today with the DRAC committee and everyone involved in this work. And we just want to put something on the table for your future consideration. And that is the idea of demolition fees as a way to mitigate lost affordability in the case of some demolitions. Okay.
 We have a good example of some demolition fee structures in use outside of Chicago. There are a group of cities that use an elevated fee structure to do a couple of things, to deter some demolitions from occurring when it's not in the community's best interest or it doesn't increase density or it doesn't increase density.
 Where it doesn't create new affordability But when demolitions do go forward a in the case of these cities $10,000 fee is collected and contributed to an affordable housing account and That affordable housing account then gets used to help mitigate the loss of some of that lost affordability through again some demolitions and I
 It allows for first-time homeowners who aren't able to break into the market to have extra funds to purchase their first-time family home. So we are very interested in this as one tool that the city can look to.
 as a way of addressing lost affordability, gentrification, displacement throughout our community. We know here in Portland that a lot of tools that communities are using across the country are off the table for us for our local use to mitigate affordability. And when there are tools still on the table, we hope that we can look to using them for the best outcomes for our communities. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 The next three are Karen Carlson, Becky Looney, and Tanya March. And the last person who did not get to speak on the 17th will be Teresa Rayford. And thank you all for being willing to defer until today. So I guess you run first, Karen, and your colleagues are waiting politely for you to be first.
 Go ahead. Karen Carlson, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I have a lot to say, so I'm going to probably roll over my two minutes. Demolition is about a lot of different things. It's about historic preservation and neighborhood livability, public safety, social equity, and very importantly, housing policy.
 The demolition code changes before you have been looked at only through the eyes of BDS and the DRAC. BDS and the DRAC do not make city housing policy and are not responsible for historic preservation and are not leading the comp plan process. They should not be the only bodies looking at the issue of demolition. Many points of view must come together. I'm going to jump into the meat of my testimony, though.
 The newest proposal provides for a 35-day delay with a 60-day extension upon proof of the following criteria have been met. Request a meeting with a certified male, provide evidence of the significance of the structure, develop a plan to save the structure, and to show reasonable potential to consummate the plan within 95 days by providing a pro forma request.
 and evidence that funds are on hand or a fundraising effort is sufficient to meet the financial requirements. That's a lot. That's a big amount of work. And the hearings officer, what criteria do they use to determine if a structure is significant? What about, is a plan reasonable? If the developer says, I'm not going to sell the property, then the plan's not reasonable. What is, if the performa is feasible, reasonable.
 I don't know hearings officers who know a lot about analyzing pro formas. And is the fundraising plan feasible? I think that's a big question. So part of this is a lot about process and timeline. Most neighborhood associations meet monthly. To request an extension, the neighborhood association must vote in support of the plan at a public meeting with notice requirements required.
 This must happen now within 35 days of when the notice is mailed. Based on that timeline alone, I doubt that it can happen. Even Oney recommends that neighborhood associations need 60 days to make decisions on important issues. In conclusion, I think that the present 120-day delay does have flaws, but the proposed code changes neither a compromise nor a real alternative. Effectively, it trades a 120-day delay for 35 days.
 The 60-day extension is very unlikely to ever happen. So let's be honest about it. Let's either keep the 120-day delay until a real proposal is developed or eliminate it altogether. Please don't prevent it's an acceptable solution. I do want to add two more parts. First,
 I do think we need an automatic 120-day extension for anything that's on the historic resource inventory, and that you cannot remove something from the historic resource inventory for 120 days. Right now you can remove it in one day, and there's no demolition delay required. Secondly, all of this is placing the burden on the neighborhood association.
 There is already precedent in code that many developments require neighborhood contact by the developer. It's in 33-700-025. You can look it up yourself. If we could place the first step burden of notice on the developer to notify the neighborhood association that they're planning a demolition and then require them to come in with that proof, then the neighborhood association has a chance to,
 to maybe in that next 35 days pull together a plan. Otherwise, it'll never happen.
 Thank you. I've got to check. Are we sure that all the criteria that you just mentioned are still in the code? We didn't take any of that out of the amendments? Right. So those specifications for what you have to do to get the 60-day extension are all still as? Right. Okay, as they were? Okay, thank you. They're revised since. But they're all still there? Yes. The crimes she just iterated are all still there in the draft? Okay, thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Becky Leuning. I'm the chair of the Woodstock Neighborhood Association, but I'm not here in that official capacity today. Although I do want to mention that we were the 40th to sign on to the UNR resolution, and our name was not read at that December 17th hearing, so you can add us to that list. Okay.
 I want to urge you to take swift, strong action to slow the rate of demolition and redevelopment in my neighborhood. At minimum, I hope you will fulfill the request to create a task force, and I would recommend Eastmoreland neighbor Rod Merrick as a good candidate for that task force.
 If and when the task force is formed, it would be great to include a representative from Woodstock as well. We are one of the hardest hit neighborhoods in the city with regard to demolition and McMansion developments.
 I understand the need for infill, for creating more density in the neighborhoods. I'm bothered by the things that are being displaced in the process, including light and privacy and garden areas where children can play and water can be filtered. Not to mention many high-value mature trees. So I can let some of those things go. There are some nice developments that happen when people split off their side yards or their backyards.
 The most disturbing trend in our neighborhood is we're seeing a lot of sound, affordable homes being demolished in order to split the lots and erect two very large homes where there was once one. Now, as we speak, one block south of where I live on Southeast Spiel, both east and west of 60th, there are three different developments underway bringing six new very large homes in that,
 All this activity causes feelings of instability among neighbors. It makes us realize that every single property in our neighborhood is vulnerable to redevelopment. It raises people's fears about being priced out of their own neighborhood. Homes that are sold for an average of $250,000 are being replaced with new homes that are selling more like $470,000.
 And this is not what I would call infill, this is what I would call redevelopment. And wholesale redevelopment of our established neighborhoods does not fit with the city's stated values of diversity, equity, and especially non-sustainability. Because these homes take, what, 50 years for the ecological, whatever cost to be absorbed by the environment.
 So I just urge you to create the task force that can look at these issues. I've heard that other cities, maybe Seattle, maybe Austin, Texas, have found ways to address this big box development trend because it's something that people feel in their gut that something's out of whack here, the lack of consideration of context and scale of the existing neighborhood. Okay.
 In Portland, when we were shopping for a home, my husband's a double amputee, and access can be difficult when there's a lot of stairs. And there's a dearth of one-story homes in Portland, especially close in. Woodstock is like the new close in. I think that's what's driving this trend, you know, the market forces, obviously. The very few homes, nice ranch homes that were built by owners in 1950s,
 are now being torn down only because they are on, you know, lots that are seen as double lots. One thing that could be done to address the trend is to go back to respecting the R5 zone as meaning, you know, 5,000 square feet instead of 3,500 square feet. Another thing would be to increase setbacks or tie setbacks to heights to try to make homes just...
 be a little more modest or at least not to have such an impact on the house that's right next door, five feet away. There's do away with some of the variances that are so routinely granted through BDS permitting processes. Officially recognize the historic 25 by 100 plats as building blocks, not buildable lots.
 There's a lot of small tweaks that could be made, and I know that a lot of people in Portland are studying this and could figure out some fixes pretty quickly. And still, there would be plenty of opportunity for development.
 So thank you for your attention. Well, Becky, thanks to the Woodstock Neighborhood Association for bringing the appeal to council late last year regarding a lot that was comprehensive plan designated R2.5, but it was in the R5 zone, and the council denied that application.
 And following up from that, I've sent a memo to the land use services in development services to clarify what's now the council's interpretation of our code. Because let's be clear that there are some lots where a demolition is allowed pretty much by right. I understand. And then there are other lots where it also requires a partition or a land division or, as you say, some kind of a variance or adjustment. And so I've given direction to the Bureau of Land.
 holding applications to a higher standard. And that does include some assessments of context, particularly on those 25 by 100 lots where request is for less than the standard in the R2.5 zone, which is 36 feet.
 So I'm going to be posting that on my website probably tonight. And so I just wanted to let you know that there are other things that we can do right now. What the mayor is talking about is leading that task force through the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to make sure that everybody and all stakeholders, the development community as well as the neighborhood communities, have input into what do we want to have happen moving forward. So thank you to Woodstock for your leadership on that.
 May I respond a little bit? I just wanted to mention, because you mentioned that property at 3936 Reedway, you know that was a zoning change to 2.5 and it will be split into three lots. I'm assuming that those developments will happen in a different configuration. And the neighbors who live over there wish that they could stop it or change it somehow. And
 This is the most challenging thing about addressing this issue is that every neighborhood is different. And when you talk about character of neighborhoods, it's very difficult to define. That particular section of our neighborhood is the most historic and I would argue the most needful of preservation. And yet, because it's one block off of Southeast 39th and the city...
 came up with this idea that homes that are close to transit corridors, or lots rather, should have a designated zoning of 2.5 in order to increase density along those corridors. That puts that part of our neighborhood, the most historic part of it, into more, makes it more vulnerable. So it would be nice if there were tools that neighborhoods had to work with people
 the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to
 I mean, I know it's a lot of work. We're talking about staff time and volunteer time. But to be able to say, you know, in this section of our neighborhood, we think this should be, you know, have these certain guidelines applied and, you know, right now you're talking about the whole southeast and northeast having one kind of comp plan. Oh, not necessarily. Well, yeah, but anyway, I could go on and on, obviously. We'll give you that chance. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Hi, my name is Tanya March.
 And I'm confused and concerned about some of the definitions. One of my confusion points on the burden section was condition of structure. That seemed very vague to me. I mean, I think of demolition by neglect as an issue for me. If somebody has allowed a property to deteriorate, how does that then allow them to meet that burden test? Right.
 And in some cities, if it's going to cost more than 50% of the market value of the property to do restoration, and that's the burden. This condition of structure was so amoebous. It didn't really have a definition. I was concerned that it would be left like that. Another concern I had.
 was this burden of $1,318. On one hand, it sounds like us, the taxpayers, are going to end up paying this no matter what, and that concerns me, maybe $50 or something. It's like a prescription. They charge you $5 because if you get it for free, it doesn't have value. I mean, you should at least come up with $50. Just something very small, but just something reasonable, sort of like that certified letter. I get nervous when I hear free. I'm only speaking for myself because I know...
 That may not be the most popular thing. But I also, with only the neighborhoods being able to get this exemption, I'm really concerned in that 35-day turnaround, wouldn't it be wonderful if some of our nonprofits also had that same ability? Okay.
 And I saw those videos with those clouds of dust that could be asbestos and lead, and I'm not a big proponent of deconstructing buildings, but I am a very big – I'm in favor of taking in place asbestos and sealing in place. And I just – I'm really concerned that demolition is having a health impact on our communities. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 And the last two who signed up on the 17th are Teresa Rayford and John Wood. Good afternoon.
 teresa i think you're on first all right um my name is teresa rayford for the record and there's a lot of smart people here that are in development and planning we have my friends that have phds that understand a whole lot more about gentrification than i do and i know that we're here about demolitions but to me it equals into demolitions and gentrification i first heard the word
 from my friend Kathy Galbraith, who's with the Architectural Heritage Center a couple of years ago, when I had a name tag on my shirt that said Rayford, and she referenced the building that's owned by my family, that she thought that maybe I had the power to stop from being demolished like a lot of other buildings in our community. And with that charge, I'm looking at her like, what do you mean? The neighborhood looks beautiful. It's developed. It's gorgeous. You know, I had been living in Texas for about 15 years.
 So to me, it looked beautiful in the old neighborhood that I grew up in. But what she was telling me was that by these buildings being demolished and not preserved, that the character of the neighborhood was changing and that people wouldn't recognize it. And immediately my lens changed when I went up and down the streets of Mississippi, Vancouver, Fremont, Martin Luther King and other areas in my community.
 And when that vision changed, when that lens changed, my listening also changed. The words that were being told to me by different people from my community about being, that's not our neighborhood, or we don't belong there, or people don't want us there, or they took that from us. All of those different conversations changed my lens.
 So I wanted to learn more about demolitions, preservation, gentrification. And what I found out is that there are a lot of people in our communities across the country that are left out of these conversations about community and economic planning. And that because they're being left out of these conversations, they're feeling like their rights have been violated because their memories are being taken away, along with the neighborhoods that they've grown up in, just like mine.
 And so with everyone asking about this 120-day delay and possibly 155, I'm thinking that what it does is it gives us an opportunity for organizations to create foundations in communities like mine so that people like myself that aren't familiar with these terms have someone to go to so that they can figure out what power they have in maintaining something that is valuable to them. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is John Wood, and I'm in the Stop Demolishing Portland Facebook group, but I don't necessarily represent them. I think the first thing I wanted to say was that while I think densification is a good thing for a variety of urban services, in some ways I think it's been over-
 oversold as the way to save downland down Valley land and just for example New York City is one of the densest cities in America and well the and it is the densest and it has it's a sprawling city and there are other examples like that to I'm concerned about who can appeal or at length in the period of time if it's just left down to neighborhood associations I was served in Northwest Portland one I've gone to
 I was involved in Burnside when it existed and then going to Lair Hill. And they're a good model, but ultimately, if you're going to get them to act, it's the board of the whole neighborhood section of town. And that doesn't necessarily reflect either one neighborhood within it, and even one neighborhood within it may not reflect everyone who's there. Not through meanness, but just…
 So, in northwest Portland, I was on the board, most of the time there was no one who lived in the apartment blocks, and a lot of people were in Monument Heights. Fortunately, they were kind and considerate, but that's a lot of weight to put on the goodwill of certain people. In Lair Hill, Naito Drive is good for people further southwest, but if you talk to people who live in Lair Hill, they would just as soon lose it. Forty years ago, my mom got divorced.
 She was never in credit. She'd worked in bookstores for 30 years, and she wanted to buy a house. And she managed to find a way to buy on contract, and it was our family's get-together for five years fixing up this house. She had a chance at a home ownership property. This is by John's Landing, full neighborhood.
 On the next street, there were plenty of people doing exactly the same thing. And I remember we were taking a break from fixing the house. This was probably in 76 or 77. And we just heard that parts of the Fulton-Johns Landing area was being up-zoned. So even as we were trying to save these houses and we got 40 years of life out of them, they were being put, you know, potentially to be demolished.
 Thank you. Thank you. Just to clarify, any interested person can ask for the extension. It doesn't have to be only the Neighborhood Association. That's changed. Okay, that was changed. Excuse me. Thank you. In response to testimony. Thank you. Thank you.
 So thank you all. Before we switch to the next phase of this where we have people signed up today about the amendments, let me just follow up on a couple of these points because there have been some great points raised in these discussions here among the council and in the hearings. And I do intend to ask the Planning Bureau, and I know Commissioner Fritz intends to ask the Bureau of Development Services to do some additional work
 based on what we've heard. And one is for us to develop a concept for a deconstruction program. It is an incentive idea rather than attached directly to these requirements that apply to demolition. So we're going to ask the Planning Bureau staff to,
 to develop a proposal for a deconstruction program. We're not quite sure how that's going to work yet, but again we're going to have them develop a concept with citizen input for how we can make that a more attractive option because although obviously as we've heard the practice is increasing, there are costs and time involved. So we want to try to make that an attractive option, and we're going to have the Planning Bureau staff working with others to try to take the lead in that.
 Secondly, the subject of hazardous material has come up, and I think we should ask questions
 the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Bureau of Development Services to explore that issue and bring us back some recommendations. What can we do or what should we do about better controlling hazardous materials on the site? We got testimony earlier about other cities. Tualatin, I have their application here, Lake Oswego, their application here for a demolition permit, and in their cases they do require demolition.
 a more comprehensive approach to mitigating the potential environmental hazards that are involved. So it's one that we ought to at least explore. So just to clarify on that, though, we have made changes in the Bureau of Development Services application process that didn't need to come to council on that. Oh, okay, good, good. So we may not have to do anything in code? Well, I think planning and sustainability could continue to look to enhance that. Okay.
 We have made some changes, and as you say, we don't need to necessarily make it in code. Yeah, so we're going to keep looking at that issue. And then most specifically, on two other points, I am going to put a proposal forward in my proposed budget to update the historic inventory because we know we need to do that. We are way behind. I think there's a strong interest on the council in getting that work done. It will affect this issue and a lot of others. It costs money, and it will take staff time, but I think it's worth doing.
 And then finally, I'm going to ask the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to come back with some proposed new standards for infill and redevelopment, take up some of these issues that have been described. We are going to ask for public involvement in that. So obviously if you're interested in that, let my office or the Planning Bureau's office know. I know there are a lot of people here in this room and in the community that have expressed an interest in working on those.
 those questions of what do we do short of perhaps outright single-family design review, which I don't frankly think is practicable, but to change the setbacks, to change the height, to change the lot coverage requirements in order to achieve more compatibility. Those are, at least in my mind, the rough parameters for what we might adjust to try to –
 address some of these issues of the scale of what's being done through redevelopment and infill versus what's there already in the neighborhood. So, again, in none of these cases do I think I or the Bureau or my office have this all figured out yet, but in each case I think we want to go on from the first set of issues which Commissioner Fritz and the Bureau brought forth here to deal with demolition itself
 and then look at those front-end issues of what is our planning code encouraging or discouraging, allowing or not allowing in the form of development, and what are we regulating about the impact of demolition in terms of these environmental issues. And then, again, have we got a proper inventory of the historic buildings in our city? No, we don't. We need to update it.
 So those are follow-on actions that some combination of the Planning Bureau and the Bureau of Development Services and probably some others as well are going to be tasked with based on where we've gotten so far in this discussion. So I just wanted to respond with those points now because, again, we've got more people signed up. But what we're going to now be acting on based on the discussion so far is this set of amendments. So please do focus your comments today.
 for those who have signed up now to really focus on the amendments today and understand that those other issues are going to come back to the council, in some cases in a fairly short time. And then my understanding is that the housing commissioner is going to be looking at the request about could there be additional...
 I'm sorry, if support home ownership, affordable home ownership through revenues derived from demolition. I know, Dan, you and the Bureau want to look at that question. Mayor, can I ask a couple questions? First, I really appreciate the scope of the issues you've tasked people to come back to us on today.
 With respect to hazardous materials generally, since I now have some direct experience with this in my neighborhood, and because I believe that houses built in the 20s in particular are more likely to have at least two kinds of hazardous materials that would be of some kind.
 I appreciate that Commissioner Fritz said that the Bureau of Development Services is addressing that in some way. What I would appreciate is just some written follow-up to explain what is the status of that issue. Okay. I can do my own homework, but if someone could point to me to what the code provisions are and how we regulate that, number one. Well, Director Polskalad is here. He could give a...
 a 30-second summary of what we're doing on that issue, if you'd like. That's fine, but I don't want to hold people up also testifying. Number two, Mayor, on the question of what Commissioner Saltzman is going to look at on potentially a fee for affordable housing and the other issues that you've identified, what's the time frame that you're going to set for something coming back to us?
 Yeah, I think it's – and some of these things are going to take longer than others. On the issue of hazardous materials, I think that one can be done pretty quickly, probably 90 days. What are we doing now? What more should we consider? But, Paul, why don't you come respond to that and see if that's a reasonable timeline. With anybody else that you want to bring. And he's not Mary Helen. Yeah. You have to guess which is which. All right.
 I just want to respond to the hazardous waste materials. Mary Helen, just put your name in the record. Mary Helen Kincaid, DRAC chair. I arranged for, we've had meetings, DRAC, BDS staff with the state, and Chris Zimmer was here the last time testifying from the state about hazardous waste materials and his work with the staff. Paul can speak to what's on the permit application. But we've also arranged for a gentleman by the name of Tim Lanahan, who is from the –
 OCCB I don't know and OSHA and DEQ are going to do a presentation at the only neighborhood summit on hazardous material handling regulations and also be there
 Supposedly someone from Representative Lou Frederick's staff who's looking at modifications for the state regulations regarding hazardous materials because that's who handles those on site. And then they're also having conversations with BDS inspectors of how they can interact when the inspector is on site and might see something, how they contact the state because those conversations never happened before we started this whole process. So we've made great strides.
 but there's still a lot that can be made. Paul, on the question of, say, a 1929 bungalow that's taken down to the foundation and replaced by a substantially bigger house, I know in my neighborhood it's at least possible that there's asbestos and lead paint, and maybe more so in the basements, but it could be elsewhere.
 There are dumpsters that are set up where materials are disposed of. These things happen very, very quickly. What is the regulatory framework to make sure that there's no adverse effects? Paul Scarlett, BDS Director. Appreciate that question. A distinction is that those sort of health issues
 conditions are managed and enforced through the state DEQ. So to provide information to permit applicants and customers in neighborhoods, we have updated our permit
 application form to include information about which agency is responsible for those aspects and so with the asbestos and lead paid issues BDS or City of Portland is not the primary regulator or enforcer so we have communicated who is and it's part of the permit application which is can be gathered by anyone looking at it.
 So there's coordination. We've reached out to the state to help out. Just since we have you, it sounds a little bit like what we have with cell towers where there are certain health issues we're preempted from taking up, but here it's dealt with by another agency. That's right. So if someone were to come into the house in my neighborhood that had asbestos in the basement and to abate it, they would come in looking like astronauts, and it would be set up so that nothing –
 leaks and the materials would have to be taken out in a safe way and then disposed of. When a house is just demolished in a day or so, what's the safety components to make sure that there's no asbestos or lead that gets kicked into the air? I actually don't know the specifics of it. We do have builders here that have gone through that process and know the requirements because it's imposed upon them.
 I can add one little thing. When they apply for a demolition permit, there's a box that they have to check that they're aware of state regulations, and if they apply to their situation, and they've been provided information, and if it's applicable to their...
 I don't know the exact wording, but that they will comply with state regulations and they check those. The state's very happy for that because then if they receive a complaint, like you call, the number that's posted and says they're tearing the house down and nobody's in their spacesuits or hazmat suits, then when the state comes out, they have proof that they said that they knew and accepted.
 Prior to that, they did not have that. So that's sort of one big piece that was put together. Again, it's a complaint-driven thing, so it's not perfect. But when they apply for the permit, probably Rob, who does permits, could speak much better to that.
 Go ahead, Rob, please. Rob Humphrey. I own a company called Faster Permits, so I expedite many thousands of permits in the city of Portland and throughout the country. Most of my builders, well, every one of my builders, conducts lead and asbestos survey before they even really come to me for permits. So like in the case of the city of Lake Oswego,
 They simply require the same checkbox. Did you get a lead and asbestos survey beforehand? And the answer is always yes, we did. And if asbestos and lead is found in that survey, you just show that it has been mitigated properly through the proper channels. And because it's regulated by state agencies, the contractors risk losing their CCB licenses if they don't do their mitigation.
 I hope that's helpful. That does help. Is the lead in asbestos survey a public record? Yeah, it would be like in the case of a city that collects that data, like Lake Oswego. I'm sure it's part of their public record. I don't think the City of Portland collects that data as part of a demolition permit. But if we required it to be attached to the permit, for example. I know it becomes part of the file in Lake Oswego.
 That's worth noting. Do we think, I mean, is it your professional opinion that state law is adequate to address whatever the health impact is? You know, I think there are folks out there at my demo house that didn't do the lead and asbestos mitigation.
 In jurisdictions that don't require proof that you mitigated for lead and asbestos, but I think those are very, very few. Again, as I said, every builder that I've represented has, if you ask, they've got it. They've always got it. Thank you.
 Okay. Thank you all. Any other questions for them? So, again, in terms of timeline on these things, what I have in mind is that the deconstruction incentive and the hazardous materials issues can both be addressed pretty quickly, maybe in a matter of 90 days or so before we can see a proposal. That's my point. We think we're done on hazardous materials. Well, thank you.
 But you don't think we have to do anything else regulatorily at the city level? No. In addition to what we've done already? Right. Why is that, Commissioner? Why is that? Because I thought that was what they just explained. But we're not attaching the survey to the permits yet, right? We don't review that. It's reviewed by the state. So we're requiring the applicants to say that, yes, they've done the forms that they need to by the state. Well, okay.
 One of the things I'll do is, since there's a project in my street, I'll ask the developer just to see the survey and see the mitigation thing. What I don't want to do is foreclose the discussion before we know whether there's a problem, and not in any way implying that BDS doesn't have an adequate system in place.
 Just my anecdotal evidence is this is an area that's handled rather casually, and I don't think it's of great comfort to an adjacent property owner that it's a concern of some state agency when it's happening in our backyard. That's why we weren't necessarily asking for a specific regulatory proposal in this case, but for a report back. So we can decide when we see that report whether we think it's adequate or not, whether our current practice is adequate or not.
 We can give you the report of what we've been doing for the last eight months. I'm really concerned with adding more and more tasks to the Bureau of Development Services at a time when permits are coming in faster than we can process them, when we're supposed to be working on the regulatory improvement code project, right?
 When we have the ITAP computer program that we're trying to implement and it's getting behind schedule, as this process, yes, there's lots and lots and lots of things that we would like to discuss and like to have development services staff working on. There's a finite number of people who are able to work on them. And the more we keep adding in this project, we're missing our other priorities for the work plan and getting behind schedule on them.
 so we can certainly provide a report on this and what we've done and council can give us feedback on whether you'd like to fund more staff it might it might require additional staff yes a lot of this work might require additional staff i understand that that's that's why some of these have a budget i'm not asking that we set up a task force to review this but i would like to have a better sense of what the existing regulatory framework is and it may very well be that the
 have some views about how to strengthen it. They may not have the resources to do it. It may not be in our priority bucket list, but I would like to know that. Yeah, same here.
 And then on the other two issues, infills, you know, changing our infill standards, that's going to be a longer process of necessity because it involves a lot of people. That's probably a year-long process. I know people would like us to change them. Some people would like us to change those standards tomorrow morning. But realistically, that's not going to happen that quickly. And, again, I'm going to have the Planning Bureau tell us how much that's going to cost because that's not going to be free either. And likewise with the historic resources inventory, that's a year-plus process.
 process because, again, it's a citywide inventory. So both of those are going to involve more time, 12 months plus, and certainly in those cases require additional expenditure that we have to consider in the budget process. So one of the reasons I'm timing this now is that we're going to all be developing a budget here pretty shortly, but I intend to put funds in place in my proposed budget to fund those projects once the Planning Bureau tells me what the price tag is and gives us a schedule of what it should look like.
 Okay. Thank you for indulging us in a little process management here, but I hope that helps for those that are concerned about those issues like deconstruction and infill standards and historic buildings. Now we'll move on to the amendments at hand for those that want to testify on those today and start calling on folks that have signed up. I have about 42 people signed up. First three, please, coming up are Vic Remmers, Luke Morley, and Eric Thompson. Thank you.
 and they'll be followed by Rich Castlebaum, Don Castlebaum, and Rob Humphrey. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Go ahead, Mr. Remmers. I'm Vic Remmers. I've got a question. Can I give a few things to you guys before I go? Sure. She'll come to Carla. She'll pass it around. Thanks. And let her know if you want it back or not. You guys can come. All right. Thank you.
 All right. Good afternoon, and thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of City Council, for giving me the opportunity to give input on the proposed new demo delay policy. My name is Vic Remmers, and I'm a current resident of the City of Portland. I've lived in Portland my entire life, and I'm also one of the owners of Everett Custom Homes, a local new home builder. At Everett, we've been building new homes in the City of Portland for the last five years. I'm in support of the new concept of the new home builder.
 of the 35-day notification period. However, I feel the additional 60-day extension is too long, and I would like to encourage the council to consider an alternative. Over the past five years, I've attended neighborhood meetings regularly to share upcoming projects with the neighborhoods and to get input from them. Throughout all these meetings and conversations over the years, there's only been one instance that neighbors were able to come together and purchase a home. In all of the dealings that we've had with the interested parties, we've usually been able to figure out a conclusion within about a week.
 if they want to move the house or if they would want to purchase it from us. The next concern I have is safety. In the past year, we pulled 26 demo permits, and half of those we did use deconstruction services. On every single one of those jobs, we experienced break-ins, squatters, crime, drugs, and even prostitution in the rundown houses. We all know this is not the type of activity that people want in their neighborhoods. The homes that are being slated for demo or deconstruction are the homes that have been neglected and left vacant.
 All of the asbestos is being removed prior to demo, and I'd be happy to talk about it after you guys had a lot of questions about it. The materials are being recycled, or if deconstruction is used, they're being donated to the rebuilding center. Our company created our own demo door hanger, which I gave to you guys that you guys can take a look at. I also brought some before and after pictures for you guys to look at. One other thing that is kind of being neglected is there's so many positive things that these new homes are bringing.
 They're much more sustainable than the old ones. They use less energy, less power. The new homeowners utility bills are a fraction of those in the older houses. We're building homes close to the city and walkable neighborhoods and close to transit. And on top of all that, there's hundreds of jobs created every day for each one. Another factor in these delays, as heard, is it makes it more difficult to provide affordable houses. It costs $5,000 to $15,000 a month in delays and our costs if we have to delay it.
 And so, in conclusion, I support the 35 days, but the 60 days I think is too much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. My name is Luke Morley, and I'm part of the family that owns Lakeside Lumber. We've been around since 1937. It seems like only yesterday. I have two perspectives on the proposal I'd like to share. The first is as a member of the Portland home building industry. The Portland home building market is unique in that large national builders have never really gained any traction in this market.
 Consequently, the typical Portland home builder is really a small local business owner. And a good number of them are family-run businesses, just like Lakeside Lumber. Every time they build a home, they write in the vicinity of 100 checks to local suppliers, trade contractors, and real estate professionals. And most of those are local, small local businesses and some family-run businesses like Lakeside. Sorry, Michael.
 voice is a little bit dry as a result the positive impact of the home building industry on portland's economy and in particular small business owners cannot be understated we've got a broad mix of customers at lakeside everything from weekend do-it-yourselfers to builders who construct highly complex energy efficient homes the mcmansions may get their attention on this issue but we see a variety of homes to include a good number of smaller affordable starter homes in our mix of business
 Ironically, I've been on the other side of this issue. Although I did not grow up in Portland, I have a 92-year-old mother who lives in that same house that my father grew up in, and her neighbor was a widower with no children. When he died, he was living in a one-story, 1,200-square-foot house, and the new owner wanted to tear it down and put up a three-story high-level condominium project. And so I believe I got an appreciation for some of the neighborhood's concerns on this issue.
 That said, though, a lot of time, effort, and thought has gone into crafting this proposed amendment. The nature of compromise is that it rarely makes everyone feel completely happy about the result. However, I believe this proposal does a good job of attempting to balance the interests of the neighborhoods and local business, and I recommend that you pass this measure. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. You're welcome.
 Mr. Mayor and members of the council, my name is Eric Thompson. I'm a small local builder here in Portland with an emphasis on small and local. I'm a fifth generation Oregonian and a long time Portland resident. My one person company builds about 10 houses annually in the city of Portland, with most of them resulting from demos. Thank you.
 Kind of to tap into what Mr. Morley was saying, each house is touched by hundreds of workers, most of them either own or work for a local small business, many of them being taxpaying Portland residents. Virtually all of our demos are of houses that are beyond repair. In fact, last week we tore down a house in the Hawthorne area for a custom client, and their kids had nicknamed it the Stinky House.
 and we had neighbors coming up thanking us and thanking the new owners for getting rid of a neighborhood eyesore.
 I think it's interesting to note that the remodeling business is thriving in Portland. There were some numbers that were shared earlier about the number of major remodeling permits, not to mention minor ones. And that tells me that homes that are worth saving aren't necessarily being torn down, but rather they're being rehabbed, and I can't compete against a house that has value in the existing structure to build a new house there.
 I think there's an image of a big out-of-town developer merely building spec homes for the highest price that they can sell them for. Well over half of our homes are customs, which means we're coming in for the homeowner who already owns the tear-down house, tearing it down for them, and those people happen to be Portland residents.
 All of our homes are selling quickly, which tells us that we're filling a need, again, for Portland residents. Putting restrictions on what can and can't be done with a particular property results in lower values for the property owners who choose to sell it, perhaps maybe even as part of their retirement. And, again, these are Portland residents that you're putting restrictions on their property that they're choosing to sell. Thank you.
 And adding additional restrictions, regulations, delays only increases the fees and other costs that we as builders ultimately pass along to our buyers, resulting in houses that are less affordable. So in summary, adding lengthy and unwarranted delays to the demo process impacts current property owners and future homebuyers, not just homebuilders like myself. Thank you.
 And while I think the proposed changes to the demo policy are much more onerous to builders than they have been, they're a compromise that I can support, and they clearly achieve the goal of providing neighbors with advance notice of an approaching demo, which was the genesis of the discussion in the first place. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. The next three are Rich Kesselbaum, Don Kesselbaum, and we'll go with Tony Nichols, and they'll be followed by Jim Heuer, Wendy Chung, and Sarah Long.
 Good afternoon. I'm Richard Kasselbaum. I live in Oregon City. I'm a developer and builder, about 17 years in the city of Portland. And I want to make three points, one on availability of land and one on affordability and one on the voices of the people who aren't here. Regarding land, you know, every time we –
 Tear down a home, we usually put up two or three new ones in it. And what that's doing is saving land and sprawl from outside the city, saving down and cutting our trees and forests and our farmland. So there's a lot of positive benefit to the city allowing demolitions to go on forth and allowing us to take one lot into three. Affordability, every...
 Every restriction, every zoning code, every delay causes additional costs to our homes, whether it be through the development or through the building process. And I realize and support a lot of regulations for the benefit of whether it be health or safety or the benefit of the community, just to be recognized, though, that some of these regulations do add cost and time in those situations.
 jack up the cost of a home ultimately to the homeowner. We do a lot of both infill starter homes and custom homes. So our starter home customers will feel that pinch the worse when you start to add new regulations and new restrictions on what the home's going to do.
 There are a lot of people here, neighbors that we've torn down homes in their neighborhood, and they've been very pleased with the result. They're very glad that we tore that home down because it's usually a derelict home or it's a home that's not taken care of and that's a nice sort of neighborhood.
 And when we come in, we try to match our project to the neighborhood feel so that 98% of the time we have a positive effect on the neighborhood. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Dawn Kassebaum, and I had no idea that my husband and I would be testifying together, but here we are. So I'm here to represent our company, Bluestone Homes. I'm a native Oregonian, and I've lived in the Portland metro area most of my life. Bluestone employees my husband, of course. He's also a native Oregonian. And myself, our bookkeeper, and we recently added our adult daughter, who has joined us to eventually take over our business.
 We've worked exclusively within the City of Portland, building new homes for the past 18 years. On the average, we hire over 30 subcontractors for each project, as well as purchasing materials from local suppliers. We are a local company, hiring local people and purchasing from local vendors. I'm testifying on behalf of the HBA and the infill builder community. This week, I went through our records and determined that in the past 18 years, we have been building infill homes and
 There have only been four times that we have demolished a home to build new ones. Each structure we demolished was an eyesore into the street and was considered dilapidated with a property value held in the land, not in the structure. I have submitted some photos of before and after for your review later. In every one of our projects, no one contested or complained about the demolition. In fact, most neighbors, as my husband mentioned, were glad that the eyesore would be replaced
 and they verbally told us so. In every instance, our new homes have created livability in the neighborhoods in which we built, provided increased taxes for the city, and in one situation, proceeds of the sale were used by an elderly owner to pay for her care and health needs.
 There are two criteria in the revisions that I consider a priority in the ordinance at hand. The extension of the delay period be limited to 60 days. Again, I believe the 60-day extension is a compromise for the property owners and is not ideal for any of the stakeholders represented here. However, the 60-day extension is a huge improvement over the existing 120 days. The longer the property sits vacant, as Mr. Remmers testified, you have all kinds of negative behavior involved.
 And then the other item that I think is a priority is the request for delay be accompanied by an appeal fee or an appeal waiver. I believe without a fee or fee waiver, the frivolousness of the appeals will increase.
 Obviously, there are neighbors in the city who do not wish to see new infill development take place. If all it takes is a letter to put a 120-day delay to a process that is seen as negative, then this will be used as a tactic to create a burden to the property owner and the neighborhood with no actual expectation that the demolition will be prevented nor any plan to save the
 Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. My name is Tony Nichols. I'm on the board of the Laurelhurst Neighborhood Association. I'm not here on its behalf, but we struggled with the Markimouse demolition. I thought there's some analogous things that might help understand why this code was so hard to fix. This is a 40-year-old conversation, and I think we're putting the cart before the horse a little bit, and it's affecting this law. Thank you.
 the thing is that we had someone come by the Markham House. He came to us, and he said he was going to tear it down, build two houses. And the neighbors in McCulloch Construction worked very hard, and they saved the home. And saving homes is nice, but, you know, sometimes you'd pay your neighbor to tear down their house. And...
 The thing is that half of this is about what goes up in place of that house. So what she was just saying, the presumption that the request for the extra delay is going to be made in bad faith.
 It comes from the fact that we have not yet addressed any of those issues. So the assumption is that we're going to hide all of our concerns under the guise, dress them up as philanthropy, and request the delay. And that's true. That's what's happening. Because we haven't addressed those issues, the thing is that in this case,
 the request for the extra delay is the threat that brought the owner to the table. So if there's a disincentive...
 then the parties can work it out ahead of time. The thing is that this isn't fair. The extra delay isn't fair to the builders, to the neighbors. And what you need is a clear, formal disincentive that allows the parties to work it out. Or something ahead of time like, you know, I mean, in an imaginary world, if you had...
 limited the amount you could make in rebuilding your home, you wouldn't tear it down in the first place. The thing is that you're putting this burden on neighborhood associations, and we haven't done the job yet of creating a code that it's not about net loss anymore.
 We have an interest in our neighbors' homes, and this says that the only way I can avoid my neighbor doing something that affects my property value is to buy his house. So the idea of – and no one's going to be able to do this except for the elite. So until we get disincentives into the code –
 To limit the number of demolitions that we have in general, the idea that it's in bad faith, it doesn't help anyone. In the 83 report, it said we'd love to have everybody go through a hearings thing. If you had a threshold of...
 that the builder had to have a hearing and pay for it unless, like an annexation, everybody signed off on it. I don't have the answers, but this code is the opposite of, and it's being pressured and twisted because of it. So I think we need to hold off, had some interim process,
 and have the city take care of that rather than force us to be the bad guy. And then you could learn from those hearings. You could learn what the issues are and then address this code because this is –
 This has been so tortured that it's just bad. It's backwards. No, thank you. The other approach is, of course, this for now and those other issues that I mentioned later. Yeah, no, I understand. But it's just that I don't think we've addressed that conversation, and that's what's causing this assumption that
 that the presumption, if the presumption was on the builder, that at least motivates them to negotiate with the neighbors. And I mean, it's the neighboring interest in their home, which is a legally, you know, a really hard thing to, I mean, we have the state code saying we can't designate homes. The Oregon idea that you have an interest in my house,
 is very hard to take, and we haven't yet come up, we haven't faced that yet. So all I'm saying is that's what's causing the problem in fixing this. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. The next three are Jim Heuer, Wendy Chung, and Sarah Long, and they'll be followed by Barbara Stronis, Barbara Kerr, and Janet Baker. Oh, you've got slides? Okay. Carl will help you with that. Go ahead, please. Thank you.
 My name is Jim Hoyer, and I'm speaking today to introduce testimony by the United Neighborhoods for Reform. If you're familiar with the organization, we're a grassroots group dedicated to stemming the epidemic of demolitions. First, Mayor Hales and commissioners, we would like to thank you all for responding to our citizen cry for help that emerged during the summer. It's been a long road and a great deal of work by yourselves, by DRAC, BDS, and other city staff, not to mention hours of our time has gone into this.
 We now have a recommendation from the DRAC Committee, which UNR has decided to support, albeit with serious reservations. The current proposal is an example of the saying, politics is the art of the possible. There is a lot in the proposed ordinance that we not only like but urgently need. There are other aspects that, quite frankly, don't achieve our goals, and you've heard already about some of those, and you'll probably hear some more. Thank you.
 We ultimately supported this recommendation on the strength of three considerations. First is the Council's commitment on December 17th to schedule a review of the new provisions in 18 months. We intend to hold you to that commitment and to insist that such review be conducted by a body with vastly better balance than the Development Review Advisory Committee.
 which having membership of 13 developers out of 17 is not the best venue for making broad policy affecting all Portland residents. Secondly, we intend to monitor the application of the new definitions to make sure that they achieve their attendant goals. And thirdly, we intend to seek a better way to save more viable, affordable houses that are slated for demolition.
 Simple delays, be they 120 days or 60 days, have been a feeble solution. Demolitions of up to 370 affordable houses a year valued at $100 million dwarfs the city's efforts at spending $20 million to support affordable housing. Can we really achieve affordable housing through demolition?
 But the work is not done. Lead paint and asbestos dust is still being scattered from demolition sites, and hearing the discussion today, there's still some misunderstanding about where we stand on those regulations. Deconstruction is still all too rarely employed, and our next speakers will have much to say about these subjects. Thank you. Thanks very much. Ms. Chung, welcome. Mayor Hales, commissioners, good afternoon.
 I'm Wendy Chung. I'm from the NWDA. And I know, Mayor Hales, you asked us not to speak about anything but the amendment. You should know that there have been 40 demolitions. Somebody's already said that, I think, since the last time I was here to speak to you about this. So obviously, like you said, we have this urgent problem that has to be addressed immediately. Okay.
 But the Laurel Hearst fellow who testified before us brought up a good point, which is remember the reason that we all are here to begin with, the reason we started looking at the demo delay rules was because of the issue of demolition generally. And I just wanted to talk about a couple of things that you mentioned in your interview with OPB that I think inform your decisions, not necessarily about both related to this ordinance, but also related to the other things that you were talking about.
 So, oops, you rejected two fallacies during that interview. First, that demolitions provide affordable housing, and second, that preservation undermines density. I have some specific ideas as to how you can reduce demolitions while promoting density, affordable housing, and historic preservation. Okay.
 Obviously, we need to reduce incentives for demolition. But the main thing I think we need to do there is to fix the base zones and reconcile them with the existing built environment design and historic overlays. For example, RH zoning for a historic single-family home invites demolition. So it's more than just setbacks. It's more than just height. But as you pointed out in your interview, we need to tighten the envelope. This reduces the financial incentive to demolish a smaller, older home to build something on a scale.
 Teardowns are currently easier than building empty lots or renovation. I do want to bring up somebody you mentioned in your OPB interview, which is Mayor Nutter of Philadelphia. He recently did make some improvements to the demolition rules. They prescribed specific demolition guidelines, training and site inspections, and the impetus was the collapse of a building under demolition that killed six people. This is not, I know we don't have money, I know we don't have time, I know we don't have staff, but six people died.
 And the contractor who did the demolition hung himself. So this was a few blocks from my in-law's house. But anyway, the point is that Portland's code was singled out during the lead-up to this as an especially good example of an ineffective, vague rule. You'll see that's Portland Code 2455-100 that's cited in this article. So we can't wait a year, Mayor Hales. We can't wait even 90 days. We need to do something now. Okay.
 Separately, we need to reduce incentives for demolition. Oops, I'm going the wrong way. We need to increase incentives for preservation. Some specific ideas are to combine historic preservation and affordable housing incentives. BPS issued a 2007 report on credits and bonuses that is really helpful. It's on your website, Commissioner Fritz. And combining these could allow us to motivate developers to preserve rather than demolish without costing us anything. It won't cost the city anything.
 We should expand the historic preservation incentives to all buildings more than 50 to 75 years old, and many of those incentives include additional density for single-family dwellings and multi-dwelling zones. Another idea is to reduce SEC fees for development that doesn't require demolition, because currently it's actually cheaper to, again, demolish than it is to rebuild on an empty lot.
 Oops, this is going the wrong way again. Okay, so these are some of the solutions that other cities employ. I point these out because I'm asking you to please not stop at the changes that are proposed today. Fix the code and look creatively at bonuses and credits to provide affordable housing and density. And these aren't new ideas because other cities are doing this today, and we deserve it too. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Oh, yes. Yeah, and then the other one. Yes.
 Good afternoon. Hello. Commissioners, it is an honor to be able to speak to you today. My name is Sarah Long, and I live in Elliott, as you can see on this map here. And I will at least until the wealthy developer who owns my 126-year-old home demolishes it, along with the 125-year-old home next door, and cuts down every last enormous tree.
 It will happen with barely a ripple of notice because this story is extremely common. It happens an average of once a day in our city. As in nearly all cases involving demolition, there is plenty of room to build additional housing, almost twice as much as the developer has planned on my home's lot with no loss of existing homes nor loss of even a single tree.
 as in nearly all cases involving demolition. My home was built using old-growth Oregon timber from trees that were hundreds of years old and had 15-foot-wide trunks. Those resources are long gone, and today they are being tossed into landfills. I would like to request a deconstruction mandate or significant incentives from you, my city council. If I must lose my home,
 And Portland must lose this priceless resource. It shouldn't be lost forever into a landfill. And I have here graphics showing this is an overview of the Elliott neighborhood. Everywhere you see what looks like an empty asphalt lot, that is either a long since demolished building or empty unused surface parking.
 Um, Elliott is one of the lowest density neighborhoods, not because we are a bunch of hoity-toities. We're actually pretty poor, but because nobody is actually building the dense buildings that it's zoned for. So if we want to increase density, please build where we can in my neighborhood. And thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. The next three are Barbara Strunk, Barbara Kerr, and Janet Baker. Thank you.
 And they'll be followed by Alicia Eisenstein-Kruger, Jim Gortner, and Margaret Davis. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Barbara Strunk. I'm a member of the Steering Committee of United Neighborhoods Reform. I live in Beaumont, Wilshire. Deconstruction is unfinished business that we are very glad the City Council is taking up.
 This is not a new issue for us. Deconstruction has been part of the UNR policy since last summer, when over 2,500 people signed our petition calling for demolition permitting reform. In addition, over 40 neighborhoods have, associations have signed our UNR resolution that repeats the call for incentives for deconstruction. New ways of thinking about this issue are required.
 We propose a mandate that deconstruction is the only acceptable approach to removing all or part of a single-family residence. If this is not feasible within the city's statutory powers, then it is time to apply the city's taxing authority to make deconstruction the clearly more cost-effective choice.
 The 2010 Oregon DEQ study on preventing waste from the residential construction sector states that 158 homes deconstructed rather than demolished in a year saves as much carbon emission as is sequestered by Forest Park's 5,100 acres a year. The environmental arguments for deconstruction are persuasive to us in the neighborhoods.
 We prefer that we save our viable, affordable single-family residents and avoid their demolition altogether. But with nearly 400 demolitions a year, we are a long way from stemming this epidemic. When a house is demolished, we expect that the greenest city will require deconstruction as standard practice. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome.
 Good afternoon. My name is Barbara Kerr, and I am concerned about our affordable housing crisis, specifically that when houses are demolished, the replacements cannot be as affordable. For the same reasons that the greenest building is the one already built, the most affordable home is also the one already built.
 Plus, when single-family homes are demolished, we can lose homeownership and therefore stability in our communities. We lose stability also for our families, for current homeowners, families starting out, and in the equity and heritage that is passed down to future generations. We must disincentivize demolishing our single-family homes to curb and counter the market forces that destroy our affordable housing stock.
 But I am also concerned that our efforts to increase our supply are resulting in the demolition of our truly affordable homes. One step forward, three steps back. The need for affordable housing cannot be met by policies and projects that encourage demolishing our existing low-cost homes. Without our fixer-uppers, the housing stock will be affordable only for those who are not disadvantaged or moved here from out of state. Without the truly affordable housing, the homes that are already built, people are being displaced to places that will continue the problem that it was intended to solve.
 Pending legislation in Salem includes increasing financing for affordable housing, directing cities and counties to ensure an adequate supply of affordable housing, and removing the ban on inclusionary zoning, thereby allowing municipalities to require developers to reserve a certain percentage of their units for low- or moderate-income families. All are good concepts and are for a good and necessary cause. But if they pass without conditions that protect our existing homes from demolition, the consequences will be the opposite of their intentions.
 If the city does not work with the state to keep those incentives for creating affordable housing from being applied where existing housing stock would be destroyed, they will be but a pretense that we are dealing with the affordability crisis.
 the housing bureau's north northeast neighborhood strategy talks about helping people repair and maintain their homes this needs to be the focus for increasing affordability they are talking about locating new affordable housing in empty lots that should be the rule they talk about helping people add value to their property so they can afford to stay in their homes for example by adding accessory dwelling units we must be sure this is not just talk
 that it becomes citywide and that we are using our influence to build it into state laws as well. We must save our existing affordable housing from both private and public efforts. If we really are looking out for the disadvantaged lower-income citizens and our young families, we must make sure that we are looking forward to see who will benefit, the neighbor who no longer has a neighborhood or the opportunity to own their own home or the developer who is encouraged to make their money under the guise of sacrifice for the common good.
 We know that the city intends to do the right thing, but we're not sure that we are not committing the urban renewal mistake of the 21st century. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome.
 My name is Janet Baker and I live in the Beaumont neighborhood. I'm also a member of the steering committee. I want to again talk about affordability for first-time homebuyers and also even middle-income buyers in Portland. This group of buyers is finding it increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to find an affordable home within the city.
 In several DRAC meetings and neighborhood meetings I've attended, developers have rationalized the teardown trend in Portland, and particularly in the kind of neighborhood I live in, as being driven by a lack of executive housing, saying we need more executive housing to succeed in economic development. First of all, speaking as someone who's had to read a lot of economic development literature in my professional life,
 I can tell you that lack of executive housing is rarely a limited factor in economic development. Usually the limitations are lack of industrial land, lack of infrastructure, lack of good water quality, and certainly land's been an issue in Portland, and probably nothing could be as serious as what's going on with the Port of Portland right now in limiting potential for future economic development.
 If there is a housing factor in the company's decision to locate in a particular city or region, the issue is usually a concern about affordability for employees, not executive housing.
 But let's say you do believe we have a lack of executive housing. I want to share with you some year-end housing stats. In the real estate industry, you should probably know inventory of houses is often expressed as inventory in months. It's defined as the active residential listing at the end of the month divided by the number of closed sales for that month.
 Five and a half months is usually considered a balance point. So anything under that, and it's a seller's market, and it's been a seller's market in Portland for the last three years at least. So let's look at Multnomah County and look at the inventory in two price brackets. And you have a chart attached to your first page there.
 In the under $350,000 price bracket, where first-time homebuyers would be, there's 1.7 months of inventory in December of 2014. But in the $600,000 to $1.1 million range, the bracket in which developers are selling their executive homes, the inventory is 2.9 months.
 You can see that this trend has been that same. I picked one point in time just to simplify it, but the trend is the same for the whole chart. The realtor who provided me this data said,
 What the data clearly tells us is the inventory is low in all price ranges. When builders use this lack of executive housing as their justification for teardowns, it's ridiculous. If you want to use this argument, she said, you would need to tear down expensive houses so you could build cheaper houses because that's where we have a bigger shortfall. This lack of affordable homes is going to continue if we continue to demolish these homes.
 Only this morning, the Portland Chronicle reported another 40 demolition permits issued between the time of our December 17th hearing and today. And that doesn't even count the virtual demolitions. It's an urgent problem, one we can't sit on for another day or another hearing. The next speaker who will be speaking to us from our group has some hands-on experience that I don't have. I'm all about numbers, and she can talk about real first-time homebuyers. Well, thank you for the numbers. Thank you.
 Thanks to all three. The next three are Alyssa Eisenstein Kruger, Jim Gorter, and Margaret Davis. And they'll be followed by Terry Parker, Sharon Genesee, and Judy Parsons. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 So my name is Alyssa Eisenstein Kruger, and I'm a real estate broker with Living Room Realty. The majority of my clients are first-time homebuyers, and this past year, and even more in this past few months, have been the most difficult market to be a buyer in in all of the years that I've been working in real estate. Given the market trend of a lack of supply and a huge demand for houses, the market is not likely to get much better for would-be homebuyers for quite some time.
 My first-time homebuyers have been pre-approved by lenders that are looking for Portland's once plentiful, humble little starter homes, willing to pay up to $350,000 for a small home with space for children, a garden, a pet, etc.
 They want to buy Portland's older homes with flexible spaces like unfinished basements or attics that can be converted to living spaces. Their needs change and their families grow, and they are not deterred by a home that needs a little elbow grease. Most importantly, they want to live in the communities where they have connections, where the neighborhoods have character and amenities they can walk to, like stores, schools, and transit lines. The
 The problem, so are developers. Developers bring cash, they waive all financing contingencies, they don't have the homes inspected, and can close on a house in less than five business days. More often than not, a developer is purchasing a home with the intent to demolish or significantly alter the home and then build a house that sells for over $650,000.
 Every time this happens, we lose another home from our city's stock of affordable houses. That home will never again be an entryway into homeownership for hardworking families and individuals who see the benefits of homeownership and want to take part. In its place is a home that, for most of the time, is not in character with the surrounding homes and is unaffordable to 99% of first-time homebuyers.
 Every time this happens, my first-time homebuyers are discouraged, angry, and heartbroken. Not only did they lose out on yet another house to a cash developer, but that house that they had pictured themselves living in will be crunched up and sent to a landfill.
 Additionally, many of the homes that have been demolished over the past couple of years were never put on the open market. They were acquired by developers who send letters to homeowners offering to purchase their home for quick cash. This tends to go to elderly people and many of these sellers are vulnerable and they do not understand that they may be receiving less than market value by selling their home in this manner and that the buyer of their home tends to demolish it and replace it with a much more expensive home.
 In addition to providing notice to surrounding homes and the neighborhood associations, those seeking demolition permits should be required to obtain a notarized signature of the home seller stating that they understand that their home will be demolished. No signature from the seller means no permit for demolition.
 I am also a partner broker with the Portland Housing Center, and this past Saturday I presented the Shopping for Your Home section at the Home Buying 101 class. There were 42 people in the class, and when I asked how many of the class participants were planning on purchasing a home under $250,000, 36 out of the 42 raised their hands.
 This would have been a realistic goal for all of these homebuyers only a couple years ago, but with the dramatic rise in property values and the loss of humble homes to demolition, it's obviously not going to be a reality for most of these people.
 As a city who is dedicated to maintaining diversity in all forms and in all levels, we need to consider the impact that demolition of habitable and affordable homes has on our greater community and work on solutions to keep these homes out of the jaws of the backhoe and available for future generations of families. Can I ask you a quick question? Yes. In the one thing that you mentioned about...
 People sending letters to potentially vulnerable sellers, you know, seeing if they're willing to sell their house. Yes. Does state law currently regulate any part of that? Are there any requirements that – As far as I know, no. So no requirement that the offer contains, say, language that says you are encouraged to seek advice from a real estate professional or you might want to have your house appraised or talk to someone?
 No. And how are you able to track those transactions?
 We know they're going on. We know they're going on. Again, hearsay, anecdotal. But I'm on a lot of the Facebook groups about demolishing Portland, and there's anecdotal stuff. I also just know that from talking to folks whose neighbors, suddenly the house is being demolished, and the little old lady who sold it sold it to, they thought, a nice young couple who turned out to be a developer. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Jim Gorter. I live in.
 South Burlingame area, and I am speaking on behalf of United Neighborhoods for Reform. Thank you, Mayor Hales, for your commitment to working on the infill standards and development process. As requested by 40 neighborhood associations, we call for the creation of a task force to make the comprehensive plans, policies 5.33 and 4.133.
 4.13 for the production of affordable housing and neighborhood character a reality and to address community concerns in these areas We call for the creation of this task force by March 1st of this year I'm going to make a couple other comments which are going to be mine. They haven't been better vetted by a united neighborhood So they're going to be mine first
 When a home is scheduled for demolition, I think the developer and the owner should be required to keep it in habitable condition if at all possible, maintain utilities, keep the roof on, keep out transients, not remove woodwork, not remove furnace, and so forth. Second...
 We're talking about a notification of neighbors. I think the notification of neighbors should include a city contact number for the concerns and complaints about dust and hazardous materials and other things. And I think that a sign should be posted at all demolition and construction sites.
 with a common city phone number where people can call, express their concerns, and ask questions. We have it now for United...
 erosion concerns, let's put a common number for everything altogether and have that number manned by a real person who can direct it to the appropriate person. You just made Commissioner Fritz's day. I just wanted to say that. She is the champion for a 311 system. That would be a common number for many things. Good. On the demolition things, yes.
 Security fences need to be provided around property when they're in a vulnerable state. There was one in my neighborhood on my block which was set empty, or the lot with a hole in the ground for several weeks until the developer moved to the next stage of construction. There needs to be post-demolition inspection to make sure that all codes and if appropriate, land restoration has occurred.
 Mayor, can I just pose a question to Paul for later when you come back? Paul, in my neighborhood, there's a big multifamily development going up which has a fence around it, and at night there's a security guard. I believe that was something that we did last year. The fire, that was a life safety issue, so now there's a security person there at night. Yet when some of these demolitions are going on, there's nothing around the perimeter of the house that's being demolished or being rebuilt.
 And I'm just curious about what the thinking is in terms of the two standards. One, we have a very tight standard in terms of perimeter and security. The other is much looser. There might be a logic to it, but I'd at some point like to know more about that. Thank you. Welcome. Hello. I'm Margaret Davis with United Neighborhoods for Reform, and I'm delighted to be here.
 Creativity and quality. These are attributes Portland has embraced in the past and we'd like to see more of them in the home construction occurring now in our city. At United Neighborhoods for Reform, the first choice for Portland housing should be protecting the affordable green home that's already there. With additions, accessory dwelling units, and renovations, much can be done to modernize and alter a house for future generations.
 These activities provide the added bonus of employing more local people than new construction does. If a house has to go, deconstruction should be mandatory. And then there is the matter of new construction, what goes up on the residential land that is arguably Portland's finest resource. This new development should create an improvement for everyone.
 To do this, it will contribute open space as its neighboring properties do, respecting the size of contextual setbacks, footprint, mass, and height of existing nearby homes. Determining the specific allowances for these items and the context to be considered will be the work of the task force as proposed in UNR's resolution.
 By the way, city code already regulates setbacks, footprint, and height, but no one thought to build to the maximums until now, which is a direct result of considering a neighborhood more of a profit center than simply a place to live.
 In better regulating setbacks, footprint, mass, and height of new construction, compatibility with established housing is better assured, as is access to solar power for energy and vegetable gardens, along with space for mature trees. This is how Portland can spark more creativity and quality. Building smaller is more environmental. A larger share of the construction budget can go toward more durable materials, and home layouts can make smarter use of space.
 Many Portland residents would say creativity and quality are why we chose to live here.
 Finally, we request that the task force take a look at current zoning and lot splitting policies to protect existing housing. Some 28,000 homes citywide sit on plots slated for greater density. Let's appreciate the breathing room and the opportunities for creativity and quality that they provide. With new guidelines sensitive to established neighborhood standards, we believe it will once again be possible to be both pro-development and pro-Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Next three are Terry Parker, Sharon Genesee, and Judy Parsons, and they'll be followed by John Sandy, Al Ellis, and Claire Coleman-Evans. Terry, I think you're on first. Thank you, Mayor Hales. My name is Terry Parker. I am also on the UNR Steering Committee, and yes, this testimony has been vetted by UNR.
 Today it is my responsibility to present and clarify UNR's position on the equitable makeup and establishment of a redevelopment standards task force slash work group that is recommended to be comprised of 50% neighborhood organization representatives and 50% city staff and other concerned citizens as per UNR resolution. Neighborhood representatives are the people who are active with and actually live in the neighborhoods where the next house to be demolished might be the one next door, down the block, or around the corner.
 These are the people who have a view of the street from their front windows that could become impaired by a replacement house that is not set back from the sidewalk, or could have a towering out-of-scale house constructed on the property next to theirs that would cast a shadow and block the sunlight. To avoid a conflict of interest, perceived or real, we ask that neighborhood representatives are not professionally connected with or earn their living in the
 or earn their living in the land use, planning, development, architecture, or real estate fields. We welcome people from these fields to be on the task force, just not filling the neighborhood representative seats at the table. Likewise, in the interest of adding more diversity, voices, and opportunities for qualified neighborhood people who haven't participated in
 but aspire to be part of the official city process, we ask that the preference be given to neighborhood representatives who have not recently served or are currently serving on another BDS, BES, BPS, PBOT, Task Force, Advisory Committee, Work Group, or Compound Policy Expert Group. Again, this avoids a possible conflict of interest.
 We also ask that UNR has representatives at the table. Meetings need to be scheduled at times when working people can attend and located in various neighborhoods. Finally, as opposed to appointing a chairperson, we suggest the first-order official business for the task force should be to elect a chairperson and vice chairperson. In closing, UNR wants to see an equitable and well-publicized application process followed by a task force with an open and transparent process that has a meaningful deadline for results.
 Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Kanashi, good afternoon. Hi. My name is Sharon Janassi. I'm chair of the NWDA Air Quality Committee, and I'm testifying today on behalf of UNR, the United Neighborhoods for Reform, about the jurisdiction of asbestos and lead regulations and demolitions.
 Based on our research, we believe Portland has jurisdictional authority to create ASMAP policies for house demolition sites, including inspecting and monitoring for asbestos and lead.
 A survey by the National Association of Clean Air Agencies, NCAA, wrote in December 4, 2014, the Clean Air Act explicitly allows state and local air pollution control agencies to adopt programs more stringent than those of the federal government.
 Specifically, Section 1216 states that air quality agencies are not precluded from adopting or enforcing any standards, limitations, or requirements as long as they are at least as stringent as those required under the federal program. Over the past three years, the City has issued 752 demolition permits.
 The actual number of demolitions is much higher. Unregulated demolitions occur throughout Portland neighborhoods, and neighbors living near the demolitions are increasingly alarmed at asbestos and lead emissions. The question is, who is looking after public health from unregulated demolitions in Portland?
 Oregon's Lane County, other Oregon cities, and Southwest Clean Air Agency in Washington have adopted rules for asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint in demolitions. I have here a list of Lane County regulations and asbestos demolition guidance from Southwest Clean Air Agency in Washington. I pass them out to you.
 If Lane County, the Southwest Clean Air Agency, and other cities can produce rules governing toxic demolition materials, then we in Portland can do the same. We're asking the city to accept responsibility for creating regulations and enforcement for asbestos and lead emissions and demolitions.
 developers currently profiting from the demolitions should pay a fee for accredited inspectors to ensure that all regulations are followed. Public health costs should be a consideration in setting the fees. I attended a memorial in London two years ago for a dear friend of mine, a fine architect known for his work on the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford.
 He died of mesothelioma from exposure to asbestos. He was exposed during the interior demolition of a house he was remodeling for himself about 35 years ago. He was at the top of his career, took excellent care of himself, and was well loved by friends. If demolitions are properly monitored and the air toxics abated, all of us, developers, workers, and neighbors will benefit. Thank you. Thanks, Sharon. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Hi. Hi.
 Good afternoon. My name is Judy Parsons, and I'm a member of the UNR Steering Committee. And, Mayor, during the December 17th hearing, you asked about which levers would be affected in the demolition process. Due to the serious public health, safety, and environment concerns at these demolition sites in our neighborhoods, we propose one answer is creating the HAZMAT lever to protect Portland residents.
 One of our policy proposals is for the city to require HAZMAT surveys and abatement plans that are prepared by certified abatement contractors to be submitted with the city's residential demolition application. Based on our research, we are shocked and alarmed that Portland does not already require these documents. We have confirmed that in many other Oregon cities, such as Medford, Tualatin, and Lake Oswego,
 Those cities do require such documentation. For instance, in Lake Oswego, we heard earlier where it was explained as a checkbox on the application. In the material that's passed out to you, you will see that it states, Lake Oswego requires submitting a certificate of compliance for asbestos and lead-based paint removal at their demolition sites in that city. Why is this not being required in Portland? Okay.
 As you see on the Portland's demolition application, which is included in that packet too, the newly added DRAC approved statement of fact block, which was recently inserted, that Commissioner Fritz referred to as a change in the document to address our concerns, you see the language highlighted there. But due to existing gaps in state hazmat regulations relating to residential demolitions,
 We think this is a meaningless statement block. Therefore, since BDS, and we just heard Commissioner Fritz earlier, you said BDS does not have the resources, we ask City Council to designate the appropriate department that does have the authority to create hazmat control policies and regulations and to implement, for instance, a specific proposal. Okay.
 We believe Portland does have the authority to do this, and UNR members want to be stakeholders in the process. We believe this is a reasonable request since we find this being done in other Oregon cities and across the country. And I'll point out this is an item that's on our UNR resolution that 41 neighborhoods have approved in principle, which indicates it's a concern of many citizens throughout the city.
 We ask that hazmat control policies are put into place as soon as possible in Portland for these demolition sites that are in our neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Judy, just one thing. I'm looking at this. You gave us this packet, right? Yep. So, for example, in Lane County, which covers Eugene,
 There's both a Lane – apparently there's a county air protection agency in addition to the state of Oregon that regulates. Yes. So there's a county. It's the Lane Regional Air Authority, which is sort of the counterpart to the DEQ here in the state. But it's a local state regulatory account. And you were asking that question, and I really appreciated that, Commissioner Fishh,
 You asked the question about whether or not you said, is the state law sufficient to take care of this problem? And the simple answer to that is no. The DEQ is contracted by the EPA to uphold the Clean Air Act, which is federal law. But in this state, our DEQ isn't doing that job properly. So that's why we're here.
 This is the Lane Regional Air Protection Agency. Is there an equivalent here in Metro or the county? No. It's a sort of unique arrangement down there. They created their own regulatory framework? And I have to say, I talked to the director this morning, and they're not –
 really very much on top of doing enforcement. They've got the regulations there, but they're not really. That's why it's so important for us not to do two things. You have to do the regulations, but also the enforcement. And we need the fees to pay for that from the developers. Is the Lane County system also complaint-based?
 Well, I think so, but we're really – the DEQ is complaint-based. They call it complaint-based, but what happens is we have a complaint line on www.portlandair.org. I recently had the experience of a complaint being registered for a business in northwest Portland that's not permitted but putting out a lot of emissions, and the complaint person at DEQ called me and he said, well –
 I have gone to talk to the manager of that company, and he says that the emissions are only steam. Well, I mean, this is just laughable to us. I mean, 15 years ago we were saying what is in the steam is what we want to know. Let's monitor it. But they can't do that. I don't want to take up everyone else's time, but I also would note that in Lane County, the survey report that the
 that the developer is required to fill out, and the survey report could say there is no asbestos, has to remain on site during the demolition.
 So there has to be a survey, and it has to remain on site for public inspection. Right, yeah, and it has to be enforced. Thank you. Thank you. May I add to that comment? It is also an OSHA requirement that an asbestos survey is generated for workplace. So there should be an asbestos survey. Therefore, if...
 We and we heard developers earlier testify that they are responsible and they are mitigating based on surveys great Requires submission of those documents with the application in the city like other cities do please Thank you. Thank you very much. The next three are John sandy Al Ellis and Claire Coleman Evans and
 And they'll be followed by Steve Elder, I believe Rod Merrick had to leave, and Laquita Landford and Jerry Federico. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is John Sandy, and I'm a Beaumont Wilshire resident. Members of the City Council, I'm here to reemphasize and expand on my December 17th testimony regarding the urgent and immediate need to implement best practices and reasonable, responsible house demolition protocols.
 When someone is exposed to asbestos or lead contaminated dust, they can't be taken outside to fresh air to recover. They can't be taken down to the emergency room, given a shot of adrenaline to mitigate the problems. They are potentially sentenced to serious irreversible health problems whose symptoms may not appear for years. In my earlier testimony, I highlighted demolition protocol steps
 that have been proven to lower the risk of public exposure to dangerous toxins in the dust generated during house demolitions, such steps as proper wetting of the structure and debris pile, covering the trucks during transit, daily cleanup of the streets and walkways, and performing partial deconstruction of building materials that show the presence of lead.
 Our research also identified other easy, proactive steps that have been used to further reduce the risk to general public, simply providing tacky mats to the neighbors next door to keep the outside dust from being tracked in, performing thorough cleaning of nearby residences using the special HEPA filter vacuums. Let me remind you, there are scientific studies that demonstrate that lead dust can travel up to 300 feet from a demolition site.
 and computer models developed by Wayne State University in Detroit that puts the potential impact at even greater distances. Think of how many patios, play areas, and vegetable gardens may be within reach of this potentially dangerous plume. Both the EPA and the CDC have stated there is no emphasis, no safe level of exposure to either lead or asbestos. Younger children are especially susceptible to a life of developmental problems.
 Nervous system kidney damage, learning disabilities, decreased muscle and bone growth. For the City of Portland not to require and enforce these simple steps that have proven so effective in other communities is, in my mind, morally indefensible. So to restate my request to Council, the City of Portland should immediately require and verify use of these proven protocols for effective and responsible single-family housing demolitions.
 And I have one other thing that Commissioner Nick Fish segued into. Since you have been up close and personal with the demolition, I acquired a free kit from the Portland Housing Bureau for lead dust, and I'm going to give it to you. Maybe you can sleep a little sounder. Carl, I'll take it for you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Actually, my concern is that my son sleeps a little sounder, but thank you. I appreciate it.
 Hi, my name's Al Ellis, United Neighborhoods for Reform. While UNR is in total agreement with Mayor Hales in his emphasis on front-end reform and addressing the issue of construction of big homes that don't fit the existing fabric of the neighborhood and the tearing down of viable homes that are affordable, et cetera, we're still, of course, engaged in the demolition area.
 And I should say that we commend the Bureau of Development Services and the DRAC Demolition Subcommittee for extending the opportunity for us to come in and work out a consensus, a compromise. And I think that's the best way to conduct business in the city. Okay.
 The current, in terms of hazmat policy, most of what I was going to say has been said. But I'll just say that the current policy just seems toothless for requiring an initial of the application applicants acknowledging regulations. And that's it.
 And, you know, you can't expect neighbors to enforce the demolition, the hazardous materials regulations. The missing ingredients here are, as you've heard, are a mandatory inspection prior to the onset of residential demolitions for the purpose of verifying proper abatement and disposal of hazmat materials.
 and, of course, the funding to implement it. And as you've heard, there are lots of different cities around Oregon that provide good examples of how this is being done in one form or another. And we can learn from these models, and we've submitted some information for you, as Commissioner Fish has referred to.
 The last thing is that there are inspections for all kinds of different things when you're purchasing a house, plumbing, electrical furnace, roofing, dry rot, you name it. And fees are required up front, but there's dividends down the road. And the same thing applies for hazmat inspection. But the dividends down the road are not just for the homeowners and their families. It's for the whole neighborhood, the whole environment.
 And so, and also while faulty plumbing and electrical wiring may result in flooding or fire, asbestos and lead released in the environment is with us for the long run. And as John has pointed out, you know, it most severely affects the most vulnerable among us, the children, the sick, the elderly, et cetera. So we think that this hazmat issue really needs to be addressed. And I'm glad that you brought that up right from the get-go.
 UNR is providing the Council with documentation, as I said, and we hope to work collaboratively with you in the formulation and implementation of a viable policy for Portland in the same way we were able to work with BDS and the DRAC Subcommittee. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Claire Coleman-Evans, and I'm a member of the UNR Steering Committee. On December 15th, the United Neighbors for Reform sent a letter to the members of City Council requesting action about hazardous materials at residential demolition sites. We restated our request for the City to dedicate the City personnel to monitor the actual demolition activities involved
 and to serve as liaisons with state agencies to report any hazmat release problems directly to partnering agencies responsible for enforcement and siting violations and provide a user-friendly public online access for this purpose.
 The health and safety of the neighborhoods and the health of the environment are woefully neglected around residential demolitions. We have observed dust clouds that blow around the neighborhood. Demolition debris is often hauled away in trucks with uncovered beds. No complaint numbers are posted on the demolition sites. DEQ has no dedicated asbestos investigators in the local regional asbestos office. The City does not currently require personnel to inspect nor monitor the actual bulldozing of the activities at the residential demolition sites.
 Since residential demolitions have increased throughout the city, so too have the residents' anxieties and complaints and the release of hazardous materials. We have heard such complaints expressed while we've been attending many neighborhood association meetings online.
 These complaints express concern for public health and safety in the environment. The current complaint-driven system in Portland is not reasonable nor effective, and we asked the city to create a more proactive approach. Who does a resident call when they have these concerns? For two years, there has not been a dedicated local inspector in the DEQ Northwest Regional Asbestos Office.
 BDS suggests calling OSHA when by the time they show up, the demolition is ended. Plus, OSHA is primarily charged with working with workers' protection and safety, not around the surrounding neighbors, houses, yards, or children. By the time any response may occur, the demolition process is complete and little evidence of dangerous practices remain.
 Commissioner Fritz, in an Oregonian news report dated December 11, 2013, you were quoted as saying, it isn't the neighborhood's job to monitor developers' compliance with environmental regulations. Should there be an expectation that neighbors in all parts of the city should be vigilant to make sure the development goes smoothly?
 Shocking, the reality is that neighbors do have to be the watchdogs since the city is not. We believe the city has the authority to correct the existing problem. Since BDS states they lack the authority and resources to further address these concerns, we request and ask that the Mayor and the City Council designate an appropriate department responsible for protecting public health, safety and the environment to create policies and regulations to protect Portland residents from lead, asbestos and other contaminants during the demolition and the development process. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Steve and Elder, Laquita Lanford, and Jerry Federico. Unless Rod Merrick is here. Rod is here. After them will be Gary Clifford, Kevin, I believe it's Peterson on 56. Come on up, Rod. I think somebody has left that she called. Oh, let's go. Okay. Steve Elder, Laquita, Jerry Federico. How about Gary Clifford? Come up.
 Yes, he's here. Welcome, please. To the City Council, I'm Steve Elder. I'm with United Neighborhoods for Reform, and I'm here to address the issue of shouldn't a person be able to do what he wants with his property? The obvious answer is yes, but there's more to it. Market forces mandate willingness by buyer and seller. Seeking the best deal is not just a right issue,
 It is an economic imperative. But don't those who suffer collateral damage, the 99% whose property is adversely impacted by demolition and replacement, have rights too? We submit that they do. People shopping for houses or for homes want to be in nice neighborhoods with nice houses, nice trees, and nice people. Some want and can afford to live in big new houses.
 Many others are shut out. It took over 100 years to weave the fabric of our attractive neighborhoods. We don't want it torn apart and shredded. Developers seize opportunities. Their offer might be a little low, but they offer quick closings and don't require repairs. Hassle-free exit for the seller.
 Developers clear lots as quickly and cheaply as possible and erect the largest, most easily sellable structure for the highest price they can get. Little thought is given to the neighbors in whose backyard the destruction and replacement is perpetrated. When the housing bubble breaks, the demolished livable houses will still be gone, and their looming, light-blocking, privacy-invading replacements will remain.
 As creators of community value, we assert our right to avoid the denigration of our neighborhoods. We seek to impose high cost for removal of sound structures and to provide guidelines for the size and location of their replacements. We claim it is our right to
 and our duty to ourselves and future generations to do all we can to maintain the community, the integrity of our community. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Merrick. Very poetic. Mayor Hales, City Council, my name is Rod Merrick, Architect and Neighborhood Association Land Use Chair. And first of all, I'd like to thank Commissioner Fritz and especially Mayor Hales for
 for engaging the issue of residential demolitions affecting citizens across the city. I also want to thank the many neighborhood and preservation groups that have pressed for a solution, especially United Neighbors for Reform. But this measure that's before you, while it is a half step forward, is two steps back.
 The issues associated with demolition regulation are many, from preservation of viable, affordable housing, protection of public health from demolition process, preservation of cultural and historic resources that are important to the character of our city, and not least, the common courtesy of informing neighbors of an impending demolition. These all need to be addressed, if not now, in the very near future.
 Yesterday, I found online the DRAC 2455-200 rewrite on the agenda for today, presuming that is the version under consideration. Previously, I worked to understand the issues and made a deep dive into editing an earlier version. In the latest version, I found essentially the same deficiencies that needed to be addressed. Really, from the time two years ago that I became aware of the K-1 exemption,
 that was allowing single houses to be torn down without notice to anybody. We can't solve all the problems associated with demolition permitting in the two months since the December hearing, but I conclude that even the most basic level, the language that is proposed is clearly weakening the issues that are needing to be addressed.
 and they are weakening them in favor of development interests, despite the positive efforts of UNR that our neighborhood has supported. Consider the issue of time. The DRAC-managed, and perhaps they are not the appropriate group to be writing the code, the DRAC-managed rewrite requires the appellant not only to decide to appeal
 and to appeal the demolition permit within 35 days of the application date, but to have both a specific solution and feasible plan for preserving the property to accompany the appeal and the request for a registered letter simply adds another gratuitous impediment. The notice and wake-up cycle alone can easily take two weeks. Developing a plan could easily require several weeks of volunteer effort.
 Even for our neighborhood where we have regular land use meetings and were able to organize a special board meeting in early summer to discuss and approve the appeal for cause, we did not have a plan at that point, and we would not have been able to generate a plan. Developing a plan takes time and negotiation. It's all but impossible without providing the recognized organization some kind of wedge.
 The intent of the 120-day stay in the existing code provides time to develop a plan. In two recent examples, the 120-day stay or threat there was the only hammer to get the developer to the table to discuss the issues. And it wasn't necessarily to ultimately save the property.
 But we needed to have that hammer to get the developer to the table. That's not to say that all developers are evil and don't take responsibility, but there are plenty of them out there who really don't want to be bothered discussing the issues with the neighborhood. I don't want to get you to wrap up soon. Yeah. With the proposed language, the developer can wait for the code hearings officer to decide the credible plan is in place, and if so, begin to respond immediately.
 A compressing the delay from 120 to 60 only undercuts the urgency to talk. A BDS plan review can take 30 to 60 days and more with appeals and adjustment. A developer has little or nothing to gain from engaging in any kind of negotiation. I see the unintended consequences of making it easier to demolish viable, affordable housing without neighborhood assistance.
 opposition. I'm just close to finishing here. The lack of vision or clarity in the new version, the confusing redefinition of demolition, the language to remove the one tool that advantages the neighborhood associations, and not least, the lack of public process in developing this suggests that this proposal is not ready for a vote. The only vote that is essential short term is the removal of the K-1 exemption clause from the existing code.
 It's common courtesy to notify neighbors of the impending demolition, and it's that simple until we get a broader solution. Thank you. Thank you. You know the K-1 exemption is deleted in the draft. Take the existing code, strike K-1, and we've got a better solution than we have in this proposal. Thank you. You're welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Gary Clifford. I'm presenting this on behalf of Barbara Kerr.
 43 and counting neighborhoods have formally supported the UNR reform resolution. In attending those neighborhood meetings, there was no question they wanted deconstruction if a home had to be removed and could not be moved.
 The question is, why would you require deconstruction for all demolitions? That's easy. The list of benefits is long. The real question is, why wouldn't you require deconstruction? The answer is time. Mechanical demolition can happen in a day. Deconstruction can take a few days to several weeks.
 Time is money. Requiring deconstruction is thought to be asking the developer to increase expenses that don't increase profits. Free enterprise is being free to produce, buy, and sell a product without restriction. But free enterprise is not free.
 As a business person, I am responsible for paying the cost of my production. Free enterprise is not being restricted by the public good, but it is also not being financially supported by the public. Mechanical demolition puts hazardous waste into the air, the soil, and the surrounding neighbor's property. The costs of cleaning this up are beyond calculation.
 Mechanical demolition puts waste in our landfills, which are subsidized by the public. Wood waste releases methane into the atmosphere over time. Would you put that genie back in the bottle? Mechanical demolition removes existing building materials from our supply, necessitating all the costs to the environment of producing new ones.
 True free enterprise would mean the developer would pay these expenses as simply the cost of doing business. Do we really think these costs would be less than the price of deconstruction? A smart business person would work deconstruction into their schedule while working on the many tasks of readying a construction project to be built. There are developers who have found the benefits and are ahead of the curve.
 but by far the majority have not. Deconstruction needs to be required, or we need to stop subsidizing mechanical demolition. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Was there a Jerry Federico? Then we'll go with Orlando Simpson, Malachi Milbourne, David Heslam, Chad Wykus, John Taylor, Steve Mezzanetti. Look at us.
 Okay. That's great. Welcome. Thank you, Mayor Hales and council members. My name is David Heslam. I'm executive director of Earth Advantage, a 501c3 nonprofit based here in Portland, Oregon. And I'm a 21-year Portland resident living in the Overlook neighborhood. I apologize to Mayor Hales for not – I'm not going to speak directly about the –
 delay policy, I'm going to shine a bright light on the need for deconstruction. And since I'm not following your rules, I'll be very short. I just really appreciate you noting that. Nobody else has. Well, at the end of the day, maybe. No, this is a very important discussion that needs to happen, and it will inform the next process that Mayor Hales will be setting up with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I appreciate your acknowledgement that you're not planning to speak to the amendments.
 Fair enough. So we've been training, setting metrics for performance of buildings, setting standards and training professionals for 10 years, including on deconstruction practices for the last three years.
 across the state of Oregon. And there are so many benefits associated with it that maybe haven't been totally clearly articulated. One is around, it's a great entry point to the residential construction industry to come in as a deconstruction specialist. And the construction industry is in need of more people
 people coming in at the low end of the construction industry and finding a career ladder to move up. If we were to be able to promote a large percentage of the current demolitions into deconstruction, we would see a great increase in that labor force who could move their way up into better-paying jobs as they gained experience in the construction industry. Thank you.
 Additionally, I will supply a copy of the DEQ report that was mentioned earlier. It's a lifecycle approach to prioritizing methods of preventing waste. We helped DEQ with the State Home Builders Association produce that report five years ago. It's still very pertinent. It discusses about 14 different criteria of what the benefits are from waste reduction. Deconstruction versus demolition is specifically discussed.
 And the health benefits that people have discussed are quantified in here, as well as ecosystem benefits and carbon benefits. As mentioned before, if we could divert about 150 houses a year towards deconstruction, that's the same as the carbon sequestered by all of Forest Park's trees. Additionally, just one house would be the same as if you could get five Portlanders to turn their farm,
 a five-mile each-way commute each day into a bike commute for seven years. That's great. For every one house. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Malachi Milbourne, and the spirit of the force is calling me to be here today.
 My company name is Against the Grain PDX. I'm a furniture maker, woodworker, professional denailer. I've been doing this full-time for six years now, and I've saved a lot of wood from historical houses pre-1930s. I kind of started off with a trend. I was into barn wood and that type of aesthetic. It's a huge trend right now.
 And then it is evolved into wood with integrity, old growth wood, which is really capsulated best in these old houses. I can't believe how much I've seen with my own eyes just get needlessly thrown away. And my whole philosophy and business model is to give this wood a higher purpose. I'm making heirloom furniture that's actually being put into people's homes and they should have it for 100 years or more, depending. Okay.
 I have a lot of good stories, but I'll just only share a couple with you. Someone brought up the Markham House recently, and now that was being saved, and
 So nobody was really thinking of it as a deconstruction because they're going to restore it. Well, I've actually been on the property and that house is in terrible shape. There's really no reason to save that house except for somebody doesn't want, you know, an eyesore or something in the new construction. Well, it looks like a Spanish hacienda house. It doesn't fit in the landscape anyway, in my opinion.
 So, at any rate, all this wood is getting thrown away into a huge container. And I stopped by and I was like, well, what are you guys doing with this stuff? And then I just watched it go away to a landfill. They still had plenty of material there left, and so I was like, guys, I can save you whatever it costs for you to put that in the landfill, which ended up being over $300 per container.
 I saved thousands of board feet from that house, and it would have needlessly been thrown away. Now people think they're not seeing the point. The point of preserving the wood from that house was the biggest issue, and everyone wanted to see that house be preserved, but the whole skeleton's been removed with new wood. So to me, that doesn't make any sense at all. And so I just want to let you know, like, it's not that hard to find people like me,
 um the on building seventh and alder i removed a flagpole from it in 2012. you can see the documentation on youtube yawn flagpole um check it out because it's a 30-foot flagpole that i had salvaged and they wanted it to go to a good home well i made a table and the table went back in the building it's going to be there for who knows how long that's great if they wouldn't have done that it would have just been like
 whatever, like everything else. I just want you guys to really think that we could be the leaders in preserving the natural resources that we have. Japan's way ahead of us. They've been saving our natural resources and saving old growth material because they know it's going to be extinct at some point. It will run out.
 we need to be the forefront. We need to save. There needs to be a deconstruction happening to any house pre-1930s, at least a consultation to see what the value in the material is. And I consider that under an urban lumber bracket. I would also consider that the urban lumber is –
 also includes mature trees in in the property so if a property developer needs to remove a tree they also need to facilitate that in in the program I think it should be in the same bracket of urban lumber because there's billions of board feet that are eventually going to get removed for this city and if we don't you know harvest that a little bit and get it to the right places we're doing
 we're shooting ourselves in the foot and we did this in the 1920s and the industrial revolution killed all our trees and so i'm here for the forest and speaking on their behalf so thank you very much thank you welcome thank you mayor house commissioners i'm steve messonetti with habitat for humanity and um i'll stay mostly on topic um i think um hasn't been said enough that this issue of demos is not just an issue related to high-end builders but as a non-profit developer it also
 us and other even for-profit developers who are trying to build homes that are affordable to low- and middle-income families in our city. And we support the proposal that includes, I believe, reasonable delays for reasonable reasons. But I also believe that demos are another variable leading to the lack of affordable housing product in our city, which is, I think, approaching crisis level. Okay.
 i encourage you to explore ways to increase incentives for non-profit and for-profit developers to build homes that are affordable to low and middle-income families to buy the tax abatements and the sdcs are set there and are are great but they're no longer enough especially in neighborhoods that have rising land values and so more needs to be looked at to create these incentives to create product affordable to the families who live and work here
 And if we can do so, if we can create these homeownership opportunities, our neighborhoods will maintain the diversity that we've talked about and avoid the further displacement that we are trying to avoid. Thanks, Steve. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Is there a John Taylor? We'll go with Brandon Spencer, Paul Sheely. I don't think you should do this now, but we'll let you do it this time. And Ken Forcier. Is there Ken Forcier? Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Paul Sheely. I'm here to present a perspective. You probably haven't heard much in these hearings. I sold a house to a builder. I'm running to share my experience with you so that you will have heard another perspective on the issue of demolition of houses to rebuild new houses. In 2010, my wife and I bought a house in South Cape Burlingame for $400,000. There are houses in our neighborhood that were built in every decade of the last century.
 Our house was built in 1949. It was kind of a cross between a 40s house and a 50s ranch. It was a pretty big house, but it was a two-bedroom, one-bath on the main floor. We knew the floor was a little undesirable for that reason, but we liked the house. We only had one child, and we had plans to eventually remodel. It was on a nice corner lot with a parched view. The lot was 100 feet wide facing the street. We put $25,000 down on the house. The payment was $27.80 a month.
 By 2012, my wife and I were in the middle of a divorce. We were facing all the financial and emotional issues that go along with that miserable experience. We had the house for sale for months with zero interest from regular buyers. While it was for sale, we found out that the house had been for sale for two years before we bought it.
 All the realtor had to say was that for this price, that people want a master bath, they want an island kitchen, they want walk-in closets, they don't like the metal siding that went on the house in the 60s, they don't like the 60s remodel in the bathroom. We didn't get one offer. Eventually, we got an offer from a builder who planned to tear the house down, split the lot into 50-foot wide lots like all the ones around it, and build two houses on the property. The neighbors found out about it and started showing up at our door demanding we not sell to a builder.
 They held meetings in front of our house. They confronted me as I came and went. These people had no intention of putting up any of their own money. But if they could have done it, they would have been willing to prevent my wife and I from selling the property while forcing us to keep paying the mortgage as long as they could delay the process. Every four weeks, I would send in that $3,000. They would have held things up as long as they could. They tried to dissuade the buyer. They did whatever they could. And these impediments that are being added will be used exactly for that purpose.
 These neighbors would have no problem with us just continuing to make that payment until a buyer that was more to their liking came along. This offer from Everett Owens was the only offer we got. It broke my heart to see that house get torn down. But I pay my bills. I set my payment in every four weeks. No one wants urban sprawl. We all want to keep our close-in neighborhoods nice. We like having our property values go up. We want to make efficient use of the infrastructure.
 This house had 100 feet of street frontage that serviced one bathroom. That's 100 feet of street, gas, electric, street lighting, police, ambulance, all that was serving the purpose of feeding that one bathroom. It was a two-bedroom, one-bath house on a 100-feet-wide lot. The fact is it had more value as a lot than it did as a house. That's why these houses are being torn down. As you do your job, please remember that these lots are private property.
 Putting restrictions on the ability to sell an unmarketable house just to please the neighbors is in my opinion a taking a private property by government. If there's an easement for view or an easement for light, let them enforce it. But there just isn't. The city imposes height restrictions on houses. These are permitted houses. These houses aren't being torn down to build bars. They're not being torn down to build mini-marts. They're being torn down to build other houses. It's not a change in use. It's private property.
 I know you're never going to keep anyone happy, but remember that we're talking about real estate rising to its highest and best use. That's what happens when a city is thriving. Take a look at any picture of an old neighborhood in Portland from 100 years ago. It's full of old houses that aren't there anymore. Appreciate your testimony. I want to get you to wrap up. That's it. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate your perspective. Thank you. Thank you.
 My name is Brandon Spencer Hartle. I'm here today representing Restore Oregon, and I'll be as succinct as I can. On July 31st, many of us who are in the room today came to you with three asks. One was to define demolition in the building regulations. Two was to remove the K-1 exception to get us a 30-day mandatory delay with an additional 120-day option. And third was to establish a demolition task force.
 Since that time, I've been working closely with BDS staff and the Development Review Advisory Committee. Since that time, it's also been six months for us to get the emergency changes that we asked for in July. And the proposal in front of you doesn't go as far as we had asked. I'm here today to support this as a compromise emergency measure, but to support it with the caveat that we hope that future changes from the council and the establishment of a task force indeed follows up today's discussions and the discussions ahead of us.
 The compromise that's in front of you will allow us to collect better data, focus energy on zoning and compatibility issues, and explore models for deconstruction policies. These changes to Title 24, while necessary and hopefully the first step, will not by themselves resolve the neighborhood change crisis we're facing today.
 so i'm here today to ask you to approve this thinking of it as an emergency compromise and looking forward for a more proactive and inclusive process to address zoning compatibility and the larger demolition question of what does this mean for the city and where are we going thank you thank you thank you both okay uh ken forcier or fernand fernando marin
 you think okay so the last people i show signed up are rob humphrey mary helen kincaid and jeff fish your chair you gotta get i'm the chair i get to choose they're gonna let you go first no i'm going last oh all right i'll be first commissioners thanks for your time my name is rob humphrey i'm a citizen of portland my business is faster permits we're building permit management consulting firm
 serving Portland residents for nearly 24 years. Our clients do include governmental agencies, industrial organizations, commercial businesses, developers, residential builders, architects, engineers, and many other parties whose activities require building permits. We have managed countless thousands of building permit processes in the city of Portland, but the most significant of these are the thousands we've managed for the citizens of Portland.
 homeowners, potential home buyers, people whose homes require renovation, or those whose homes have outlived their intended life expectancy and require replacement. I also serve as Vice Chair of DRAC and have participated in virtually every meeting of the DRAC Demolition Subcommittee. I'd like the Council to know and to hear...
 that this committee has been unusual, unprecedented, and in fact groundbreaking in the manner in which the stakeholders on all three sides of the issue, the Portland Citizens and Neighborhood Associations...
 Specifically, the UNR was there in force and there was a moment there where one of the UNR folks was disappointed that DRAC was writing code. But to be more specific, the DRAC demo subcommittee that wrote this code had, I think, four members of the development community, one of them being me, which I'm sort of not because I represent both sides.
 a home builder, and two residential remodelers. And the rest were city staff and the neighbors. So that's really who wrote this. Okay. How many neighbors were there? Many. I mean, it varied with each meeting, but there were many. Anybody was welcome to come and participate? Yeah, it was wide open, and I was impressed with the way the city gave everybody a voice in that. Really, it was very inclusive.
 So anyway, going back to my point, those folks were at the table, and BDS staff and the residential building community were represented there with the three that I mentioned. Anyway, I'm impressed by how they've collaborated in such a meaningful way. Imagine what it must have been like.
 to have each of these stakeholder groups each well represented as i mentioned locked in the same room and each with a voice for countless hours over the past several months though painstaking and often heated we held the line we didn't give up we stayed the course even in the face of so much off-topic discussion like why does the zoning code allow for two homes to be built where one once was in my neighborhood or what about the process of deconstruction i'm here just to talk about agenda 169 today
 I'm convinced that all sides have come away with a newfound understanding and respect for each other's position, the likes which I haven't seen previously doing this for 24 years. Yes, I am saying that I have witnessed citizens and neighborhoods respecting residential builders, even lot splitters, and vice versa. Most importantly, we've come away with a proposal to you, our city council,
 that has been well vetted by each of these stakeholders. And I'm not saying it's been vetted by each and every citizen of the city, but it certainly has been vetted by those who came to the table for those countless hours and weighed in on every side of the debate.
 And we're not just talking about neighborhood associations and infill developers here. We're talking about that middle-aged woman who inherited the 800-square-foot home that she grew up in, staying there for 20 years and saving every penny, knowing that her retirement was secure and her ability to one day develop that land.
 It's the young family who bought the only house they could afford, one beyond its intended life of service, on that perfect piece of land in the perfect neighborhood, hoping one day to build a bigger and healthier home for their expanding family. And it's that family whose life has been rocked by illness. The only means to pay for treatment is to split that lot off their home and sell it or develop it. Make no mistake.
 All sides have compromised in this matter. Reducing the 120-day extension was a huge give by the neighborhoods. Likewise, eliminating the K-1 exception was a huge give by the development community. But where will we end up? We'll end up with a mandatory 35-day notification period on every demolition by which no citizen should ever again be surprised by a bulldozer tearing down the house next door.
 We'll also end up with a means by which interested and capable parties are afforded more time to seek alternatives to demolition. And we'll have removed the opportunity for those who sought to abuse the existing system for reasons that were not in seeking alternatives to demolition.
 In conclusion, I respectfully ask that you vote today to approve Dirac's proposed modifications to the demolition process as written. It would be a great shot in the arm to those former foes who are experiencing, for the first time, a degree of unity. Thanks for your time. Thanks for your work on this. Thank you. Mr. Fish. I don't think it would be – let me back up. Jeff Fish, Fish Construction. Been a builder for 42 years in Portland, an infill builder.
 A DRAC member came off DRAC on January 25th, came off as chair on January 25th, but I'm still on the subcommittee at Mary Helen's request. Pretty hard to follow up what Rob just said. That being said, when I asked him to be part of this committee several months ago, he initially poohed, poohed me and didn't want to do it. And as you can see, here's a guy that sees the issues and understands the issues and I think did a great job of summarizing things.
 but i want to move on i want to address some of the things brought up today i don't have any specific written remarks that hazardous material issue is going to be a bear to deal with we dealt with it at drac got into it there's a lot of different facets to it asbestos is handled by deq
 Lead base is handled by the Oregon Health Authority, and for lack of a simple way, they don't care about what happens on the property next door. They care about what happens with the worker tearing down the house. Now if he's in jeopardy, then they pick up the house next door. That was the best way I could explain what we were told by Chris Zimmer.
 I also talked with some BDS staff, and I don't think Paul knew about this until I mentioned to him a few minutes ago. It's hard to interpret. One of the BDS staff I talked to was in that business prior to going to work for the city, and he said, you can write an asbestos report, and you can tweak it such that it doesn't look too bad, but get away with stuff. So in some respects, it puts the BDS staff in a bad light if they accept a report that somebody later is kind of going around.
 So I'm not telling you to go there. I'm just going to say it's a landmine to walk through. So the other thing about that is I've tried to find out on – there were two houses on 16th just north of Holgate that were torn down, supposedly had asbestos floating around. I haven't been able to find out in DEQ whether or not those houses did have the problem. I think there's a lot more hysteria than there is actually in problems.
 We tore our house down two years ago behind the Martin Luther King Par Lumber Company. We had an asbestos report and we had asbestos removal. I walked in that house. One of the items it had, it had a popcorn ceiling. I walked in that house and I see all this sheetrock dust all over. And I walked right back out the door and called both the persons that wrote the report and the person that did the removal to make sure they'd gotten the stuff and it was assured they had. So...
 me who had been in the business for years looked at that and I thought I was putting myself in jeopardy. So there's a lot of hysteria out there that may not always be truthful.
 There's thousands of dollars of fine if you get caught. That's one of the reasons we put on the BDS application is that you've done your research on that because that gives the state a chance to raise a fine or levy a heavier fine. They have the tendency to go into a fine if you haven't done anything to kind of slap you on the wrist. This gave them a little bit more leverage, admitting that you had done your research on
 and they find out you hadn't and you lied to them, they feel like they can hit you in the pocket a little bit more. We have an excavator that got caught some years ago, didn't do his work. He got a $7,500 fine, and the builder got a $7,500 fine. He won't tear a house down unless he sees my report. So the fines that are out there scare people. So how much you need to do to go over the top of that, I don't know, but I'll leave that with you.
 The lady came up and testified about
 developers buying houses from little old ladies. There was an article in the paper here four, five, six months ago. We're probably all sure of that. I can tell you about 15 years ago on a couple of Sundays, I drove from 11th to 82nd from Hawthorne to Holgate. I found about 100 properties that had a lot that I wanted some interest in buying. I sent out 60 letters telling them I had an interest in buying those lots. I got two responses back, and those two responses were I'm not interested.
 There may be guys out there doing it, but in my 42-year career, I don't know yet that I've bought a lot that wasn't a realtor involved in the process. Maybe a realtor contacted the little old lady, signed a listing agreement with the little old lady, and came and saw me, but there was somebody to protect them. So there may be a little bit of that happening out there, but it's not a great amount in my opinion. I want to remind you that if you have a 120-day delay on 300 houses,
 That's 1,600 months. Excuse me, that's 1,200 months. That's 100 years with a delay. Think about the cost of 100 years with delay for one year if we delay everything 120 days. About 25 years ago, a good friend of mine got me started in the building business. I was complaining to him about the regulations, the cost of building in Portland versus other jurisdictions. He says, remember one thing. The harder it is, the more competition it keeps away from your doors.
 So think about that in the context that, yes, we have to tackle these issues, whether it's delay, whether it's deconstruction. But if you get too much regulation, you drive competition away. You do not necessarily drive the problem away. You find guys like me that for 42 years have figured a way to stay in this business while some of my competition has gone to Washington County or Clackamas County or across the river to Vancouver.
 I think that's pretty much – oh, one thing on the 60-day appeal, and Nancy can address this better. In talking with the codes officer, there's going to be times the code officer is not going to get to that appeal for 60 days, so the neighborhood may even have
 95-day delay without even really producing much evidence of that delay. It depends upon the volume of what's on the codes appeal officer's desk. And the codes appeal person told Mary that, or excuse me, Nancy, that there could be times that he might be writing his decision on the 59th, 60th day. So...
 I think that pretty much covers mine, and I'll turn it over. Can I ask you a question? Sure. And I wasn't going to ask you a question because I was hoping to catch my ride home. I just lost my ride home, so I'm going to be asking Al if I can bum a ride. No, I've got to figure it out. I'll be taking the number 12. I'll be taking the number 12 bus, but I just want to – you've testified eloquently, and I want to ask you a question. And, by the way, I think that DRAC has done good work here, but you've raised the issue of how to address –
 lead and asbestos. So I've been going through what other cities and communities do in Oregon. And I just wanted to ask you because I'm very, I mean you've made this point about regulatory burden and cost and making sure there's no unintended consequences. You're very thoughtful on this, aren't you?
 I always read you carefully in the newspaper because when I see the word fish and some quote, I think maybe I've been quoted. My latest quote wasn't very good either, so it wasn't on the line. But anyway. I remind people, you and I are not related. You're entitled to your view. But I want to ask you about asbestos and lead paint. Right now, when you get a permit from the Bureau of Development Services, you have to self-certify a number of things, correct? Yes.
 Pretty much, and I say pretty much because I use Rob quite a bit and also another. There's certain things. Justin gave me a little primer on this, but there's a number of things you have to self-certify. You have to say, you know, I attest to the following, and you sign it, and you're done. Correct. So it looks like at least one county and one city has a similar system for asbestos and lead. There's a box that you check to say you've done a survey. Okay.
 There's a box to check that says, in the event it's been detected, you've complied with the law in terms of its removal. And there's some other box, and at the bottom it says, you better be careful before you sign this because this is a legal document and you are attesting that everything is true. You sign it, you file it, and you're done. Why wouldn't that be workable?
 To be honest with you, I haven't seen the ones you're talking about. Hillsboro has one I thought was pretty nice. We tossed it around at DRAC where you check off boxes. It talks about even whether you've got an oil tank in your basement. It's a hazardous problem. You can check it off. The self-certification. But you have to have a way to get to the penalties. And I'll give you a prime example, and I can't figure out why it's this way. When you take out a temporary electrical permit,
 And there's hundreds of those taken out. They're only supposed to be taken out by a supervising electrician or a homeowner. And we as builders take them out all the time. It's the same way across the river in Washington, the same exact wording. And when I was a rookie builder, I asked, why don't you change the form since you let us take it out? The whole darn industry looks away. So there are...
 There are boxes like that we check off on specific forms that the industry looks away or the regulatory branch looks away. In this case, I'm talking about is an electrical temporary permit to put a temp up on a job site. I don't think anybody really cares a whole lot. You guys inspect it. The power company inspects it. Nobody gets hurt. Okay.
 If the fines that are coming out from DEQ and maybe from Oregon Health Authority, our lead base, are regular and heavy, it's going to change the industry. You know, I mentioned my excavator. He won't touch something unless you've got a report because he's already been fined $7,500. So if there's anybody cheating the system, there's always going to be somebody cheating the system. But sometimes –
 You're led that way by the fact you can check an electrical box form off and nobody does anything or cares about it, but maybe over here you better not check off the hazardous one. You understand what I'm saying? I use an analogy. When people come to seek employment with the city, we have to fill out an I-9, and they have to show identification. We Xerox it. We check the box.
 We are not required to call the State Transportation Bureau and say, did you issue this license on such and such? We're not required to call the State Department and say, is this passport valid? We're covered under the law. It's just someone has given us a thing. We presume valid. It's signed and we've complied.
 And I'm very sensitive to the concern I'm hearing from the Bureau and the commissioner in charge about imposing new paperwork requirements. I'm sensitive to the concern about having to have inspections and other kinds of things. I mean, these things are issues of manpower and cost and other things. But I'll just tell you, just as someone who lives in a neighborhood, I think I would feel more comfortable if I knew –
 that someone had checked the box saying, we did the survey as required by law, because DEQ requires that you do a survey external and internal. It's a legal requirement. Someone checks that box and says, we did it. In the event the survey says there's a problem, in the event the survey says,
 There's a box that says that you contracted with the appropriate person to remit. And I'm not suggesting that that requires Paul to send anyone out unless there's a complaint to do anything further. But it seems like lots of other cities and counties have just gone that route of a self-certification. And it seems to me that that might be consistent with what the public wants to know without imposing an owner's requirement to
 on your industry, and if you're right that there aren't egregious violations and that many of the home builders are responsible, then it's just filling out, it's just checking three boxes and signing something. If we're wrong with respect to somebody in your industry doesn't have your ethics, then we hope they throw the book at that person, and we hope that that form gives us a basis to go heavy on the fines. Here's part of that confusion, Mary Helen, correct me if I'm wrong,
 You're not required to get an asbestos survey under four units. But if you get caught dealing with asbestos or letting asbestos loose, then you are penalized because you didn't get the survey. So am I right on that, Mary Helen? That's part of legislative reform that some of the –
 interested parties are looking at, that I know of. I'm sure there's other people, and I've heard lots of people speak about it today. But I know that there are people looking at that because they're not required by state law for anything under four units. But if a worker is exposed to it, then –
 That's where they put it. I think Hillsboro has been creative on this one because they just said you must ascertain the presence of asbestos in or outside the structure, and you must conform to the DEQ rule. Yeah, you could go above their requirement. So they just said, and that does not seem to me to be an onerous requirement, A, because of the impact on worker safety and health, and B, what might happen –
 with the neighbor and what happens with the dumpster and anyone in the chain. I don't know that we can resolve this today, Mayor. Yeah, me neither. But it does strike me that if the DRAC is operating at a very high level and coming up with a compromise before us, that maybe the easiest thing to do is just to pose the question to DRAC, is there a certification process that they can recommend to us
 add a separate sheet to the application, and then test drive it. See whether that solves the problem without a heavier hand of regulation. The only problem I see with this, and Rob and I talked about it, is when that gets signed off, that you're checking the box off, that I'm doing my asbestos certification or whatever,
 Either I've got to sign that form and have a blank form that I give to Rob that he keeps in a stack at his office or in his car when he turns in my applications, or Rob has to sign it for me. I will do that. As he and I talked about, he's got to know the builder really, really well, and then he's probably going to not sign it even if he doesn't know him well. So there's a little bit of a – it's kind of like where we all have been, where you sign a check in advance and you trust somebody to do something with that check. You're right, because Hillsboro requires the property owner to sign. Yeah.
 It doesn't allow you to, maybe the law allows you to do an attorney in fact. And to follow up a little bit on that idea, I meant to mention this earlier. One reason we went to the registered letter was one of the land use staff said just a couple weeks ago somebody signed a fraudulent land use application. They'd send a letter out. I've been convinced by Commissioner Fritz on that. But this one doesn't seem like...
 The thoughtful people who came up with the ordinance before us, it seems to me, could fix this in a meeting and come up with an additional check, a couple of boxes to check. It doesn't require the director to look behind the certification, but it requires that someone say, we've done the survey, and if necessary, we've done the abatement.
 I'd like the director to come up after we're done. I know Mary Helen hasn't had her testimony yet, so there are some other staff. I feel like I should tell jokes or something at this point. No, you could. Channel Tony Robbins and get everybody up and moving in circulation. Everybody said the things that we've accomplished. I think we've done great work. I was –
 I'm really happy to be a part of it. I started this out with saying the very first thing I said was tell me the things I don't know because there's a lot I don't know. And so I think everybody involved in the process learned. I think all of you learned from this process. I wanted to address a couple things about the hazardous waste. It was, I think, monumental that we got the state and the city in a room talking and working on issues, and we're going to continue this.
 But we kind of had to wait until we got to this point and have council say, carry on. And I think there's great impetus to do that. I want to speak a little bit to this committee. I think that this DRAC subcommittee was highly representative of a diverse bunch of interests. I kind of took a little bit of offense when Terry said something that –
 We didn't do enough public process between Jeff and Claire and Rob and the people on that committee. We went to over 50 meetings, and they were nighttime meetings, and they were daytime meetings, and they were not happy meetings. So we did do a lot of public outreach, and we did do that. I think that we saw a broad...
 array of opinions and took all of those into consideration and I'm gonna go back to I've said this many times since December 17th and Robert McCullough was not a big fan and he sent me a flaming email telling me what an idiot I was and so I just said we need to meet for lunch and then December 17th he proposed marriage to me so I thought that was yeah
 I don't think he meant to send that email to you. I think it was one of us he was in touch with. Well, it could have been. But I was in good company, and I knew that, you know, but I think, and so now he's a supporter. And I wanted to relay to you that I, prior to being here, I was at the chairs and directors meeting.
 ran this proposal by them. They said it's not perfect, but nothing's perfect, but we support what you do and they've heard back from their neighborhood. So we have that support. I was glad that Brandon from Restore Oregon was able to come to the table and add information to this that Rob became involved in and the builders that could show us where there were loopholes or things that wouldn't work.
 The things you didn't hear, DRAC first identified deconstruction as a really big issue, but we said it needs clear definition and it needs a lot of work. And I have just recently, three, two days, I don't know what today is, Monday, did a ride-along with a building inspector, and the very first two houses I went to were older homes that were being remodeled by guys that really want to remodel older homes. There's got to be some synergy there, and in my flying little wild brain,
 I see a lot of opportunity in our innovation program that we could find those people, use those resources with neighborhoods. Because you've heard, neighborhoods don't have time. They aren't equipped. But there are people that are doing this. And if we can connect those people, neighborhood wants to save a house. There's people that are doing it. Energetic, they want to do it. They have a business model to do that. Somehow we can find a connection. And I think your follow-on.
 BPS committee could do that. I think the oversight committee for this proposal, yes, it needs to be well balanced, but we did a really good job getting here and I think that most everybody wants to continue on to do that. I don't think it needs to be a whole bunch of new people to get caught up to speed.
 I just read an article about Los Angeles. You could have taken out the words Los Angeles and put in Portland. I shared it with Matthew and Jackie Dingfelter and said, look.
 We're a year ahead of them. They've been talking about this for 16 months and they don't even have a committee to address this. They have a bunch of people and they think they're going to do something. So I want to say, yeah, we're ahead of Los Angeles on that one. I think we were able to identify, you just used the word unintended consequences. I think we identified a lot of those, but there's going to be more and we don't know and that's the whole part of this thing.
 Back quickly on the hazardous, the ONI Summit that's coming up on February 28th, two representatives I think I mentioned this earlier, but I think it's really important because I heard a lot of talk about hazardous materials.
 Unfortunately, it's scheduled for the same time as the Mayor's presentation at 1-10, but there's a work session. I think I know where people will be then. Well, there's a work session and they're going to explain regulatory functions of all agencies. One agency that didn't come up in all of this that has got the biggest hammer of all is the EPA. They have huge fines and it's the complainer that gets to collect part of the fine if they find offenses.
 And so that needs to be explored and how it filters down through the state through and it's very complicated and please don't ask me to explain it. I just know it's complicated. That needs to be brought into the discussion.
 Sort of in closing, and I always usually close, and John Wooden is like my favorite person to quote. He has a quote that said, if it isn't difficult, it isn't worth doing. And so I think we took a difficult task, and we did a lot of really good work, and there's a lot more to be done. And I'm trusting that this, if there's one or two or three committees, but task force that follow this up, I think will help.
 do a lot more good for the city but right now we need to protect what's out there and i think this is the best way to do it for right now and thank you very much for sitting here for three and a half hours listening to testimony thank you for the many hours that you and other track members put into this work other questions for these uh these great volunteers
 Did you say John Wooden? John Wooden. It's the first time I've heard John Wooden quoted in this chamber, so I appreciate that. Oh, no, I did the last one. He has another one about teamwork. All right. So I appreciate it. I just wanted to say I thought you guys did phenomenal work.
 And I've been sitting here saying nothing today because I figured this looks good, I'm going to vote yes. Although I understand people came to address a lot of other issues that we're not addressing in this particular piece. But thank you very, very much for all of the work you did, everybody who was involved, including the commissioner in charge. I've not followed this issue all that closely, but I was aware of where we were several months ago and then I looked at this leading up to this meeting and thought, this looks good.
 like a terrific way to address the issues. So I just wanted to say thank you very much. There's one thing that's puzzled me, though.
 According to Wikipedia, deconstruction is a literary theory and philosophy of language derived principally from Jacques Derrida's 1967 work of grammatology. The premise of deconstruction is that all of Western literature and philosophy implicitly relies on a metaphysics of presence, where intrinsic meaning is accessible by virtue of pure presence. Deconstruction denies the possibility of a pure presence unless of essential or intrinsic meaning.
 so i've been surprised to learn today that so many portlanders deny the possibility of pure presence and less of essential or intrinsic meaning but that's i guess another example of portland being weird thank you steve i i think i also need to and i i didn't say this um i think i gave nancy a mug about being a cat herder at the last meeting staff has been tremendously supportive and i think that that needs to be recognized because
 I've been on a number of city committees that haven't functioned as well, and I don't think it's staff. But I just think that somehow it was a perfect storm that we got all the right people in the room and a really good product came out, and there was a lot of support from Paul and all of his staff at every meeting to inform and have honest discussions like, oh, this won't work, or this is a great idea. So that part needs to be recognized as well because they put a lot of time and effort into it in a really busy time for them.
 Thank you. Thank you for that acknowledgement. Thank you especially to the three of you for your citizen leadership on this matter. My favorite John Wooden quote is that success is the peace of mind of knowing that you did the best to become the best you're capable of becoming.
 And I think that you have three particularly have done your best to make this code rewrite the best that it's capable of becoming at this point. And that you have reached a compromise. And I think another thing that is often said is that if nobody's happy, then you've done a good job of reaching a compromise. So I think we've heard that very clearly. So I'm not hearing any amendment requests on the compromise.
 I want to bring us back to the charge that we gave you was to look at the demolition delay regulations and in particular the K-1 exceptions. Nancy Thornton in her excellent presentation, and thank you for staffing this entire project, Nancy, pointed out that after Director Scarlatts and I made changes in the summer of last year to clarify that it was just a one-for-one.
 exception to that demolition delay. We have, in fact, experienced a lot fewer demolition delays. A lot. We've done, yeah, fewer demolitions. So that has done what it's supposed to do. You were charged to look at what's the long-term version of that. And that's what we've got here. As a result of having a great public process and several public hearings, we've heard from a lot of community members, including the United Neighbors for Reform Committee,
 that there is a lot of work that neighbors are anxious for. And with the construction trade picking up astronomically as the recovery has taken place,
 the relative difference between not having any construction at all over the course of recession or very little to now phenomenal amounts of changes happening in neighborhoods. It's very challenging to figure out how to manage that. And I know that your staff in planning and sustainability are working hard on code language, the comprehensive plan, looking at design and those kinds of issues.
 In the meantime, we also need to look at affordable housing. And so I'm pleased that the Housing Commissioner has agreed to take on this question of what are the appropriate incentives or requirements, and then we will certainly want that committee to give their recommendation to the Development and Review Advisory Committee because the fees would be assessed at the permit center. There's the...
 The issue of hazardous materials, again, Mary Helen, thank you for your leadership on that. We could do the simple checkoff piece. It's still more self-certification and what I've heard from the community is that they're looking for more than that. If we're going to do more inspections, we as a council have a choice to make between do we want to fund them with general fund for that purpose?
 The Development Services Bureau Advisory Committee and Budget Advisory Committee is asking for money for inspections of rental housing as our priority for where we think we have the most hazards in terms of mold and lead paints and other horrible conditions in multifamily apartments that we take months to get inspections for those kinds of problems, even when complaints come in.
 So there isn't an unlimited amount of money for general fund support to development services. There are limitations on what we're allowed to charge for in permit fees. So the question becomes, what's a higher priority, and in particular, for staff time? That, as I mentioned at the outset of this hearing, I'm glad that our piece is to work on this hazardous materials part with the citizen volunteers, and we can manage that
 We have the technology computer project that's in full force. We have all this permitting. We've got 22 staff that came on board earlier this year that are being trained up, and I've got a request for another 19 staff in the budget. So going from a bureau that had 150 staff
 just a year and a half ago to now having over 270 staff in the Bureau. So these are all the challenges that we in development services are facing, and we can't continue to keep adding more planning projects, more code improvement projects that aren't part of a funded work plan. Let me – and I appreciate this discussion. In fact, I think this hearing – I appreciate this whole hearing, and I think we do our best work when we have these public conversations. And I have –
 I have learned some things today that I didn't understand. The testimony, the dialogue, I think has helped shape it. Let me offer an analogy, though. We occasionally have these hearings about the siting of cell phone towers, and we have community members come and say, we're very concerned about the health impacts. And the city has to say to them, the federal government has said we are not allowed to consider the health impacts. We're preempted. That's how much power the industry has in Washington. We can't even evaluate it.
 Well, that's frustrating because if we – it's the elephant in the room. We don't know whether there are health impacts, but we're not even allowed to address it. Let me bring it closer to home. I don't know whether this is a problem or not. I don't know. But if it happens at a site and someone is harmed because of it, I think we'd all feel terrible. So that's the only way – that's what I look at. So then the next thing I do is say, well, it's an issue.
 How have other cities and counties that are struggling with the same issues Commissioner Fritz has identified, staffing, what kind of regulatory oversight, who's on first, different jurisdictions? So that's interesting. And what I see in the materials is it's a range, but there are a number of jurisdictions that require either someone to self-certify or an accredited asbestos inspector to say it's okay. That's how they've sliced it.
 And I don't know what's the right balance. Commissioner Fritz is absolutely right. We can't just sit here saying, all right, we want to fix this. Commissioner Fritz, find it within your budget. That's not fair. If the council says it's a priority, we have to find the resources to cover the cost. But what I find, what I've learned today is an issue has been framed that I think we all agree is serious. And Jeff, we know your reputation as a builder.
 We know which side of the line you operate when you do your houses, but that doesn't mean everyone in the city is operating by those standards. And so there's an issue, and there's a couple of ways to deal with it. One range is heavy-handed. The other is lighter touch. I don't know which is the best one. I turn to the experts like Paul and his team and say, or DRAC, because you guys are a wonderful, deliberative body. You can help us guide that.
 And the state has a lot of ideas of how communications can go back and forth because Chris Zimmer, who was our primary contact, was just elated that we have that checkbox because that gives him tea. And he has suggestions of how we can go forward, but it's just those conversations didn't happen until January.
 The checkbox does say, I will comply with all such regulations. And that gives him some enforceable tool if somebody's reported. So, yes, we just started the conversation. So I think that there's a lot of opportunity for more soft touches and hard touches. So that's not chopped liver, right? I will comply with all such regulations. That's with initial. I guess where I land on this –
 because I am going to support the good work that you brought forward to us. We're going to vote on it next week, but I will support it. It's just, Mayor and Commissioner in Charge, just some follow-up process to consider whether any of these other models would be adaptable to BDS with the clear understanding that if the Commissioner in Charge and the Director feel that any of these is an enhancement,
 that the council needs to step up to fund whatever is the impact of that, and that's the only reasonable approach to this. But I do think within this stack of papers there are a couple of interesting ideas, and I would welcome whether it's self-certification, whether it's an expert certifying, your question about can you delegate it to your agent or not, those are all great questions. But, hell, you brought this proposal before us,
 This one I think you could also come up with something that would move the ball, and I would hope we could do that on an expedited basis and have the commissioner in charge and the director tell us if there's a model that they would support. Will that be in the record? I mean, because I didn't get a copy. Yes, it's in the record, and I'll give you mine. It'll be like online or something. Okay.
 Yeah, and obviously the DRAC is a great resource. And I will tell you, I do know what some of the problems in my house are. And the house next to me is the mirror image. And, you know, I've sort of been a little puzzled as to why people aren't wearing hard hats, and I'm a little puzzled by some of the accountability at the site. But I've watched what happened in that house, and stuff was just stripped. And I don't know whether there was asbestos or lead paint.
 but it is a 1920s bungalow and i'm just i'm just from what i've learned in my neighborhood i'd be willing to bet there was and there's a huge dumpster out front and there's a house that was taken down in two days and my 11 year old son plays soccer in front of our house so so i just have a more than passing interest to know have we done enough to make sure that the workers are safe
 And he said, that's where it comes from. And if Commissioner Fritz comes back and says, you know, Drack and she have come up with an idea and it costs a little bit more, you know, I can't take it out of the rates to cover it, but I would support a general fund, ask.
 I'm glad to hear you say that, Commissioner, because even what we're proposing to adopt next week, as I mentioned at the beginning, does come with a price tag. The additional notification, the fact that there will be much more opportunity for appeals, every proposed demolition will now have a delay in a potential appeal. So it's a staff person and it's appropriate.
 We'll again be asking the DRAC and the subcommittee to look at what's appropriate to TACON as an application fee and what needs to be general funded. And certainly it's $92,000 that we'll be asking for as a new ask in the budget for the appeals waivers as a seed fund to TACON.
 to start that off until we see how many there are. And that's why it should be fully funded. And whatever the cost is, we should not burden you without the resources. I do know from my service in the Housing Authority of Portland, or now Home Forward, that we used to get federal grants to do lead paint abatement, but in those units where we didn't act quickly enough, the consequences were horrific.
 And I just want to know that we've gone the extra mile on that one. And if it does set up the bad developer for getting whacked a little heavier by DEQ or EPA after they've certified something, Jeff, I think you would agree that that person doesn't belong in your industry. Right. We don't want to compete with that kind of person, those of us that are legitimate developers.
 But when we're talking about $92,000 for fee waivers, and we need to do that because it's so that we have equity and it's not only the affluent neighborhood associations that can appeal, that takes money out of the general fund that then is not available to be spent on the additional enhanced inspections that we've asked for in the budget. Right.
 There's a finite amount. So for 400 demos, we've had this eight month process now and got this great new set of
 That's 400 homes versus, well, and obviously they've got homes around them as well. So maybe 2,000 homes are directly affected by them. There's apartment complexes that have hundreds of apartments. You know, I'd even settle, I don't want to negotiate against myself, but there's even one jurisdiction that says you just have to post at the site your survey.
 that says whether there is or there isn't. I mean, that's a public right-to-know issue, and then the complaint process drives. But I just think within here is something that adds to what I consider to be a significant improvement already with the language you've added, which you have to initial, but something else that might give the public a little more confidence. Commissioner, I meant to bring this up, and I forgot to, that $92,000 or $97,000 for that report,
 does it make more sense to set a smaller block aside and analyze it to see if it's being used correctly as far as neighborhoods appealing and wanting to to preserve a house
 versus neighborhoods thinking there's almost $100,000 there and we can kind of waste it if we want to on this one, not that I'm saying they would necessarily do that, but think that way. I was thinking maybe if you set $15,000 aside, it would allow the dozen. Right now there's been about a dozen appeals of 120-day, what, 12, 13, and over a period of, what, three, four years? Yeah.
 I don't remember what that is. Anyway, I was thinking a lesser number and then look at it once those appeals go through. Is it working? Is it not working? Does it need to be tweaked rather than setting a bigger number aside? Just an idea. There's no guarantee that the first dozen neighborhoods that come in are the ones that actually can't pay themselves.
 But I thought you could add a bump or something like that to add to it. I mean, I understand if you use that money up in the first four months and you didn't have a bump coming for another two or three, something might fall between. But I was thinking of a lesser number to try to –
 We at BDS are very diligent about using money from the correct buckets, and so we can't dip into another bucket in order to front load it. This is the most honorable way, I think. And obviously if we haven't used it, then we don't need another ask the next time. But this, with all due respect, is a citywide concern, and if Commissioner Fritz may be required to be the lead agency in implementing it,
 but if we're going to do it the city has to back her up with the resources right it's not this is where the commission style former government sometimes seems just seems rather silo i mean she may have the burden but the cost needs to be shared city-wide it is not fair to tag her with the cost and frankly this feels to me like a life safety issue that has it rises near the top i i
 And that's why I would like to see if we could get DRAC to give us a recommendation sooner rather than later. It also goes to in deconstruction and you're saving older homes. And like you said, there's lead-based paint on 99% of them probably. In these 1920 homes, Jeff Fish will tell you that there is asbestos wrapped around the pipes in the basement. There's lead-painted stuff and it is pervasive.
 And the reason we know that is we're often told when we buy our houses that there's that problem. And I witnessed that on my little building inspector ride-along because I was asking deconstruction, and he was giving me all his building practices. And so I had to make a note. It's like, okay, when we're looking at deconstruction, we have to look at,
 Also, what we're deconstructing and how that hazardous material is being handled. So I see that interaction with BPS and the deconstruction proposal that they need to look at the hazardous waste and how those codes won't conflict. So it would be great to take a house down and take all the wood away, but if you're exposing people to hazardous waste and not requiring that piece of the puzzle, then you're going to have another problem.
 Well, thank you again for all of your work. I think, Mayor, given the late hour, I won't ask the staff to come back up at this point, but Commissioner, we'd be happy to do a full briefing for you on the work that has been done and some of the suggestions that you have, what we've considered, what we might be able to move forward on. Are you open to having the DRAC consider specifically whether any of these projects
 policies of other jurisdictions could be adapted to Portland? Yes, and we have done some of that work already. That's, since it's not in the code, I was able to make, for instance, the check the block change myself as commissioner in charge. Given your interest in this, I'd be happy to partner with you to make sure that whatever we decide to move forward with within the Bureau is something that you would be comfortable with.
 Very gracious. MR. Well, thank you again. So this – we've now amended the ordinance today and heard testimony, so we'll schedule it for second reading and council vote next week. And obviously, you'll be hearing more from us about the other elements of this issue that we've talked about today and a schedule and public involvement opportunities on those as well. Thank you all very much. MS. Thanks very much, everybody. MR. And we are adjourned until next week.
 good job thank you yeah no it's good i mean