Clerk, please call the roll. Fritz?
 Hardesty?
 Here.
 Udaly?
 Wheeler? As per the rules, if there are no objections to Commissioner Fritz participating by phone, only by council members present, that would be me. I have no objections. If the legal counsel will please read the rules of decorum. You don't have a quorum. I got this, Joe. No, you don't have a quorum. Joe, I got this. No, you don't. Joe, be quiet or you will be removed. No, you don't have a quorum. Where's the quorum? I said silence. We are in process. Not silence, please. Legal counsel. Where's the quorum? You need... Come on, DeWayne. You and I have done a charter. Done it, Joe. I know what I'm doing. If you will keep your mouth shut, I will do what I need to do. No, I won't explain it. You got one person there. I'm gonna ask you again to be quiet or I'm gonna ask you to leave the chamber this is your last warning. legal counsel please read the rule of decorum please Commissioner, I beg your pardon. I'm looking for the rules for the telephone. Sorry. May I go ahead and start the conduct during meetings while I'm waiting for this? That is exactly the one I was looking for. Thank you. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum. You really think that's somebody? No, what the hell are they doing? during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with Council Clerk's office for communications. to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are a representative of an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest or trespass. No! Thank you for helping your Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you so much. Caller, would you read the first communications, please? Okay. Karen, are we good on that piece? Are we good on the piece? Teleconferencing? I think we need to make that one statement. All right. Yes. Okay.
 Okay. Now that we have a quorum. May I proceed? Yes, please. Thank you. If a council member is participating by telephone in the meeting, here are announcements that need to be made before roll call is taken. Circumstances constituting an emergency. Pursuant to PCC 3.02.025, Commissioner Fritz is participating in telephone today. Because of personal reasons. All other members have been given an opportunity to call in. If all other members of council are present, I'm sorry, if other members of council are not present, commissioner or the mayor is also not physically present, but they were contacted and given an opportunity to participate by phone today. Do any of the council members who are physically present have any objection to Commissioner Fritz participating by telephone? No. No. Thank you so much. And I apologize to the chamber for the slight insanity starting the process. Caller, would you please read item 117? Okay. And let's see. And 118 requested to come up. And 118, they're coming together? Yes. Okay. 117, request of Isabella Villareal to address council regarding participatory budgeting. And 118, request of Tyler Wilkins to address council regarding participatory budgeting. While they're coming up, I want to apologize for my tardiness. I had a meeting. South of here. It took a little longer than I thought to get back. So thank you all for your patience and thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for presiding. You're welcome. Good morning. Good morning. And just to even the playing field, I find you to be a competent commissioner. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Council, for this time to share our work and vision with you. My name is Tyler Wilkins. I'm the co-founder and advocacy director of Participatory Budgeting Oregon. a fiscally sponsored project of the No Agenda Foundation. So we founded in 2018 after discovering an immense interest in bringing PV to our region from over the 100 participants who attended our participatory budgeting community forum, a forum that was partially funded by the City of Portland. Since the forum, we've engaged in a grassroots campaign where we've continued to meet with electeds and staff. We've testified at council meetings and work sessions, and we've partnered with other community-based organizations where we've led workshops and worked to create a shared vision of economic justice in the municipal budgeting process. So I love thinking about the ways people can practice democratic self-governance. With participatory budgeting, community members get to come together and decide on the rules that will govern the process. And then through the process, community members co-create solutions to make their communities better and stronger. PP challenges the notion that solutions should come from a top down approach. Instead, it nourishes the concept of grassroots democracy with a bottom up approaches that identify people as experts in their community. And when we talk about centering this process on marginalized populations, we are recognizing that people closest to the problem are closest to the solution. When we lead with their ideas and voices, we'll build communities that are responsive and resilient. We're also forced to recognize how our current structures limit participation and new voices. They're hard to navigate, they're not very inviting, and they carry with them historical trauma. PB is also great because it brings democracy, decision-making, on the ground and meets people where they're at. I understand PB has considerable startup costs, but I see this as more than a capital investment in a process. It's an investment in a new style of governance where people are engaged more broadly and more meaningfully. To me, that's worth it. It's also the beginning of building a new equitable structure that will build up communities resilience for generations to come. I appreciate you recognizing the power of this process and I appreciate your continued interest. We had good conversations with commissioners and staff. And I just want to say our team will continue laying the groundwork for successful implementation. And I encourage the council to continue considering experimenting with participatory budgeting. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Good morning. My name is... Move that closer if it's more comfortable. Okay. It moves. There you go. Thank you. Fancy. Good morning. My name is Isabella Villarreal, and I am a youth leadership coordinator at a local nonprofit, as well as being on the steering committee for Participatory Budgeting Oregon as well. At Participatory Budgeting Oregon, we envision the state as a multicultural and multiracial participatory democracy that centers... marginalized communities so that all of the state's diverse people know their individual and collective power. While youth engagement in PB is key to any successful municipal process, I am specifically here to voice my support for a PB process that is centered on youth in order to allow for the clarification and prioritization of youth values. So until young people turn 18, they have no decision-making power in issues that affect them the most. From gun violence, the climate crisis, housing, transportation, the list goes on. Young people are taught about civics in classrooms, but aren't given the opportunity to actually engage in civics or the chance to vote on issues that directly impact them or others around them. A youth-centered participatory budgeting process strengthens high school civic programs by actually giving students the chance to take a meaningful step towards civic engagement while they are still in school. We believe that those that come from the community are also the ones that are most equipped to create the solutions, meaning students and young people know the impact of the issues they are facing the best and deserve to have an opportunity to change them as well. PB addresses the need for youth representation by giving them real decision-making power within their community. Boston, Long Beach, California and Seattle are prominent examples of youth municipal PB and has been implemented on hundreds of campuses. By giving youth the power to design projects, vote on where funding goes, and engage their peers and their broader community, we begin to not only listen, but actually actualize the priorities that young people care about, which are not often represented in the traditional budgeting process. There's a huge misconception that young people don't care, or if they are given decision-making power over, like, in a budget, they will be frivolous with it. And time and time again, this has been disproven. For example, in Boston. Just those two. Students voted for fans in their schools so they could have AC and adding solar panels as well. I work with many students who are under the age of 18 and they're extremely passionate, educated, and literally can't wait to vote. And PB is one way to actually actualize their civic engagement and engage their peers in a meaningful way. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you both for testifying. I'm intrigued by youth-led projects, especially around budgeting. I would love to have more information about the cities who have tried this. And I don't know if you have web links or if you have data that you can drop off at my office. I absolutely agree that if we get young people engaged early on, they become much more informed voters when they are of age to vote. So I'm definitely intrigued by the idea and look forward to hearing more. Sweet. Thank you so much. Thank you both. Commissioner Udaly. Hello. Thanks for being here. I just want to quickly say I'm also very interested in participatory budgeting. I think it would be an amazing thing for the Multnomah Youth Commission to tackle. However, we don't have any funding for that currently, nor do we have a pot of money to allocate. But it's been on our wish list, and we're going to be meeting, I believe, with members of... your group if not a yeah soon to talk about that. So thanks for being here. Thank you. I'd also like to hear more about what specific you're specifically you're proposing. I've been listening to your testimony previously and I'm intrigued by it. It's a great idea. I will say there are actually several on ramps at the City of Portland for youth to get engaged and they're very engaged particularly around school safety issues and certainly on climate action and Frankly, the cohort of youth today are far more engaged than my cohort ever was at their age. And they are in fact meaningfully shaping policy through the Youth Climate Council. Youth commission is, as you indicated, and independently through their own efforts. And if there's some way to engage youth in the upcoming budget process, I'd certainly be very interested in that. We have a number of forums that we do throughout the community. To be honest, they vary in terms of successfulness, in my opinion, in terms of really engaging the broader community. And I think it would be interesting to have a youth perspective included in those discussions. And so if there's some ideas. Oh, I like that. What if one of our budget forms we turned over to young people to actually help them engage in a kind of a dialogue about what the choices are? I think it would be cool. I think it would be great to do. Okay. Okay. You've got some interests here. You're heading here. Heading here first. Come talk to us. Let's see how we can make that work. Great. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. And the next one, let's see. I think we have 120, please. Or did I skip 119? Sorry, 119, please. 119, request of Cheryl Graves to address council regarding, yes, my life matters, 400-acre lifestyle farm. Cheryl Graves, I'm a resident of Portland. Good morning, Cheryl. First off, I have to commend you for your composure. So today I'm here again to talk about the Yes, My Life Matters, The Homeless Cure. And how I plan to socially and financially support the 400 acre lifestyle farm. Before I begin, I would like to call attention to the importance of the plan. This plan has the capability to house and rehabilitate over 7,000 homeless and underachievers in the first five years. The only worthy plan out there is the Harbor of Hope, and they can hold up to 100 per night and up to 300 in a year. Their 1,500 compared to this 7,000 plan is gigantic. And then if you add that we have 38,000 homeless on top of that, What we have in order right now, what we're working on right now, can't even house the increase, let alone the existing 38,000. So obviously, we're in big trouble over that. So the Harbor of Hope and you, the city, could adapt this plan, My Life Matters, so that we can assure to end homelessness and not just provide another shelter, but rehabilitation as well. I think that they would marry well together. As I've mentioned before, I'm looking for just the right groups or individuals to lead and support and end to Portland's homeless crisis. We plan to fund this project through, number one, business partnerships. We're not asking the city to fund it. We're just asking them to get on board and support it. Also non-profits, individuals like Portland Residents, Philanthropy and Foundations and Portland Homeless Challenge, which you'll see coming up in your mailings for several walks in the downtown, very friendly walks about just recognizing the need to really take this on head on and fix this issue. The business partners can open satellite stores within the village, offering on-the-job training in personal and trade skills. These newly gained trade skills will become a part of the villagers' employment resumes. The non-profits will move their location to the YES campus, continuing their efforts directly to the villagers. Our group, YES, will join the existing non-profits, thus gaining strength in numbers as well as passion. Individuals can join our mission by way of financial contribution, volunteer, and also employment positions. Philanthropists and foundations and people who are passionate about helping people in need fundraise and donate. Finally, Portland Homeless Challenge. The challenge group consists of everyone who works, lives, or plays in the downtown. These groups will be asked to contact and gather their brothers and sisters to join in the walk against homelessness. Now, how can the government help? I ask that you suspend your present efforts towards homelessness, saving millions, and shift those dollars to mental health and addiction. Those groups cannot help themselves. They need our help. By separating the mentally ill and addicted from the... Thank you. And Cheryl, I actually do read your testimony. Thank you. If you want to give it to Carl, I'll make sure I read it. Yes, I gave her a copy. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next up, please, is 120, please. Okay. Request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding trust and local government. He contacted us. He's not able to make it. All right. I'm sorry to hear that. Next up is 121, Mr. Herman. Request of Stan Herman to address council regarding the corner of Mississippi and interstate. Good morning, Stan. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Actually, I wasn't going to be up here anymore, but I offered out the last communication, but I went online and saw my name on there, so I thought I'd take the opportunity to say, Amanda, Fritz, Hershey, I want to thank you for meeting with me. I followed up on some of your advice, and we're going in the right direction there. Excellent. Glad to hear that. So what I'm passing you out right now, this is a quick note. I've kind of showed you this before. Interstate and Albany, a lot that I have. There was an old hotel located there years ago. I just want to share with you the site, with you again, for any housing needs, like short-term housing for camps like the Hazelnut Camp or future long-term affordable housing units. My shared recovery housing business works. We are housing about 27 people, and it's an amazing program. So I just wanted to pass that information on to you. If you want to forward it to any of the city planners to review it and want to talk to me about maybe something for the future, pass that on. And I'd appreciate it. Excellent. And thank you for your help. Thanks, Dan. Appreciate it. You know, I have to say, what a difference just sitting down and having a conversation can make, huh? And you're saving your voice today, so you don't have to actually yell at us. It was funny seeing that picture of the wall. Yes, it was, right? Have a great day. Thanks for being here. Thanks, Stan. Carla, have any items been pulled off consent? We've had no requests. Please call the roll. Fritz Hardesty. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wingler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item 122, please. accept stipends tax task force report. Commissioner Udaele. Thank you, Mayor. This morning we're going to hear a report on how city bureaus resource the Portlanders who volunteer their time and expertise to our many advisory bodies. This summer, council directed the Office of Community and Civic Life, Office of Equity and Human Rights, Bureau of Human Resources, and the city's attorney's office to analyze the city's current policies and best practices for providing volunteer stipends. As many of you know, improving and diversifying the ways which Portlanders engage with the city and inform our decision making is a topic of critical importance to me. There is a cost to civic engagement for community members. They give up time and money in the form of commute costs, parking, child care expenses, and the value of their expertise. To help the city provide the best and most equitable outcomes for residents. The resources it takes to participate mean that for some critical communities, the cost of participation is too high. That means that as a city, we are not doing all we can to hear from the full diversity of our community. And why that matters is that when we don't understand the unique needs and challenges in our community, we don't do a very good job addressing them. A stipends policy will not solve for all the barriers to serving on an advisory body, but it can reduce the burden and, in turn, expand the number of people and perspectives informing our bureaus. But first, we need an understanding of what the Bureau's current practices are and the relevant legal statutes. This is the next important step to diversifying the perspectives and expertise that advise city bureaus, and it's long overdue. And here... Okay, I don't have the run of show, but here we have the Director of OEHR and Ashley Jaden from Civic Life. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Ashley Jaden. I oversee the Advisory Bodies Program. I'm going to let my colleagues introduce themselves as they speak. Our four bureaus were convened by a budget note tasking us with the topic of stipends. Today, we'll present emerging policy options, recommendations, and requests to return to you in May. The city of Portland has more than 100 boards and commissions. I've asked around a bit and by comparison, most cities have between 20 and 30. I take this to mean we have an engaged city. If there's a topic, we have a committee for it. I took on this position because council wanted to know who made up these boards, who was missing, and why. At Civic Life, we see people in the city inherently want to volunteer. On advisory boards, they do multiple hour meetings in the evening. They take on homework, reading reports and data, and represent their neighbors to influence policy and fight for those who aren't at the table. Because of the Advisory Bodies Program, we instituted a process that members announce when they financially gain from a decision. But what about the people who are there because the decisions have historically harmed them and their communities? Or who are there to reverse the impact that continue? I recently met two young women who aged out of a foster care system, Sage and Mary. Council, we are looking how we can make sure Sage, who juggled after school sports, clubs, friends, can give her valuable perspective on the city services she uses every day. Sage and Macy run the Oregon Foster Youth Connection, a conference to develop foster youth leaders and empower them in civic engagement. I got to watch Macy in action on a state committee she serves. She travels to government offices and sits among agency experts, people with degrees and doctorates, and she discusses policy. As the committee analyzed data and numbers, Macy, the only young person on the committee, raised her voice to clarify the data. She shared her real-world experience in foster care and how the accounting looks different in the field. Macy receives a nominal stipend to reduce barriers and attend that committee. And I'm thinking there's something to emulate to attract her to ours. Macy and Sage struggle school, work, internships while giving their free time to affect policy. They also train and mobilize other youth in foster care to do the same. We want Macy and Sage on our boards. We want the graduates of Oregon Foster Youth Connection on our advisory bodies. And if a nominal stipend will ease some of their burdens, then let's take that step. Our presentation will cover how an equitable approach leads to meaningful engagement, will cover legally informed practices, and will present bold recommendations. And I'll hand it off to Dr. Smith. Thank you. All right, good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor, commissioners, Markeisha Smith, Dr. Markeisha Smith, Director for our Office of Equity and Human Rights. So now that many government structures understand the value of community engagement, and they welcome robust feedback from historically oppressed communities, there's an increased need to have these voices be an important part of our decision-making processes. And while government values these voices, we have not always thought carefully about the barriers that impede participation. Things such as transportation, family responsibilities, hectic work schedules, and I would say even more critically, the emotional impacts of sharing trauma that many communities have faced because of systemic oppression and government structures. So while we want to ensure that the voices of historically and currently oppressed community members are driving our policy practice and procedure, we have to make sure that we remove barriers to their participation. Ultimately, we have to invest time and resources into equity, and the work on stipends is just one slice of that pie. So thinking about our community members who we are saying have been overtapped, something to sort of think about. We acknowledge that in the past and often present, the practice of including community voices manifest as sort of a checkbox activity or exercise. We reach out to the same individuals who willingly come to share their experiences and perspectives. as a representative of their community, while at the same time failing to recognize a tremendous amount of time, resources, and energy that these individuals give. This giving is most times offered without any expectation of reward or gift, and the giving is simply about a passion and commitment to improving conditions in their communities. It becomes our responsibility to recognize these sacrifices and respond accordingly. The stipend work provides us with this opportunity. And finally, we also want to acknowledge that bureaus funding revenue resources are very different. As a leader for a small office with a large responsibility, I understand the strain on resources that conversations such as a stipend policy can create. But it's imperative that we consider equity and resources and ask the question, in what ways can we support bureaus and offices with not the same resources, because that would be equality, but rather how can we support bureaus and offices with the resources that they need in order to successfully implement this policy? And that is what we mean when we think about equity in resources across bureaus and offices. So with that, I will pass it to our legal team. Lori and Tony and thank you. Thank you appreciate it. Thanks for the presentation. Commissioner Hersey. Commissioner, I do dearly expect we're going to be able to ask questions from staff after all the presentations are done. Yeah. So no running away. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Lori Kraut from the City Attorney's Office. This is Tony Garcia and Lin Wu, both attorneys from the City Attorney's Office. We're here to discuss the legal implications in City Council adopting a stipend policy for members of advisory bodies and commissions. We're not here to weigh in on the policy choices. Thank you. So there are primarily two statutes that impact the analysis of providing stipends to volunteers. The first is the Fair Labor Standards Act. We commonly use the acronym FLSA. And the second is the Volunteer Protection Act. So I'm going to talk to you about the FLSA, and Tony's going to talk to you about the Volunteer Protection Act. Okay. So offering stipends to volunteers can get tricky under the FLSA because the city may inadvertently convert volunteers into employees. So first slide, please. So a volunteer must meet all of the bullet points on the slide. So their service... Sorry, excuse me. So their service has to benefit a nonprofit or a government agency. The volunteers cannot have been coerced into providing those services. The services are typically of what is generally considered to be volunteer work. Volunteers do not receive or expect to receive compensation. their service is less than full-time and volunteers are not replacing employees. The focus of my presentation is really going to be on this volunteers cannot receive compensation or expect to receive it. So the next slide please. This is the definition under the regulations to the FLSA. And again, it reiterates that the service must be for civic charitable or humanitarian reasons without promise expectation or receipt of compensation for services rendered. Next slide please. So under the FLSA, the city may provide the following to volunteers. We can reimburse actual expenses. So if someone took an Uber to get to the meeting, we could reimburse that. Reasonable benefits might be providing food, providing child care, providing a bus voucher, something of that sort. And the language of the statute says, and a nominal fee. That's what we're referring to as stipend. But it has to be nominal. So if you go to the next slide, please. Thank you, Mayor. Is there a definition of nominal? There is not. But there is a safe harbor, so I'm going to get to that. All right. So what constitutes a nominal stipend? So number one, it cannot be a substitute for compensation. Number two, it cannot be tied to productivity benefits. And number three, it complies with what the Department of Labor calls the 20% rule. So if the stipend is at or below 20% of the prevailing wage for that job, the stipend will automatically be considered, will not be considered compensation, and the volunteer will retain that status. Tony? Yes. Good morning. Again, I'm Tony Garcia from the City Attorney's Office, and I'm going to talk to you about the Volunteer Protection Act and the Organ Tort Claims Act. Those are referred to with acronyms as well, the VPA and the OTCA. So under the Volunteer Protection Act, that is a federal liability protection for volunteers that would cover board members and volunteers that serve the city. You'll find more in-depth information on pages 6 and 7 of your report. And the Volunteer Protection Act is important because it is broader and would provide greater coverage than the Oregon Tort Claims Act. So if we look at the Volunteer Protection Act, there is a limit of $500 that a volunteer can receive in order to maintain their status under the VPA. And that $500 is not only monetary compensation, but also going to include any benefits they receive. So that will be parking, transportation, child care, food, etc., Under the Oregon tort claims that if we were to go above the $500 in benefits, volunteers would be left with having to obtain coverage per liability protection under the OTCA. And under that, a court would apply a test to determine whether the volunteer was acting as an agent for the city. So again, the VPA is going to provide greater protection because they're a volunteer, and so they maintain that status as long as they stay under the $500. In terms of legal risk, not paying volunteer stipends has the least amount of risk. But if city council chooses to pay nominal stipends, there appears to be a legal path forward, although the pathway becomes more complicated and does involve risk. We can look to the FLSA, the VPA, and the OTCA as guideposts for use in making decisions if council chooses to move forward with providing stipends. I have a question. Commissioner Udaly. So it's my understanding that that $500 limit from the Volunteer Protection Act would include everything, food, transportation, child care, and stipend. Is that correct? That's correct. However, under reimbursement of expenses, it says in addition to nominal stipends, the city may reimburse volunteers. So that reimbursement can't be in addition to $500. It has to fall under that $500 cap. So that's because there are two different issues at play. So the reimbursements is under the test and the look under the FLSA and the VPA is different. But everything has to fall under the $500 cap is what I'm trying to... If we want to stay with the VPA. Yeah, I think we do. And then the 20% rule was a new one to me, and that is interesting. Little hard to quantify what the pay would be since these are not jobs. Okay. but it seems that we could go with at least the minimum pay of $15 an hour and 20% of that. We don't have any jobs that we can compare these volunteer roles to to set a wage. I think we might have to look at this a little bit more in terms of... trying to work with BHR to figure out, is there a job classification that really might fit within this, the scope of the work and then figure out what is that wage and figure out 20% of that. Okay. But I would assume 15% would cause no trouble at all.
 $15. Excuse me. $15, yeah. 20% of 15. So that would be a $3 an hour stipend. Yeah. I'm saying I think there may be a path where we could figure out what would be an appropriate job. If there is no job in the city that kind of fits what these members are doing, we are then allowed under the 20% rule to look at the market and still do 20% of that wage. Okay. Great. Thank you. We have some more presenters from our group. Very good. So you're noticing by now that we're outnumbered by the lawyers. They got their own panel. I once wanted to go to law school, but then I thought after this stipends task force, I might as well jump straight to the bar. So our initial recommendations, developing a process. I recently... Okay, thank you. I recently met with Peggy Morales of Metro, and she did a happy dance because she's been spending the greater part of three years in the majority of her role trying to roll out their stipends policy, which is still evolving. And I understand they're still working on a pilot project as well. She commended us for starting with our legal counsel because they were important for us to understand what our restrictions were and also to prevent us from going down a path with community and making promises that we cannot fulfill. So our recommendation is that from here forward, we would develop the process based on the next one is asking you to base the stipend on the information that you've received. You've learned that we can go above what they can be protected under liability for, but that comes with some risk. So we ask that you set the basis for the stipend as we proceed forward in looking at this process. Finally, you've gotten some information about what would be included in that stipend. So our recommendation is that we track and report what benefits are being received. We know we have members that serve on multiple committees, And so reasonably so, if they're being offered or requesting a stipend on more than one committee, it's our responsibility to keep track of that. And if they go above a certain limit, to do accurate reporting of that. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I have a question. So not everybody who serves on the 100-plus boards and commissions needs a stipend. And so I would not want to set up a process where we were just automatically paying people for the privilege of volunteering with us. What are your recommendations as it relates to, because what I think you're trying to do is reach untraditional participants and support their ability to actually bring their full selves to a volunteer opportunity. I guess I should have asked the lawyers this, but what is your plan around offering it in a way that we're making sure that, A, we're not actually making it uncomfortable for people to ask for it, but we are making it clear that people who don't need it should... thank us but say no thank you so that we have those funds for people who need it. Is there going to be a process as we roll this out that we're really mindful of how this is playing out? Thank you for your question. I'm going to pass it off to Director Sukri, who has that in our next portion of our initial recommendations. If we advance the slide, you'll see that eligibility and priorities is a question that we've explored and also asked of council. Why don't we do this? Why don't you guys finish your – because I have a lot of the same questions Commissioner Hardesty is raising, but rather than interrupt the flow, why don't you finish your presentation, and we'll write our questions down, and then we'll have you come back up. We're four-fifths of the way there. Perfect. Okay, wonderful. So good morning again. My name is Sukari. I serve as director for the Office of Community and Civic Life. I'm going to talk about three additional recommendations, a one-year pilot, eligibility and priorities, and also a stipend fund, as Dr. Smith was referring to, to get more equity between bureaus. The one-year pilot... We know that the need is clear, it's long overdue, and we have a yes we can orientation to this, and there are pathways to build. And we feel in order to equip ourselves for success, let's take this in a stage approach where we actually set the foundations and actually can proceed with confidence and with communities and with bureaus. So in the one-year pilot, thank you for the... feedback during our conversations with council, we like to set up the process, develop shared tools and tracking and we absolutely will identify issues and implementation that are going to be different than what we have projected in our planning today. And so um That includes setting the basis of the fund amount, gathering requests for stipends, tracking all bureaus and developing the tools and mechanisms to do that, creating and testing educational guidelines. And volunteer... Advisory board members should be informed. They need actually information to participate or decline or otherwise. And so we feel a one-year pilot will help us establish those important things. Secondarily, eligibility priorities. Here we are going to share with you some of the eligibility priorities that we set forth as initial recommendations. But the most important part of this presentation, presentation is that we have to keep in mind, as we said, eligibility priorities so that they do not indiscriminately, I mean, inadvertently discriminate, especially to protect the status. And so later on when we ask you the question specifically, counsel's thoughts on eligibility priorities, We're going to do that with the caveat that all of them need to be reviewed by legal counsel. So our baseline recommendation is that any volunteer advisory board member who is not compensated by another body is eligible. That's a baseline recommendation. but that there are also priorities. So limited resources can help set priorities. Some bureaus may not have, even if they have revenue, they may not have sources of funding that allow them to use it for this purpose. And so there might be, we're also recommending that Council may set additional eligibility and priorities and that bureaus can further set them unique to their situation. They could include for example people who do not have bus passes from work or school, people who have experienced homelessness or houselessness and people who do not have flexible work schedules. Those are considerations that actually would not discriminate against any protected class. So there are ways to set those priorities as Commissioner Hardesty has indicated, and we'd like to hear how you would like to set them. And then Council could also set priorities for all advisory bodies that supersede Bureau considerations. For example, you could set priorities for only advisory bodies that report to Council, or advisory bodies, specific areas of work like houselessness. especially in the initial year. And then lastly I'm going to speak to the stipend fund. So as we mentioned before, even if you have revenue, it might not be, this might not be an eligible use for that revenue. And in many cases people will not have resources in their budget to provide the stipend in addition to the attendance supports they might already provide for volunteers. General fund bureaus and offices have generally one to four advisory bodies and typically the staff who work on them have several roles. And then, let me see, also we feel like a fund that is a citywide fund for bureaus to access also helps to curtail the inaccurate impression that some advisory body's work are more important than others. And then I'm going to turn it over to my colleague, Tom, to talk about budget considerations. Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Tom Schneider. I'm with the Bureau of Human Resources. The purpose of this particular section is just to give a high-level view of what the potential budget impact is of a citywide stipend program. And ultimately, what that looks like will be your discretion to help guide and determine what level we're proceeding with. So in terms of the overall, in terms of overall budget considerations, we wanted to provide some context there. Based upon the information we currently have, there's 4,000 advisory body positions citywide. So it's quite a large number. individuals actively participating in advisor bodies. As we discussed earlier, the total value of the stipend includes all reimbursements to an individual, such as the nominal stipend, food and transportation, and that's where we would recommend being included in that total dollar amount. What's important to note is that some bureaus already have budgeted for and provided food to some advisory boards So there's existing money that's currently being spent on this activity. In terms of legal constraints, SOC has identified or had mentioned the restrictions on use of a specific, a bureau-specific funds in support of stipends. There may be sources of revenue such as grants, for a particular program that has language associated with it that prohibit the use of those funds for stipends. So that's something that we would have to work through and in fact a citywide stipend fund may have the opportunity to assist in providing stipends to areas that may not otherwise be able to afford that. We're in the process through the Office of Equity and Community Life – sorry, Office of Community and Civic Life of trying to gather more information about advisory bodies and some of the characteristics around the stipends currently being offered. So there should be more information forthcoming that can help formulate some of the thinking around this overall – what the stipend framework looks like. Moving on to components of a stipend budget, there's essentially two main components which we've talked about. Each of the members of this work has talked to. One is the actual stipend fund. What's important to note, and we're certainly not necessarily advocating this, but just so you know for context, If we have $500 maximum stipend to the citywide advisory members, the total cost of that would be $2 million per year. And that's just the total universe of the advisory board members. And certainly it's at council's discretion to set that at some point below that, as well as look at other ways of targeting those areas that with higher need in terms of providing some of the goals we're looking for through a stipend program. What's also important to note is that a portion of the city's total stipend costs are related to non-general fund bureaus. Although we don't have the exact breakdown and we're in the process of gathering more information around that, Right now, 49% of regular city employees are currently working for general fund bureaus. So that gives you some estimate of what the cost would be in relation to the general fund. Resources, the second component of a stipend budget is resources for operational support. Ashley had talked a little bit about monitoring and tracking and monitoring Basically, what we would be looking for is dedicated staff to administer a program, some resources to engage in stakeholder feedback through focused group facilitated groups, time and materials for initial and ongoing training of city staff as well as the volunteers. software to manage a stipend program and just related office equipment costs and other overhead related to administering the program. Commissioner Hardesty. I'm sorry. I had a question but I'll wait. I'm sorry. The Mayor did ask us to wait so please. That is really the prepared remarks that I have for these two slides. And then finally, last slide. Just last slide. Finally, the questions we have for council are on this last slide around stipends. Should we stipend limit priorities and the citywide fund? And I wanted to mention where we are in the process. Today we're asking for any and all your considerations for us to review further and to add or eliminate options that we need to bring back to you. We're proposing to do that in May after then taking this framework and the same set of questions to bureaus, advisory committees and communities. We have not had in the six months that the A budget note was delivered to us and not had the opportunity to do that, and we feel that's critical. And so today we're not asking you for a decision. We're asking you for your priorities, considerations, et cetera. They will need to be further reviewed legally, and the financial considerations are all weighing on us, and so we are not actually making a budget request for you today. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you all for the presentation. So my first thought is whether or not the 100 plus advisory committees are effective, if we're getting the outcomes that we want from them, and if we're not, why would we fund committees that aren't actually giving us the outcome that we want? I can think of committees that on paper they still exist, but they've been around for 10 and 15 years and nothing happens. Those kind of oversight boards, I would have no interest in funding in action. I think the question becomes, how do we as the electeds figure out how we get value for the investment that we're making? And I'm concerned that if most municipalities have 20 some and we have 100, do we have too many advisory boards that really are just advisory boards in name and really aren't adding value to the city's operation? Mm-hmm. you know that was not your task that was not what the budget note said but I can't help but ask that question when I realize the magnitude of folks who at least on paper are providing input to the city so I guess my question would be what before I could decide like even actually start thinking about what does this look like, I'd want to know that we are actually investing in committees that are really giving the city information that we need, and I would like to disband the ones that have been around forever and no longer serve a purpose. Commissioner Fritz has a question. Thank you, Mayor. Can you hear me okay? Yes. Thank you very much to Commissioner Udaily and Director Ree and Ashley Jayden for your work on this important discussion. and thanks especially to Tony Garcia, Lin Vu, and Laurie Kraut in the city attorney's office. It's definitely something that we want to be very careful about, continuing to protect our volunteers from lawsuits. I am very concerned. We don't have a million dollar, well, we don't have much money spare at all in the next, I'm very concerned that we may be setting up an expectation of being able to move forward with this. We all know we have a very constrained budget. Second of all, boards and commissions don't routinely provide even basic, like transportation assistance, care, et cetera. And I think we should have a discussion about is that more important, equally as important for providing opportunities for people, and there's a stipend which is going to have to be fairly nominal. I was concerned about the statement that 49% of the employees work for General Fund, implying that perhaps 49% of the volunteers are in General Fund. I think it's much higher than that. We don't have many boards and commissions in the utilities or in the Office of Management and Finance, the auditor's office, the ones that are overhead funded or have other sources of funding. The bottom line is I appreciate all the work that's been done, and I'm wondering is it wise to continue moving forward on this? Will we have the budget discussion? I don't know if that's a question you want directly asked, but actually this is incredibly valuable feedback because we do not have that inventory. We have an approximate inventory of even the existence of advisory bodies, and that's been a challenge because we cannot compel. It's a voluntary... reporting at this time, so we do not have that information. I have a little bit of deja vu from yesterday's 311 session, is that we actually don't have the data that we need, and we don't have that culture throughout the city of accountability, reporting, and tracking, and that also applies here. And that said, that work that Commissioner Fritz has asked for, can we actually attempt to do an inventory of the attentive supports and the existing investments we're already making and whether that's a citywide practice. I think that is good work that can come next and I have noted that. And also, Commissioner Hardesty, when you said, is effectiveness a way to set priorities? And then that's another body of work until we can define and make judgments around effectiveness, but that also is a priority setting exercise that we could actually undertake in the next phase. And I want to be clear. I mean, what I mean is is the committee fulfilling its charge? We have some committees that I know that have been on the books for 10 or 15 years and they aren't doing anything. It would be really helpful for us to have some kind of, I don't know, is there a place to go and look at where all our boards and commissions are? Is there a one-stop place to do that? Yes, on the boards and committee website we can send a link to it. There's a list of boards that we know about. And as far as whether they're fulfilling their charge, my program was established in 2017 to start asking boards to state what their charge is and what their scope is. And one question that we have remaining is whether there is mutuality in us wanting to continue to receive that advice and feedback. For many of the staff who are working with these boards and commissions, the answer is yes. We want to continue receiving that feedback. The question we would have for council is, who's the ultimate authority to decide whether this is useful feedback and we're getting what we need? Right. You know, I just want to say, I want to be clear, I absolutely support removing barriers for folks to be able to fully participate in our boards and commissions. And what we know is that if we don't provide food and child care and transportation assistance, that we cannot get low-income people to come and fully participate. If you're worried about what's happening with your child, if you're worried about where you're going to get, dinner, you cannot fully participate in a meeting, right? And so I have been a strong champion forever that we have to find some way to help people when we keep asking them over and over and over again to provide assistance, right? I wish I had a great answer for you right now to say if you do this, this, this, and this, we'll figure it out. I think we have to keep talking about what the values are that are leading this conversation, right? What the limits are based on what our resources are and the processes that we have in place. And then three, how do we start off prioritizing those who are in the most need? Right. For me, those are like the three top ones. But I'm absolutely committed. I think this is the right thing to do, especially because we go out over and over and over again trying to recruit the same people. So I'm on board. I just have to figure out how we do this in a way that. doesn't break the bank and actually helps us help people be able to fully participate. Commissioner Daly. Thank you. And I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Excellent work. Really appreciate the detailed work. Commissioner Daly. So Commissioner Hardesty brings up a good point. We do need to determine. the universe of these boards and commissions and whether or not their work is still vital. Those are two separate processes. For the sake of this conversation, I think we have to assume the answer is yes. But we don't have to finalize this decision and begin a program until we have completed that other process of determining what bodies we want to preserve. So for the sake of this conversation, I'm going to assume that everyone's contribution is important and wanted. And that we want to honor the time and effort people put into volunteering for the city. I think question, number one question for me is I would need a accounting of the existing budgets in these individual bureaus for this kind of support. Because we don't have to assume we have to find brand new additional money. There's already resources being allocated to this. Where is it? How much is it? Two, I think there's some really obvious criteria for dramatically reducing who would qualify for a stipend. Number one, that would obviously be anyone who's being paid to serve on a committee. We have many professionals who serve on committees. It's part of their job. They don't need a stipend. We have committees that are made up of highly paid professionals. They don't need stipends. Stipends are about reducing barriers. Yes. to individuals who represent underserved communities. A minimum wage. Please do not shout. Whether that's- Not interrupt. Black, indigenous or other people of color. No, state federal. Excuse me, please do not interrupt. You heard the rules and you know the rules. Please do not interrupt. A violation of state federal law. Sorry, Commissioner, go ahead. Ridiculous, you don't even keep records. Unbelievable. Where's that money been going? Who's it been going to? You know, everybody listens to you when you testify. You could at least extend the same courtesy to others. Sorry, Commissioner Eubaley, go ahead. I'm just going to wait for the disruption to subside. I think it has. I think there's some other obvious criteria that we could just ask people to attest to. I don't want these supports to be difficult to access. I don't want people to be made to feel uncomfortable or guilty for needing them. But I think there's some obvious criteria. Are you housing cost burdened? Do you live in regulated affordable housing? Do you qualify for food stamps? Are you homeless? Yes. are just a few off the top of my head that I think would be very reasonable criteria for receiving stipends. And then, now I've lost track of those five questions that you wanted us, okay. So you wanted feedback from council. Yes, I think that we should offer a nominal stipend with stipends. constraints following this process we're talking about to determine what boards, commissions, and committees we want to preserve. Yes, I think that we should limit the stipend to $500 a year because it becomes incredibly complicated and puts volunteers at risk if we go above that. We should have eligibility framework based on income and need. And the citywide fund question, I think we're probably going to need more time and information. But the first step towards that would be how much are we already allocating to these funds? Okay, I have some feedback. First of all, I think conceptually and from a values-based perspective, this is good. The question I think you are trying to answer is how do we get people who have barriers to participation to participate? So we're all in philosophical agreement. Here's where I start to diverge from what I'm hearing today. I don't know yet that offering a stipend is the answer to the problem, and I'm not sure we've asked the question yet. Have we actually gone out into the community and spoken to people who do not participate but who would like to participate and asked them what do they need? in order to have the barriers reduced. I'm persuaded by what Commissioner Hardesty said. What I hear from people is I do it, except I have a small child. You don't provide child care. I can't afford child care. If you were in a place where child care was provided, then I could. And we do that for our budget work, and we do that for some other meetings that we've had where we provide. When we did our public safety meeting the other day, we had a child care meeting. professional there to help take and so people who had kids could come. For others, they're going to say it's transportation related to that. If you hold the meeting at City Hall and I live on 162nd and you want me at City Hall at 5 p.m., so maybe it's about where we hold our meetings and how frequently we get out of the building and go to the community where people actually are. I'd also want to interview the people or at least poll the people who currently serve on our boards and commissions. What do they think? What do they need? What's successful and what isn't successful? When we get to the one-year pilot, the question I have is how do you define success? Do we know the answer to that? What's the metric by which we measure success at the end of the pilot? Depending on some of the feedback we're receiving today, that's how we would then be able to address that. But yes, that is not something we can answer for you until we have some of these questions resolved. My gut reaction is the metric would have to somehow encompass people, the number of people or the percentage of people who are participating who would not have participated but for whatever the solution is we're offering. And to me, the idea of a stipend just feels like a blunt instrument. I disagree that you could means test this. If you're trying to reach people who may, I'll give you just sort of an obvious example. If you are here as a first-generation immigrant, the idea of turning over your income and your home address and other personal information might actually dissuade you. from participating in a public process. So I think philosophically we're all on the right track. I just don't, I'm not persuaded yet that a stipend is the right solution for this. And number two, I agree with Commissioner Hardesty. I'm still not convinced that we have it right when it comes to community engagement. We have a lot of boards and commissions. We hear from some. Many of them are extremely effective and people dedicate time, talent, energy, to those commissions. Other commissions, um, we don't really hear from and we don't really have clear understanding and in some cases they're advising our bureau directors and bureau leadership and so we're sort of one off from that but, um, um, Before we jump to the answer of a stipend will fix our problem, I think we need to clearly define the problem. I think we need to talk to the community. I think we need to talk to people on the boards and commissions and come back with a more refined understanding of what the problem is we're trying to solve and then put some metrics out here that would help us define what success looks like. And I'm not there yet. So what I'd like to encourage, I don't want to stop your work. I think you're on the right path. I would encourage us at a later date to have a work session, take this information that we're all throwing in the middle of the table here and then go off and come back with a work session with maybe a more refined set of next steps. And last but not least, I just have to put it on the record. In my notes here, it looks like the cost is somewhere between $1 and $2 million per year. I just want to reiterate what Commissioner Fritz said, which is for the next year's operating budget, we only have $100,000 in additional ongoing funding. So right off the bat, we would be making a promise that we cannot fulfill today. and I don't want to set up that false expectation in the minds of anybody And so we might have to be smarter about this in terms of how we go about it. Commissioner Daley. So what I heard you say is that we should provide on-site childcare for all our boards and committees. I didn't say that. We need an east side. I want to be very clear, I'm not saying that. I'm saying we should evaluate the boards. We have over 100 boards and commissions. And some of them maybe we do, some of them maybe we don't. And maybe alternatively it's just going out into the community. and having our meetings closer to where people live. We're trying to paint with a very broad brush, and I'm not convinced the problem is a broad brush problem. Maybe it's supporting community organizations that work with frontline communities. Right, and that actually brings me to one of the points I want to make. This is... Reducing barriers to participation by offering stipends for things like child care and transportation or providing food are best practices and they're proven methods of reducing barriers and supporting participation. That's not in question. I have done this kind of work for over a decade and it's overwhelming. really like the least that we can do and the most basic thing that we can do, but it's not the only thing that we're doing. Through Civic Life every day we work with the communities you're referring to to build capacity in in the communities for greater participation, engagement, and leadership. Sure, I'd love City Hall to have the East Side Satellite Office. or hold these meetings on the east side. That's achievable. When I suggested there be some criteria, I was very clear that I wanted that opting in to be extremely low barrier. No one's going to have to prove their income. We're going to assume the best of everyone who's already volunteering their time that they're going to be honest. We're not going to put them in any kind of uncomfortable or precarious position having to share personal information. And, you know, my measure of success is that people who are already volunteering and maybe struggling to show up or showing up more often, that our boards and commissions are more diverse than they currently are and that we are getting more input from the communities that we're trying to reach. And as far as the budget, like I said, there is already money allocated in many bureaus for this kind of work. So the first question to answer is how much is already there? How is it being spent? Can we use it more efficiently? Is there existing additional resources within bureaus? We're not coming and asking for an additional $1 million to $2 million of ongoing funds. That's not what's happening. Thank you. And Commissioner Fritz has a question. Then Commissioner Hardesty. Well, I have a comment. I agree with the Mayor that we should have a work session on this. I think it's. an interesting discussion and a very important one and there are just it's going to be hard for us to get to a direct to be able to give direction to staff in the meeting today and second of all I've always taken it as my responsibility as the commissioner in charge of every bureau that I've been in to help make sure that the boards and commissions become more representative of the community and also to change the ones that are not working as well And I actually know that there's one in the Water Bureau that hasn't met for years and years, and I will take responsibility for bringing that to council because, unfortunately, it's mentioned in the code. So we'll have to do a code change in order to get it out of the books. I do think that the Pacific Life staff are welcome to ask me, and I'm sure my colleagues on the council, about the different boards and commissions within our bureaus. Because I certainly know who serves on each of them and have worked to make sure that they are supported as possible. Commissioner Hurst. Yes. Thank you Commissioner Fritz and Mayor. I appreciate the comments that folks are making, but I want to be clear. I don't think that there's any confusion that we are overtapping people with limited resources. There's no wondering about whether or not when we ask low income people to volunteer their time, whether or not it costs them significantly more than it costs professional people. There's no question about that. The question is how do we do this in a way that is equitable and that prioritizes people who have the biggest need? and we may even add the people that we desperately need to hear fuck, right? I would love the lawyers to come back and ask me, one of all three, and to answer the question about whether or not we could set up criteria that prioritize people based on economic status and based on the needs of the work group, right? And so, you know, it's about whether or not And I don't want, as Commissioner Udaly said, to actually have people have to go through a means test. I mean, people are very straightforward when you are one-on-one recruiting them. They will tell you what their barriers are. And if we're not ready to respond to them, then we lose them. And so is there any feedback from our legal eagles to tell us whether or not – We could legally set up a process whereby we would have criteria which meant everybody would not be entitled to it. But could we write it narrow enough that the people that we were trying to engage would be the ones who would be the priority. And I just want to say before you answer Commissioner Hurst, he's a very good question. This is obviously a really important and interesting subject and we could talk about this for another three hours. We do not have the time today, so after this I will ask for I'm jumping the gun but I don't think we're going to have any problem with the report being accepted today and moving on to the next steps and continuing the conversation. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Lynn Vu. I'm a deputy city attorney. I appreciate the question, and it is a question that came up during our task force discussions. What I can say today is that we've discussed it, and I think we need to look at it very thoroughly, and we can get back to you with an answer. Thank you. Appreciate that. Thank you. I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, second from Commissioner Udalli. Please call the roll. Fritz? Thank you very much. That was a really interesting presentation and discussion. And again, thank you to Sukriti and Commissioner Udalli, Ashley Jaden in Civic Life for leading this. Thank you, Dr. Marquesha Smith in the Office of Equity and Human Rights, the legal counsel, Tony Garcia, Lynn Vu, and Laurie Kraut. as well as Tom Schneider for the budget guidance and Kathy Bless in the Bureau of Human Resources who is involved in the process. I think there are many many questions still to be discussed and I support the Mayor's recommendation for a work session rather than trying to do that on the fly today. Some of the things to talk about are should there be a flat rate or when suggested based on the frequency of meeting, by penned limit and how do we calculate the cost of the benefits like transportation and etc. When you've calculated that in does that make almost not worth doing and do we allow additional priorities and eligibility should there be a city-wide fund so that different bureaus are not at different levels of being able to do this. So those are just some of the things that I am concerned about and I look forward to the work session. Oh, by the way, I am leaving to come downtown. I am at this point signing off, and I will be in council chambers in half an hour. Thank you, Commissioner. Hardesty. I think this is great work. This is something that's new and dear to my heart. I have a value of making sure we support our volunteers, and I look forward to the work session and what comes next. I vote aye. Udali? Aye. Thank you for the report. I'm also very supportive of the idea of a work session. important questions have been raised today. I do want to assert that I think that our current approach, which is very piecemeal, inconsistent across bureaus, independent on the leadership and commissioners in charge, is not adequate. And so whatever we do, I hope moving forward we at least have a that is consistent, and I vote aye. Wheeler. This was a fantastic conversation today, and I actually am really looking forward to continuing it. I agree with something Commissioner Udaly just said that's really important, which is we really don't have a standardized platform for community engagement, and I think that's where some of the messiness is coming through. So I appreciate... your efforts, Commissioner Udaily, to try and rationalize and standardize this approach. I appreciate the work that our legal team is doing. Director Rhee, thank you for your continued efforts on this. Dr. Smith, as always, thank you for your fantastic leadership and contributions to this effort. I think I put all my questions on the table. I look forward to having those questions and concerns answered. I look forward to continuing this conversation. It's a good one, and it's an important one. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Next item is number 123. Oh, this one looks good. Look at this. Yes. I recognize the 2019 Fire Prevention Poster Contest winners. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. The goal of Portland Fire and Rescue's Prevention Division, I think there's some disagreement in the audience, but we'll see. Oh, what was that? There we go. Thanks. Sorry, Commissioner. No worry. Good morning, colleagues. The goal of Portland Fire and Rescue's prevention division is to save lives, property, and the environment by preventing fires before they start. What a cutie, huh? The prevention division works to reduce the frequency and severity of fires and other life-saving incidents through a multidisciplinary approach that includes education, engineering, and enforcement. The prevention public education team offers targeted community outreach programs that are developed and implemented through our local schools, community organizations, and events and in fire stations. To share some information about this year's fire prevention poster contest is Chief Sarah Boone. Welcome and your team. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning. Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you for this opportunity. My name is Sarah Boone, Chief Boone, Portland Fire and Rescue. And I want to acknowledge our Division Chief, Fire Marshal Anjanette Jackson, as well as our Public Education Supervisor and Manager, Kim Kosmos. Good morning. And Sparky. Hey, good to see you. This past October, during Fire Prevention Week, Portland area school children were invited to participate in the fire prevention poster contest. The contest helps spread the word on critical fire safety messages and encourages fire safety in the home, the school, and the community. The top three winners from each of the three age categories were selected by the Pub Ed team, as well as myself, for their creativity and fire prevention message. Portland Fire and Rescue wishes to recognize and congratulate the three grand prize winners. And we'll have each of them come up. The first winner, Nali Retano. Five years old. Five years old. That's a five-year-old. Nollie is kindergarten, five years old, and from Kairos School. Second is Chloe Shaw, a third-grade student from Kairos PDS. that's fantastic excellent and she's with Kairos PDX yes excellent and our third is Braden Williams eighth grade student at DaVinci Middle School yeah So I just want to thank the fire prevention public education team. It's a small group, but it's a mighty group. And they do very important work outreaching to the community, to the schools, to young kids. And when it comes to the fire safety message, a lot of these young kids are able to put it into art. And so this has just been a great experience. We appreciate you being here, Sparky, and the whole team. We'd love to have a picture with the award winners, if that's possible. In the families, yes. Come on back here, Sparky. It's behind the table. Do you want us to back? Yeah, everybody back. OK. Hi. Hey. Hey, Donna. Hi, Jessica. Hi, girl. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Hi. Hi. Congratulations. Congratulations. Hi. Hi. Hi. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Congratulations. Congratulations. Oh, your hands are full. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Want to stand next to Sparky? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Congratulations.
 Congratulations. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Great to see you guys. Thank you. Great job. Thank you, Commissioner. This is the fun part. Thank you. It's a pleasure. It's a pleasure. You're like a spark. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. Great work.
 Hi.
 Hi. Thank you, Commissioner. One minute. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So it's so funny, you know, I'm a guy that always tries to I'm a guy that always tries to I'm a guy that always tries to I'm a guy that always tries to I'm a guy that always tries to I'm a guy that always tries to Fritz is on the way here, so we can't take this up until she gets here. We'll take a break anyway, because I need to use the bathroom, to be honest with you. Probably shouldn't have said that like that. All right, Carla. Next item is item number 124. And if people don't mind, we're going to take like a three-minute break after 124. And I think Commissioner Fritz is on her way anyway, so we might have to. Item number 124, please. Appointment. Joy Mulumba to be available to serve on the Police Review Board for a term to expire February 10, 2023. This is an appointment by the auditor to and we have representatives from the auditor's team. Greetings. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning Mr. Mayor, members of council. My name is Ross Caldwell. I'm the Director of Independent Police Review. Irene Kona, the Community Outreach Coordinator for Independent Police Review. And we are here to forward the auditor's recommendation for a new volunteer to serve on the police review board. As you all know, the PRB serves as an advisory body to the police commissioner and the chief. They hear serious disciplinary cases involving police officers. They also review all officer-involved shootings and in-custody deaths. And they make policy and training recommendations. The auditor's office serves as the body that does the recruitment and the outreach in order to get these volunteers. We had 29 people. We had a very diverse pool this time. That's all due to the efforts of Ms. Konev here. And with that, I would conclude my remarks and forward our recommendation for Mr. Joy Malumba to join the volunteers of the PRB. Could you tell us a little bit about the nominee? Yeah, we've got his bio here, which I think should be in your materials. Okay. Let's see. I've read it, and it's a good point. I just want to make sure it's on the record. Yeah. Let's see. I believe that he – am I missing it? I think it's this. Okay.
 Okay.
 Oh, okay.
 Mr. Joy Malumba received his Master's of Arts degree in English from Portland State University. He has worked as a nurse assistant in different departments at OHSU and Providence Hospital for eight years. He currently serves the African immigrant and refugee families in Portland through a nonprofit and works at the library. When he's not reading, writing, or spending time with family, he can be found on the mats learning the gentle art of Brazilian jiu-jitsu. His words, not mine. Commissioner Hardesty. How many community members, non-SWAN members, currently serve on this committee? He will be the 15th PRB volunteer that we have. And have we done any revisions to the process? My understanding is that the last OIR group report had some very specific recommendations on how to strengthen the police review board. And I haven't seen any of those recommendations come in front of us again. I'm concerned that we're asking people to a board that really needs to be fundamentally changed. And so why would we be adding people before we actually made the systemic changes that have been recommended? My understanding is that no recommendations from the most recent OIR report last year have been taken into account or have been changed. Not since the last OIR report, I believe. Although I think previous ones have been. If it has not been presented to the council so that we know that those changes have been made, I'm just always concerned about if we put people into a dysfunctional process, they too become dysfunctional. And so that's my concern. Thank you. Nothing against the candidate. Very good. Any further discussion? Nothing from us. I'll entertain a motion. I move the appointment. I'll second the appointment. Report. Move the report. Please call the roll. Hardesty. So, you know, I don't know that I have enough information about the current work of the Police Review Board, but, Mayor, as a courtesy, I'm going to vote yes for this, but I would be very grateful if we, as a council, got an update about what changes have been made and whether or not those are changes that are helping civilians have a greater voice in the police review process. My understanding is that the way it has worked up until, I don't know, you said the changes have been made, up until the changes you say have been made, have been that those community voices have been very silenced in that process. And so I need to know that the community's role is actually really robust in this review process. And so I look forward to ongoing conversations about the changes that have been made and how community members are faring in that process. Thank you. Was that a yes? I agree with Commissioner Hardesty's comments. It has been a while since we've had a work session on PRB, IPR, and the overall oversight and accountability mechanisms. I think with more commissioners coming on board sometime after, I guess it would be August when we'd have a replacement session, Commissioner would be a really good time to reset that conversation. So I agree with Commissioner Hardesty's comments and I think the appointee is an excellent appointee and I want to thank you for ensuring that there is a large and diverse pool of applicants for this position. I know you had to work at that and I really respect the work you did to do it. I vote aye. The appointments approved, the reports accepted. Thank you. We will take a recess until Commissioner Fritz is able to be here. Please be quiet. We're back in session. Carla, the next item is item number 125, and this is a continued hearing. Item 125, appeal of the Portland Japanese Garden against the hearing officer's decision of approval with conditions limiting the garden's office use in the house at 369 South East. Southwest Kingston Avenue to four years LU19-192268CU. Colleagues do any members of the council have any new ex parte contacts or site visits to declare or information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose presumably since the last time you answered this question? No. I guess I need to wait for Commissioner Hardesty don't I to answer that question. She'll be here in a second. I think Ms. Chatz was on it. You could also move forward, and when she arrives, you could ask her to chime in. But that's at your discretion. Okay, good. Let's go ahead and do that. So no council members thus far have any new ex parte contacts or site visits to declare. Do any council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we begin the hearing? Before we begin, I need to announce that though I was not present for the January 30th hearing, I've reviewed the record and I'm prepared to participate in the appeal. At the hearing, the council heard from all interested parties and began their deliberations. Commissioner Fritz made a motion to tentatively uphold the appeal and extend the use for 10 years that was seconded by Commissioner Udaly. The council did not take a vote on the motion. We're now back to continue deliberations and vote on... on the motion before we resume i want to remind everyone that the record is closed and before we get to the question of whether there's further discussion about commissioner fritz's motion i will ask commissioner hardesty do you have any new ex parte contacts site visits or other issues that you need to declare uh mayor thanks for the question yes i was uh contacted by one of the uh The plaintiff in this case, I did not discuss it, but I did let them know that it was inappropriate for me to dialogue. And I'm not quite sure. But, yes, so that was my only communication, no site visit. Okay. And it's my understanding that was via e-mail and you did not respond. That is correct. Well, I responded and that I could not actually respond. Okay. Good customer service. It's always valued here. Does anyone in the chamber have any questions from Commissioner Hardesty based on what she has just disclosed? Seeing none. So we are back to deliberations. Why don't I jump in since everybody's heard what everybody else thinks, and I have a couple of questions for legal counsel. So I was persuaded by the... commentary around the conditions under which the original conditional use permit was extended. And my concern is that if we accept the 10-year extension, what we are de facto saying is we are permanently extending the conditional use permit. That sets a precedent. In this particular case, first of all, I want to just express that I hold the Japanese Guard in the highest of esteem. Their leadership Steve Bloom, I think, is one of the most effective executive director leaders in the city of Portland. And he has justifiably been in that role for some time because of his effectiveness and success. And I want to thank all the people who volunteer on the Japanese Garden. It's always my go-to place when I have people visiting from out of town. But this is very narrowly not a discussion about whether we like the Japanese Garden or don't. This is about a land use case. It's about the facts that are on the record, and it's about the extension of a conditional use permit. And my concern is that by extending the conditional use permit for another 10 years, ignoring the rest of the conversation that took place previously around promises that were made or not made, the concern I have is this now sets a precedent for residential areas throughout the city and commercial uses in said residential areas. I was pleased to hear on the record and I believe it was Steve Janik representing the neighborhood, I could be mistaken, but I think it was Steve, who said that they did not want any extension of the conditional use permit, but they could live with the four years that was recommended by the hearings officer. and I saw that as a compromise position that would be useful. And therefore, my inclination would be, and by the way, Mr. Janik also indicated that if four years goes by and the Japanese Garden has not been able to resolve this issue, they would be willing to take up the question again in four years. So that struck me as a reasonable compromise position And it comported with our city staffers recommendation to city council. There's a problem with this, and this is now where I'm turning to legal counsel. Ordinarily we would have this discussion, we'd have the conversation, we'd cast our vote, and that would be that. My understanding is the charter does not actually account for the possibility of a tie vote, is that correct? It's city code section 3.02040I4, which requires that either to approve an appeal, uphold an appeal, or deny an appeal. It requires three affirmative votes of counsel. Okay. So you see Maggie with her hat on back there? That's how I feel right now. So- Looks like Commissioner Fritz is standing in your chair. Commissioner Fritz. I have a question. Please. Which approval criterion allows us to put a condition of approval for either four or ten years? Could I have staff come back up please? This was your recommendation to council the four years. Could you please do your level best to address the commissioner's question? Sure. It was actually the hearings officer's decision to limit it to four years. It wasn't actually the staff recommendation. What he based that on was Criterion C for livability and basically saying that office use is fundamentally different from residential use. And that regardless of how many conditions of approval could be placed on it to limit the impacts, the impacts were going to be different. The neighborhood was unique because it was next to the Japanese Garden and the Rose Garden and Washington Park. And that's, you'll find those findings in the findings for criterion C, livability. Okay, and goal 10, could you, because there was some discussion amongst council members about goal 10. And the question I had, is goal 10 speaking holistically about the city overall, or is it speaking about individual land use decisions? I believe it speaks holistically about the city overall. It's a requirement on cities to provide foreign plan for housing. Okay, thank you. And what was the staff recommendation? The staff recommendation to the hearings officer was to approve the conditional use review with conditions of approval, including a 10-year time limit. The hearings officer adopted the conditions of approval recommended by staff, but changed the condition of approval from 10 years to 4 years because he found the livability criteria in Criterion C would not be met for 10 years. I have a question about that, and then I'll get to Commissioner Fritz. I apologize. I'm just sort of on this train of thought, and it's interesting to me. So, Goal 10 does figure into our findings and the criteria that we use for these land use hearings. I could actually make the case that any individual action does not necessarily have a material impact on the overall city's goals around providing housing stock, couldn't I? I think you could. So, why is it in the code? It's actually not in the code. Where is it? It is because the city's comprehensive plan was appealed. And while that appeal has been pending, certain land use applications where the criteria were affected by the 2035 comprehensive plan that's been under appeal also must demonstrate compliance with the statewide planning goals until that comprehensive plan is acknowledged by the state. So couldn't I say then in any one of those 2035 issues, if it's not demonstrated that a particular designation has a material impact on the city's overall housing goals, that it is in fact... not something we need to concern ourselves with? I suppose you could. It's not something we have a lot of experience with. No, and it strikes me as a little bit counter to the common sense objectives. I mean, maybe it adheres to the letter, but I don't think necessarily the spirit of what we're trying to accomplish. But that's sort of an aside. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. The hearings office is found on page 29. The use of the Kingston House's office space will have or likely have influence or effect on the residential area and that the applicants requested tenure extension will result in significant adverse impacts and the effect But in the conclusion, it said that there should be, above that it says, the hearings officer finds that this residential area in this case is unique and that any additional or different noise, glare from lights, late night operations, odors, litter and privacy do adversely impact the livability of the residential area. The testimony of the nearest neighbor was in support of the application for ten years. And the record also shows on page 33 that the volume of traffic going past this residence is 2,563 on the highest day. So I just find it incredulous to think that having 12 employees who don't park on the street are adding significantly to 2,500 vehicles on this street. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you, Mayor. For me, the decision, as with you, has nothing to do with my love for the Japanese Garden. There was a 10-year period of time where the Japanese Garden had the opportunity to build office space. That was the agreement that they made. When I talked to the director of the Japanese garden, and he said, yes, we did our construction, but we didn't construct large enough for all our staff. To me, that is not a compelling reason for us to give them 10 more years to do the same thing. I thought the hearings officer was brilliant by saying, okay, we will give you a little more time for you to address the core issue, which is your new space does not hold all of your employees. The reason why we put conditional use requirements on some land use decisions is because we do not want to set a precedent that it just becomes the norm. It is not acceptable to me that this council would then say, yeah, but we like you, so let's just extend it for 10 more years. It is clear to me that there was, they could have If they had chose to, the Japanese garden, built enough space to accommodate their office needs. The fact that they chose not to and then expect that we would just say, okay, we'll wait another 10 years is to me not acceptable. I can love the Japanese Garden and be absolutely opposed to them having 10 more years to actually do what they should have done within the first 10 years of this process. And so that's where I stand. My position has not moved. And that's where I am. Thank you. Can I ask Commissioner E. Daly? Thank you. First of all, Commissioner Fritz, I still support your motion, but I don't recall supportive testimony from any neighbors. It's in the record. It's in the record. So we didn't hear it in the last. Yes, okay, thank you. Could I, sorry Commissioner, go ahead, sorry. As far as the Japanese Gardens opportunity to construct on site, like any other development they were constrained with how much they could build on that site and they chose to dedicate that limited space they had to space that the public can enjoy and space that generates revenue such as the gift shop and the cafe. So I'm not going to chide the Japanese Garden for not giving up those vital opportunities to build office space when they have a building adjacent to them that they're using. I heard no compelling evidence from the opponents that that use of that home as an office has any real impact on livability in the neighborhood. I just reject that. And I also reject the notion that we're setting a dangerous precedent by allowing conditional use on a one-single-family home in very unique circumstances. This has nothing to do with my personal feelings about the Japanese garden. I just... I feel that the arguments around livability and Title X are really grasping at straws. They're not meaningful to me whatsoever. We have an affordable housing crisis. We don't have a lack of housing units. We have thousands of vacant units. So to argue that we can't take... One house and let it be used for a non-residential purpose. One house that I don't know probably is worth $800,000 to a million dollars which is not going to provide anyone affordable housing is just not compelling to me. So I continue to support Commissioner Fritz's motion. Very good. Could I just ask a couple of more questions here? And you may or may not have this information. I believe I heard on the record, and I may have misunderstood this. I believe what I heard was the original conditional use that was extended. That either the hearings office or city staff at that time, and I'm not clear which, but indicated that the conditional use criteria would not be met, but for the fact that there was an agreed upon time limitation. Do you recall that discussion? And if so, can you elaborate on that? It was the hearings officer that made that comment in his decision from 2009. And I think what he said was that it, may not be met or was not necessarily met if not for the 10-year time limit which was proposed by the applicant at the time. So he wasn't asked to consider anything more than 10 years in that 2009 decision. But I do recall in his findings he said that, I think in the findings for Criterion A from 2009 decision, that the hearing or that the conditions of approval limiting the use to 10 years made it so he didn't have to address whether a permanent conditional use would meet the criteria, and a permanent conditional use, he found, would not necessarily meet them. Okay, so it wasn't as hard a line as it would not have met the conditional use criteria, but for the 10-year cutoff. I mean, if you'd like, I can pull it out and read it to you, because I don't want to mischaracterize it. Well, wasn't it because the neighborhood was threatening to appeal, and by having the 10 years, they agreed to it? I don't know what happened before they got to that point in 2009, but in the 2009 hearing, the Neighborhood Association actually supported the Japanese Gardens application. They had a separate agreement that they had entered into. Part of that was that the use would be limited to 10 years. I have a legal question. I hate to ask legal questions, but this is all legal. So I have raised the concern about precedent. Commissioner Udaly indicates that precedent. She does not see this as precedent because it's very narrowly focused on a particular land use decision. Could you give us some clarity on that? Can you put my mind at ease that this does not set precedent? I'm not sure if you're asking globally about conditional uses. I mean, we have many types. Yes, my concern. Our code provides for many types of conditional uses in many different zones. Okay. most conditional uses are very fact-specific. And the purpose of a conditional use is that you will allow something that would not be allowed outright... But what you're trying to do is address any of the impacts that that use would have on allowed uses in the neighborhood. Okay, so this is helpful. So is there some way to clearly state for the specifics of this findings, this set of findings, that this is a unique one-off circumstance and it is the council's stated intent that it not set a precedent in other areas of the city? Do you see what I'm getting at? I mean, typically, the findings are addressing particular criteria. And so the question would be, is there an interpretation that council is making of the criteria that you'd be concerned that that might apply in other circumstances? Yes. I will say that we do that regularly in your decisions when there are really fact-specific circumstances that lead you to interpret the code language in a particular way. And we can certainly circumscribe it. Right, because Commissioner Udaly also made a good point, which is, look, this is right next to one of the largest tourism destinations in our city, and in fact the entire state, and therefore there is already a, a significant amount of street-based activity and the like. I do not necessarily want to open this precedent in other parts of the city. So it sounds like what you were telling me is we are protected from that. Is that correct or no? I think that the decision can be written in such a way that, and if you're talking about temporal limitations, I mean, conditional uses don't the criteria don't specifically speak to temporal limitations. What do you mean? And the reason you would do that is because you think of there are particular impacts. And so you absolutely can write the findings in such a way that it is specific to a particular application. Right. That's what you're asking. How would you do that? Because what I don't want to do is have someone in Lentz sue me or the city council saying, wow, you know, you set a precedent over here in Lentz. you know, up by the park and the Japanese garden. And now we're going to use the precedent that you already used there to put commercial uses in residential areas in Lentz. I want to protect us from that, and I want to be unequivocal in that. And so the question is, how do we write this in a way that would not be precedent-setting? Because we could be sued, right, based on precedent. We could just be sued because people sue us, right? I mean successfully sued. I get sued five times a day. I just mean successfully sued. I mean, the nature of conditional use is very specific to each individual site. So this idea of precedent, I think, is unnecessarily... confusing the matter because there is a set of criteria that has to be met in order for the conditional use to be allowed. And those criteria and whether or not they're met are going to vary from site to site. And it's not like we don't ever want to allow another conditional use again. I mean, we get to weigh each one. Did you have something to add? So I guess I'm just concerned that the reason that we do a conditional use is because of a condition that exists. If the plaintiffs actually developed a good neighbor agreement If the plaintiff said, in this period of time, we would have resolved the issue that requires this conditional use permit, why would we then say, well, just because this is such a nice place to go to, that we're going to let them do this indefinitely, right? If we want people to respect the rules that the city puts down and says, this is the process, this is how you do it, It is inconceivable to me that we will continue to make exceptions for things that we like versus things that we don't like. So to me, I'm really trying to understand why... extending this for a ne- what will change in 10 years? Will they have built the office space? Will they no longer need the house? What do we think will be different in 10 years if you approve this? Commissioner Fritz had a question. I just have a comment. Could I just remind the council that the council approved a conditional use for the spa in Northeast in a residential zone to allow a commercial use in the residential zone. So that's clear evidence that we These are one-offs based on does it address the approval criteria? And Commissioner Daly and I are not talking about we like the Japanese garden. We're talking about what do the approval criteria say? And what are the impacts? And the impacts are minimal. And that is the essential criteria in my understanding of a conditional use. Hi, Douglas Hardy with the Bureau of Development Services. So I think the last set of comments address in part what I was intending to indicate, typically for conditional uses, there aren't time limits placed on them. So for example, most every, most every school in the city is a conditional use. They've been conditional uses for 80, 80 years, uh, hospitals, uh, universities, all of those are conditional use, um, uh, entities that don't have time limits on them. Um, So I think if you want to put a time limit on for this particular circumstance, again, it has to be related to the approval criteria. So there has to be something related to one of the approval criteria that there's some negative impact that effectively demands that we put a limit on the time limit. I think to your specific question, Mayor, about precedent setting and to reiterate to some degree what the city attorney had indicated is conditional uses, I think, as you indicated, are very site-specific practices. Just because we approve one in this neighborhood doesn't mean the exact same facility is going to be approved in another neighborhood. Because as we do the evaluation, we the city or the BDS does the evaluation, we're looking at the very site-specific impacts. What are the impacts on traffic? What are the impacts on parking, noise, odor, et cetera? Yeah. So it could be very different and in different circumstances. Let me ask you a question. Maybe you know this and maybe you don't because we're dealing with a little bit of history here as well, aren't we? So the original conditional use permit did have a timeline on it, which you're saying is an exception to the broader rule. It's unique. Why was it put on? I'm sorry. Why was there a time limit put on it? That's a good question. As Andy indicated, there was an agreement between the garden and the neighborhood as to the limit, the extent of that office use. I won't say, well I guess I will say in the hearings officers original approval in 2009, was it? I think similar to the current hearings officers decision and in fact it was the same hearings officer. It wasn't necessarily clear in the findings why there was the 10-year. And, in fact, as you indicated, there was reference in the hearings officer's report that potentially if there wasn't this 10-year time limit, it may not have been approvable. But there was really nothing in those findings that sort of said why, what is the importance of that. That's helpful. And one more question of legal counsel. And I'm sorry, I'm really working you over time today. What would be the consequence of us not reaching a consensus opinion? So. In other words, a 3-1 vote or a 4-0. There's no consequence to a 3-1 vote as long as you have three votes. No, no, I'm sorry. I didn't mean that. If we're tied, sorry. If you're tied, it means we get to keep deliberating until we reach a decision. We are obligated when there's an application. submitted, we're obligated to reach a decision. Okay. So I'll just put a marker out, pop-up, not necessarily related. I think we need to revisit the way the code is written, the way it's drafted. and maybe something like if there are only four commissioners, the majority wins because I honestly think it's. Well, the majority won't win. The majority won't win now. It's the tie. I don't think there's anything to do. It doesn't anticipate it. Can we get the auditor down here to place a vote? I'm just kidding. Just kidding. Well, the difference is this would have been wrapped up. Yeah. Previously and so I feel like my presence actually is not helpful. My presence at this point creates a tie. And we need to figure out how to move on from a tie situation. Yes. I have the hearings officer's findings from 2009 where he addresses your question. Would you like me to read those to you? I would. Yes. So that was the applicant's proposal at that time based on an agreement they had with the neighborhood association, I believe. It's only proposed 10 years. So it wasn't something imposed out of nothing from the hearings officer at the time. But what he said was, and this is in the findings for approval criterion A in 2009. The hearings officer throughout this decision considered the use of the House as administrative offices to be for a limited term. Under this approval criteria, the hearings officer measured the intensity and scale of the proposed use as those flowing from only a ten year term. The hearings officer notes that had this proposal not included a 10-year term, the hearings officer may have arrived at a conclusion that the overall residential appearance and function of the residential area would have been significantly lessened, and therefore, this approval criteria would not have been met. As such, with the representation by the applicant that the house and subject site would be used for administrative purposes for a period of ten years, the hearings officer finds that the overall residential appearance and function of the residential area will not be significantly lessened. The hearings officer finds with the ten year term, this approval criterion is met. I have a couple comments. Make sure you do. I would support getting rid of the time limit altogether. appreciate you sharing that with us, but as I said earlier, I heard no evidence that there was a truly negative impact to the livability of the neighborhood by the use of this residence for offices. And the reason that I am ardently pursuing a 10-year extension is there are two. One is that this is an expensive and time-consuming process for the garden to go through. And two, it's a time-consuming process for council. So I would just like everyone to consider that. We may have this come back four years from now and have yet another hearing on it. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you. Well, my expectation would be in four years they would have – had office space, that there would be no need to come back in four years because they would have actually identified or built office space that they would then move their staff into. I don't know why it would come back in four years. And again, I go back to what was the agreement made and I really appreciate you putting that on the record because I do remember reading through and realizing that there was a good neighbor agreement. You meet with your neighborhood association, you come to an agreement, then you go to a hearings officer and they say, okay, yes, you can do this under these stipulations. I mean, I expect people to actually follow the rules that they agree to. unless there's a compelling reason not to. And then when you tell me, when I ask you directly, the reason you didn't is because you just didn't build enough office space, I'm sorry, that does not pass the smell test for me. I think if you knew you had a tenure... time limit, then you plan accordingly. I mean, it's not like we said you got to figure it out in a year. So I don't want to be a part of actually just supporting stuff that actually is not what we agreed to. If you agree to this now, if there had been some financial reason, it would have been some. some major disaster and there was a reason why we could not perform as we said we would, then I would have been very happy to reconsider it. But that's not what the plaintiffs presented to us. And so that's where I am. Thank you. So without significant impacts on livability in the neighborhood, we're going to allow a small group of neighbors to adversely impact the garden and potentially everyone who enjoys and benefits from the garden. I just, without meaningful impacts to the neighborhood, I don't, it's still unclear why the hearings officer or what condition he was attaching that opinion to. and it sounds like they came to an agreement with the neighbors on the 10 years to appease the neighbors, but there is no, the garden made it clear that they don't have the resources to build offices in four years, so that's. Could I get a clarification? And I know this was raised during the hearing, so I know it's material to this conversation. The executive director was giving his testimony, and he was just about to answer the question I wanted to hear answered. And then I think his time ran out. And the question that I wanted answered was, of the individuals who are in the office today, immediately adjacent to the garden. How many of them as either a condition of their employment or as a requirement of the work they do need to be in immediate proximity to the park? I think that was in the record that the applicant had stated that all the people that work in the house go to the garden on a daily basis or on a frequent basis. As part of their employment. Right. What do they do? I don't know. I don't really know what they do, and I don't believe that was ever stated, and now the record is closed. Okay. But I understand that they did say, and that wasn't definitely in the record, that the people that work in the house... are people that they feel need to be close to the garden because they go there on a regular basis. And in all fairness to them, it seemed like they agreed to a whole host of stipulations in terms of how many people could be in the house, where they would park, issues around lighting, noise, after-hours operations, and I was very pleased to hear that. Commissioner Fritz. Whether or not the Japanese Garden could put staff somewhere else is not part of the approval criteria. Yeah. So if a land use application meets the approval criteria, it must be approved. And there isn't evidence in the record as to why the livability criterion is not met. And so the issues of was there a deal, have they met with the deal, that's not part of the approval criteria. Although there may have been some question in 2009 about how the office use might integrate with the neighborhood, there should be no question now. The garden has demonstrated through this application, over the past 10 years, the office use has not only caused none of the... approval criteria and enumerated significant adverse impacts on the surrounding neighborhood, the use has had no significant adverse impacts of any kind. All right, very good. So sometimes being mayor means you just have to suck it up, and this is going to be one of those circumstances. We're obviously at a stalemate. Code requires us to have a majority vote. I think my colleagues have made some very good points. I think all of us agree we love the Japanese garden. I actually have concerns about this, but in order for us not to have a democratic crisis here under the current requirements of our ordinance, I will vote with my colleagues. over here so that we can move on. But I'm also going to say something for the record. Number one, we need to revisit the code so that this never happens again. The code assumes immortality and it assumes we will not therefore have a tie and unfortunately, sadly, we know that not to be true. So I would like that code revisited. Number two, I have an expectation of the Japanese Garden because I hold them in such high esteem and because I know their leadership is extraordinary. And I know their allies are very smart, savvy, influential, and concerned members of this community that they will work with the Parks Bureau. And I did hear some concerns about their relationship with the Parks Bureau going way, way, way back. Let's see if we can find a better solution in the coming years that work for everybody. And it may be that at the end of the day we can't get there, but I would at least like this not to be an excuse to do nothing. I think we should continue the conversation. I'm currently the Parks Commissioner, and I will commit to beginning that process and that conversation, and let's see what we can do together. So with that, if there's no further discussion, we already have the motion on the table at this point. I'll just call for the roll. Fritz. Yes. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner Daly. Your points were really well made, and I support them. Thank you to staff, thank you to the neighborhood folks and the Japanese Garden. We have to make decisions based on the approval criteria, and like Commissioner Daly, I don't see anything in the approval criteria that actually allows for a 10-year time limit. And so that in itself, I think, is a compromise, and I appreciate the Mayor for breaking the tie. Thank you. Hardesty? I appreciate my colleagues. I guess I'm thrilled that we don't always think all the same and we don't all have the same come at these issues from the same direction. For me, this was a very easy vote and the vote was simply you make an agreement, you get a conditional use, you either keep the agreement or you don't. And so to me it's really cut and dry, especially when I talk to the director and find out that in 10 years there was no movement to actually make the change that they'd agreed to. It is very unfortunate that we're going to once again kind of cave for an issue that I think leadership is required. And leadership means that you hold people to their word. So I vote no. You daily. Well, it sounds to me like the original 10-year limitation was a concession to the neighborhood not based on actual criteria. And that is why I am very comfortable and very supportive of Commissioner Fritz's motion. I vote aye. Wheeler. As I think has been made crystal clear, I actually support the recommendation of the hearing officer. However, we have an issue with the ordinance that requires us to be able to move on with only a majority vote. I am persuaded by many of the arguments commissioners Fritz and Udaily have made, but I am not persuaded by all of them. I do expect the Japanese Garden to work with me as the new or at least temporary parks commissioner to resolve this issue. Frankly, I believe that whether it is part of the findings or not, the Japanese Garden made a commitment to the community. And they did not live up to that commitment. That is problematic for me. And so I think that that commitment does not dissolve today simply by us taking this vote. And I would hope that they would continue to provide the excellent leadership that they provide and take the initiative in the way they take the initiative so many times in so many other positive ways for our community and continue to sit at the table and engage with the neighbors. I vote aye. This is a tentative vote in approval of the motion offered by Commissioner Fritz. We will come back for a final vote. The motion today is to tentatively uphold the appeal and extend the use for 10 years. It is passed 3-1. This matter will return to council for the adoption of findings. And a final vote on... The next time we have a full council is March 4th. That will work for everybody. 10-15 a.m. I guess you do. Okay, good. Anything else? Legal counsel? Do we cover all of our bases there? So, Carla, I just want to confirm we have the entire council that date? Correct. Okay. Then we are good. Good. Alright, everybody be there. Alright, thank you. That item's tentatively resolved. Next item, to the regular agenda, item number 134. Okay. authorize a competitive invitation to bid for digester cleaning services to be performed at the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. Colleagues, the city's primary wastewater treatment plant in North Portland is Oregon's largest. It helps protect public health and our environment 24 hours a day, year-round. The digesters are a key part of the process, turning waste into reusable products. Methane for renewable energy and biosolids for soil amendment. To keep the digesters functioning properly, they need to be periodically cleaned. Here today to give a brief presentation on this is Bill Sterling, treatment plant operations supervisor. And of course, Rob George, operations manager, both with the Bureau of Environmental Services. Take it away. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. As you stated, my name is Bill Sterling. I'm an operations supervisor at the Bureau of Environmental Services. I think it's not on there. Yeah. Thank you.
 Sorry. My name is Bill Sterling, operations supervisor with the Bureau of Environmental Services. With me today is Rob George, operations manager and my boss. So... Like I said, we work at the wastewater treatment plant. It's located in North Portland. It's the largest in the state. And it's Portland's main wastewater treatment plant. The plant has been providing wastewater treatment for the city of Portland since 1952. We're proud to be there operating and maintaining the facilities. For 24 hours a day, it's a year-round operation, and we've been doing it for nearly seven decades. Today, we are here requesting authorization to use the competitive bid process to obtain the most responsible contractor providing the best price meeting the specifications for digester cleaning and residuals disposal services. In this aerial view, you could see we have approximately 100 acres in North Portland. And in red, there are 10 circular tanks highlighted that are our solids digesters. These tanks collectively have about 20 million gallons of capacity. Some are bigger and some are smaller, as you might be able to see. As a closer look... explaining what the digesters do in the process. They are key for the treatment process as they provide for the treatment of the organic solids that come into the plant. They are set up and intended to act like the human stomach by using organic matter as food to create reusable products such as methane and biosolids. The Bureau needs to have each of these 10 digesters cleaned at the plant every two years, which equates to about five a year. Cleaning is necessary to maximize biosolids storage, sustained performance and optimize biogas production. This is a picture of a digester, sorry, a digester that is in need of cleaning. It is in full of unusable material. So to clean it, do you actually have to shovel it out? How do you do that? That's what the contractor would do, but they usually insert a pump and pump it to their dewatering equipment and then haul it away to a permitted landfill. Thank you. Commissioner Hersey. Is there any new technology that actually would be self-cleaning and therefore would not have to take this expense every couple of years of cleaning it out? If it exists, we are not aware of it. Then maybe we should build it. Right, because it just seems, I don't know, you know, we're moving into this climate feature, right? My question is always going to be, is there a green way to do this? Because it doesn't seem like this is good for the environment, pulling this stuff out of the ground and taking this to a dump somewhere, right? Mm-hmm. It's not actually going to help us meet our climate justice goals if we continue to do that and not looking at what's out there that actually is innovative, is green, that allows us to actually be leaders around how do we continue to do this in a way that makes sense. Just inquire your minds. Thank you. Thanks. Next slide. So this is what a clean inside the tank, clean digester looks like after all the inorganic material has been removed. The cleaning process removes, like I said, the non-organic material. Over time, these large tanks accumulate inorganic material like the sand, grit, as well as rocks, rags, and plastic material that come off the streets of Portland and other sources. The cleaning process ensures they sustain their capacity and operate properly. Where do we dump that stuff? Previously, that is what the contractor... gets a permit for to take our stuff. We have some experience. The last contract they went out, they took it to Arlington up by Hermiston. So we are here to request you to authorize conducting an invitation to bid for the digester cleaning services and to clean the five digesters a year. The estimated cleaning cost of the digester is based on the previous contract we had in 2018. And we have moderate to high level of confidence in this estimate. And the funds are available in our sewer system operating fund. Can I ask a question? This is coming to council because it fits within our contracting criteria. Is that right? My understanding is that we come before you because it's over a certain price. Yeah, okay. But this is ongoing standard procedure, is it not? I mean, there's nothing unusual here. We would like it to be. It's a maintenance activity. Yeah, and you do this every so often. I mean, it's a requirement of the system, right? Yes, correct. And is this consistent with what you've been paying in the past? Yes. That's what this is based on, is the results of past cleaning efforts. Okay. So it could be a little more, it could be a little less. All right. True. That's it. Thank you for your time. And Commissioner Hardesty, I think Bill has a question for you. Thank you. Can you tell me who the contractors are and what their diversity breakdown has been in the past and what you're hoping for with this contract? So the last contractor that we used was, had a very diverse labor pool. We will be using our procurement specialists to their fullest capabilities. But I will also add that this is fairly specialized work, requiring a lot of safety considerations and specialized tools and equipment to make this happen. Right, which is why I was asking about the equity goals. If you've achieved those goals in the past, my expectation wouldn't be that you would not be able to achieve it in your new contract. Is that your expectation as well? That is our expectation, yes. And did you achieve your goals in the last contract? I am not sure of that. We could check. Certainly would appreciate knowing what that breakdown has been in the last contract and what you expect in the new one. I'd be happy to provide that. Yeah, I just want to say I have found it fascinating learning about this. And at some point I'd actually like to tour the facility. I'm advised to tour it before the heat of summer. But I really appreciate the work you do out there, and I'd like to see it. I'd like to learn more about it. Commissioner Fritz. That was one of my more memorable field trips with my kids. I just wanted to say that I'm thinking very fondly of Commissioner Fish and seeing a Senator Lawrence working here who has, you know, The presentations for environmental services have really become very interesting, clear. You have answers to most of our questions, and that is definitely due to his leadership over five-plus years. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Appreciate it. Carla, is there any testimony on this item? No one signed up. All right. Well, maybe they'll all go on the tour with me. That'll gin up some questions. It was interesting. It's very interesting. Yeah. Do people actually have to go into the tank? They do. And so I assume they're hazmat breathing apparatus, all that. So I see what you mean when you said specialized and dangerous work. Following all the OSHA confined space rules and all the precautions in place. Yeah, thank you. When they do that. Yeah, appreciate it. I appreciate the work you all do. It's some of that invisible work that city employees do that they won't notice it when you do it right. But boy, if things go badly, they'll notice it right away. So thank you for that. Appreciate it. Thank you, Asana, as well. Very much. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. Moves to second reading. Next item is a second reading, 135. grant a one-year temporary revocable permit to Selco Partnership, doing business as Verizon Wireless, for wireless communication services in the city. Colleagues, we've already heard a presentation and taken public testimony on this item. Is there any further business? Please call the roll. Fritz? Well, this is another occasion where having just four of us has... modified the outcome and I appreciate the compromise that's been made in order to be able to have four of us willing to vote for this. I would have liked to have locked it in for a longer period because I don't trust what the Federal Communications Commission is going to do regardless of who wins the election in November. Aye. Hardesty. Udeli. Well, this is one of those I have five. Four. No, I don't. This is just a, no, this is legal. You don't need to. It's a non-emergency. What's the controversy? The question is whether or not this item, item 1358. Four vote. It's a permit. I'm saying it needs just three, but. I understand just three. Okay. Okay. Well, it's unfortunate that we're moving forward with a compromise without four votes because like Commissioner Fritz, I would have preferred to lock this in for a longer period. This is one of many circumstances on council where we are offered two choices, neither of which is desirable and we have to go with the one that causes the least harm. Do you want to interject Commissioner Fritz? May I ask a question? Can we change this to have a temporary five-year permit or a temporary ten-year permit? Staff is in the room as well. We have staff coming up. So what I know is that, you know, across our region, people are shifting from franchise to these contract agreements. And... It's better, I think, for the public, but we're the expert. So you guys are really testing my legal skills today. It's highly unusual for us to offer an amendment halfway through a vote, so I'm going to have to ask legal counsel what the precedent is here. Well, I'll move to reconsider when it passes then, if that works. Okay, so understanding that. Should you finish the vote first? Yes, you can finish the vote. Okay, why don't we just be safe? Why don't we finish the vote, and then let's come back for reconsideration. We're on you, Daly. So my recollection of this item is that We negotiated the strongest agreement we could with Verizon in anticipation of the FCC forcing something a lot less desirable down our throats. And that is why I support it, and that's why I'm voting aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. I move to reconsider. Second. Wait, I have to say it passes first, so it passes. Commissioner Fritz. Move to reconsider. Second. We have a motion and a second for reconsideration. Call the roll on the reconsideration. Fritz. Aye. Aye. Hardesty?
 No.
 Udaly?
 Aye.
 Wheeler?
 Aye. We have a reconsideration on the table. So question for staff. If I can rephrase the question, Commissioner Fritz, your question is- Identify yourself, please. What's that? Identify yourself for the- Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, Jennifer Lee with the Office for Community Technology. Your question is, can we have this as a five-year temporary permit rather than a one-year? We can. Typically, what our office has done in the past- Although this situation is a little bit unusual, but when we have had a temporary revocable permit, we have had it for a one-year term because of the length of time it takes for a franchise to go through the public process required by city charter. But we've already done the franchise process, right? We have not finished it. So how long do you think you can get it done within a year? Yes.
 Okay. In that case, maybe I should... withdraw my motion to reconsider. Second. Now what do we have to do? Vote on it again. No, we don't, because no motion's been put on the table. There's no motion on the table. The motion stands as passed. All right. Okay, is that good? Yeah, because we'll obviously have another council member within the year. Okay, so the motion has passed. Okay. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Thanks for being here, Jennifer. Thank you. That's very interesting today. Yes. Next two items, Carla, please. Can you read them together, 136 and 137, please? Yes. 136, authorize North McAdam urban renewal and redevelopment refunding bonds. And 137, authorize Lentz Town Center urban renewal and redevelopment refunding bonds. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Matt Girok with Debt Management in the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. The purpose of the ordinances under items 136 and 137 is to authorize the refinancing of existing bonds for interest savings. The bonds eligible for refinancing are the series 2010 AB urban renewal and redevelopment bonds for the Lentz Town Center urban renewal area. And two, the series 2010 A and B bonds for the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area. The Lentz bonds are currently outstanding in the amount of $25 million. The refinancing of these bonds in today's market conditions is projected to result in approximately $2.8 million in present value savings. The North McAdam bonds are currently outstanding in the amount of $42 million. And the refinancing of these bonds in today's working conditions is projected to result in approximately 5.2 million in present value savings. Savings from both refinancings will be distributed to the underlying taxing districts, including the City of Portland's general fund and other local government units. Under the current plan of finance, we are planning to maintain current payment levels, thereby shortening the life of the bonds by paying additional principal each year. This would ultimately result in tax revenues returning to the general fund more quickly. We'll be working with the finance staff at Prosper Portland over the coming weeks, and it's anticipated that the refinancings will be completed as early as March and April for the Lenz bonds and North MacAdams bonds, respectively. So if you have any questions, I'm happy to answer them. Okay. So I just hope... Commissioner Fritz, I apologize. I just want to make sure my math is correct. So your brilliant department is saving us $8 million with this refinancing. Thank you. That's correct. Well, it's all the taxing districts. So the city's portion of the savings would be a fraction of that based on the proportion of what our tax rate is relative to the consolidated tax rate. And honest as well. Essentially, though, you're saving the taxpayers that amount of money. So thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on either of these items, Carla? No one signed up on either of these. All right. Very good. On 136, call the roll, please. Fritz. Aye.
 Hardesty.
 Aye.
 Udaly.
 Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. Coordinates is adopted. 137, call the roll, please. Fritz. Aye.
 Hardesty. Love when we save money on these bonds. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Well, today's item is a standard bond refund procedure. I want to take a moment to highlight the auditor's report on the Lentz urban renewal area that was released this morning. I encourage everyone to take a moment to review it, and in particular, I wanted to draw attention to the need for better result tracking in our urban renewal areas. In the Lentz URA, homeownership for people of color has gone down. The number of people who can afford their rented home has gone down. Gentrification has accelerated in rents and now affects much of East Portland. Given the troubling history of urban renewal areas, particularly for communities of color, it's unacceptable for us to fail to properly measure success in our URAs. With our current URAs and with any future URAs, I will be looking closely at justification for proposed actions in monitoring how we plan to measurably improve the lives of residents in those areas. With that said, I vote aye. Wheeler. Aye. Related to the same audit, I would just put two points on the table. Number one, absolute progress does not necessarily, or the lack of absolute progress does not necessarily mean the city's resources that have gone into an area have been for naught. In the absence of our efforts around transportation, planning, parks, development, economic development strategies and other strategies. In the absence of our funding, the situation could be much worse. And I particularly note that with regard to housing through the Housing Bureau. Secondarily, and I sort of hinted at this earlier in our conversation when I asked, how do we measure success, by what metrics are we defining success? And where I agree with the auditor on this is there has to be clarity up front what success looks like and how we will measure success. And I've noticed a trend in a number of the audits that have come up recently is the auditor has said, you either didn't measure something we thought you should or you measured the wrong thing. The time to have that conversation isn't 10 years into a project. It's before we get into it. And I feel like you've been very clear about what the metric here is. The metric is to find the lowest interest financing mechanism in order to spread those dollars as far as we possibly can. And you do that on an ongoing basis. You scrub for opportunities around better financing packages. And that's exactly what you're supposed to do. And you're very, very good at it. And I appreciate that. Thank you. Part of the work I would like this council to do, vis-a-vis the independent audit function, is somehow engage the auditor earlier in these conversations around what criteria they think should be added to the list of criteria that we're evaluating, so that there isn't just a fundamental difference of agreement, like we had, for example, on the Portland building. We were literally fighting over apples and oranges as to how that project should be evaluated in terms of outcomes. And the only way we can resolve this is by either arguing after the fact, or the better strategy is to have an agreement up front about what the metrics for success are. So I just want to encourage that. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is 138, also a second reading. Approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the use of the alternative contracting method of construction manager general contractor in connection with the Park Lane Park construction project for an estimated amount of $8,500,000. Is there any further discussion on this item? Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? I am so happy about this. This neighborhood has been waiting for this park to be completed for decades, and I honor Ron and Jen Clemonson and Tom Lewis and a lot of the other Centennial Neighborhood Association folks who have worked on it for a really long time and the park staff that I know will do a fantastic job with it. Aye. Hardesty? Aye. I vote aye. I want to make sure though that we are looking at how we engage minority and women contractors. I love this idea of the alternative contracting so that we can be intentional about who really benefits from these public dollars. And I look forward to following the process to ensure that we exceed the goals that we set. I vote aye. Udailey.
 Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz. This has been your baby for many, many years. And East Portland deserves to have a park like this. This isn't a check-the-box park. It's really going to be an amazing, fabulous, high-value park asset. It would not have happened without your leadership. And I know Commissioner Fish was also very, very supportive of this vision. He and his team continued that enthusiasm. But it does matter who champions these things in order to get it done. And you have been relentless in championing this. And everybody's going to benefit from it. It really is going to be one of those just extraordinary great places that everybody's going to be happy about. I'm very happy to support this and vote aye. Ordinance is adopted. Next item, 139. Amend ordinance to increase compensation for subrecipient contract with Urban League of Portland in the amount of $107,000 for services in support of coordinated fair housing enforcement. Very good. We have Kim McCarty here from the Housing Bureau. Hello. Hello. Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm Kim McCarty with the Portland Housing Bureau. And... I'm here to give you a brief overview about this contract with the Urban League and El Programa. When reporting on the findings of the recent Fair Housing Testing Audit, Fair Housing Council of Oregon provided the city with a comprehensive report with recommendations to increase access to legal services, culturally sensitive services, and provide incentives for private attorneys to accept fair housing cases. So in this contract with Urban League, that is what we're doing. And in response, the collaborative has been very successful in reaching communities that historically have been reluctant to report out of fear of retaliation. And to continue this good work, we're increasing the budget by $107,000. Bargain. It's on the record. Let's take it. The amount needed to fully fund the program until the end of the fiscal year. We have some rental services office resources that remain unallocated, and we feel they are best spent on this program. So the current goal is to reach 55 currently underserved black and Hispanic households that have experienced housing discrimination and will receive a suite of services that include fair housing enforcement, education counseling, and rent assistance to ensure their long-term housing stability. And with this funding, the service goals will be increased to 20 households. So thank you for your consideration. Thanks, Kim. Appreciate it. Could I ask one question? Yes. So Given the number of households and given the specific budget ask of $107,000, what is actually involved in each of the engagements that's proposed? Yeah. Could you walk us through the work the Urban League would actually be doing? Yeah. Sure. First of all, Urban League is in a collaborative with the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, LASSO, and El Programa. Thank you. The clients are coming through the current ways that both of those programs, El Programa and Urban League, interact with their clients. So that's rent world classes. They have... rent assistance, they have various programs, health programs, employment programs. So however a person is coming to them, they are listening to that client for fair housing considerations because many of the fair housing issues that people have reported experiencing are very difficult for even the individual to identify that that's what they've experienced. And so Urban League and El Programa have trained their clients resource specialists to look out for that, to inquire further and then put those individuals in communication with either Legal Aid Services of Oregon or Fair Housing Council of Oregon depending on the nature of the issue if it's fair housing issue or if it's a landlord tenant type of issue. Great, thank you. Commissioner Hurstie. Thank you Mayor and thank you so much for your presentation. So I'm kind of curious as I look at the list There are issues like home repairs, home retention and financing and stuff that actually doesn't have to do with our people being discriminated against who are attempting to rent housing or purchase homes. And so out of the $4.5 million, I'm kind of confused, you know, if we're talking about... Fair Housing, the Fair Housing Enforcement piece, I'm just kind of confused why there's so many other things that are mixed in it as a package. Please. Okay. What you see in front of you is what we call the master ordinance. So for the Portland Housing Bureau, it's any contract that, service contract that we have, if it's home ownership or rental services, that's over $100,000. And because this particular contract was in that mix, and the amount was over $100,000, we felt it was best to bring back the original ordinance, the master ordinance, and amend it to indicate this increase for this particular budget. So as a... procedural method that we use. I think in the future we will not do that because it creates a confusion that you've just expressed. Yes, because I would very much like to know is discrimination going down because of our investment or is it going up? And is it going up because now people are more comfortable with actually complaining? I would love to have more information about just what are the outcomes that we're getting and what changes we will need to make to make sure that people aren't suffering from that level of discrimination. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. Very good. Thank you, Kim. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have one person signed up, Shedrick J. Wilkins. Wonderful. Three minutes, please. Name for the record. I'm Cedric J. Wilkins and I may become a member of the Urban League. I support this. My only comment about the Urban League is it's on Russell Street where my ex-wife and daughter live. And on the east side, there's a picture of African-American, mostly our people who support civil rights. So I told my daughter she's 22. She's getting active in politics. She's a cancer survivor, by the way, at the age of one. but she's like me, she likes, she didn't like politics. So I said, come look at all these pictures on the wall there. And I go, well, there's Martin Luther King, Nobel Prize in 1964. There's Nelson Mandela, Nobel Prize in 1990. Who won a Nobel Prize whose picture is not up out there? She said, Barack Obama, who won a Nobel Prize, Peace Prize in 2009. I will join and mention that they should put his picture up there. Another thing too, there's another joke I have, is in September of 2017, after 10 months of President Trump, I went up to the Multnomah County Democratic Party and asked them, how come President Obama can't run for a third term? And I would have a button on my collar. He had no scandals, this is not Bill Clinton. Michelle was a great First Lady, Nobel Prize 2009, and He cannot run for a third term. It's funny how Vladimir Putin, I mean, Putin can run for three or four terms, but he can only serve 10 years. So I will join you urbanly. I'll ask that question. And I certainly don't want President Trump reelected. Thank you. And Antoinette Edwards, formerly of the Office of Youth Violence Prevention, is also on that wall. All right, very good. This is a Commissioner Udaile, do you have a question? This is an emergency ordinance. Carla, could you please call the roll? Fritz. Thank you for your work. I. Hardesty. Udaile. I want to take a moment to highlight the vital work the Housing Bureau is doing to ensure services reach historically underserved communities through partnerships with culturally specific organizations like the Urban League of Portland and El Programa. PHB is connecting with community groups to provide service delivery and topic expertise. This approach is incredibly valuable and necessary, particularly with fair housing. I want to thank Director Callahan for working to address the problems identified in the fair housing audit, Kim McCarty from the Housing Bureau, who's led our fair housing work for years, and the teams at the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, Legal Aid Services of Oregon, Urban League of Portland, and El Programa Hispano. Thank you for all your hard work. Your dedication makes what we do possible. I vote aye. Wheeler. Well, the goal of the contract with the Urban League Fair Housing Collaborative, of course, is to reach underserved black and Hispanic families. And it's trying a new approach by going with culturally specific service providers who have good relationships in the community. And they'll have what I believe is an exceptional ability to support families who believe they may be facing housing discrimination. So I support this concept. I support the increased funding. And I will very much look forward to seeing positive results. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you all for being here for that. Next item is a second reading again. This is item 140. Establish a heavy vehicle use tax to fund Portland's street repair and traffic safety program. Colleagues, any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? So I acknowledge and appreciate the Portland Freight Committee working with the city to identify the high priority projects and we realize how much they care about safety. We do need, we are recognizing the balance of federal, state and local funds. The passage of this ordinance reaffirms Portland's support for ensuring that heavy vehicle, heavyweight trucks pay their fair share. very small number of very large companies pay the bulk of the tax and I appreciate Commissioner Eudalia and her staff for getting us that information after the testimony last week. Very few companies are paying the tens of thousands in fact. None of them are. Right, they're not paying $10,000. Thank you. They're paying an annual $48,900, and it's based on income. So it's entirely reasonable to have those who are the biggest companies paying their fair share. And I'm very happy that we have restored the rate so that – The gas tax, which went to the voters last week, and this are definitely part of the pack. Hardesty? Hardesty? I'm very grateful to Commissioner Udali's office and her staff for actually following up with me after our last testimony. I did have concern about what we had heard in this chamber about the enormous cost to truckers. I found out that that information was not exactly accurate, and I am very happy to vote in favor of renewing this tax. I vote aye. You daily. The heavy vehicle use tax gives us some of the resources we need to deliver on pavement maintenance work that the freight community has asked us to prioritize. Considering those maintenance needs are in part due to the use of those roads by heavy vehicles, asking heavy vehicles to contribute a fair share, which is approximately 13% of the cost based on a respected methodology used by the state of Oregon, is the right thing to do. The vast majority of companies pay less than $65 per month. there is an appeals process for companies that have a very low impact on Portland streets. Moving forward, we are committed to making sure that the program is more efficient and balanced. I do want to note that I reached out to Commissioner Novick during the last hearing because I was overwhelmed by some of the confusing information that was given in testimony and I asked him if Yeah, this fee was intended to expire in four years and he, I will paraphrase him, he said that while the tax expires in four years, we created it to be parallel to the gas tax, the fair share principle certainly does not expire and it was never intended to be temporary. So I want to thank you to everyone who contributed comments, to my colleagues and to my colleagues for their active engagement, and a really big thank you to PBOT staff who work hard every day to deliver on our commitments. It's challenging to strike the right balance between needs, wants, modes of transportation, and a wide variety of opinions about how to best achieve equitable outcomes for all users of the right-of-way. In this case, I believe we've got it right. I vote aye. Wheeler. I've kept an open mind on this, and I want to thank Commissioner Udailey and her staff and all the good folks at Peabody who work really, really hard on these issues. This is obviously a... high intensity issue when it comes to the truckers in our community and I appreciate that we have our good folks, hard-working folks, smart folks on our freight advisory committee and I appreciate the input they provided. At the end of the day, I'm persuaded this is the right way to go and I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, also a second reading 141. Extend contract with Calais America, Inc. for multi-space parking pay stations through April 23, 2025 for continued operations, additional door upgrades, system expansion, and provide for area permit program online permits for $16,164,000 for a 10-year total not to exceed $31,039,000. Please call the roll. Fritz. Well thanks again to Commissioner Udeli and her staff, particularly Chris Ames, the Parking Operations Division Manager. Very interesting presentation last week and thanks to Mison Kwan on my staff who guides me on all things transportation. Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Just a reminder, this is a final contract extension for five years, and PBOT will begin a new RFP process before this extension expires in 2025. I appreciate all of the discussion and questions from my colleagues and the responsiveness of our city staff. Thank you to Lester Spittler in procurement and Chris Arms in PBOT for their work on this. I vote aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 142, second reading. Extend contract with Central Parking System of Washington, Inc. through March 31, 2021 for parking garage management services. This is a second reading. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fritz? Thanks to Michael Jacobs, the Smart Park General Manager, and to the operations of the Smart Park. I find them very helpful. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. This is also a final contract extension for one year, and PBOT will begin a new RFP process this spring. I vote aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We're adjourned until 2 p.m. Oh, my gosh. Is that good? Here we are. Welcome, everyone. This is the... It's a session of the council. It's the afternoon. This is February 12th already. In the afternoon. Session of the Portland City Council. We're now in session. Carla, could you please call the roll? Thanks. Fritz. Here. Hardesty. Here. Udailey. Here. Wheeler. Here. Now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. You can abbreviate if you want. Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. We are not going to talk about participation as there is no testimony being taken today. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Thank you. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping keep your fellow Portlanders welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Item 143, amend the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan map, zoning map, and Title 33 planning and zoning to revise the single dwelling residential designations and base zones. Very good. And is this the, I'm supposed to read this whole script today, is that correct? All right, very good. Colleagues, today we continue our work on the residential infill project. Before we begin, I want to announce that I own property in a residential zone. Properties in all residential zones could be impacted by the residential infill project. I have no plans and no intent to redevelop or change the use of my property. However, out of an abundance of caution, I'm disclosing this as a potential conflict of interest. Do other commissioners have any conflicts they would like to raise? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I don't believe I have a conflict. I'm a renter in the city of Portland, but just for the sake of... Who knows, maybe one day I'll own something. I will declare potential conflict of interest. Hope springs eternal. Commissioner Fritz. In the olden days, the rule was unless you were personally more impacted than everybody else in the same category, that you did not have a potential conflict of interest, but that has recently been changed by the courts. So I live in the city of Portland. I own property in the city of Portland. So far, these are very, very boring conflicts. I know. I may have a conflict of interest. Very good. Commissioner Daly. I live in the city of Portland, and I am also a renter. And thank you for explaining that, because it did seem absurd to me that I would have to declare a conflict. But I guess there's a state law that we're trying to- Safe to sign. Abide by, yes. It's a good thing you live here, otherwise you'd have a bigger problem. Yes, right. Next up, as a recap of where we are- I think that's happened before, yeah. On the project. On January 29th, the council gave direction to BPS, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff, about concepts for four technical amendments to the residential infill project. And today we're going to continue that process. We're going to hear from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff about additional amendment concepts that my fellow commissioners and I have heard from the public and have asked staff to further explore. I want to thank the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff, the Housing Bureau staff, and our legal counsel for their diligence and their review of these concepts to strengthen the residential infill project. And to bring it across the finish line as quickly as possible. I'm calling on my colleagues to be judicious as we evaluate concepts today in order to narrow the scope of work for what is truly needed and what is possible for the residential infill projects final adoption. People can find summary of the amendment concepts posted on the residential infill project landing page on the Bureau of Planning Sustainability's website. Or read along with the hard copies provided for those who are here today. The specific code language to reflect the concepts will be posted on the residential infill project web page on March 5th. Council will then return on March 12th at 2 PM, time certain, here at City Hall to consider and vote on specific amendment language to the residential infill project. The record will reopen at the end of today's hearing and will remain open until the close of the public hearing on March 12th. When the record reopens, you can submit testimony about the amendments via map app, provide oral testimony at the March 12th council hearing or mail testimony to the Portland City Council. As a reminder, the record has been closed since January 17th at 5 p.m. If you submitted letters or emails to members of the council when the record was closed, it is not considered part of the record. I encourage you to resubmit that testimony when the record is reopened at the end of today's hearing. Now I'll turn this over to the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff, Sandra Wood and Morgan Tracy, to walk us through the concepts for amendments. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. It's good to see you again. Likewise, thank you. So I'm Morgan Tracy, project manager for the residential infill project and joining me today is Sandra Wood, the co-development manager at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and Joe Zender, chief planner. We are back for part two of your review of potential amendment concepts to the residential infill project. Like our last work session on January 29th, we will present each amendment concept and then ask by the way of straw polls for your general level of support. Staff will then go and invest the time and resources necessary to further develop these concepts into full-fledged amendments. Oops, forgot to do that part. That's better. So there are 13 potential amendments to review this time around. For the folks watching at home, a description of these amendment ideas is available in the documents section of our project website, which is shown on the slide there. Our first amendment for your review today relates to infrastructure. The idea behind this amendment is to limit lots without a curb to one or two units instead of allowing three or four. For context, there are about 116,000 lots in rib zones that are large enough for a triplex or fourplex. About 8,000 of those lots are located within the Z overlay zone. These are lots that are constrained by natural resources or hazards and are therefore ineligible for three or more units. Additionally, there are about 1,600 lots that are on gravel streets, which are shown in red on this map, as well as 15,000 or so that are on under-improved streets, which are streets without a formal curb, and these are shown in yellow. The infrastructure bureaus have expressed that getting the remaining improvements constructed on unimproved and even under-improved streets can be very costly. Some of these costs may be due to the cost to relocate utility lines or convey stormwater to a roof discharge point. Even just engineering design for a small segment of street frontage is not so straightforward. So this cost obviously is passed on to the home buyer. The Planning Commission, in its recommendation, chose to apply a standard that streets had to be paved slash maintained in order to allow triplexes and fourplexes, which would ensure adequate mobility. The infrastructure bureaus are looking beyond just the street condition, including addressing stormwater. They determined that the presence of a curb or an otherwise accepted alternate design served as a reasonable indication of when required additional improvement could be justified and readily absorbed into the cost of development. This more conservative approach reduces the pool of eligible lots where three or more units would be allowed to around 90,000 or 77% of the total. Because House Bill 2001 does not give discretion on where houses and duplexes are allowed, this proposed restriction would only apply to three or more units. I'll leave it for you for discussion. All right. Questions? Very good. Commissioner Udeli, do you have a question? I don't have a question. I just have a comment to share with you. My colleagues. So I understand BPS and PBOT staff's concerns about supporting development on unimproved streets. However, I want to ensure that we're not excluding large parts of neighborhoods, many of which have not benefited from adequate city infrastructure investments. I don't want to exclude them from denser development. RIP's density allows for vibrant, walkable communities, something that should be available across the whole city. I've directed staff at PBOT to explore allowing the LTIC to be used to accomplish the goals of this concept and honor the request made by the Cully Association of Neighbors, Verde, Habitat for Humanity, and NEA. Moving forward, I'd like for BPS to continue working with my office as we prepare to bring forward final amendment language that meets our equity climate and planning goals. Commissioner Fritz? I think I appreciate those sentiments, Commissioner Udeli, and I think that this amendment actually helps us and provides an incentive for the developers to do the improvements as they move along. The Water Bureau and I know Environmental Services is really concerned with the – The question of who would bear the cost of making the public improvements, as we know with the Capital Highway Improvement Project, one of the main expenses is the stormwater management plan, as well as the paving and other improvements. So I think this is a very reasonable... way to be able to move forward with more attention to trying to focus density in those more walkable liveable neighborhoods where you can safely access where you need to go. Well first of all I appreciate the intention of this concept and I'm sure we agree that we need to make sure that housing is accompanied by whatever needed infrastructure investments there are as Commissioner Udaly indicated. I'm not clear yet that the number of units on this site is necessarily the right approach at this particular junction, but I will give the thumbs up and ask the BPS staff to work with the Infrastructure Bureau staff to ensure that our policy is very clear regarding how and when infrastructure improvements are provided within the building permit application. So I think there's some good work yet to be done on this, and I support the basic concept. Thank you. And in case it wasn't clear, I also support it. Yes. I think I understand what the concerns are that the Cully community has raised and some other groups have raised. But again, I don't know that there's a magic number. And so I'm not bought in that, you know, three is the ideal number. Maybe it's four. I don't know. Right? So I look forward to... You're doing a little bit more work in helping us kind of figure out if there is a magic number. Because I absolutely agree. I don't think we should not develop in places that we've lacked the infrastructure. Because it's not the community's fault they don't have the infrastructure. It is our fault that we don't have that infrastructure. Thank you. Thank you. Any further questions from you of us before? No. Or do you have clarity on that? No, I think that's clear. All right, good. Thank you. We'll move forward on developing something more specific that works for the bureaus. Just a recommendation of what you think the best approach would be. Yeah. Great. Thank you. Thank you. So the next amendment is number six, and this has to do with deeper affordability bonuses. So moving off of infrastructure and talking about the price point of the units provided. As you probably recall, Residential Info Project already includes a modest Florida area ratio bonus for creating one moderately affordable unit at 80% MFI. But you heard a lot of testimony from the public that we should go deeper than what the Planning Commission recommended. So as a reminder, this slide shows the affordability, the rents for different units. And 80% MFI is a family of four earning $70,000. And that translates to a monthly rent for a three-bedroom unit equaling to $1,829 a month. So what this amendment would do is provide incentives for going below that to 60% income levels, which is the column that's highlighted, which means a family of four earning $53,000. This next slide shows several things. There's a lot of things on that slide, but to focus on today is the bottom callout already shows the affordability bonus that's already built into the proposal. So that's on the table right now. The top callout shows the concept for the deeper affordability bonus. So what this concept does is based on the testimony we received or you received about calling for deep affordability, it allows for four, five, or six units in a building that's built to 1.2 FAR and requires at least half of those units be capped at incomes at 60% MFI for rental. In addition, it requires a second unit be visitable as opposed to just one. So what this amendment does, it guarantees affordable units, and because it has a higher FAR, it allows for more family-friendly units. Also on this slide, you'll notice that the 1.2 FAR is smaller than what's currently allowed under the zoning code, which is the fifth house from the right. So the zoning code allows for 1.35 FAR right now, and this would set a maximum of 1.2. Question. Is there a difference in the height? There is a proposed additional five-foot increase for the deeper affordability bonus. And what would then be the maximum height? From 30 to 35 feet. And in our 2.5 zone, there's already a 35-foot height limit. And in our 507, 30. 30. Some questions? Mr. Daly? Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate the BPS staff has responded to advocates and my office push for greater FAR for deeply affordable development. This is going to allow non-profit and for-profit developers to build affordable housing in some of the city's most resource-rich neighborhoods. It's very important to me that we support family-sized affordable housing, so I'm glad to see that that's a possibility there. In their letter, Anti-Displacement PDX asked us for this bonus as well as CET and SDC waivers and property tax exemptions. So I'm happy to see this progress on their request. ADPDX also asked us to explore a fee in lieu for the deeper affordability bonus, focusing funds on affordable infill development and generating revenue from underdevelopment to build more affordable housing. So I would like to ask UPS to look into these ideas further and meet with my staff as the amendment develops before it comes back to council. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I guess for me, I'm concerned about us taking this route. From the beginning I was told that this was not an affordable housing program. That RIP was about creating middle housing. And for the last year we've been having this conversation, we've been very clear about that this project, I'm concerned, quite frankly, that it's not enough units for CDCs to actually be able to, unless they have a... like a block that they are going to be able to get the return on the investment. I'm very concerned that we're trying to take a model that was not intended to provide affordable housing and squeeze affordable housing into it. The way we do it now is if you've got 40 units and four of them would have to be affordable based on our current criteria, I just don't know what we expect, how we expect to get... a good mix of affordable housing if we're going to be doing it one house at a time. Right? None of us will live long enough to actually see that we've had an impact on housing at all income levels. So I actually believe that this is not consistent with what we said WIPP was supposed to do. Okay. And trying to create an affordable housing bonus inside a program that was very specifically about middle income housing. I think that's a disservice. It promises something that we will not be able to deliver in our lifetime. And I'm much more interested in how do we make sure that we're building housing that people can afford to live in as compared to a couple here, a couple there. We need a lot more housing, and this is not going to get us to affordable housing or housing people can afford to live in. So I do not think this is a good amendment. I do not think this amendment should move forward. Commissioner Fritz? I appreciate that both of my colleagues... therein lies the rub, right? What are we trying to do here? And so we haven't really had a focused discussion on that for quite some time. I'm concerned about the size of units. I don't think we're really creating that middle housing if all we're creating is studio apartments. The housing needs analysis shows that we really don't need any more small studios and one-bedrooms. What we're short of is three bedrooms and family housing. And so to the extent that this amendment would tend to lead to eight small units rather than two larger ones, again, I agree with Commissioner Hardesty, it's going to a laudable goal, but in the meantime impacting the other goals, which is for middle housing. Well, I'm going to make this interesting for all of you because we, again, have four members and we're going to split on this. And I'll let you decide how you would like to proceed as staff since the purpose of this exercise isn't to vote. It's really just to give you some guidance in terms of how to spend your staff's limited bandwidth. And hearing some of the concerns that commissioners Hardesty and Fritz have raised, maybe there's another path here. I want to say for my part, I'm very supportive of this approach. We heard this concept expressed by several community organizations, including affordable housing developers. And we also have a strong precedent in terms of adopting a similar amendment in better housing by design. And personally, I think it's important to keep the better housing by design and RIP in alignment. In my opinion, this concept offers a needed flexible approach for supporting developers who are being building affordable, and I would use capital A affordable housing throughout the city. While I'd like to see the concept define MFI at the lowest end of the income spectrum as possible, I also have to acknowledge that funding and financing options are limited and complicated for affordable housing development. Because of this, I do support the tiered approach, 60% MFI for 99 years for rental or 80% MFI for 10-year ownership units. This structure still allows housing providers to utilize the bonuses for lower-income households should they be able to do so. but preserves the most flexibility to enable them to create housing based on the resources that they actually have available. So I'll give a thumbs up to the concept. You've heard some of the concerns my colleagues have expressed, and I'll leave it up to you to use your wizardry to see if there isn't something you can do to address their concerns. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. I'm a little confused by some of the comments that I've heard from my colleagues, so I just want to clarify that. this bonus would allow for family-sized units. We saw that on the image. Affordable housing developers such as Habitat for Humanity have asked for this and said that they can build more housing with it And other than waiving fees for these affordable housing developers, I don't believe there's a cost to the city. Am I wrong? No, as the mayor said, the pro forma, if you look at the – Joe Zender with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, excuse me – All of these, both the 80% and the 60%, are going to take finance being brought by the nonprofit developer typically to deliver the unit. And I mean, my stance on residential infill all along is, will it generate the number of units we need to see? And will it generate the kinds of units we need to see, which are more affordable units? So I have to respectfully disagree with Commissioner Hardesty that there's not a place in RIPP for incentives for affordable units. I mean it would just be a missed opportunity to not try to serve the needs of affordable housing developers and even some private developers. I actually heard from a constituent recently whose he and his father is a landlord and kind of small-time developers, been doing that for decades. So they own some cheap dirt. They're not spending $250,000 on an empty lot, and they're committed to affordable housing, and they thought that this incentive wouldn't be available to private developers, which I understand it is. It's just we don't think many of them will take advantage of it. That's correct. But once again, I've said this before, there are a lot of people in our community that want to help with this crisis. Why would we not? prevent them from trying to do that. And as to how many units this bonus will ultimately generate, one is better than zero. So I will fight for this. So perhaps when we return, we can share some more of that pro forma information and show how the economics of this works out. Commissioner Hurst. I would appreciate that because after 12 years on the Board of Human Solutions, who builds affordable housing for very low income families, I know what it takes for nonprofits to actually put a funding package together. And with few exceptions, I think it's a little challenging when you're talking about such few units because of how the financing works. There may be some nonprofits that have the capability to do that, but should we develop policy based on what a couple of nonprofits have the ability to do? Or should we be consistent in developing policy that actually meets the goals that we've laid out? That is the question that's in front of us. And quite frankly, those nonprofits that can do it will do it now, with or without RIP, because they have that opportunity. So I don't see any reason why something that has been designed for middle-income families would now be shifted so that there are all these options. I think the community needs certainty and the more. we say well maybe you'll do this maybe you'll do that maybe we could do that we have all these options I think the more the community gets crazed because there's no certainty about where we're moving how we're moving and what the process is for that Commissioner Fritz. So I believe all of the amendments that we're going to discuss today have been requested by constituents and this commentary is really evidence that I hope that we'll take testimony on all of them whether staff needs to do any more work or not. So far the public's had two minutes. to testify on this entire package, each person. We've been doing it for it seems like about a thousand years but I'm sure it seems like two thousand years to staff but the public hasn't really had much opportunity to weigh in so I do hope that, I'm looking forward to a robust and interesting information and as the Mayor says, people can send in testimony whether they've submitted before or not and the more that people can send them to our offices ahead of time, we can read the more detailed analysis and maybe spend more time listening to the public next time and not have to have a whole lot of staff presentations. Let me ask a question of legal counsel. If you don't have the answer right away, that's fine. But if somebody has inadvertently submitted testimony in the interim while the record is technically closed, we're going to reopen the record. Is there no way to consider that testimony, even though it was submitted during the time that the record was closed? Yeah, I'm not sure I would argue that. The legal counsel. So the record will be opening today. So anybody can submit that testimony into the record. So if your neighbor submitted something, I mean, if you received a pile of testimony and you want that in the record, you could also submit it into the record. It's just that while the record is closed. Okay. Okay, so it will not be excluded provided that we read it, we bring it back into the record. Correct. And you might check with staff to make sure how they want that to come into the record. Do you have thoughts on that since I'm on the subject? So typically the testimony we've received has gone through Carla's office, and then she forwards that to us and we'll upload it into the map app. Okay. So mail testimonies typically sent to her. and other testimony that the public wants to submit through the map app online, they can do that as well. Great. Terrific. I'd just say for myself personally, I find the email directly to me so that I can respond directly to the email rather than going to the map app and trying to figure out how to then respond. That just works better for me. Great. Carla? Okay, so you want all the testimony that we've received to go ahead and put it into the record then in between time? Unless somebody submits it, no. I mean, if you've received things during that period of time, unless it's resubmitted while the record is reopened, no. They need to resubmit it. Yes. Okay. But we can resubmit it.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Correct. All right. And also if a piece of testimony just went to one commissioner, it didn't go to the council as a whole and it's not, it wouldn't be testimony anyway. So if you're just corresponding with someone. But individually we could reintroduce it to the record. Correct. Okay. I just needed clarification. I'm sorry to digress, but I was curious about that since it got raised. Yeah. So closing up on this amendment, it sounds like we have it split, though. We will go work on it. Our goal would be to come with a, for our next meeting with an amendment, because we know the public's going to want to testify about this. They have testified about this and asked for this. So what we're trying to do is come up with a concept that we can move forward with and then you can debate it and people can testify. If we don't, add it as an amendment, then it's difficult for people to organize around it. I want to be clear, we're not killing amendments today. So even if we... Not any? Well, the question is, what do we want you to work on in terms of bringing back fully refined amendments? Now, it may be that in later public testimony, people either raise new concepts or they say, hey, you guys took a pass. on Amendment X and if there's overwhelming interest in having us go back and take a look at that, then we certainly can do that at a later date. Yeah. And I think an important piece of information is that we're preparing the full sort of text of the... amendment so that when you have your hearing on it, you can keep moving forward through the legislative process. If we don't have that sort of full text that the public can see, we'll have to pause, come back again, and provide that text and have another hearing on it since we haven't had it. I just want to acknowledge you can't do a full workup on every single amendment that's been submitted. So today is really to cull your work, but I just want to be clear for the public hearing, if they're saying, wow, you guys aren't going to do further work on something that's really important to me, I want to have people understand that when we do open this up for public testimony, there may be other amendments that we choose to revisit based on that testimony. And Mayor, is it safe to say that after we have passed RIPP, we still have the opportunity to make changes down the road. If we, as we're moderating and we're seeing that, you know, maybe we should have done X and we didn't think about this and now that it's being implemented, we will always have that option. Is that correct? That's correct. So I. Another legislative process. It's another. To a certain extent. I mean. Say a little more about that. Right. So if we allow for and I'm going to ask our city attorneys, if we allow for four plexes on all lots and later we decide, no, it should be three plexes. We can't roll back. You cannot roll that back. But you could roll up. Yes, you can roll up, but not back. Well, that's good to know because I don't think we actually talked about six units on a property. I mean, eight units on a property before. Have we? No, and that's not part of this concept either. Okay. Yeah, we're talking about six in this concept. And speaking to what you had said earlier, I think we struggle with this in our code team of, oh, do we put this in the code knowing that it's not going to be used very often? And that's why our code is this big. Okay. Yeah, and so it might not be the primary reason for the residential infill project, but because we heard so loud and clear from nonprofit developers and CDCs, and that's what the 1.2 FAR came to, if we put it in there, what's the harm is the other side of that, right? What's the harm of putting it in there if someone could use it once or twice? Like Commissioner Udaly said, one unit is better than zero. Two units is better than zero. Right. We struggle with that too, so I can understand where you're coming from. So I appreciate that, right? Because for me, I just did not want to falsely raise expectations that somehow after we passed this, we would see all kind of housing that people could afford to live. Yes. showing up all over the city of Portland, right? And so thank you for that. No, that helps me feel more comfortable because I really did not want to raise expectations that this was going to be the solution. I mean, because we've said that over and over again, this is not the solution. It's not the affordable housing solution. It's just a tool that nonprofits could use. And in 43% of the city. Right. That's another part of this is the map of all the yellow and how much single dwelling zone we have. So it opens up opportunities in more areas. Historic resource. If I could just add one more thing, one more thought to this. I appreciate the dialogue for sure. When the Supreme Court ruled, I think in 1917, that it was unconstitutional to deny the sale of real estate to someone based on race, we saw cities across the country implement zoning codes and zoning codes became a proxy. Well, income became a proxy for race. And so I do think that there's an important place in this conversation for affordable housing. We want more people of all income levels to have more choices about where they live in our city. And so to me, This is an essential part of the conversation. Thank you. Historic resource demo. So this amendment concept would add a restriction where historic resource is demolished without prior city council approval. Because council approval is already a requirement in historic districts, this primarily affects sites in conservation districts. There are about 1,750 such conservation sites in RIPP zones. The restriction, similar to the one recently added to the Better Housing by Design project, limits the redevelopment options to a house or duplex when the resource has been demolished without council approval. And this is to be consistent with Better Housing by Design? That's correct. Mayor? Commissioner Ely. I would support staff looking into this concept and bringing back an amendment for us to consider. I support steps we can take to promote internal conversions and preserve quality housing. older existing homes. I think I share concern with Commissioner Fritz and other community members that we may see an uptick in demolitions due to RIP and I understand that some of the constraints we've put on the size of buildings that can go on these lots are designed to mitigate that but I think this is another way we could potentially mitigate or encourage creative reuse of existing buildings. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you, Mayor. I just think this is because it's consistent with better housing by design it makes sense for us to have a amendment to review around that. And I'll give this what I'll call a courtesy thumbs up. I'd like to encourage developers and housing advocates to give us more information on this and to testify early on this concept. I'm somewhat skeptical about whether this is really needed or strategic within the confines of residential infill, but I'd like to hear more on this. Okay. Thank you. Okay, thank you. So moving on to the concept for amendment number eight, as you know, the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommended that the city not require parking for single dwelling zones. So part of that is that they also recommended that garages not be allowed on the fronts of narrow houses. The primary reasons for disallowing garages was to preserve the on-street parking right in front of the properties and to preserve space for street trees. This amendment would reverse that and would allow at least a 12-foot garage on all houses. Commissioner Fritz. I worked on the so-called snout house regulations when I was on the Planning Commission in the 1990s. It seems to me that those are old regulations. Skinny lot houses that don't comply with the current zoning code because I think this was the picture on the left Yes, well several of those cut the front doors is set back and there isn't a porch So, you know, I continue to be concerned about having places for people to recharge their electric vehicles. And many, most lots in Portland don't have access from an alley. So changing from the code as it is today, which is working well and has resulted in development that does fit in with neighborhoods, I don't. I support this amendment because I think it's needed and that the current, the status quo is not causing problems. And I do want to clarify that there's two standards today. Here's where I get very wonky. There's one standard for the old historically padded lots, which do allow a 12-foot garage currently. And there's a different standard for new narrow lots that were created after 2002. And that's just because of the way the legislation worked out at the time. So one of the points of agreement we had on our stakeholder advisory committee was to, let's not have two standards for the same size lots. Let's have one set of standards. And the way the planning commission landed was one set of standard not allowing the garage. Okay. But their recommendation was before Senate Bill 534 passed. And so we're going to potentially have a lot more skinny lot developments. And so... I think we could possibly do both and still allow a single garage so that people can park their electric cars. Yeah. And it doesn't change the fact that if you have 25-foot-wide lots and a garage, that an on-street parking space is eliminated for that curb cut. Right. But it's very difficult to plug in a vehicle parked at the curb. Yes. Yes. Commissioner Eudaly I agree with Commissioner Fritz that we do need to solve the problem of charging our lack of infrastructure for electric vehicles. I don't agree that that means every home needs to have a driveway or a 12-foot garage. This conflicts with our city's transportation policy and climate goals. Garages reduce living space and inhibit active front yards. They increase the cost of housing while reducing available street parking and for those reasons I cannot support this concept. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I also do not support this concept. It is inconsistent with the vision that we have that we're moving forward to. I think that we could talk about community charging stations for those fortunate enough to be able to buy electric cars. Most of the folks in my neighborhood were a long way from that. But I think if there's a concern about people having vehicle charging stations, what a great opportunity for community members to create business opportunities to do just that. So I have no ‑‑ I don't support this at all. And I would not want you wasting your time trying to figure out how to add garages back. Well, it would just be keeping the current code. So I'm not asking them to do any work on it either. Then we're in agreement. I don't think you should inform. Yeah, I'll do anything. Okay. So amendments concepts number nine and number ten are similar in that they each propose an affordability mandate for certain types of housing. The first requires that when a unit that has been renting at a certain affordability level is redeveloped, at least one of the new units be available at that income level. The second specifies that in order to develop three or more units, one of the units must be affordable at 60 percent MFI. The challenge in each of these proposals beyond their economic feasibility is the state preemption on rent control and mandatory inclusionary zoning. In these cases, mandated affordability requirements are only applicable to buildings with 20 or more units. Cities can offer incentive packages in the form of bonuses like those described from Amendment No. 6, but cannot set affordability requirements for already authorized housing types. And that's really the primary challenge with these proposals. So Commissioner Udeli pointed out this morning about the displacement that's happened in Lent, and include you know of homeowners and of renters, and my reading of these requests that were made from the community are to address that issue. I disagree with the, I don't think this is inclusionary zoning, it's an incentive to allow, we don't have to allow triplexes, we could incent providing at least one affordable unit by allowing a triplex where we wouldn't otherwise. Commissioner Daly. I love this idea. I love the intent of it to protect below-market rents in redevelopment situations. But I guess I share the concern that it could be seen as a taking or a form of rent control and that just wouldn't be allowed at the state. So... If that's not the case, I would support it. If it is the case, then let's go lobby Salem. Especially 10, if you frame it as an incentive to allow three units, then it's not inclusionary zoning. My concern with this is completely based on advice from legal counsel. And I'm concerned that this would qualify as a required affordability. Which philosophically I'm not opposed to, but in the context of state statute, I'm opposed to it if it calls into question the legality of RIP. And I would not want staff to work on a concept that legal counsel is advising as strongly as contrary to state statute. I think that would be a mistake, the building a poison pill into the overall program. If we want to take it up later separately, I'm okay with that. But I'd be very reluctant to take that up in the context of the whole body of RIP. And that's what legal counsel is advising us, unless somebody has countervailing evidence. Okay. So just so I understand, we would be restricting a developer who, if they didn't have to take down a house that was affordable at 80 MFI or below, they would be able to build one thing. But if they did take down a house that was... currently affordable at 80% MFI, they would be restricted. Yeah, the proposed amendment language is not totally clear. It's still concept level, but the idea being sort of this no net loss of an affordable, naturally occurring affordable unit, which roughly translates to rent control. Right. Which were preempted from exercising. Oh, I know. Good in concept, but right, challenging to implement. Okay. So I think a countervailing concern would be if we set the limit on triplexes, if we took that angle, then we are essentially making the case to build nothing but duplexes because getting to a triplex makes it less feasible than building a duplex. Okay. That's interesting. So are you clear about where we're headed with that? So I'm hearing that we don't pursue this one and we don't keep working on either 9 or 10, and we move on to number 11 today. That's what I'm hearing. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you. So number 11, this one is about limiting three or more units to the R2.5 zone. So as you know, the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommended allowing four units on most lots. This amendment would limit triplexes, fourplexes, and multiple ADUs to the sites that are zoned R2.5 zones. This map on your screen shows the existing R2.5 zoning in the City. In the orange is what's already there and in the purple is the re-zones that are already included in the residential infill proposal. Together they only account for 10% of the City's total single-family residential zones. Also, staff doesn't know whether this amendment is consistent with House Bill 2001, which calls for allowing housing types, duplexes at least, not just by zone, but in areas zoned for residential units. So if we limited it to only one zone, we're not sure we'd be complying with the House Bill. But you won't know until the end of this year when the rules come out. So we don't know what the definition of area is. Correct. So just looking at the map, there are in each quadrant of the city are 2.5 zones, which could be potentially taken as such. I mean, the reason I believe this amendment was proposed is because... In the comprehensive plan map in 2016, we considered where do we actually want more housing, and we have multiple policies in the comprehensive plan encouraging more development on corridors and places with good transit and good services, including sidewalks. And so that's what this would get to. Commissioner Hurst. So I guess why would we be limiting the number of units that we could build all around the city? Because people will have to drive so that because they can't get to transit. Drive, bike, walk, expand public transit, those kind of things, right? So I'm not feeling the need to limit where we build housing and you know, it's like there's a lot of areas that have built up and after they build up hopefully we put pressure enough on TriMet so that we're expanding public transit opportunities but just to just say it when, you know, this particular zone is the only place we can do that just doesn't make sense to me. So I would hope you not spend a lot of time trying to figure out how to make that work. I don't, I don't support it either. My understanding is that It's in conflict with SB 2001 and density drives transit service. So to limit density because there isn't existing transit means that we may never see transit in those areas. And if I have anything to say about it, we're going to see a massively expanded public transit system. So I just wouldn't support this. I also don't support it. I think it undercuts RIP and the entire purpose of RIP. And I'll just state again for the record, this is a longer-term vision for the city. And if we have to peg our long-term vision around the current status of public transit in our community, we're in a heap of trouble. And so I think we should both expand the opportunities for the diversity of housing and where that housing exists. And we should also encourage our partners who provide transit services to be a little bolder in their thinking about their vision for the future. So colleagues, obviously I'm not surprised by any of these discussions. I will point out that the comprehensive plan directed the residential info project to be done on centers and corridors, and it was expanded by the Planning Sustainability Commission. There are multiple policies in the comprehensive plan that I will be very interested to see how findings will be written to support the essentially doing away with zoning policy. in single family zones. Joe, what do you say to that? Because that's a strong argument. What do you say to that? You know, I think there's a couple of tacks on this. If you remember the diagram we showed when we were looking at the deeper affordability, so we really have constructed between this project and better housing by design and the work you previously did on the mixed-use zone, this kind of spectrum. of intensity of development in the centers and quarters. That's where you have your mixed use and your multifamily. What we're doing with residential infill is increasing housing options in that 45% of our land source that is single family today. We believe we need to do that to take pressure off of the housing supply and housing cost. We believe that we've done that in a way that stays consistent with our infrastructure capacity and still most of the development, most of the units are still in centers and quarters aligned with transit. So this is a general raising of the bar not necessarily needed to meet 2035 growth projections, but for sure needed to get to our longer-range objectives after that, both carbon and growth. Thank you.
 Great. So concept number 12 is related to the anti-displacement action strategy and its timing. This amendment calls for a delay on decisions related to the residential infill project until the city completes and funds a citywide anti-displacement strategy. This is misguided as evidenced in the displacement risk analysis effectively reduces redevelopment pressure and lowers the risk of displacement in comparison to the status quo. So the map on this slide is showing that displacement risk is reduced pretty much throughout the city except for three exceptions in three neighborhoods. And in those three neighborhoods, that increase is relatively low. So RIP is part of the toolbox to address displacement. And you heard that in your testimony. There's a high cost of not doing things today with RIP. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I think what we also heard, and I've certainly talked to a lot of members of the Anti-Displacement Committee, is that they do not want us to slow down. If we slow down, they have a bigger fear of us slowing down than they do of us moving forward, passing RIP, and then making a commitment to ensure that the Oversight Committee is as robust as possible. I talked to the members because I also, if you may remember when you were presenting, I was pushing you, get that committee up, get that committee up. And so I went and double checked and they agreed that they just were not ready to do the work they needed to do yet. They had internal work that those organizations needed to do to be prepared to be part of this work group. And so I agree with your assessment that this is not necessary because there's no need to delay the process when... the folks that are on the committee agree that it has to move forward and they're willing to go along with this this process in this timeline commission daily yeah i i mean i everyone knows that i would have preferred that we had this work done to move forward side by side with rip but we work closely with community including adpdx and they have strongly signaled to us that they do not want this to hold up RIP. And we've also heard from representatives of at least one of the neighborhoods that may be likely to see increased displacement that they also don't want to hold up the process. They don't want their neighborhoods exempted. They want us to move forward. And, of course, they want us to also hustle on the anti-displacement plan. So I don't support this item. So the map shows that once again the city of Portland will be disproportionately impacting low income communities and communities of color. So I disagree with the preferred sequence that's requested here. And I want to note that this seems counter to a lot of testimony we received, including from anti-displacement advocates who tell us to move forward. And I want to acknowledge that this is not something we're putting on the sideline or a back burner. BPS is working with other bureaus, my staff, the commissioners, and community partners to institutionalize a citywide cross-bureau approach to displacement. And we even began that funding through last year's budget. And I believe it was Commissioner Udaly who put some packages together through the Office of Community and Civic Life to work with BPS and the Housing Bureau and others. We have seen through BPS's analysis that the RIP is is a type of anti-displacement solution that overall improves the status quo. While we also acknowledge that in three neighborhoods, I believe it's Brentwood, Darlington, Montevilla, east of 82nd, and Lentz, there is, in fact, some additional displacement of communities of color. And that is something we are concerned about, and we do need to continue to address that. I also don't want to overstate it. I believe it was 44 units of displacement over a 15-year period. And I have great confidence that we can address a problem of that scale. And I just want to say how much I appreciate our bureaus working together, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, the Housing Bureau, Prosper Portland, working with community partners both to make sure that we have better data about forecasting how much and where that displacement is going to take place, and also focus on our capital planning going forward. So I believe we need to continue to institutionalize this practice and hold ourselves accountable. And therefore, I would not support slowing down the process to address this question. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next amendment's idea is number 13, and it has to do with a disincentive fee for demolition and or removal of trees. So it's calling for two things, adding a demo fee when a house is demolished and increasing fees for tree removal. Regarding the demolition fee, as you may recall, demolition fees were considered by council in 2015 when we were at a peak of the number of demolitions that the city was seeing. We were at about 400 houses being demolished at that time. It's considerably less now. And at the time, it was not pursued in part due to concerns that the cost of the fee, the disincentive, would just be passed on to the homebuyer or renter when something is built in its place. Regarding the tree removal fees, our position is that these are more appropriately considered during the tree code work that BDS and Urban Forestry Division of Parks is underway doing. And that it should be more comprehensive and not just for the three zones that we are talking about in residential infill. Well personally I'll defer to your recommendation. This isn't the the tree issue is one we will have to take up and if you're saying take it up within Title 11 I have no dispute there and I continue to have meetings with community partners on all sides of this issue around the tree issues so I do look forward to having that conversation. It's one we need to have. Same. Yeah I don't think we're saying. I don't see why it needs to come up with an RIP. Sounds good. Okay we're getting there. Number 14 relates to the system-wide impacts of the Senate Bill 534. As you recall, Senate Bill 534 was passed last year, which requires cities to approve development on substandard-sized platted lots. This request is an amendment that would require the city to evaluate the infrastructure capacity for an area if all the plots were to be fully built out. Under the amendment, if the city determined the full build-out would exceed available capacity, then the city would restrict development. Okay. Senate Bill 534, however, requires the city to allow at least one dwelling unit on each plotted lot, unless the city determines the lot cannot be adequately served. The determination of whether there is adequate infrastructure service is made at the time of development with each development permit. The development review process includes systems to check for availability and adequacy of infrastructure, which is checked at the building permit stage. So the issue here is... The bill basically limits our ability to restrict development on the condition of a future condition of adequacy of the services in that area. Felly rwy'n hapus am hyn. Nid oes ymgyrchwyr cynlluniau a chynaliadau argyfwng yn ei erbyn. Yn y ffaith, nid oes argyfwng ar hyn o bryd yn unig, yn fwy na'r bod angen i nhw ddod a chael mwy o wybodaeth. Nid oedd ymgyrchwyr Celfyddydau Amgylcheddol yn gallu anfon unrhyw adolygiad am eu hanes o'r mater hwn yn 2016, neu am y prosiect ddyfodol. A'r rheswm i mi fod yn y mater hwn yn achos bod wedi cael ei gyflawni ar y Llywodraeth Cymru yn ôl ym 1983, rwy'n credu. roedd yna un unrhyw lot a fyddai'n cael ei ddatblygu i ddwy fywyd ond roedd y rhifio'n unig ac roedd yn yr ardal lot sginyn. ac roedd ymchwil ymchwil ym Mhroedd Cymru yn 1979, a dwi wedi ei roi i'r record, a dweud bod y maes yn gallu datblygu wrth y pethau os byddai'r ffordd yma yn ymwneud â'r amgylchedd, ac y byddai'r amgylchedd hwn yn cael ei ddefnyddio oherwydd byddai'r amgylchedd ymchwil yn Treion Creek State Park yn ei reoli. Felly, rwy'n credu ein bod ni i gyd yn gofyn beth yw'r amgylchedd ymchwil. Mae'n gwybodaeth o wlad ysgog sy'n helpu i gynrychioli ei ffurf. Mae'n cael ei ffurf o leoliadau ysgog tronc a weithiau o ran ysgog ffordd ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod ystod Felly, mae'r interseptor yma yn lleoli mewn Parc Gwaith Trefn Trefn a bydd yn mynd i'r plant trafnir gwasgwyd trefn Trefn Trefn, nid i'r columbiaid o'r blwyddoedd, yr un rydyn ni'n siarad amdano. Felly, byddai'n ddiddorol iawn i gael cymorth i ddefnyddio llawr i ddynnu'r interseptor a'i gwneud yn fwy. Felly, dylai'n ddangos i ni edrych ar y cyfan o le, beth yw'r gallu gyrru'r llawr, ac mae hynny'n Ffynciol sylfaenol o blynyddoedd, beth yw'r cymaint o ddynion? Ie, felly mae yna ddwy ateb i hynny. Rwy'n meddwl pan fyddwn ni'n dechrau siarad am ymgyrchion ymddygiadau, rwy'n edrych dros fy nghyfforddiant y BES sy'n gallu helpu ni i ddangos rhai o'r adnoddau hynny. Ond rwy'n credu bod y cwestiwn olaf yn dod at ymgyrchu ystod y cyflwyniad. Ac er bod y rheswm nad ydych wedi'i gael yn ymgyrchu yn ymddygiadau da yw gan fod y Bil Senedd Mae'n ddim yn rhoi llawer o wahanolion i ni yn y ffordd hon. Felly, rwy'n gofyn hynny. Roeddwch chi eisiau ddweud rhywbeth? Rydwch chi eisiau gwneud rhywbeth? Mae Shannon Reynolds yn rheolwr aset ar BES. Diolch, Shannon. Mae'n iawn. Shannon, allwch chi gyflwyno eich hun i'r record? Yn siwr. Fy enw i yw Shannon Reynolds. Rwy'n rheolwr aset systemau ar BES. Rwy'n rheolwr... Allwch chi fy nghoffi? Hear me okay? Yeah. So I manage a group of stormwater hydraulic system analysis folks who produce updates of our system based on all sorts of assumptions that kind of determine the capacity of our system and the influences of land use on our system. So in 2010 we updated an analysis in this area for the Tryon Creek Interceptor and we, based on new information and some diversions that were done out of that basin, currently don't see a capacity issue in Tryon Creek Interceptor for our sanitary flows. And using future development scenarios that we align with or that we receive from BPS, we start to see some capacity issues but they're not as consequential as we once did maybe earlier on before that analysis was conducted. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Aren't systems development charges supposed to cover the cost of infrastructure improvements when somebody's developing a place? For utilities, you're buying into the current system. You're not buying new upgrades. Yes. That's not my expertise. Okay, no worries. You're buying into the system for utilities, so whoever's providing the utilities will get. Yes, so you're buying the right to access the current pipes. Wait, next. Hi, Elizabeth Reese Cadigan, Systems Development Manager at BES. Commissioner Fritz is correct with the utilities, BES and water you're buying into the existing system. But I'm assuming that the cost of SDCs is calculating what's the additional pressure being put on public resources, right? So it's calculated based on... the totality of the impact we're going to have, right? Either currently or into the future as development continues. Is that accurate? Yes, we just use the past capital costs. The methodology we use looks backwards at what we've already spent on the system, but there is a forward-looking element built into that methodology. in terms of what our future capital program, our estimates are for that out five and ten years. Thank you. Very helpful. Thanks a lot. Thank you. Jim, thank you too. So I think for me, I would just say no at the moment. Especially we're talking like really skinny lots. I don't see us if we're building a house on it because we're mandated by the state. I don't see that there's going to be a significant impact on the infrastructure for that. So I don't need any additional information on that. Happy to defer to staff on that. Great. I guess. I thought you were jumping up and down wanting me to do anything. Yeah, I just, I think sort of to add to this conversation a little bit, forward thinking and beyond essentially residential infill, what this means for our infrastructure bureaus in terms of Senate Bill 534 is there's additional work to be done in terms of forecasting growth in those areas. So it's not an issue that's going to go away. It's just not going to be something that we can necessarily codify immediately. as part of this project. So she has no time this month to do it, but at some point I'm going to have government relations and Elizabeth Edward review the record that we're presenting because I'm hearing lots of opportunities for coordination with the state. They were not interested in coordinating with us when they passed Senate Bill 534. Yeah, actually, yeah. I'm sorry to hear that. Yeah, that is true. Okay. Yeah. And so what Morgan was saying about the preemption, I mean, that's basically what they did. And as Commissioner Fritz has mentioned before, we were not supportive of the Senate bill when it was going through as a city, correct? Yes. And so what we have now is basically a rule that says don't treat any pre-platted lot different than you would any other lot. Mm-hmm. That's what we're trying to codify and make sure it's clear. Got it. And we believe we have a fail-safe in the system, too, because at the building permit stage, they can still look at issues that emerge. But as far as the entitlement to build the lot, we're preempted at the state level. I see. And have the state rules been written yet? There won't be state rules for this one. There won't be. Oh, lovely. Yes. But. But as Joe says, imagine a lot coming in on a gravel road that doesn't have utilities, and they come in for a building permit. Our departments will be reviewing it and saying, where's the water line? There's no water line in front of here. You need to extend it at your own expense. Well, I am certainly looking forward to the discussion on this next one. Oh, indeed. Oh, the next one, number 15. That's mine. Yes. Yes. So this is a request that came in through testimony to change the zoning in an area in the Concordia neighborhood. It's shown on the map, so I won't give a description. The current zoning there is R5, and the request is that it go to R2.5. The area is a little unusual in that the lots are 4,000 square foot sites instead of the typical 5,000 square foot sites that we see in most of inner Portland. Can you just tell me historically why is that? Whoever did the subdivision in the 20s decided that's what they wanted to sell. Okay. And so they subdivided it that way. So the issue that was raised in the testimony and why the 4,000 square feet in their view is a problem is that the minimum lot size for triplexes and fourplexes in the R5 zone is set at 4,500, which means that these lots would not be large enough for a triplex and fourplexe. So this amendment request is to change it from R5 to R2.5. There are about 500 properties in this area. While we don't necessarily object to this rezoning, we have a question really about the timing and process. We're concerned that the property owners haven't been notified of this proposal or they haven't been afforded the opportunity to testify at the Planning and Sustainability Commission. in this project for residential infill. As you know, we had, as in every project, people are trying to, the scope creep, and we were trying to keep this to let's fix the tool and we'll fix the map and work on the map later. So we feel like this rezoning could better be served with an area-specific project in the future. Would it be your intention then, if I'm hearing your... It sounds like you're saying hold off, wait until there's an area-specific planning exercise that's done, and you would come back to council with a MAP amendment? Is that what you're proposing? I'm not proposing. That's on our immediate work plan. I'm just saying. Okay. I am hearing you say you would at least like to talk to the neighborhood before you do it, which strikes me as eminently sensible. And there may be other lots in the city in this situation, so either we're doing an area-specific thing or we need to take a bigger look. It's not right to squeeze it into this generation. This isn't imminent. This could be 20 years out. It could be far. This is an area planning exercise that has not even been scoped at this point. Correct. Got it. Or funded. That's helpful. Thank you. I appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz? Obviously, the staff and I, all three of them, and my staff have had multiple discussions about this, and the response on this one I agree with. I do think that there may be another project in the not too distant future that should look at this, because I actually felt kind of chagrined that we didn't notice this area in the comprehensive plan process because it's close in, it's got good transit, it looks like an ideal place to have more homes built. But I agree to defer it and do it in the next one. Okay, so number 15 doesn't move forward. 16? 16? Number 16. Amendment 16 is calling for excluding triplexes and fourplexes from dead end streets. This issue came up in your testimony. The Fire Bureau has reviewed this amendment and notes that the level of development that's authorized by residential infill doesn't rise to the level where two means of egress are required, such as commercial developments that are taller than 30 feet, buildings larger than 60,000 square feet, and residential projects with more than 200 units. So by comparison, we're talking about 3,000 square foot triplexes and fourplexes, roughly about a 30 foot height. And for most of these streets, we're not going to get anywhere near 200 units. The building size and housing units for RIP are well below those thresholds and can be adequately addressed by the Fire Bureau requirements during the building permit review process. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to assure you I've talked to the fire marshal and my fire chief, and those huge trucks can turn around on a dime. They are having no problems getting out of dead end streets. They are not having any problems getting the fires that are on dead end streets. So I'm not quite sure where the amendment came from, but it's certainly not an issue for a fire at all. Yeah, this was my fault because there was some testimony, and I thought it was actually very compelling testimony, or at least I thought it warranted follow-up because somebody had explained that they felt that being on a dead-end street, some of the increased density could potentially create a public safety or health hazard. And so I did ask that we look at this and Commissioner Hardesty, your office was very, very helpful as was the fire bureau. And I want to appreciate them. It gave me an opportunity to learn from the city's experts on to what degree there are hazards on undeveloped streets, on streets that end in a dead end or a cul-de-sac and how we actually respond to those. And I was very pleased to hear overwhelmingly that the residential infill project does not put residents or city personnel at greater risk. On this matter there's really no higher expert that I could think of going to than the Fire Bureau leadership themselves and their assessment is that this is not an issue and therefore I would not support BPS staff continuing to propose an amendment to exclude these particular areas from our IP. Well, if I might provide some historical perspective, this particular street was the subject of a lot of testimony during the comprehensive plan process. At that stage, the Fire Bureau did have concerns about adding more units on a long, long dead-end street. So when we've already had a legislative process that has looked very specifically at an issue to then address, Obviously, the new council didn't make that decision. So, again, I feel like the infrastructure, if we're having capacity concerns on undeveloped or underdeveloped streets, it seems like the life safety issues inherent in a dead-end street would cause for at least allowing these neighbours to come and testify on this, although we've said that none of these... thumbs up, thumbs down decision today mean that people can't testify on this at the next hearing? That's right. So I think my colleagues might find it helpful to hear the description of this particular street and why the neighbors remain concerned despite the assurances from the fire marshal. The testimony provided previously by one of the residents of the street did raise concerns for me, but I defer to Commissioner Hardesty and the Fire Bureau. I looked into the street specifically and don't believe that there are concerns that would warrant removing it from RIP. Okay. Yeah, I'll be very clear. I mean, if the fire bureau told me there was a life safety issue and we needed to exempt it, I'd exempt it in a heartbeat. But that's not what I'm hearing. Okay. And finally is Amendment Constant Number 17 about front setbacks. So this amendment seeks to increase the front yard setbacks to match the setbacks of the adjacent lots. A version of this proposal was included in the proposed amendments to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. They heard a fair amount of testimony about it and debated it and ultimately recommended removing the proposal. Their main issues was that increasing the front yard decreases the backyard setback, if you want to get the same size house. And it's less flexible and could negatively impact the ability to retain trees, which are typically in the backyard also. For these reasons, we wouldn't support it, reintroducing it. I don't hear any strong objections to that logic. Okay. Thank you. To not bringing it back. It's overly prescriptive. Whatever you do on the front yard is going to have an impact on the backyard. And that was our last amendment concept. Yay. All right. Well, thank you, team, for your work to develop these concept amendments. We appreciate it. I appreciate the dialogue. Thank you, Sam. I appreciate the dialogue in this public meeting with my colleagues. As always, it's very interesting. And I ask my colleagues to continue to keep this scope of work focused and disciplined so we can deliver a proposal that allows middle housing in our single dwelling zones. For the concepts that have been continued on, I want to continue, thank you. I wanted to direct BPS and my staff to continue working with our community partners, builders, and neighborhood associations. My office will continue to be reading and listening to all testimony that is submitted on the record. Council will return on March 12th at 2 p.m. time certain here at City Hall to further act on amendment language to the residential infill project. The record is now open. And will remain open until the close of the public hearing on March 12th. You can submit testimony about these amendments via the map app, provide oral testimony at the March council hearing. Or of course, you can mail testimony to city council or email testimony to city council, however you want to get it here. The hearing on March 12th is limited to three hours and therefore council may not be able to hear from everyone who attends. I encourage you to submit your written testimony in advance of that hearing to ensure that we consider your testimony before voting on the amendments. Anything else I have forgotten for the good of the record? I just want to really appreciate all of you. I mean, the amount of work that you've put into this has been pretty phenomenal. The fact that you're still actually able to separate amendments just... boggles the mind. So just thank you for the work you've done, the thoughtfulness that you put into this process, and I greatly appreciate each and every one of you and look forward to us getting to the result. Thank you. And on that, I believe we have complete agreement. Thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioners. Excellent. Thank you, Commissioner Dean. Are we about to adjourn? Yes, we're about to adjourn. You're kidding me. Not at all. Okay. Well, I just want to quickly thank BPS staff. for working tirelessly on this for years. Thank you, Joe, for always being willing to answer my many, many questions. And, of course, to Morgan Tracy and Sandra Wood. I also want to thank the community groups that have been paying close attention to this and helping hold council accountable. In particular, thank you to the organizations that make up ADPDX, Living Koli, and Portland Neighbors Welcome. As we move on to the next step of drafting amendments for council to consider and open the public record for testimony, I'll be evaluating the final proposal with a strong focus on racial justice, disability justice, and environmental justice. I strongly support creating more housing opportunity. for everyone and I look forward to our final conversation on this project. Great. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. We are adjourned. Oh, I thought we would have.