gavel welcome to the portland city council carla would you please call the roll here fish here saltzman here novick here hales
 Welcome everybody. Mayor Hales is out of the country, I understand. So as the President of the Council, I will be chairing the meeting and I will ask you to indulge me. Carla is here to help me through this. And I want to begin with the standard script that we read at the beginning of every Council meeting. The purpose of Council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business. Preservation of order and decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before Council.
 the public is welcome to attend all of our meetings. During the meetings, there will be time-limited opportunities for public comment on various agenda items. Although citizens can sign up for communications, public testimony on a council calendar item must address the matter being considered. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address, and you don't have to address anybody on the council as you do when you testify before the state legislatures.
 If you are a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you are here representing an organization, please let us know that as well. Unless otherwise established by the council, each community member will have up to three minutes to speak. At two minutes and 30 seconds, you'll hear a beep and a light with a flash on the box in front of you.
 At three minutes, you'll hear four beeps and the light will flash. At four minutes, you'll be escorted off the premise. No, at four. We ask you to honor the time limits because, as Commissioner Fritz always reminds us, by keeping to the time limits, we give more opportunities for other members of the public to testify. I ask that you respect the time limit so there's time for others. Please give handouts to Council Clerk.
 Carla, and she will distribute any documents and information to the Council. And again, please remember to limit your testimony to the item at hand. Council rules and procedures seek to preserve the public order and to ensure that Council's deliberations proceed efficiently, and that all those who want to participate get to be heard.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting during a presentation, interrupting testimony or deliberations, will not and cannot be allowed. Please show your support or displeasure with your hands by waving thumbs up or thumbs down. This is the technical part. Forgive me. This is a warning that anyone disrupting this proceeding may be escorted from city chambers, excuse me, from council chambers and excluded from city hall.
 Lastly, if necessary, in the event that the council meeting goes beyond 12, we may take a break at 1230 for lunch. I don't think today we'll need to do that. Carla, are there any procedural items that we need to take up before we go to communications? I think we're okay. Thank you very much. So we'll start today. We have five communications from the public. Thank you all for coming out. Carla, would you please read the first item number 122? Okay.
 Request of Kirsten Ware to address Council regarding store to door.
 Kirsten Ware, welcome. Kirsten, thank you. Hi. Kirsten, welcome. You have three minutes, and thank you for joining us. Thanks. I need one of these at work for staff meetings. Kirsten Ware, Executive Director of Store to Door. We're a nonprofit organization, and we're volunteer-based. Our vision is that the Portland metro area will be a place where elders and the homebound are able to live nourished, cared for, and with dignity in the setting of their own choice.
 As a volunteer-based program, our focus is around personalized grocery shopping. What we do is we mobilize over 100 volunteers every week to phone over 300 customers, homebound clients in the Portland area. We ask them how they're doing today, and then we ask them if they have an order. We handwrite and transcribe these orders.
 Each individual order taker is paired directly with the client, knowing them over the course of the years.
 Shoppers all convene at Fred Meyer Hollywood, and they individually shop each order. And then we have volunteer drivers and some staff drivers that are showing up at Hollywood, picking up the routes and delivering them out. This year we had a record number of 200 deliveries in one week. In the last three years with our strategic plan,
 We have increased by 53% in the number of clients that we've served. We've increased volunteer engagement by 43%.
 And our organization itself has really grown. We've grown in our staff number by 27%. We know that we're barely scratching the surface. Last year we served 8,322 deliveries in that year with a cumulative of 536 clients, so week after week receiving groceries. We know that there are 3,500 people in our footprint who could benefit from our service.
 So, Stor-de-Door has a new strategic plan in place. It's going to require a lot more community support, more volunteers to get engaged, and we are looking to double the number of people we serve. We have a great track record here in Portland. We've been serving Portland for 26 years now. We started as a grassroots effort right in Northwest at the stadium store.
 And we're really excited about the work ahead, the work that we're doing with our partners with Aging Disability Veterans Services and other social service partners such as Meals on Wheels, Ride Connection, even locations where seniors are coming and they're still able to congregate in community. I just want to emphasize to the commissioners involved.
 Remind you, many times our clients are going unnoticed. They're invisible in the community because they physically cannot get out of their homes, with the exception of perhaps for medical appointments. Eighty-four percent of our clients live alone. The majority of them are low-income clients.
 And yet they've been contributors to our community. They've made all kinds of contributions, raised families, and worked here. So with that, I'll pass now. Kirsten, I recently had a very minor medical procedure and was put on antibiotics and a painkiller and told not to drive. So it became very real to me about being by myself at home on medication, driving.
 discouraged from driving, and then how do you manage these things like getting food and your prescriptions. For people that are watching us today, how can people help, either through contributing or volunteering or whatever you need? So we need more volunteers always. You can find us on our website at www.storetodooroforegon.org.
 We are supported by contributed income through foundations, individuals, corporations. Companies can get involved. So our call to the community is to help your neighbor and get involved with us.
 Thank you very much. So if somebody volunteers to pick up and deliver, do they actually walk through the store filling the grocery list? No, they wouldn't. The shopping is done in a separate sort of effort. So all the shopping is done that morning, and then delivery drivers come and pick up their routes and go out into the community to deliver them. So who does the shopping? So the picking, the shopping is done by core volunteers. Okay.
 Community volunteers. Yeah, so as a volunteer, you can select whether you're interested in order-taking and one-on-one relationships with the clients over the telephone, or if you prefer to be part of a larger team, shopping down at the store or delivery driving one-to-one so you know who your clients are. And over many years, you can...
 so it sounds like friendship you could vary the time commitment from an hour a week to a lot more than that there's a lot of flexibility lots of ways to interact and engage with the organization thank you for your work yes thank you thank you very much carla could you please read item number 123 request of nadal call to address council regarding east portland pilot project mr call welcome and as you're getting settled um i just want to acknowledge
 This is a big month and a big year for small business in our community. As my colleagues know, Venture Portland is celebrating its 30th anniversary, and we have their executive director and board chair with us today. Recently they had a celebration at the Melody Ballroom,
 This Friday, SupportLand is hosting its Hidden Hearts Valentine's Day event where shoppers can get rewards for shopping at certain stores and participating in SupportLand. And I'll be touring a number of those stores with Ruth Miles, the Secretary of State's Small Business Advocate. And then we'll be talking about other small business initiatives throughout the year. But here we're – today you've signed up to talk about the East Portland Pilot Project, so welcome. Thank you.
 thank you thank you very much commissioners my name is nadal call and i'm the owner of furniture plus and the property that it occupies right on halsey street in the heart of gateway i also own celebrity tan which is at mall 205.
 I moved into Gateway, it would be in 2008 when we opened our first Celebrity Tan. And then in 2010, we acquired the property and then opened the furniture store in Gateway. Collectively, we provide about a dozen jobs at any given moment of the year, and we're
 We've been very proud to be a part of Gateway. I'm also serving on the Gateway Area Business Association Board, currently as their secretary, and also the chair of the Halsey-Weidler Working Group, which is a subcommittee of the Gateway Area Business Association dedicated to Halsey and Weidler specifically, where we've made significant improvements.
 planning the streetscape, the future streetscape for Halsey and Weidler in partnership with the with PBOT and the Portland Development Commission. So on behalf of the Gateway Area Business Association, Board of Directors and Gateway businesses, I'm here today to discuss the East Portland pilot project. Very proud to do so.
 Just to give you a little background, since 1950, the Gateway Area Business Association has supported our business district, which stretches from I-205 all the way east to 162nd and then I-84 all the way to Southeast Market Street.
 very, very diverse demographic. We have about 55 languages that are spoken in our district. There are over 400 businesses providing over nearly 4,600 jobs in the district. The recession and the rapidly changing demographics have disproportionately stressed our community and our once thriving organization and struggle to connect with the rapidly evolving mix of business and residents in our area.
 About 28% of Gateway residents are people of color, and that number has more than doubled since 1990. The average household income in Gateway is growing disproportionately slower than the city as a whole. And so this is an area of concern and why projects such as this pilot project are critical for economic development in our district.
 Gateway also has, you know, there's a soft spot in my heart for it. It is one of the last gems that requires a little bit of polishing in the City of Portland. Projects like this help us polish that. So on behalf of Gateway, I want to thank City Council for funding the East Portland project and providing the urgently needed resources to our business district.
 Gateway was incredibly proud. I personally was very honored last... An extra 30 seconds. Thank you. Very honored to have Commissioner Fish out at my store last spring to celebrate Small Business Week and launch the kickoff of this project.
 So with the support of this project, we're able to initiate further growth of our business district. I have to really thank Venture Portland. We have Adrienne Sweetwater, who is serving Gateway and a couple other business districts. And with her help and Venture Portland, we were able to really put together a strategic plan for growing our district. And just to give you a few metrics, our membership has increased more than 12%.
 I personally am expecting at least another 10% this year, and we've planned several other events to coincide with Earth Day and National Small Business Week this spring. So these are all catalytic efforts that really would not be possible without this project and similar programs. So I will close by asking you to continue.
 to invest in Gateway and East Portland and extend funding for the pilot project for an additional year, which will give us the ability to strengthen our new events and really give us an opportunity to achieve these metrics that we've set out. Thank you very much, Mr. Call. Thank you. Carla, would you please read item number 124? Request of Stephen Rice to address council regarding East Portland pilot project.
 Mr. Rice, welcome. I neglected in mentioning Venture Portland's 30th birthday, the Supportland Hidden Hearts Valentine's event, I neglected to mention the Venture Portland Selfie Challenge, and they've asked each member of the council between now and April to take a selfie in front of their favorite small business and post it at hashtag PDXlovesmallbusiness. So Jamie will be following up with everybody, and since everyone lives in or near Multnomah Village, we're going to have to spread the wealth here.
 Commissioner, I was going to ask, does this force me to choose between Annie Blooms and Ann Botches? Because that would be tough. We might make an exception for you, Commissioner, and let you do two. Thank you. I'm going to win that selfie challenge. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Stephen Rice. I've lived in Montevilla for over 10 years, and I'm in my second year as the president of the Montevilla East Tabor Business Association.
 On behalf of the Association's Board of Directors and Montevilla businesses, I'm here today to also discuss the East Portland Pilot Project. A little background on the association. Our boundaries stretch from Northeast 67th to I-205 and Northeast Gleason to Southeast Hawthorne. The district is very diverse. It includes a swath of 82nd Avenue but also historic downtown Montevilla.
 It contains 500 businesses and provides over 9,000 jobs to local residents. Montevilla is quickly changing. The percentage of residents living below the poverty level continues to be higher than the city as a whole, but we have the fastest-increasing apartment rental rates in the city. Many neighbors and some business owners have expressed concern about what sort of changes are ahead and what we might guide.
 Among fellow neighborhood leaders, it sparked new energy around building on our vision for the future that we've already started in in the past years. With this in mind, the grant opportunity provided to us by East Portland Pilot Project was incredibly well-timed. And on behalf of Montevilla, I want to thank the City Council for funding it.
 We're an all-volunteer board. It's by nature very challenging just to maintain a volunteer organization, let alone grow it or be impactful. But funds from Venture Portland have allowed us to leverage our existing revenue and gain critical momentum. In the last year, we doubled our membership. We nearly doubled the size of our board to 11 members. And we revitalized our summer street fair, including a first-time street closure event.
 10,000 East Portlanders attended, which was a seven-fold increase in attendance over the previous year. We've recently incorporated a stretch of East Gleason Street into the district and have begun to organize neighbors and business owners, many of which are immigrant and minority-owned. For Halloween, we launched the Trick or Treat on Gleason Street. Fifteen business owners opened their businesses to trick-or-treaters, including Commissioner Fish. One business had its best sales day of the year.
 This event would not have been nearly as successful without the support of our pilot project paid part-time staff person, Adrienne Sweetwater. She's been an incredible hire. There she is. She has a master's degree in intercultural relations to boot, which I was really thrilled with when we found that out.
 The event would not have been nearly as successful without the support of our paid staff person. As volunteers with full-time jobs ourselves, it can make building infrastructure difficult and business outreach very difficult. Our stretch goal this year is to redouble our membership. That's double the member dues to use to sustain our own paid staff down the line.
 This year we're branding the district, creating a new website to showcase Montevilla businesses, and launching a marketing campaign. You could just wrap up, Mr. Rice. Yes. Thank you.
 We're also using pilot grant funds to hold a fundraiser later this month to raise matching funds for these projects. I'll close by asking you to continue investing in Montevilla and East Portland. We'll be leveraging this investment for sure. Extending funding for the pilot project for an additional year will give us the ability to continue to strengthen and sustain our organization while continuing to serve our rapidly evolving business district. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thanks for joining us.
 Carla, would you please read item number 125? Request of Matthew Mesetic to address council regarding East Portland Pilot Project. Welcome. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Matthew Mesetic, and I own Red Castle Games on Southeast Foster Road and 64th.
 In addition to board games, we provide a community play space where they can come in, play games, learn games, and just find the joy of face-to-face interaction. So it's a really enjoyable business, and I recommend you all come. I know, Commissioner Saltzman, you've been there, and I appreciate that. What games does Dan play? So, oh, gosh, what did you do? That's confidential. I can't remember, but we did get a new copy of City Council, if you'd like it again. Oh, that's right. Yeah.
 So the Foster Area Business Association, I was happily reelected as president last night, and it stretches down Foster Road from Powell up to 82nd.
 We encompass about 385 businesses representing just shy of 1,000 jobs in the neighborhood. So we're really predominantly small businesses there. We average three people per business. I'm one of the surprisingly larger businesses at 10 whole employees, but we make do and it's quite good.
 So first of all, I want to thank you on behalf of the Foster Area Business Association for providing us this opportunity with the East Portland Pilot Project. It's been a tremendous success in so many ways. And I'm going to go off script a little here, unfortunately, for Heather. But, you know, we have some great numbers that I'd be happy to show you. But what I really want to talk about a little is the feeling on the street. And just last night, we had our annual meeting.
 And for the first time in years, we had property owners show up. We had new businesses show up. We increased the diversity of our board. We got people involved, and people are starting to see the resurgence on the street. And a huge part of that has been the East Portland Pilot Project and Venture Portland's assistance. I had the unfortunate occurrence this morning where I had to terminate an employee because...
 You know, a colleague at this meeting last night that I was discussing this with, they likened it to, my business is my baby, and if I keep giving my baby to this person, they keep dropping it. I can't give them my baby. And fosters become my foster baby, so to say. And that Venture Portland and the East Portland Pilot Project through Marina, our staff person,
 I can trust them to give them this baby. They have our best interests at heart. They don't have an ulterior motive. They don't want to get business out of it. They want to see us succeed. And that is priceless. And...
 We saw this past winter, we did a first-time tree lighting in Laurelwood Park, and we had over 200 community members come out, which is the most in years. The neighborhood is craving leadership and craving revitalization, and they want to see it become a community. And the East Portland Pilot Project is helping us realize that by having that face on the street. Because like any parent, with my baby and my business, I can't spend as much time as I want.
 being the face of the organization at all given times. And that staff person, 10 hours a week, it's amazing. And I really encourage you, keep funding this project because it will help us and it will help East Portland Pilot Business Districts grow and match the amazing districts we have in the inner city. Matthew, thank you very much. Thank you. Carla, the last communication item is item number 126.
 Request of Angie Jenkins to address council regarding East Portland Pilot Project. Jenkins, welcome. So I didn't attend speech class, so I apologize. Okay. Good morning. My name is Angie Jenkins. I'm the co-owner of Hookset Automotive. We're located on the corner of 77th and Sandy. Thank you.
 We're a full-time auto repair, or full-service auto repair shop, serving all makes and all models of cars. We have five employees, and we've been in business since 2006. I'm also the president of the Park Rose Business Association, and I'm here on behalf of them.
 Since 1985, Parkhouse Business Association has been in the community. We encompass from 82nd to 162nd, from Columbia River to I-84. It's a gigantic area. We have over 1,000 diverse businesses and provides over 23,000 jobs. Despite this, the recession and the changing demographics, we've been struggling to keep our business association alive.
 on behalf of Park Rose I want to thank City Council for funding the East Portland project providing urgently needed resources for our business district with support from the pilot project we've been able to start two annual events we had the first time trunk or treat which is everybody who had 25 businesses in our district and
 come and they decorated their trunks. And then we served trick-or-treaters. I had over 700 of them and there was a ton of rain. I don't know if you guys remember it, but it was amazing. It was the record-setting day exceeded two weeks later by 50%. We set a record on that day.
 Adrian found the number of gallons of water. It was amazing. But we were able to have 700 trunk or treaters come out in the community. It was amazing. A local dentist was able to sign up new patients, ironically. And Burgerville handed out coupons, which was a record-breaking single-day coupon program.
 redeem Redemption we also did the merry and bright which is the holiday coupons our first time partnership with the grotto they have over 55,000 people come to see them as our largest kind of business in the area we have increased our membership by 77% meeting our goal to diversify the businesses are in our first 90 days we have an additional 5,000 business district investments and
 These efforts were made by the Portland Project, especially from our district organizer, Adrian Sweetwater, and our dedicated grant funding and 400 volunteer hours from our board. We ask that you continue investing in Park Rose and East Portland and extending the pilot project for an additional year will give us the ability to strengthen our new events and continue serving our business district.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Colleagues, if we could just go off script for one second and suspend the rules. Brian Alfano is here, who is concluding three years as Board Chair of Venture Portland. And it is our great tradition to thank people with a round of applause when they're with us. So, Brian, would you please stand and accept our thanks for your service? Thank you all very much for joining us. Thank you, Heather Hill.
 Carla, before we move to the time certain, we're going to take up the consent. Have any items been pulled? MS. Yes. We have a request for 131 pulled by Mr. Lightning and Mr. Walsh. MR. Okay. 131 will be pulled and heard on the regular agenda. And we'll now move to a vote on the consent agenda. Carla? MS. Ritz? MR. Aye. MS.
 Consent agenda passes. We have two time certains. We're reasonably on track this morning. Carla, would you please read the first time certain, item number 127? Approve financing not to exceed $6,500,000 using tax increment financing from the Central East Side Urban Renewal Area and Federal Home Funds for the St. Francis Park Apartments at 1136 Southeast Dark Street.
 Commissioner Dan Salzman. Thank you, Mr. President. Today is an exciting day as we move forward to approve the development of a new 106-unit affordable housing development in close-in southeast Portland. The St. Francis Park Apartments is co-sponsored by Home Forward and Cowardice Housing Initiatives, I hope I pronounced that correctly, the nonprofit housing development arm of Catholic Charities.
 The development will focus a portion of its housing on families at risk of homelessness and fleeing domestic violence. The development is on the city block located at Southeast Stark and 11th on land formerly owned by the Catholic parish of St. Francis of Assisi, the former site of St. Francis Park, a parish that is well known for its commitment to the less fortunate of our city through its year-round feeding program,
 And most recently, they stepped up when the community needed them to provide emergency shelter during severe winter weather. This has been particularly critical during freezing temperatures when other winter shelters were full. And they have done this with the help of a dedicated crew of volunteers, and we're extremely grateful to the parish for that. The St. Francis of Assisi Parish was instrumental in making this new housing development possible.
 by its decision to sell parish land at very favorable rates and under fair terms. We have a representative from St. Francis, Valeria Chapman, and she's here today. And I hope my colleagues will extend to her thanks for all the work that she and her organization have done to make this possible. And now here to talk more about it are Valeria Chapman of St. Francis, Portland Housing Bureau staff, Mike Andrews of Home Forward,
 and rick burkell the executive director of catholic charities enough chairs everybody 18. who's first christ and by the way that as you know the mics move so you can move the credenza up and down right the whole thing physically moves towards you i think i'll just frame the issue and get started kirk krieger for the record director of the portland housing bureau uh this is the
 one of 19 active projects that we're currently implementing with a variety of funding sources. And Barbara Nash is here to speak to the point of she's the relationship manager with all of our Home Forward projects.
 We're very excited about the project, which adds 96 units for people between 0 to 60 percent of income and 10 units deeply subsidized for households from 0 to 30 percent of median income. And of course it's in a very well-located central city location on the central east side. Trusted partners working together, in this instance the land being owned by the Archdiocese
 of Portland co-developed by Caritas, the housing development arm of Catholic Charities and Home Forward. So we couldn't be more delighted with the strength of our partners in this effort, the location of the property and the configuration of the property. So Barbara is here to answer questions, but I think I'll let Home Forward and Catholic Charities speak for themselves with respect to their development efforts. Good morning. My name is Mike Andrews. I'm the director of development at Home Forward.
 On behalf of our board and our executive director, Michael Bonacore, I want to thank you for this investment of $6.5 million in this project. But for the city's investment, this project would not be going forward. We're excited for a variety of reasons to be getting started on this project this month.
 we're very excited about being able to introduce 106 units of affordable housing in the Buckman neighborhood. As Commissioner Saltzman has said, this is a great inner-city neighborhood. There's a lot going on. If you've driven around this neighborhood, you've seen a lot of new construction projects. All of them, I believe, are at market rate. There is not a lot, if any, other development of affordable housing occurring in this neighborhood. So the fact that we're able to bring 106 units that will be affordable to low-income people into the Buckman neighborhood is a great thing.
 I want to take a moment to recognize our partners. First Catholic Charities, we're co-developing this project with them. We couldn't ask for a partner that's more aligned with our values and our mission than Catholic Charities. We have a great working relationship with their staff, and we pursue and think about this project in the same way at a global mission level. So, Rhea Control, thank you for that.
 I also want to acknowledge St. Francis Parish and Valerie Chapman. As was said before, St. Francis Parish made a difficult decision to sell this land to us at a rate that was less than they could have received, at a price less than they could have received, if they sold it to any other developer in town. They could have received more money for their parish, but they chose to sell it to us at a price that would make our project work and would allow for affordable housing to be built on this project. So for that, Valerie, thank you.
 The project will start construction formally this month. If you've been by, you might see that the trees have been fallen and we're getting ready to really get going on the building. And the construction will be complete by May of next year.
 So within a short period of time, there will be 106 units in a great new building, along with other amenities that include improvement on Oak Street, which is a previously vacated street between the existing parish and our project, as well as a very nice community garden. So we're excited about this project. We're excited to get started and want to thank you again for your investment and your trust in us. Thank you so much. Can you push the button at the base of the microphone? Sure.
 Thank you so much, Commissioners, for your investment in this project and for having us here. I'm Richard Burkell with Catholic Charities, Executive Director. The $6,500,000 investment in this project is the only thing that allowed it to go forward. It would have been dead in the water without your investment, and we deeply thank you for that.
 The St. Francis Park Apartments Project serves not only the mission of Catholic Charities, but the priorities of the city. It will establish units for people who work in the inner east side area, people moving out of homelessness, and people escaping domestic violence.
 The project is based on the core standards that we have in Caritas Housing, the dignity and respect of the individuals we serve. There will be on-site case management services for many of the clients. There will be housing assistance for those individuals residing there.
 It's also evidence in our commitment to build a loo, a Portland loo in the city's right-of-way, right on the project because we know there are, in fact, folks who will need that service, and we appreciate your participation with us in that work. It's built on a commitment to nature and the environment. We have green building standards but also a commitment to enhance the vacated Oak Street right-of-way with a nature in neighborhoods grant.
 And finally, equity and social justice. This is achieved through the selection of our development team, MWA Architects, the O'Neill Walsh Community Builders Team, and collectively through a very high level of MWESB subcontracting. It's an important social justice statement in this neighborhood as it arises out of what has become a sanctuary park for homeless individuals today.
 And before that, a neighborhood and school park to now stand against the forces of gentrification and high pricing that none of our clients could afford. Our partnership with St. Francis Church, Home Forward, with the Bureau is really just a remarkable set of opportunities.
 working arrangements and terrific coming together of a team. And we also want to applaud Valerie Chapman for the 30 years of commitment to St. Francis Dining Hall. And we understand and are committed to serving people in that community going forward. We know this is not a total solution.
 It is a partial solution, and we will continue to work in that community as a partner, as a resident, with the church to continue to build services. So, again, we want to just thank you. We're so grateful for your support and couldn't have done it without you. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Chapman, add a few words? I'm the pastor leader of St. Francis, and I also want to offer my gratitude for the funding the city is putting into this project.
 St. Francis Parish actually has been aware of a lack of affordable housing and workforce housing in the city for quite a while, and we've been actually working for the last 15 years to find the right partners to build a project that the parish felt good about in our neighborhood. And so we're really excited to finally have that partnership and to be able to go forward with something that we feel good about the land being used for.
 Now, the lack of a park is a hard thing for everyone, but everything has its time and its season. And we're really excited about this possibility of creating the Oak Street Plaza, which will be open to people to come in and to enjoy. And in this process, our partners did some surveys of people that are users of the park, including the people who come to St. Francis Dining Hall on a regular basis. And their number one concern is a public restroom.
 So I am really delighted I got to go and talk to the Catholic Charities Board and talk about, you know, toilets and the need that people have. And so that's included in the project. And we're really hopeful that on an ongoing basis, because the city is already set up with maintenance and caring for loos in different places, we're hopeful that the city might include this loo as part of their ongoing maintenance situation.
 since the project itself is going to be using the funding to put it into the ground. So it will be there. So there's going to be a loo in the open space outside? Mm-hmm. Cool. And are you buying it from the loo? It's an official loo? I'm not, you know, I don't understand the loo language that, you know, we're not supposed to use or a public restroom. We've got a brand named loo.
 Yes, and, you know, even people will say, well, what if the neighborhood changes and things change? You know, people always need a restroom. And so if there is this lovely Oak Street Plaza and a place that people can use, then that will be delightful on an ongoing basis. So we're really excited about it. And, again, thank you, Dr.
 for funding this project. I think it will be good for the neighborhood and certainly good for the parish as well. Thank you. Thank you very much. Portland Parks maintains many of the loos, so I'd be happy to have some further discussions with you about this one and see what partnership we might be able to do. Thank you. Thank you.
 I would like to add a few words, too. I'm Barbara Shaw, a finance coordinator at the Housing Bureau, and I wanted to talk a little bit about how this project was selected. And this was selected through a competition, a public solicitation, in late 2014. We advertised a certain amount of funding available and received many applications and ideas, project concepts, and ideas.
 And through a long process that involved a lot of stakeholders, this project was selected in this form. We're, like many, like all affordable housing projects today, it's complex to put the project together. The city funding is one of 10 sources of financing in the project.
 Some of the other parties that are providing loans or grants or equity, investors' equity, are Chase Bank, Key Bank, Community Development Corporation. HUD has played a role here. The state of Oregon has provided funding and played a role, in addition to the parties at the table, who are also financial partners as well as involved in the development. Thanks, Barbara. That completes the invited testimony.
 I have a few questions, but let me first see if my colleagues do. Three quick comments. The first is we've received some e-mails from people in the community who've picked up on the fact that trees have been removed.
 And I guess the question is maybe to Mike, when is the earliest time you're going to put up a sign saying future home of whatever so that people that are curious about what's going on in that what used to be a sort of a public space space.
 know that there's a development plan. That's a great question. We'll have a sign-up near the time that we close, which is scheduled for February 29th. So within the month, we'll have a sign-up. But I think when you see the stumps there, just you naturally are curious about what's happening. Commissioner Fritz raised the question of the loos, and I just want to make a comment on that.
 The Portland Loo was an innovation of the Portland Water Bureau, and most particularly Commissioner Randy Leonard. He got the patent for that loo. One of the things we did, though, is we recognized that as it matured as a business opportunity, the city should not be in the business of selling loos. We should structure a deal where we get a fee every time one is sold as a licensing fee. And so we spun off the loos.
 when we said to the manufacturer, we hope you're wildly successful. Well, they're actually selling a lot of loos. And the good news for us is that we get a revenue. We get a license fee after every sale. That fee goes to Commissioner Fritz and the Parks Bureau and is used to maintain our inventory of loos. So that's the current framework. And so we should acknowledge that
 commissioner leonard pioneered that idea and i think it's now the right arrangement where we're not in the business of lose but someone else is and they're doing quite well the third comment i want to make is that we had a work session this week about the mayor's proposal for camping and how we're going to address homelessness and those details are still being worked out but one of the things that i think struck all of us is that we have a crisis that we've identified on our streets
 And we have to have a housing strategy that ensures a place for people who've been on our streets to go. And in this tight rental market, there's a diminishing stock of available homes, and there's a very low vacancy rate. Landlords are being very picky. So one of the things that I think you'll hear more from us going forward is the need to make sure that there are units that truly poor people in our community can live in. And when I looked at the pro forma on this, I was heartened by two things.
 One is that there are a total of 105 units for people at 0 to 60, but within that, there's 10 units set aside for the poorest of the poor, people at 0 to 30, the kinds of folks that Home Forward often provides housing to, people that have no income.
 and we're not going to solve the crisis on the streets unless we have housing that the most vulnerable people can can live in so i really compliment you for that and the other thing that jumped out at me on the pro forma and i was going to ask mike just to elaborate on this it says that there'll be 25 units set aside for at-risk households and you'll be putting project-based section 8 vouchers so for for for the average person watching that could you tell us what that means
 Sure. So there are 25 units that will be set aside for a combination of women who are escaping domestic violence or women who are in or at risk of homelessness.
 So we have units that are set aside for them. These are two programs that are run by Catholic Charities. These women can often come with a Section 8 voucher, which they currently have, or some form of short-term rent assistance that would allow them to have housing stability.
 So we tried very hard, and thank you for acknowledging this, to strike a balance on this project to achieve as much of our mission goals as we can. And as you had mentioned, from Home Forward's perspective, we are very aware of the need for housing for very low-income people. Approximately half of the residents that we house, either through our public housing program or with Section 8, so that's about 3,000 households, are at about 16% of the area median income.
 So we're fully aware that there's a very low-income population that needs housing. And on a project like this, we're trying to balance a variety of goals and achieve as much of that mission as we can. Well, and I want to just acknowledge that, you know, it's been an evolving strategy to put more of the Section 8 vouchers into projects. And there's good arguments on both sides of that issue. We've had that debate over time.
 But when we're seeing the success rate of our Section 8 vouchers in the 70 percent, because there just isn't a supply of available rental units, we have to think more in terms of dedicated units, either by dedicating a unit or project basing.
 We have no choice, and I know the Home for Everyone has specifically targeted at-risk women and women facing domestic violence. So this is a real step forward, 25 units plus the 10 at 0 to 30. And I hope as we go forward, Mr. Director, we see more of this because I think there has to be
 We have to connect the crisis on the streets and our strategy with the kind of housing we're investing in. Obviously, we need a range of housing, but where you have an opportunity to make this kind of down payment on where the big need is, I think it's important, and I congratulate you for focusing on that. Commissioner Francis? Yes, you did spark another question. Tell me about the accessibility in the units equipped for people with American disabilities, mobility or other challenges.
 It's a great question. All of the units are visitable. So it's an elevator building, and all of the units are on one floor. I think our – I'm hesitating here because I don't have this number set to memory, but we're achieving the minimum for ADA compliance, which I believe is 5%. All the units are visitable, so there's ramps and an elevator in the building. And are the remaining 95% of the units ABAs?
 easily able to be adjusted to be accessible? Yeah, so they would be adaptable. So things like door widths, turning radiuses within bathrooms and kitchens all allow for adaptability of units. Great. That's very, very helpful. Thank you. Great question. So thank you all. Oh, Mr. Director. One other thing I'd like to mention, since this is fast-breaking news, you may have seen a press release that was jointly configured by the Bureau of
 And recall that in the fall budget modification process, you allocated funds to match Home Forward's effort to increase voucher utilization. And since you brought up utilization, I wanted to make sure that you know that our investment was successful. We spent $45,000 of general fund money to match funds from Home Forward as well as the housing authorities of Clark County, Vancouver, Washington County, and Clackamas County. And HUD did...
 increase the fair market rents by about 33%. So the current utilization rate should go up, and it's a happy event for this project because the revenue can then be captured from HUD. Just so people know, when we talk about utilization rate, we're talking about the success that someone has when they get issued a voucher finding a successful tenancy. Okay.
 If they're unsuccessful, they have to turn it back, and that's obviously bad for the tenant, and we're leaving money on the table. So the marketing window for all residents throughout the region has just increased, and hopefully people will have a little bit more purchasing power as they negotiate with landlords for those rental units.
 Congratulations, David. Congratulations. And Congressman Blumenauer, thanks for your assist on that. Thank you. Oh, yes. Could I just add one thing, just because I don't think that I actually said it or it was said, and that is that of the $6.5 million that is being provided through the city, $3.5 million of that is actually federal home funds that are being allocated to this project, and the remainder is coming from tax increment financing.
 Barbara, thanks for mentioning that because this past year there was a move in the United States Senate to kill the home program. So when people want to know what do you get for the federal investment in housing, this is exactly what we're talking about. So thank you all. Thank you. Carla, do we have anyone who would like to testify? Yes. We have three people signed up. Please come on up. Joe Walsh, Lightning Watchdog PDX, and Charles Johnson. Okay. Gentlemen, please come forward.
 Mr. Walsh, will you kick us off? My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice, and we stand against the city contributing $6.5 million to this project. We don't object to the project. It's none of our business if the Catholic Church wants to build this. You have two entities here. You have the Church of St. Francis.
 which is a notable, wonderful church. You have Catholic Charities, which is also a very wonderful charity. Then you have the Archdiocese, which is not so good. Over a year ago, we asked why the St. Francis Park was being sold, and we were told that the diocese is out of money because they paid $53 million in settlements because of their pedophile priest.
 So I ask this question. If you take $6.5 million of taxpayers' money and give it to the Catholic Church, are you in bed with pedophiles? Is that a big leap? $53 million. It was so bad a few years ago that the insurance companies ran away. And the diocese declared bankruptcy on the very victims.
 And you want to give them $6.5 million. And it's supposed to be a loan. But in your documents, it says you don't expect to be repaid. I have never seen that in writing. When I loan somebody money, I would never put it in writing that you don't have to pay it. That's not a loan. That's a grant.
 So you're granting 6.5 taxpayers' money into a file that is a pedophile history. That's what you're doing there, Commissioner Salzman. It's really nice to have all these people come up here and tell you how wonderful everything's going to be. This project has nothing to do with the homeless. Affordable housing is a scam.
 It's 60% of the going rate here. That's $65,000. 60% of that is $40,000. That has nothing to do with the homeless. So, Mr. Fish, don't you dare use the homeless to justify this mess. Thank you. Thanks, Joe. Lightning, you're next. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 To begin my speech, I would have been in support of this project, the facts that Mr. Walsh brought up at this time. Again, I believe that the city does need to follow their socially and morally responsible policies that they have in place. If the facts are true on this, as Mr. Walsh has stated, I do not want the city of Portland to fund the money. You have stopped dealing with Walmart on issues of labor,
 which as you know, they're closing 250 stores and also laying off 15,000 employees. You've made that decision. And on this decision also, if Mr. Walsh's facts are correct, you do not have to fund this money. Now, yes, the project will not happen. But if you stand by your socially and morally responsible policies that you put in place on Walmart before you had a discussion from your committee, then you will follow through on this also.
 And you will deny this money. You will deny this money. Again, I was going to proceed forward on this project. It's a good project. Everything looks good as far as on the numbers. And again, as Mr. Walsh has stated, the term affordable housing units, current MFI, is always under debate and always can be changed. Again, my position is if you want to lower rents and offer housing, you build more housing.
 You give more incentives to the developers. You give more bonuses to the developers, more height, more density. Keep them building if you want lower rents. Keep them building if you want to decrease homelessness. Do not impede the developers. And when we're talking about the fossil fuel industry extraction companies...
 begin to stop their subsidies and begin to understand, don't fund everything over to the solar systems and those directions, but also fund a percentage to the affordable housing industries as subsidies to keep the developers building more units.
 We have a tremendous amount of subsidies out there that need to start being directed in affordable housing, creating more jobs, more housing, and will shut the fossil fuel industries down. That's what needs to be done. This type of loan here, again, if these facts are true by Mr. Walsh, do not fund this money if your socially and morally responsible policy within this city has any meaning and any bearing. Thank you. Thank you, Lightning. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning, city council members. My name is Charles Johnson. And of course, we've heard a very important issue added into this conversation, the welfare of victimized children. But if any parish in the Catholic Church has done anything to advance minority rights and protection of the vulnerable, it's St. Francis of Assisi Parish in the inner east side.
 strong voice for the full role of women in the church, full equality. Unfortunately, the way our economy works out, there's no longer a school associated with that location. But I've visited with the people of St. Francis Parish in worship. And if any community is working hard to increase protection of vulnerable people, be they children or the homeless in this community, it is St. Francis of Assisi Parish. Thank you.
 I think that the complex legal structures we develop about real estate development mean that none of this money will help the Catholic, the Archdiocese of Portland resolve its bankruptcy. But,
 There is, as Mr. Fish noted when he raised the issue of why is there no sign saying how wonderful this project is yet, that there is also public perception. So it's good that this is getting attention, especially to promote the healing of those victims that are covered related to that bankruptcy and settlement. But we obviously need much more than 100, 106 units of affordable housing.
 We need more projects where a higher percentage is for the 30 and below. And probably this is the best project that has ever come through the city council. There's some stuff going on at the Erickson on Burnside. I don't think the performance for ultra-low income below 30 in that project is as good as this project.
 It's strange that a grant of monies that are complicated to determine whether they're federal HUD money, city taxpayer money, is an investment that might not get repaid. But regardless, the money is being spent to take poor and needy people and put them inside of homes that they can cherish and maintain, hopefully for a long time. Who knows what happens in this crazy rental market. Okay.
 So I'm not going to say for or against whether you should vote in light of what other people have raised, but obviously we need action to get low-income housing going. And I hope that this project will be a catalyst for more conversation and that we can find good nonprofit partners that have a clear, easy-to-understand balance sheet
 and we can proceed with more projects that get people inside, especially vulnerable people. Thank you. Thanks very much. Carla, has anyone else asked to speak? Please tell me. Please. All we need is your name for the record, sir. You have three minutes. My name is Norm Santana. I'm a homeless guy, or formerly, recently homeless guy. You know, and I know it's a little, and it's...
 You know, a drop in a really big bucket. And I also know that, you know, doing something comes with a lot of other stuff that inevitably gets thrown into the mix. But there are rooms, and they got locks, and there's homeless people that need them, and I'm glad you're doing what you're doing. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir.
 Okay. Carla, would you please call the roll? This is an emergency. I appreciate the passion and especially Mr. Johnson's balancing comments. The amount of city money is $3 million from tax increment financing. So for 100 units, that's $30,000 per unit.
 for 60 years of affordability for 100 units. That's pretty darn good. Thank you very much, Commissioner Saltzman and the entire team for working on this project. Other money comes from federal funding and other partners. This is a perfect example of how you need lots of different agencies and nonprofits, as well as government, to help fund something like this. But it's over 100 units that are going to be affordable at the,
 levels that we most need for 60 years. That's really good use of public money. And I am glad that it's very clear that we don't expect to be paid back, that this is an investment in our community. This is exactly what we've been told by the community that we wanted, that we should be doing.
 Just to go back to the tree preservation issue, the lot is zoned EX, which doesn't require any tree preservational mitigation for the trees. So that's something we might want to look at in the tree code ongoing project that we might finance to do next year.
 I do appreciate that the strand of trees in the northwest corner has been saved, as far as I've been told, and also the dogwoods are going to be added to create this lovely woodland garden area. I'm interested to look at the financing of the loo and the ongoing maintenance for it. I have some more discussions with the Water Bureau Commissioner about that and perhaps bring an ask back to Council if it's determined that the Parks Bureau should continue to maintain it.
 Everybody needs to do their part in this, and there's probably something to dislike in every single project that comes before the council, and this one there's a whole lot of things to like. And thanks to Jasmine Wadsworth on my staff who looked into all of the details, and Commissioner Saltzman's staff who answered all our questions ahead of time. Hi. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank St. Francis of Assisi Parish for providing this land for this important affordable housing project.
 and remind people of the fact that they did sell it to Home Forward and Caritas at a very favorable rate and under very fair terms. They could have sold it for a lot more to a private market rate developer.
 Thanks for Home Forward and Caritas for doing this great development. I want to thank the Portland Housing Bureau for the tremendous role they played in shaping this development. And this is, as I said, 106 units of affordable housing, 10 of those units deeply affordable, and helping victims of domestic violence. These are all the types of attributes that we should be supporting as a city, and I'm proud to vote aye. No, thank you.
 I echo what my colleagues have said. I appreciate Commissioner Fritz pointing out that from the city's perspective, when we've been struggling with what people have called the high cost of affordable housing, this is a bargain. I appreciate everyone's work. I appreciate Commissioner Saltzman's work. I'm pleased about that.
 We have two items today on the Time Certain agenda where we're going to celebrate great partnerships that have produced wonderful results for the community. And we're first taking up this development. And I just want to echo a few things my colleagues have said. First, the St. Francis Church.
 You know, I've been on the council since 2008, and something that the church I don't think ever gets enough credit for is every time we have a storm, a winter event, or an emergency circumstance, their doors are always open. And they provide shelter from the storm for the most vulnerable people in our community, a place to escape the weather, a warm meal, a loving heart.
 This is just another example of their splendid record of service to our community. So we thank the St. Francis family. I want to acknowledge Home Forward, particularly the leadership decision and the partnership with the Housing Bureau and Dan to put more Section 8 vouchers into projects. Vouchers work when you have inventory. They don't work so well when there aren't available units, and project basing is, I think, a reasonable compromise.
 To Catholic Charities and Terrell Anderson, the Board Chair, and all of our friends, let's acknowledge that this is the development wing of a faith community wholly separate and apart from whatever view you have of the Archdiocese. And they are bound by federal, state, and local laws, and they have produced some splendid housing in partnership with others in the community. And we're continuing that great tradition, and I think we should be proud of that partnership.
 To the Housing Bureau that Kurt and Dan are leading so ably, and to Barbara Shaw, well done. We only spend a few minutes at Council talking about these projects, but if we had more time, Dan would note that these are very, very hard to pull together. But you make it easy. You make it look easy. So thank you for your service. Dan, I'm delighted that there's such a focus here on the most economically challenged people in our community.
 and my hope is that we will build on this as we look at future nofas and even tax abatements to focus where the where the big need is and i'm delighted there's going to be a loo at that location and something we should also acknowledge is the loo will be within walking distance of a park and one of the things we often hear from people that have children in the park is where do where do our kids get to relieve themselves so this is a terrific benefit as well um
 Most often when we have these kinds of council discussions, we rarely have people here to properly celebrate the moment. It's just a function of our council meetings. And we celebrate democracy in this chamber, and everyone has a chance to be heard. But under normal circumstances, we'd have a large number of people here.
 celebrating this day and in absence of that it's the council's obligation to celebrate these kinds of partnerships so thanks to everybody and thank you commissioner saltzman for another job well done i uh the ordinance passes carla would you please read council item 128 proclaim wednesday february 10th to be the office of multi-family housing day in portland
 Well, this is a wonderful opportunity to thank and acknowledge the good work of some community partners who are being relocated. And it's a chance to celebrate some good work. And as we tee this up with Margaret Salazar, the field office director at the HUD Oregon State Office, and Patrick Shea, former director of the Portland Multifamily Program Center at the HUD office, would you please come forward to the...
 to the podium and I'm going to make a brief introductory remark. We're going to turn it over to you, do some acknowledgments, and then Commissioner Saltzman is going to read the proclamation that the Mayor has issued today in honor of this occasion. We're here today to celebrate a remarkable set of achievements and a strong partnership between HUD and the City of Portland.
 that resulted in the preservation of an astonishing number of at-risk apartments in our community. And I know people's eyes glaze over when you start talking about expiring use properties and the mechanics, but the plain English version is that we have a lot of buildings in our community that have HUD Section 8 contracts, and when those contracts expire, the owners of those buildings have the right to repurpose the building.
 They can convert them to condos. They can upgrade them to higher-end rentals. Or they can agree to sell their buildings to a nonprofit, and with an army of people linking arms, we can refinance the building, rehabilitate it, and preserve the affordability for 60 years. Citi partnered with our friends at HUD, our friends at the state, NOAA, the nonprofit community, and literally –
 just an army of innovative and focused people, on what was called the 11 by 13 campaign, which was roughly targeted at 1,000 at-risk buildings downtown. And to be clear, these are some of the nicest buildings in downtown Portland, which are also home to some of the poorest people in our community. So the stakes were very high, and had we failed collectively, a lot of people would have been put out in the street who don't have a better option.
 Over the last 10 years, and colleagues, I'm just going to give you the highlights, but you'll get the sense of how astonishing HUD's accomplishment is here. This office has helped preserve 31 Portland HUD Section 8 properties totaling over 2,000 units. And those all by right could currently today be luxury rentals or condominiums. The team also secured over $300 million in federal rent assistance dollars over the next 20 years,
 Because you see, every time you save one of these buildings, you're also bringing long-term federal subsidies to those buildings, which make them affordable. And so that's like a little stimulus project of money coming into our community. I'm going to let the experts talk about it, but before I do so, I'm going to recognize Rob Prash. Rob, would you wave your hand? I can't think of anybody in the state of Oregon who has worked more effectively on this question of preservation. Thank you.
 Rob is a former HUD official and has worked in the public and private sectors and was one of a group of people that was instrumental in crafting the city's policy. So, Rob, thank you. And thank you for suggesting this opportunity for us to thank our friends at HUD for their great service. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to our director, Margaret Salazar. And I will, in turn, turn it over to Mr. Shea. Welcome. Good morning. Again, I'm Patrick Shea, commissioners. I appreciate this opportunity.
 to share a few moments with you. I am the, well, former director of the HUD Portland Multifamily Program Center. But I'm representing the Portland Multifamily staff today, and I'm humbled and honored by the proclamation that will be announced this morning for the day of recognition for the Office of Multifamily Housing. The proclamation referred to the 11 by 13 preservation campaign, which was led by Commissioner Fish.
 One notable event which I want to share among all those great accomplishments was in January 2012, a waiver was approved by HUD headquarters for the use of $7 million of HUD residual receipts for construction costs for some 11 of these projects.
 This was accomplished through communication, cooperation, and shared affordable housing goals of Oregon Housing and Community Services, the City of Portland, Network for Oregon Affordable Housing, and the Portland and Seattle Multifamily Leadership. Again, it's a partnership, cooperation. It takes many hands to get this work done.
 I want to mention briefly the HUD multifamily still remains committed to affordable housing in Portland and in Oregon. Over the last 12 months, ending 131-16, the Section 8 funds for multifamily in Portland, there's 3,375 units, 64 projects.
 And the amount of rental subsidy HUD provided was $24.5 million. That's in one year. So when you extrapolate that, that's where you start coming up with the $300 million. In Oregon, there are 9,928 Section 8 units and 255 projects throughout the state.
 The amount of subsidy in the last 12 months for those projects is $61.6 million. This is irreplaceable funds serving 30% or below income. In addition, FHA Mortgage Insurance has provided access to capital for projects throughout Portland and Oregon for refinances, substantial rehabilitation, and new construction.
 FHA mortgages for new construction recently include projects in the Portland neighborhoods of Westmoreland, the Pearl, Interstate Avenue, and St. John's. Significantly on June 17, 2015, the FHA initial closing of Westmoreland's Union Manor was accomplished through, again, communication and cooperation among many affordable housing partners in the state and the city,
 But we especially want to note that Portland Housing Bureau was instrumental in facilitating the issuance of the building permits for Westmoreland's Union Manor by the City of Portland. Westmoreland Union Manor is under construction now as a substantial rehab project. It is the largest HUD multifamily subsidized project in Oregon with 300 elderly units.
 Over the last five years, Portland multifamily staff have generated FHA mortgage insurance as follows. In Portland, 3,277 units, 24 projects. Cumulative mortgage amounts, $327,974,800. In Oregon, 12,111 units were generated, 92 projects.
 $1,076,076,176,100, a significant impact, not to mention all the construction jobs that go with those rehabilitations and new construction. In conclusion, the Portland Multifamily Program Center has had a significant impact in terms of affordability and access to capital for developers and lenders for the city of Portland and for communities throughout Oregon. I want to thank the multifamily staff
 who through their passion for affordable housing, their problem-solving skills, and commitment to both the mission and market goals of HUD, made all these accomplishments possible. Finally, again, I appreciate the opportunity to share these remarks and for the proclamation today. Now I will turn the microphone over to Margaret Salazar. Hi.
 Field Office Director. Thank you so much, Patrick. Thank you so much, Commissioners, for the opportunity to address you here today. And thank you for the recognition of the tremendous contributions of the HUD multifamily staff here in the HUD Portland Field Office. I've worked with HUD teams around the country, which has been a real honor. And I have to tell you that the HUD multifamily team here in Portland is absolutely one of the best.
 Portland and the state of Oregon has benefited from their tremendous work and tireless commitment to affordable housing and urban development over the years. We have been very lucky to benefit from all of their expertise and efforts. Many of them are in the chambers here today, and I'd like to take the opportunity to acknowledge them. So the multifamily staff who are here, if you could stand, please. Let's suspend the rules and give them a good round of applause.
 Thank you so much. As we take time to reflect on the work of the multifamily staff and their contributions, I also want to take a moment to reassure you that we at the HUD field office here in Portland remain open for business. I want to dispel any myths there that we're closing. We will still be open. And as you know, in addition to the multifamily programs, our Portland office oversees so many important HUD programs to this community. Thank you.
 The activities of public housing authorities, the Section 8 voucher program, the Community Development Block Grant program, the HOME program, and we enforce the Fair Housing Act. We partner with you on homeless programs. Many of the programs, in fact, that you were just discussing in the prior agenda item contributing to the ongoing development work that you all are moving forward with. And we will continue to work with you on those programs and to make them the most effective programs that we can to serve the needs of Portland. Thank you.
 Though the Portland multifamily staff will be moving on to new opportunities, the HUD multifamily programs will remain available to Portland and to the state of Oregon. Nationally, HUD oversees more than one million apartments through the project-based Section 8 program. We remain committed to preserving and improving these affordable homes for the most vulnerable in our communities, for current and future generations.
 Our multifamily mortgage insurance programs will continue to provide financing options for new construction, substantial rehabilitation, refinance, acquisition, and repair of multifamily properties. We continue to run innovations such as aging in place programs, mental health pilots, the rental assistance demonstration, and so many other programs.
 As the City of Portland looks for strategies to meet this region's tremendous housing need at all income levels, I encourage you to keep FHA financing on your radar. We won't have this talented team on hand to help get the deals done, but I assure you that we will work closely with our colleagues and other HUD offices to deliver for you.
 Thank you again so much for honoring our staff. As federal employees, we don't often get this kind of opportunity, so we appreciate the recognition. And thank you for the long track record of committed partnership between HUD and the City of Portland. Thank you. I have a clarifying question.
 You said that the office will remain open, but the staff are going. Explain to me how that works. So the HUD office will remain open. We have approximately 50 employees. The HUD multifamily staff who had been running the multifamily programs are being reassigned to work on health care programs, so assisted living facilities and nursing homes, also critical resources for our aging population. But those multifamily programs will now be run out of the HUD offices in San Francisco and Denver.
 So if somebody's interested, there will still be a Portland office open? Absolutely. And they can go there and the staff will help from San Francisco? So my staff will help to link them with the appropriate staff in the other HUD offices, San Francisco and Denver, to get the deals actually executed. Please express our commiserations for your staff for having to move from lovely Portland.
 Luckily, folks will be able to stay in place in Portland. Their assignments are changing to work on you. So folks have the option to move to San Francisco, not surprisingly, not a very attractive option for affordability reasons for many folks. So they'll still be here in lovely Portland. Yay, thank you. Margaret, in a second, Dan's going to read a proclamation, and then we're going to ask for a photograph. Wonderful. Because Patrick mentioned residual receipts, I want to do a shout-out to Jim Winkler.
 a local developer who was part of the Brain Trust on thinking about that. I want to acknowledge that Dan and the Bureau are finishing up the renovation of the Brano apartment, which is the last of the 11 by 13, so we'll have a chance to have that celebration when Dan cuts the ribbon.
 If a majority, if any of the current leading candidates for president of a certain party are elected, they've all pledged to abolish HUD. So for those people that think having a local HUD office is a good thing, keep that in mind. And finally, we are talking about preservation today. And as we know, preservation is typically the best value. If we can preserve what we have, it's the most cost-effective strategy as compared to building a new unit. So it's something we care about.
 And with that, Dan is going to read a proclamation issue by the mayor today. Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be happy to read the proclamation. Whereas Portland's affordable housing community has enjoyed a long and productive relationship with our federal partners from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, and whereas in 1965 HUD created the Office of Multifamily Housing and opened a local office in downtown Portland in 1971,
 Whereas Portland, like every other city in America, cannot be successful without a strong partnership with HUD and federal investments in affordable housing. And whereas in the last 45 years, the Oregon office provided multifamily loans, direct loans, and grants to 342 properties and almost 23,000 affordable apartments in Portland. And whereas in 2008,
 the 11 by 13 preservation campaign was launched to address expiring federal subsidies on 11 privately owned affordable apartment buildings in Portland, home to low-income older adults and people with disabilities, and whereas the City of Portland was proud to partner with HUD on 11 by 13 to save all 11 at-risk buildings, preventing 1,000 affordable homes from being converted to market-rate rentals
 or sold as condominiums, thereby displacing vulnerable tenants, and whereas the HUD Office of Multifamily Housing is transitioning to the West Region Multifamily for Tomorrow office, located in San Francisco, California, and whereas Portland is proud of the Office of Multifamily Housing's legacy of service to thousands of vulnerable families and individuals in our community, now therefore I, Charlie Hills, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses,
 to hereby proclaim Wednesday, February 10th to be a day of recognition for the Office of Multifamily Housing in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. If everybody who is employed by the office would come forward, we'll take a group picture. Asenna Lawrence on my team helped draft the proclamation. Thank you, Asenna. And colleagues, let's get a picture. A couple more down here.
 I like what Commissioner Fritz just said about it's nice to celebrate and acknowledge public employees and the good work they do. It's not easy work these days. So thank you all.
 That concludes our time. Surgeons will now move to the regular agenda. Carla, do you want to pull the consent item and put that first? Yes, 131. All right, let's call 131, please. Amend contract with transition projects to add $450,000 for the operation of a six-month emergency shelter for men experiencing homelessness. Who pulled this? Mr. Lightning and Mr. Walsh.
 Okay. Are either Mr. Walsh or Mr. Lightning here? Okay. Thank you. Joe, thank you. Joe, thank you. Who's here? Commissioner Salzman, do you have a presentation? Yes. We have Kurt Krieger, our housing director, and Javier Mena, one of both of you, if you want to come up. Gentlemen, if someone could come up and give us a quick... Oh, Sally Erickson. Sally. Sally. Could you just give us a brief explanation of this? Good news. Yes, sir.
 Yeah, it's great news, and we're very appreciative of Transition Projects to once again step forward and be willing to, on very short notice, I think we had about three weeks from the date, of knowing that the Menashies were contributing this facility at no cost to actually getting it up and running. So we're very pleased about that. Please put your name in the record. Pardon me? Please put your name in the record. Oh, thank you. I'm Sally Erickson. I'm Homeless Programs Manager at the Housing Bureau.
 the operations began actually in several weeks ago serving 100 men a night with preference for men ages 55 and above veterans and men with disabilities and it's been full almost since the first day so we're again very grateful to the Menashe family for the space and transition projects that's great I don't know if anybody wants to testify or not but
 Okay. We've got some testimony. Carla, is anyone signed up to testify? Thank you, Sally. I have a sign-up sheet, but we have people coming up. If anyone would like to testify in this matter, please come forward. Mr. Walsh, Mr. Lightning. Joe, why don't you kick it off? My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We're a little confused here. We got testimony from Commissioner Bailey from the county saying all the veterans are off the streets. Yes.
 I didn't believe that, and this seemed to indicate that we still have a problem with my fellow vets off the streets. So if anybody really knows the answer to that, Commissioner Salzman, are all of the veterans off the streets now? Do you have any idea? We have housed over most of them. No, no, no. Are they all off the streets? That was the statement made. I don't know if they're all off the streets. I don't know. Okay. Thank you very much. The other thing is,
 We question six months. Why six months? Why can't we do something now?
 Say, this is the problem. This is the solution. Let's finalize the solution. Why do we have to do this piecemeal stuff? I can answer that if you like. Yes. The owner has made it available for six months, and they have donated the space. They only have a six-month window. Okay. That's the only space in Portland. No, but this space has been selected as a shelter and has been donated. So this funding allows us to operate it for that six months. Okay.
 Okay. Isn't there a better place to do it? If you can find a better space. Commissioner Salzman is out constantly looking for space. Give me $5 million, I'll find five of them. You're on. Okay. That's our concern. We do it piecemeal. We never fix the problem. We still have...
 Depending on who you're talking to, anywhere from 2,000 to 5,000 people on our streets or on couches or in cars or just hiding with friends. We never fix it. Salt Lake City fixed it. And you know how to do it because they laid it out for you. But you do it six months at a time. I don't know. Convenient. Easy. Let's do it. The rent's cheap. Okay.
 Let's fix the damn problem. People are on the streets still. And we will do this every month at least. And if you're not doing anything, every week we will come to you and say, what are you doing? And don't give me six months, Commissioner. It's not good enough. They're my buddies out there.
 I live indoors. I get up in the morning and I take a hot shower like everybody on this council. What is it like to get up in the morning and be cold and go nowhere? And we say to you year after year after year, I've been in this council now for four, six years saying the same thing. Get these people off the streets. And what do you do? You pat yourselves on the back. That's what you do.
 And you break my heart, Commissioner. Lightning? Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Again, my statements toward the Menaches at this time is that, again, you donating your space is very beneficial to the most vulnerable people of this city.
 Again, your six-month time frame is a reasonable time frame. The money being allocated is a reasonable amount for the services that will be provided there for over 100-plus people. Again, your personnel costs of $268,000, operating expenses of $143,000, administration costs of $38,000, I think are all within reason.
 And again, on six months, we might be a little bit high on where I want to see the numbers hit. I generally want to see the numbers hit on an annual basis of 100-plus people of somewhere around maybe 750,000, no more than that, with a cap set to provide all the services that you have stated you will provide at this facility. Another issue I have is that I think that the transition projects, TPI, is a –
 a group to be looked at more than what we look at at Salt Lake City for their successes. I think we have the success in the Portland market because of Transition Projects, Inc. I want to see that you also have an opportunity to do an analysis on opening up the Wapato property that Multnomah County currently has under their control, and
 I will be proposing to the City of Portland to take that property from Multnomah County for $1 in the name of public good to do an analysis on operating the property and also getting that opened as a more permanent solution for transitioning and shelter space. Okay.
 Again, Multnomah County, as you know, Sheriff Staten is going to be under a lot of investigation. I don't think he has any more time to be doing any analysis on Wapato. He has had 10 years to do the analysis. He's gotten nowhere. Take that property that has been sitting empty for 10 years, put it into good use, do an IGA with the City of Portland, Multnomah County, and Metro to operate this property. Okay.
 Again, do the analysis as Portland Business Alliance has stated on a pilot program to begin with, 100 people, budgeted at $750,000 on an annual basis, and bring in transitional projects to begin the process moving forward. Again, we've looked at the...
 statements made out of Salt Lake City by Mr. Pendleton. Again, his emphasis is on more shelter space, more permanent affordable housing being built, not tent cities, not that I'm against tent cities, but his emphasis is more on shelter space, transitioning space, and that's what we have here. And we need to set this up on a national basis with Wapato. And now is the time to do it and quit talking about it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning, City Council members. Again, for the record, my name is Charles Johnson. There's so much to say to this particular agenda item and the broader issues that Transition Projects deals with. Last week, we had here Jacques Gitte and other people from Senator Merkley's staff and Senator Wyden's staff, and we were happy because they found us a half million federal dollars for Cully Park. And now here we are dealing with about a half million dollars again
 And for people that didn't get what the implication is here, it means that I didn't look deep enough to know whether all this $450,000 will pay for the necessary wages of assistant staff at the property or whether it covers the cost of the masking tape that marks the space on the floors where people will sleep. So we don't want to overly congratulate ourselves.
 that what we're doing is masking out areas on the floor for people to sleep. That's an improvement from sleeping in the rain under a tarp with no heat. So I actually would really appreciate if either later on or by calling staff back up, we can know exactly how the $450,000 breaks down between paying less than $15 an hour
 for a TPI staff person to be present in case of emergency or to help direct people to restrooms during the night. But the broader issue remains that last week, for really a measly half million dollars, we had three senatorial staff aides, and now we have another half million dollars. That's just a drop in a bucket. We talked about $3 million of city money for a housing project.
 I know it gets frustrating also for commissioners, all of you, to know that when you walk out these doors, you're going to see hundreds of people sleeping outside. And we just have to take that frustration and channel it into wringing money out of the federal government and building creative solutions. I hope that many people will tune in to Think Out Loud at noon today on OPB when this conversation will get continued. Thank you. Mr.
 Mr. Johnson, I'll make sure you get a response to your question. Carla, would you please call the roll? This is an emergency. Right. Well, let's be very clear. It is not okay with anyone on the council that people are living outside, whether they have tents or tarps or nothing. It is not okay with anyone on the council that people are in warehouses with...
 overnight shelter and nothing better. There was a work session on Monday about what the council led by Mae Harrells are doing to provide a modicum of dignity and shelter for folks who have to be outside because we don't have enough shelter.
 Commissioner Saltzman will be leading a work session on Monday, on Tuesday the 16th at 930 to give two hours presentation on a home for everyone about what the city and county and the home forward plan is for providing permanent supportive housing for people. That is the goal that all of us share.
 and we know how to do it. What we don't have is the money. And until somebody has a brain, has some kind of inkling of how to get that money out of the federal government when it's been decreasing since the Reagan years...
 We don't have enough money, nor do we have enough money from the state. Commissioner Saltzman has been down at the legislature a lot recently, trying to get the exclusion on inclusionary housing repealed by the state legislature, and he's working very diligently on that. We are working on a number of different fronts. There is not a finite number of people who become homeless, whether all of the veterans who were outside in June are now inside,
 Or not, there are others who have become homeless, that still a medical emergency or loss of a job or other reasons cause people to lose their housing. And we know that there isn't enough affordable housing in Portland for people with full-time jobs.
 So that's the reality that we are in, and the Council is just as frustrated as everyone in the community that we don't have the resources to fix it. I encourage everybody to participate in the budget process. If you think there's a magic bucket of money somewhere, please help us find it, because we would like to put it to a vote.
 to affordable housing. We have already dedicated $6.2 million of ongoing funding in the upcoming budget to additional assistance and we're going to be looking for more. We have other needs that we need to fund too. Police and fire and emergency management and emergency communications and paying our perks workers more than a minimum wage with no benefits. These are all things that the community expects the government to do.
 And so those are the choices that we have. Commissioner Saltzman, I greatly appreciate that you are in partnership with the mayor with solid support from the rest of the council looking for these creative solutions and bringing them to council so that we let the community know we're not able to fix everything, but we're doing what we can a step at a time. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank once again the Menashe family for coming forward and providing the space for a shelter for 100 men.
 predominantly over 55, at no cost to the city, and for transition projects for agreeing in a very short time. This all came together really in about three or four weeks. The opportunity to provide shelter that's needed right now during winter for at least three to six months, and for transition projects stepping up and coming in to operate the shelter and opening it on time on January 18th.
 We do remain very interested in other property owners who have other space they would like to perhaps use for shelter on a temporary basis. And anybody who has such space and is interested and wants to follow the Menashe family's great example, please contact me. I'm pleased to vote aye. No, thank you. I, too, would like to thank the Menashe family for this extraordinary act of civic leadership, which I think –
 Commissioner Saltzman suggested is going to inspire others in the community with resources to step up and help deal with the houseless issue. And I really appreciate the quick work of Sally Erickson and the rest of the Housing Bureau and the transition projects and of Commissioner Saltzman's office to bring this to fruition, as Commissioner Saltzman just said, in a very short period of time. Yes. Aye. The matter passes. Thank you. Thank you.
 carl we're moving to the regular agenda we have a bunch of second readings and some brief items i think we'll have the council out before noon can you please read council items 1 3 2 and 1 3 3 together yes 132 authorize an agreement with the salem police for in the amount of 30 000
 to provide internal and external security for the IAAF World Track and Field Games. And 133, authorize an agreement with the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office in the amount of $30,000 to provide internal and external security for the IAAF World Track and Field Games. Gentlemen, welcome. If you could give us just a brief overview of this matter.
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Matthew Wagonet. I'm a captain with the Portland Police Bureau. To my left here is Craig Dobson, Sergeant, Portland Police Bureau. We've been tasked with providing security for the upcoming IAAF track town events that are going to be coming to Portland next month. The City of Portland, in conjunction with the U.S. Track and Field and the United States Olympic Committee, are holding a 2016 World Indoor Track and Field Championship in Portland, Oregon next month.
 This event will run from March 17th to March 19th and is anticipated that over 600 athletes from 200 countries will participate and over 6,000 spectators will attend this event. In addition, the event will be broadcast to over 180 countries and 140 million viewers.
 A key component in accomplishing a successful event is the security mission, which is to provide proactive security as well as a robust incident and emergency response system. Resources for safety and security are limited. The size and scope of this event dictates a higher level of physical security that stretches beyond the Bureau's current resources. The Police Bureau has requested assistance from the mobile response team of the Salem Police Department in support of this 2016 event.
 The cost of the assistance is estimated not to exceed $30,000. Sufficient funding resides in existing fiscal year 2015-2016 Police Bureau appropriations. It is beneficial to the city and community that this agreement be authorized as quickly as possible to prepare for this large-scale event. This is also, we're asking for $30,000, not to exceed $30,000 for Salem and not to exceed $30,000 for Multnomah County Sheriff's Office to assist us in this event.
 thank you and just just to be clear you've made the point but the 30 000 is comes out of the budget the council has already approved for this event correct sir colleagues any questions carla has anyone signed up to testify i didn't have a sign up sheet but i know people are here to sign up if you want to come on up anyone here would like to testify you look familiar sir would you please come forward the distinguished director of the rose festival is with us here thank you
 Good morning. Thank you for your time. For the record, I'm Jeff Curtis, CEO of Portland's official festival, the Portland Rose Festival. I just want to state for the record that we support the IAAF championships, and most importantly, we absolutely appreciate and support the work of our police bureau. So as I speak here today, we're planning the 109th version of the Rose Festival, your official festival.
 But I'm here to talk specifically on the behalf of special events as a whole, not just the Rose Festival. Thank you.
 And the question is, you heard resources. And resources are a real problem with our police force. And no one knows that better than me and my colleagues who have become very aware of significant challenges in the city with our police force and staffing special events moving forward beyond the track and field events.
 And you've seen it in the media, and I've had recent meetings with police bureau staff to really respect and understand the problem. It puts the special events industry as a whole. It threatens it in the long-term significance when there's not enough police force to secure events. Now, one of those solutions to what you're doing today is securing outside resources, which is appropriate. But as a member of the homegrown events community and the founding member 109 years ago,
 I've got to tell you, we're concerned. We're concerned about the communication of the bureaus with our industry, with event producers, as what might could happen. What is the future of certain events six months to a year from now? We've fallen victim to this very thing and losing one of our events because of resources, our half marathon.
 So what is important moving forward is that we're seeking Council's interaction and intervention in communicating this issue with the industry about how important special events is and how we can seek solutions to the problem of resources for special events.
 And we've heard about different rumors that certain events might be canceled, certain events might be impacted by special resources. And our own half marathon is significantly affected, obviously being canceled. But we want to produce a half marathon as a roast festival. If it's not this year, next year. But the reality of it is, and the clear reality of it is, is this question of police resources may not be cleared up in a year.
 Special events need time and a runway to produce good events, so we're asking for dialogue about police resources for the special events industry now to have conversations and to be part of a solution for this potential problem down the road.
 We want to know when and how this issue can be addressed in a proactive and a quality way. And the Rose Festival, myself and my board want to take a leadership role with this because this is an industry that's vibrant to our community. This event in March will come and go and be very safe and successful. The larger question is what about the future of special events and how can we keep our events safe?
 I'm here to close, but just to make a comment that events are not just special in Portland. They're essential. They're essential to the culture, economy, and the branding of the city of Portland. And your sports special events community wants to be at the table, wants to be part of the discussion, and wants to be part of a solution to police resources. Not a problem. Thank you. Jeff, can I just make a comment? Because I wasn't aware you'd be here today on this matter, but...
 Chad Stover in the mayor's office is pulling together an office of special events for the purpose of looking out a year or more. And I think it's long overdue. And frankly, we've learned from, you know, the Rose Festival, Major League Soccer's All-Star Game and other events that you've got to be upstream well in advance looking at how do we best coordinate. The truth is with our current staffing and state law requirements about who can actually –
 handle traffic at intersections, and there's some legal issues. Your marathon is one of a number of events at risk. Under one scenario, it could impact Sunday Parkways, among others. And so to me, it is...
 It's a little jarring that we've set aside all this money for one event that the Council has agreed is beneficial, a track meet, but we haven't been able to find the resources for an event which we've declared to be the city's signature event, and that doesn't sit well with me. So I'm glad Chad is taking the lead in organizing this inter-bureau look at events. Thank you.
 I think it's something the next mayor needs to really focus on. And if it turns out that the short staffing at the police bureau puts at risk some of these events, which, by the way, are not only great for our city but provide some revenue for folks that we ask to underwrite these events, I have a real problem with that. So I appreciate you framing the issue, and I wish we had a better answer today. Mr. President, may I ask a question? Yes.
 I understand that the Rose City Rock and Roll Half Marathon is a significant moneymaker for the Rose Festival. Is that correct? Yeah, that's correct. It helps fund other events that are cornerstone to the festival, like parades. And I do need to recognize and appreciate and respect that the Rose Festival uses a lot of priest resources for the core of our festival, the parades and things of that nature. Right. So, yeah.
 I was glad to see these items on the agenda today because it's a way to fulfill our promises for the track and field event and still not strain our Portland Police resources by contracting out. Would the Rose Festival be willing to pay to have a similar contract to contract out for some of this event?
 say if we could salvage the half marathon this year? Yeah, absolutely. It's not a money issue in the context of the development of this event. We actually would suggest that might be an option. We've explored it, but the dialogue continues to be, you know,
 We're running out of time. We've essentially run out of time. It's February for a May event, but it doesn't seem to be a real proactive appetite for having discussions about, because it still would require Portland Police resources, even if they did outsource some of it. So it's too late for this year at this point? I'm not saying it's too late this morning in front of council, but we are near the very end of a window for a half marathon. So, Mr. President, could I have the staff back up, please? Thank you for bringing this to our attention. No problem.
 Thank you for your work. And I know the whole council recognizes that police are stretched beyond belief at this point. Well, we believe it. We know how very challenging it is due to the cuts that we made during the recession to now staff knowing how long it takes to train our officers. So we've got this as a model. Would it be possible to outsource security services and traffic management for the rock and roll half marathon?
 I think it would be possible. I don't know, going back to what Mr. Curtis said, I think we may be close to the end or maybe outside the window of doing it this year. This is a little above my pay grade. I believe you've been talking with Assistant Chief Bob Day on this matter, and so I don't want to commit any resources beyond what he has already discussed. But that is always a possibility. I mean, this has been in the works for a couple of years, and we actually projected this out recently.
 We've been assigned to it for about a year now as far as planning the event, and so we've had plenty of time to do that outsourcing and identify the individuals and identify the money individually
 for this to occur for uh the half marathon i think that's really cutting it close well i would appreciate some feedback and maybe an attempt even at this last hour knowing how much of a fundraiser and also people really enjoy it start it's been going i think it would be its sixth year for the rock and roll half marathon so people are starting to plan their trips around it i'd appreciate knowing from chief day or chief o'day
 whether it's possible to do it this year. Because I do appreciate this model, and it seems like a really elegant way to make sure that our staff remain on patrol doing the core work that the citizens of Portland need and still accommodate special events, which are kind of a bonus, but they're an important bonus. Sure. I can definitely bring that to his attention. Thank you. Let me go one step further than his attention, because...
 I believe the mayor is out of the country through Sunday, which, as the president of the council gives me –
 certain responsibilities and authority. So what I'd like to do is, through you, ask, and we have the mayor's public safety advisor here, so it's helpful. I'd like to have a commitment that between now and Friday, Bob Day, who we have great respect for here, will have a follow-up conversation with the Rose Festival about timing issues and whether this model works. And then if...
 Chief Day could then close the loop with Commissioner Fritz and me by Friday as to what the prognosis is. And I think Commissioner Fritz has made an admirable point that we have the model. Maybe we can just expand it to cover this unique event. And I thank Commissioner Fritz for raising that, and I look forward to getting a response by Friday. I will speak to him today. I'll also send an email to the chief just before that. So thank you, sir. Absolutely. Anyone else here to testify in this event? No.
 So these are both emergencies. Carla, would you please start with item 132? I am very pleased that we're able to staff this event without detriment to the rest of the city. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Matter passes. Carla, would you please read 133? Vote only.
 Ritz? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. Both pass. Carla, would you please read the next item, item number 134. Authorize a competitive solicitation for the provision of treatment readiness services, transitional housing, and follow-up retention support services to chemically dependent homeless adult chronic arrestees. Who is here from the Mayor's Office to present on this?
 Pardon me? This is being rescheduled to next Wednesday. Without objection. Carla, would you please read item number 135, second reading. Authorize a four-year participating agreement for facilities, maintenance, repairs, and operating supplies with W.W. Granger, Inc. for a contractual total not to exceed $4 million. Please call the roll. Prince? Sorry, I had to down this in emergency. Aye. Feltzman? Aye. Aye.
 Novick? Aye. Fish? Aye. The matter passes. Carla, would you please read item number 136? Accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $500,000 from the National Park Service for the Thomas Cully Park Project. This is an emergency. Would you please call the roll? Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Well, thanks again to our congressional delegation for their help in getting this tremendous grant for the development of Cully Park. Aye. Thank you.
 Novick. Aye. Fish. Aye. Carla, would you please read item number 137? Approve application to extend the property tax exemption under the multi-unit limited tax exemption program for Sitka Apartments located at 1230 Northwest 12th Avenue. Commissioner Dan Salston. Thank you, Mr. President. The multi-program...
 encourages private developers to include affordable units in their projects by offering fiscal incentives. Projects approved for the program receive a 10-year exemption from the property taxes due on the newly built structure. The program also allows for the extension of an existing tax exemption for the affordable units of projects with other restrictions on affordable rents. The specific multi-project in front of us is located in the Pearl District,
 has 209 residential rental units. 203 units, which is 97% of the project, are affordable at 50% to 60% of median family income. This multi-project was first approved in 2004. The project was completed in 2005, and the 10-year exemption is now expiring on June 30th. 30- and 60-year affordability restrictions still apply to the project.
 The Housing Bureau's Housing Investment Committee has reviewed and approved this application, and staff presented the application at a public hearing to the Portland Housing Advisory Council. I'd like to thank Dori VanBakkel and Andrea Mathiasson from the Housing Bureau for their hard work on the multi-program, and Dori is here if there's any questions. Commissioner Saltzman, I'm going to support this application because we have been –
 pushing to have the option to extend the 10-year tax abatement in consideration of a benefit from the developer. While I would like to see deeper affordability in some of the units, these are occupied units. So what we are doing is essentially continuing the original deal for occupied units in a building that is technically under our guidelines affordable. So I think this is good public policy. I tend to support it. Colleagues, questions or concerns? Thank you.
 uh carl has anyone signed up to testify mr lightning would like to speak mr lightning welcome again yes my name is lightning i represent lightning watchdog pdx i do i do approve of the extension on this the malt program one of the issues i have is that where we have the three million dollar cap placed and i know we came up from a million up to the three million just recently
 I don't really want that taken off or to be applied toward the cap. I almost want, when somebody does an extension, is that that actually is applied above the cap because it kind of falls under a different type of a category there. Now they've used it for 10 years. Now they're coming back, and they're going to do another 10 years. So, again, if at all possible, I'd like that to be applied above the cap
 based upon an extension. Now, another issue I have also on this, the extension, is that I know that you require a lot of upfront fees on this, and also, basically, you also require a fee from Multnomah County of approximately $9,000. And I'm not sure if you've heard of Multnomah County
 Originally, the applicant will come in, they'll do a $1,000 application fee, and then upon activation, you do a $16,000 activation fee. And again, $9,000 goes toward Multnomah County. So again, since we're doing an extension, I'd like to have the $9,000 that goes to Multnomah County
 waived because technically they're not doing the administrative work, my understanding. They're not doing all the process like Portland Housing Bureau is. So why upon the extension are they getting another 9,000 handed to Multnomah County? Again, I'd like to have this looked at to possibly have that extension of the 9,000 to Multnomah County to be waived. I think it's a little excessive
 due to the fact that the developers are willing to do an extension, I think is commendable. And in my opinion, there shouldn't be any fees because for them to go from the 10 years up to the now 20 years upon the extension, I think is very beneficial and I think we need to offer more incentives to people to do this and not hit them with these what I consider outrageous upfront application fees and,
 activation fees that I think are outrageous. And, again, I wanted originally, I wanted this MULT program to go from the $3 million I was proposing up to $6 million. I think this MULT program is very beneficial.
 I think the cap needs to be increased. And, again, that's why I'm just stating my position that I don't want to see it taken off to be applied toward the cap, but up above the cap to make sure that other people have that opportunity. And that's my position. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else like to be heard on this? This is a first reading. It will come back to us next week. Thank you. Carla, would you please read item number 138?
 assert the city's intent to engage in a fair, deliberative, data-driven community discussion of potential enabling ordinances resulting from the potential removal of the preemptive on inclusionary housing in the 2016 state legislative session. Commissioner Dan Saltzman. Thank you, Mr. President. Today is a very important day in Salem today.
 with regard to the fate of the city's number one priority in this legislative session, to lift the ban on inclusionary housing, also known as inclusionary zoning. I've been working closely with our excellent government relations team and the sponsor of Senate Bill 1533, Senator Michael Dembrow, to assist in moving this legislation forward in Salem. Last week, Senator Dembrow and myself had a meeting with local developers to learn of their concerns about the implementation of inclusionary housing.
 Many developers in the community are supportive of the efforts to remove the ban, but they do have concerns about the implementation of such a policy, how we engage the development community in that process, and that we consider the impact of all impending changes that we have on the table regarding affordable housing that affect the development community. That includes our floor area ratio bonus incentive bonus program in the comp plan for affordable housing and also a proposed linkage fee for affordable housing.
 This resolution simply asserts our commitment as a city council that during any consideration of an inclusionary housing policy, we would engage in a community-wide, data-driven discussion that would include the development community as well as affordable housing experts and advocates. Further, that a panel of housing experts with representation from the development community would be expected to advise the council throughout the discussion of an inclusionary housing ordinance.
 So I urge support of this resolution and hope for good things today. This is a four-fifths matter. It's a resolution. We are going to vote on it today. Carla, has anyone asked to speak on this matter? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Seeing none, would you please call the roll? Prince.
 Commissioner Salzman, thank you for your leadership on this. I didn't know that today was the big day. That's great that it got on the council agendas to at least give the heads up to the development community last week that we were hoping to do something. We didn't have a quorum to be able to do that. So I very much support pretty much a fair, deliberative, data-driven community discussion of almost everything we do, as my colleagues on the council know. Oh, you like that. Yes, indeed. So it seems...
 Very fair that we should continue to do this in this case. Thank you. Aye. Saltzman. Well, I want to thank Senator Michael Dembrow for all his efforts in Salem on our behalf of lifting the ban on inclusionary housing. I want to thank Sarah Zahn of Girding Edland Development and Dyke Dame of Salisbury.
 Williams and Dame development for their supportive efforts of the bill. They have not only testified in front of the legislature, they actually both went down last week and met one-on-one with several key senators, and I think they made a difference or will make a difference.
 Commissioner, if I could, just a clarification. While this matter was introduced last week as a four-fifths, it was put on the agenda this week by Commissioner Saltzman. MR. Okay. I'm sorry. So this is a stand-up resolution? MR. So this is a stand-up resolution. MR. Okay. Thank you. MR. Not a four-fifths. MR. So you're free to vote your conscience, Steve. MR. Well, in that case, I really appreciate Senator Dembrose and Commissioner Saltzman's hard work on this critical issue.
 And, yes, of course, I would expect that we have a fair, deliberative, data-driven community discussion of potential enabling ordinances. And I particularly look forward to having a discussion about what models have worked particularly well in other communities. Aye. Aye. The matter passes. Thank you, Dan. Two items left. I believe they're just votes only. Carla, item number 139, please. Thank you.
 Apply for a grant from the Oregon Office of Emergency Management in the amount of $30,000 for the implementation of an application damage assessment collector for the city.
 Did we get a presentation on this before? Yeah, actually, Commissioner, I think this was originally scheduled for the consent agenda through a scheduling error. Tamora Ender and my staff is here prepared to give a brief presentation on this project. I think we have to take testimony if anybody wants to. Okay. This is the kind of coaching I need on a regular basis, so thank you. Teamwork. Thank you, colleagues. We have a presentation on 139th.
 hi good morning my name is timor ender emergency management policy advisor from mr novick uh this is a collaboration between the bureau of technology services and the portland bureau of emergency management for a collector app which is
 for post-disaster inspection and assessment. And so what this does is after disaster, city bureaus go look at their facilities and report back to WebEOC, which is the city's clearinghouse for disaster reports. And so inspectors will go out and rank red, yellow, green,
 on this app, and then that gets to show at the ECC in East Portland where the most disaster-prone areas of the city are. And so based on exercises done last year, we realized there was two issues with the app, and one of them is when there's multiple users, it kind of freezes, and then the other one is –
 after an earthquake or a disaster, internet may not be available, and so there's issues with uploading. And so what this funding would do is provide funding for programming, which would allow users and building inspectors from city agencies to hold that information in the app until there's internet available, and then they can upload that to the WebEOC when internet becomes available. And it would address the issue of multiple users. Thank you.
 so the app wouldn't freeze. And so this is a $30,000 request from the State Office of Emergency Management, and there's no required matching funds, and I'm happy to turn it over for questions. Thank you. I'm going to just forgive me for asking this, but is this your first official presentation to counsel? It is. Well done. Colleagues, any questions? Anyone signed up to testify? Carla? I did not have a sign-up sheet for this. This is an emergency. Please call the roll.
 Ms. Novick, I very much appreciate your and your staff's attention to the Office of Emergency Management. It's an important function which we need to have had a lot of focus on it, and you've been a champion for it and continue to be so. This is an important application because it essentially looks at the worst-case scenario and how do we get the city back online as quickly as possible. So thank you for doing it. Aye. Sultzman? Aye.
 Thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate the whole Council's support of, to use the word that Commissioner Fish points out, is the word of the year, resilience. And thank you to more. I did not realize that that was your first official presentation. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for noting that. And while we're talking about words, Commissioner Saltzman, I'd like to thank you for using the word encourage instead of the odd word and sent on the previous item. Aye. Aye. The matter passes. Thank you.
 Our final agenda item is 140. It's a second. Carla, would you please read that? Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Second reading. Vote only. Riggs. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fish. Aye. Aye.
 Colleagues, we have one time certain at 2 o'clock. Commissioner Novick, it's scheduled for an hour. Is that about what you're expecting? We're actually not – I mean, we hope that that will be about right. I mean, we're actually – we expect testimony from folks in the community. We have a number of folks for –
 expected testimony so I think I think it might take about an hour I won't promise the won't might not spill a little over that I suspect it'll be less but okay we've got a range what's our only item I I'm guessing from the volume of input that I've received that if folks are able to get away at 2 o'clock on a Friday on a Wednesday there may be a lot of folks wanting to give us their inputs thank you all we're in recess until 2 order Carla would you please call the roll
 Fish. Here. Fritz. Here. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Hales. Before I ask the clerk to read the matter at hand, I have a little script I'm going to read. Mayor Hales is out of the country and senses regrets, and as the president of the council, I have the honor of chairing the committee. Purpose of council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business. Preservation of order and decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before the council. Thank you.
 The public is welcome to attend council meetings, and we welcome everyone here who's here today. During the meetings, there will be time-limited opportunities for public comment on the agenda item. Although that doesn't apply, we ask you to confine your comments to the matter before for us this afternoon. All you have to do is put your name in the record.
 You don't need your address, and for those of you who have testified in Salem, you do not have to address any member of the council as you make your comments. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you are here representing an organization, please disclose that as well. Because we have, I'm told, 30 or more people here who want to testify, each community member this afternoon will be given two minutes to speak in front of the council.
 And there's a light and a buzzer that goes off as you get close to the end, and at two minutes it starts flashing like crazy, and you'll be asked to stop. And the reason we ask you to honor the time limits is that we want to be able to make sure that we can hear from everybody that's here. And if you go over the allotted time, it might prevent someone from testifying.
 If you have a handout with you today, and probably some of you do, please give the handout to Carla, our Council Clerk, and she will distribute them to the Council and make sure it's a formal part of the record. And by the way, if you want your written testimony to be part of the record, you're free to email it to us and we'll make sure it goes into the record. Council rules and procedures are designed to maintain public order and to assure that Council deliberations proceed efficiently.
 and that all those who participate have a chance to be heard. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting during someone's testimony or interrupting testimony or deliberation simply cannot be permitted. We'd ask that you show your support or your displeasure with your hands, but not your words. And this technically constitutes a warning that anyone disrupting this proceeding may be asked to leave.
 With that, I'd like to ask Carla if she could read the sole time-certain item that we'll be taking up this afternoon. Item 141, vacate a portion of North Lombard Street between North Richmond Avenue and North Charleston Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Steve Novick. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Before I ask Kurt Kruger and Lance Lindahl and Teresa Montalvo from PBOT to begin a presentation explaining the rationale behind this vacation, I want to thank the architect of the project associated with vacation and the community members who are joining us here today.
 Alan Jones, the architect, Fareed Boulouri, the property owner, Lindsay Jensen from St. John's Main Street, Seamus Linsky, vice chair of the St. John's Neighborhood Association, Barbara Quinn from Friends of Baltimore Woods, and John Tepley, who I believe is in the audience, representing Save Ivy Island. Thank you, everyone, for taking the time to educate the council on the street vacation proposal.
 And again, I want to thank PBOT staff, Kurt, Lance, and Teresa for their work, and I'd like to ask them up to give their presentation. Good afternoon. My name is Lance Lindahl, PBOT Right-of-Way Acquisition. Before you today is a proposal to vacate 5,005 square feet of North Lombard Street.
 This street vacation was initiated by the Bureau of Transportation on behalf of property owner St. John 5 LLC and its owner, Mr. Farid Bulari. A mixed-use commercial development with apartments will be constructed on their parcels to the north. All of the driveway being vacated will revert back to them and will become taxable property. This project includes 103 market-rate apartment units and 20,000 square feet of ground floor retail and office space.
 A total of 89 parking spots will be constructed, with all but 13 of these located underground. The project also includes 126 bike parking stalls and two formal pedestrian plazas with a total of 9,535 square feet that will be constructed at the developer's expense and open for public use. The existing landscape area at this intersection, known as Ivy Island, will be removed in order to make room for the reconfigured North Lombard Street.
 A new formal pedestrian plaza of comparable size will be built within the remaining public right-of-way, and that's located to the northeast of the current Ivy Island. The existing St. John's Gateway sign will be relocated to this new plaza. Approval of this vacation will support a number of safety improvements at this intersection. PBOT, ODOT, and the developer have worked together to redesign this segment of street so that it's safer for all modes of traffic.
 On November 17th of last year, the Planning and Sustainability Commission held a public hearing and voted unanimously to support the vacation. The commission added a condition of approval that a tree mitigation plan be completed and forwarded to the Urban Forester for review. This condition has been met. Nine black locust trees with a total of 77 caliber inches are currently located within Ivy Island, and these will be removed during construction.
 Per urban forestry, new street trees being added will satisfy all Title XI density requirements for tree planting. At this point, I'd like to turn the pedestrian over to Kurt Kruger from Peabody Development for you. Good afternoon, City Council, President Fish. It's important that I present a little bit of history for this context, both the conversations… Of course, we know who you are, but please put your name on the record. All right. Kurt Kruger with Portland Bureau of Transportation.
 I want to set a little context of why we got here, how we got here today, and then walk the council through a little bit of legislative history that this council has with St. John's. So if you'll bear with me, I want to thank the architect and development team that has been overly cooperative with us for over a year. This project came to us, and I'll give you a site plan to let you start orienting yourself with the area. This applicant approached the city with a development application just about a year ago.
 One of my new staff, Teresa Montalvo, started her review of that, came across the St. John's Lombard Plan and weighed that project versus what was before us today and identified that there was a designated public improvement project that was called for as part of the Lombard Plan. And that included a pedestrian improvement, a pedestrian safety improvement, potential public plaza, and removal of a slip lane through St. John's off of North Lombard.
 So we discussed that internally, decided it would be advantageous to at least call the developer in, have a meeting with the developer and suggest, would they be willing to slow their project down or essentially almost stop it while we looked at whether a street vacation was possible. The developer went back, looked things over, came back to us and said, I think we're supportive of this. There's a public benefit here. We think this would be a good move for us to make.
 Knowing that they were supportive, we thought the next appropriate thing to do would be to reach out to the neighborhood and Main Street and business district. So we invited them in, and in your packet presentation I've handed out is a sign-in sheet from that meeting in last March. There was support there. The applicant continued to work back and forth with the neighborhood and business district, gaining additional support as the project design evolved. Concurrently, we ran the street vacation with the applicant through the city's process that led us here today. So what I wanted to do was walk you through a few things.
 a few elements of the st john lombard plan to see that this wasn't just a crazy idea of peabot looking for a developer to fix a traffic safety problem there was an intentional plan that was laid out that was many exhaustive hours of neighborhood involvement putting this plan together that ultimately came to city council in 2004. you know it may be difficult to read this but essentially this is the plan summary for the lombard plan and one of the things it identified item number two was balancing some transportation improvements
 I'll read from that. It says,
 This is just an outline describing the St. John's process to adopt this plan. This came to the Planning Commission before it was Planning and Sustainability Commission approximately five times. It went to the Portland Design Commission and ultimately came to City Council for a vote. What year was that? 2004. 2004?
 This intersection was specifically studied, analyzed in that plan. There were three alternatives. I'll present all three just briefly. But the preferred plan is essentially what you'll see today from the developer. It was closing the slip plane, developing a plaza, making an intersection improvement, and making it safe for pedestrians. And this was identified as the preferred option as it was the most safe improvement from a pedestrian standpoint.
 two additional alternatives were considered and i won't dwell on this but i just want to mention that in the the language that you can't quite read at the bottom of each of those exhibits describes that these these alternatives are not as safe for the pedestrian as as preferred alternative one there was still a concern about pedestrian safety in those two those two plans
 Further into that St. John's-Lombard plan, it talks about transportation actions and the timing that would result moving forward. Obviously, you guys are aware of PBOT's financial struggles and limited dollars to move capital projects forward, but at the time it was identified that this intersection improvement would occur within five years of adoption. That would have been approximately 2009. Okay.
 Again, here's additional language that talks about implementing tools for the specific. I won't read from this, but it again describes the importance of making these pedestrian improvements and maintaining orderly flow in the area.
 Real quickly, this project also went through the City of Portland's Bureau of Development Services design review process. This was a Type 2 application. It was a staff review. Notice went out to the neighborhood. There was a reason for a second notice that went out later last summer. It went through the design process. Comment period was opened. The site was posted. Notification went out to property owners surrounding the area as well as the required neighborhood and district coalition and business district.
 So that's essentially my presentation. I'm happy to take questions now. There will be questions that
 will certainly arise from testimony today. But I again want to reiterate that this developer, every time a question had come up or a new ask came forward, including a new signal reconstruction, as we discussed this with ODOT, the applicant has said yes, yes, and yes. And I can tell you in my day-to-day operations, that is a rare thing that we see, that much of a willingness from a developer to stall a project and continue to accept asks of the city.
 Kurt, we have about 30 or so people that want to testify. I understand we have another panel. My intent is to have us keep a running list of questions that come up and then ask you and your team to come back at the end of the testimony to answer questions of the council. Thank you. Commissioner Nolte. Dan. On that last slide, you had appeal in parentheses Multnomah County. Okay.
 What does that mean? And the applicant can talk to this a little more than I probably can, but there was some issues around shared parking with the library adjacent to the site, and so that issue had not been worked out and resolved, and unfortunately appeal was filed until that issue was resolved. Thank you. Can we elaborate a little bit on the pedestrian safety issues you see with the current configuration? Certainly. Thank you.
 I can say in full disclosure the City of Portland, in today's way of designing streets, would never design an intersection like this today. This was a slip lane that had a streetcar component many, many years ago, but essentially it is a slip lane off of a state highway, a Lombard.
 There is no safe pedestrian crossing across that side of Lombard if you were a pedestrian continuing along Ivy Island across the street to the north and along Lombard. You're exposed to vehicles that may exit Lombard at whatever speed they may be at Lombard because they're not controlled at an intersection.
 So this proposal actually removes that slip lane and forces pedestrians to remain on a designated built sidewalk to an intersection with a controlled signalization that makes it safe for pedestrians to cross. Thank you. Could you just define what a slip lane is? How would I describe this? It's a shortcut? It's almost like an off-ramp. I hate to kind of compare it to if you were on I-5 south and wanted to take an exit off to 217 south
 or any other interstate avenue, that's what you would do is you'd take an off-ramp exit. That's the way this functioned. It's actually should importantly note that James John Elementary School is just immediately adjacent to this site. Vehicles that leave Lombard continue on past the slip lane across the intersection before they reach a stopping point for pedestrians to cross. Okay.
 Thanks. Thank you. I have a question about the planning sustainability recommendation regarding withdrawing the northeastern portion of the vacation area from the proposal. Could you show us on that map what was meant by that? What was the previous proposal? Probably maybe better described from the applicant, there were some private negotiations that were occurring. So there was originally two proposals, two street vacations proposed with this application.
 um there was an adjacent property who was not part of the vacation today who would have likely been the beneficiary of some of this land reverting back to them in all of our years of doing street vacations it's usually very clear who would retain or where the property would return once it's vacated in a lot of hours of research both in our right-of-way section and with the county we could not quite definitively determine who would get what piece of land back
 And so there was some negotiations. There was a private sign that was in this right-of-way that were part of a negotiation, and that negotiation fell apart as this project moved to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. So it was in the best interest to withdraw that piece of the application and let it remain in right-of-way. It's not clear which bit was withdrawn. It's a triangular area on the right-hand side of the project there on the west, versus the east.
 is that on exhibit three this the um second triangular shape we actually didn't call it out if you can see the cursor on here it's essentially in this area in here yeah so that one is a treated area that will still remain right away and is there some kind of a covenant is there anything that to restrict that the vacated area will be a plaza rather than be covered with building
 So they would have to apply for a permit to build a building in the right-of-way, which we would not approve. But in the vacated part, it's not right-of-way anymore. Correct. So is there anything to stop a building being built or the applicant from changing the footprint of their proposed building to now take advantage of the vacated area? How do we know we're going to get a plaza in other words? I think you'll see that in the development –
 that's going to come alongside this. They've got exhibits showing the public plaza. It was conditioned as part of the design review application, so we've got the tools necessary to implement the plaza. But does it need to be a condition? Well, wait a minute, though. Supposing they then withdrew that plan completely...
 and they've got their street vacation, they come back with a different plan that's got building all the way to the edge. They would have to go back through and amend their design review approval right now because that design review approval is contingent on it. Right, but at that point we would have given away the right-of-way, right? Is there a way for us to condition the street vacation on it remaining plaza rather than building? May I take that question back and think on that as we're taking testimony? Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Steve? Thank you. I believe the first presentation of invited testimony is from the architect, Alan Jones. Hi, Alan Jones, Jones Architecture. Farid Boulouri, owner and developer. Christy Whiteland, use attorney for the developer. Go ahead and start with your introduction. I want to thank you for your time. We applied for an early assistant about a year ago and the original plan did not include any vacation.
 and then the city approached us and asking if we are willing to listen to the St. John's Lombard plan and redesigning basically the entire design that we had earlier on. After thoughtful consideration, we decided that that's a good idea and we decided to go with the vacation. We went to the drawing board and the new design that you see is what we have come up with. Working with PBOT and the City of Portland for over a year,
 we considered all the public and the safety improvements that this project is going to bring to the neighborhood
 You might ask yourself, why would the developer want to go through all the headache of vacation and postponing a project for a year? It makes our project a better project. It helps the neighborhood. I'm not your typical developer who builds and turns it around and walks away. We took a lot of pride in this project, and I think it's going to do really well. We had numerous meetings with developers.
 neighborhood association and also with the business association. Numerous meetings, I think we had a total of four meetings. A lot of people came in, they gave us great ideas, and we tried to incorporate those ideas into our plan as best as possible. We have a letter of support from the business association and also from the neighborhood association. And all the cost is going to be paid by me, if you will.
 And that's pretty much what I would like to say. Curt and Lance did a great job showing you the site, but on your screen there's a – Can you put your name on the record, sir? Alan Jones, Jones Architecture.
 There's a site map or a context map, an aerial photo on your screen. The site is indicated as Curt and Lamp mentions, it's right at the intersection where Highway 30 or Lombard Way as it's also known meets Lombard Street of downtown. So it really is a gateway site. It's kind of the entrance into St. John's. Also noted on this slide, we've labeled James John Elementary School and Multnomah County Library is directly to the north.
 As Curt and Lance mentioned, we are implementing a portion of the St. John's Lombard Plan. This intersection has three objectives to it that we took directly out of the St. John's Lombard Plan. The first objective is a stronger gateway to the business district. Number two is to calm traffic. And three is to enhance safety for children and pedestrians crossing Lombard.
 So there's two key pieces to that. There's a public space piece, which are the plazas that we talked about, the plaza that's on the corner, and then the secondary plaza that will be built under the encroachment permit. Then there's the public safety features, which are the reorganization of the intersection, which involves four new traffic signals and new pedestrian crossings.
 I took a couple of quotes here directly out of the Lombard Plan that we think really applies to this. As was mentioned, the traffic island was from an earlier era where it was more of an autocentric world, so to speak. It really was a slip lane. It really is a slip lane. It is like a highway spur. It's about the automobile, buses, and trucks leaving the highway as they enter into St. John's.
 What the St. John's Lombard Plan aimed to do was to extend the pedestrian district all the way to Highway 30 to build a stronger sidewalk system and to put plazas on the corner and to mark the gateway into St. John's. So a couple of quotes here are, you know, pedestrian-oriented retail centers linked by tree-lined sidewalks featuring attractive housing land uses that serve the peninsula.
 it's also a place where people are comfortable walking on streets and spending time in public spaces its appealing sidewalk environment is accentuated by small community gathering spaces an array of retailers restaurants and services and at the bottom here we understand that one of mayor hale's priorities is to develop what he calls community complete neighborhoods so we think that implementing this piece of the st john's lombard plan
 is an opportunity to do that. It really completes St. John's and extends the district to the east all the way to Highway 30 and makes a strong entrance into St. John's, increases public safety, rebuilds the neighborhood, and provides an opportunity for public space. So this slide shows the vacated area. As Lance mentioned, it's 5,005 square feet. So I'll talk about some of the specific safety features first.
 As you can see, the slip lane has arrows that show the slip lane or the highway spur that come westbound off of Lombard Way or the highway into St. John's. And currently, traffic leaves St. John's eastbound heading one way out of St. John's back to the highway. The slip lane and that one-way eastbound are separated by a traffic island. What the vacation would allow is that that traffic island to be separated
 relocated, pushed to the north, and attached to the block that's to the north so that we can make a public plaza on the corner and we can rebuild the intersection and put in pedestrian crossings. So there's two diagrams here. The diagram on the left is a, these are traffic diagrams. The diagram on the left shows, there's red boxes on these diagrams that indicate intersections or the traffic signals. In the existing condition, the first intersection that you come to
 is west of james john elementary school so cars buses and trucks that are leaving lombard way or the highway pass by this site through the slip lane they speed past james john elementary school before they come to any kind of traffic slowing measures whatsoever on the right is the proposed plan with the rebuilt intersection with a dedicated right-hand turn lane a new bike lane and pedestrian crossing so
 Fast-moving traffic stops at the new intersection and then moves in a slow rate of speed past the site as it enters St. John's and past the elementary school. I have three photos here that were taken recently, and these were taken about 3 p.m. after school gets out at Jamestown Elementary School.
 This first image is a pedestrian that's peeking around the slip lane trying to evaluate whether he has time to dash across the street between cars because there are no pedestrian crossings whatsoever at this point.
 This slide shows a father and a daughter leaving the elementary school, heading across Lombard. And if you look behind the bus, there's another pedestrian back there with a red arrow over him that's also kind of bobbing and weaving through traffic, through vehicles that are going in four different directions here, with no pedestrian crossings. And a mother and a daughter running across the intersection, and then the green arrows show cars moving in three different directions. So...
 The new traffic or the new intersection will have the arms that are indicated in red are new traffic safety poles that have new traffic heads on them. All of the expense of this is at Mr. Bellari's expense, and it's quite an expensive endeavor. But putting up new traffic signals on all four poles. In addition to that, there's new crosswalks that cross over both the highway and Lombard Street. New pedestrian poles with buttons that the pedestrians can push to cross the streets.
 so next i'll talk about the public space this is the ground story or the site plan for the project it is a mixed-use building it is a four-story building the ground story has approximately 20 000 square feet of flexible space in it it's broken down into small increments that could be used by local retailers and restaurants and cafes there's also some opportunities for some office space but the important thing about this slide is it shows the three plazas there's a plaza on the corner there's a small square on the right and a small square on the left and there's a small square
 which we've labeled Plaza 1, where the building is pulled back. The building's been broken down into three modules, so it's not a big monolithic building. It's broken down into individual bays. Those bays pull back at different depths from the sidewalk in order to make Plaza 1. Plaza 2 is the area that was described as the right-of-way encroachment development area.
 courtyard number three is on private property when we went back to the drawing board originally the building was completely different shape configuration we completely reconfigured the building to open up to these plazas and we created this courtyard plaza that opens up to plaza two in total there's 9 500 square feet of new plaza area completely open to the public no barriers to entry whatsoever
 that's nearly twice the area of the vacate vacation area sir off this proposed site plan yeah where is the access to the parking stalls so on the the top left which would be the north corner off north charleston there's an area there in yellow which is a ramp to the basement so we worked closely kittleson got involved we look at the trip generation to make sure that that location would be okay um
 It is the Charleston is the side of the project that has the, you know, it's the furthest away from the public streets and that was identified as the best place for a driveway. Okay.
 So before you move from that slide, Plaza 2 is still public right of way, right? Correct. So what is the Plaza area without Plaza 2? I have a slide that I can flip to next that'll show you that. Okay, and just before you flip to it, where do you envision the Welcome to St. John's sign going? On Plaza 2. So the thought, we've been working closely with the boosters here, the group that owns the sign. The thought...
 being that currently the St. John's sign is on the traffic island, so kind of after you arrive in St. John's. The great thing about this opportunity is that the St. John's sign comes prior to the intersection on that plaza. So it will be in the right-of-way on Plaza 2. So here's a slide that shows you a little bit more about Plaza 1.
 Before I start here, I'll say that we had a long dialogue and worked really closely with Jeff Mitchum, who was the planner on this project for BDS. There was a long discussion about how large this plaza should be. In the CS zone, 50% of the building is required to be directly on the sidewalk. We only have one-third of the building on the sidewalk, so we had to seek a modification to push the building back.
 in order to create this plaza, which obviously was a good modification to get. But there was a discussion just about how far the building should be pushed back. And currently what was proposed and what was approved is 40 feet from the curb at the corner, and then it steps down at the next module to 28 feet. How wide is the sidewalk? Sidewalk's 12. So this plaza, not including the sidewalk, is 3,190 square feet wide.
 This is a rendering of Plaza 1 from the intersection. You'll see that we're showing a piece of public art. There's room for public art on the corner. We also have benches and planters that will help buffer because there is a lot of traffic on Highway 30 and at Lombard at this point. And the thought is that in order to make pedestrians comfortable on the plaza, that we need a little bit of buffering. So there's concrete planters with benches on them. Plaza number 2 in the courtyard –
 Plaza number two is the area that's the right-of-way encroachment. That's 2,815 square feet. The Courtyard Plaza, which is entirely on private property but is completely open for the public to use, is 3,500 square feet. We have four meetings, as Fareed mentioned, with the neighborhood. Well, two meetings with the neighborhood associations and two meetings with Main Street, and there was a lot of discussion about the design of these plazas.
 What was finally concluded is that there was a desire to have this be as flexible as possible so that ideally there would not be a lot of built pieces in the middle of the plaza that it could be used as a Saturday market or other things. So we've kind of buffered the perimeter of it with trees and planters and benches in order to buffer the street but left the center of it as open as possible.
 Here's a rendering of Plaza 2 and the courtyard showing one potential use with a farmer's market type tents. As was mentioned, there was a tree mitigation plan that Urban Forestry looked at and approved. There are a total of nine trees on the traffic island, as Lance mentioned. They're black locusts.
 Total of 77 caliper inches. We're proposing to put back 32 trees. We have as many trees as possible. We've worked with PBOT and ODOT to put as many street trees as possible around the site, as well as a lot of new trees in the plazas and in the parking lot. So, yeah.
 That wraps it up. This rendering shows the new St. John's, the location for the new St. John's sign in that plaza. I'm just curious. You mentioned in one of the earlier slides that the developer was going to put some, quote, public art
 We tend to think of public art as art that the Regional Arts and Culture Council or somebody places. Are you referring to just a piece of art that he's going to acquire and place in a public right-of-way? Yeah, we're not proposing to go through the RAC process on this. We're proposing to put a piece of art in that area. And you have a restaurant penciled in there as a potential use in the mixed use system.
 Is it part of your plan to potentially allow them to have outdoor space, outdoor seating in the summer? We think it would be ideal for the public to coexist with restaurant use on that plaza. The plaza is large enough to have at least one line of tables that are up close to the building.
 We think that the building can activate the plaza and the sidewalk can activate the plaza as well and that it all would work together. But the intent is, yes, that there hopefully would be some room out in that space for a few tables and chairs for the restaurants. And does this rendering which you've given to us, does this reflect decisions which the developers made about the kind of brick, the color schemes, and the design? I mean, is this real?
 This is what's been approved by Design Review. So there are three colors of brick on the building. It's a very high-quality building with nice materials. It's all brick, nice windows, nice storefront. Colleagues, questions? Steve, do we have another panel? No.
 We do, but before that, Christy, I have to tell you that Kurt Krueger wants to discuss with you a potential amendment to the ordinance in order to address Commissioner Fritz's concern, and I hope that you could reach agreement on such a thing. Yeah, no objection at all. Before we – oh, okay. Yeah. You already know what it is? I'm imagining that what you want to do is some extra condition that ensures that it retains plaza.
 Okay. If the two of you could, ideally, if the two of you could agree on some language before we get through the invited testimony so we can put the amendment on the table before we get to public testimony. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. So the next panel is Lindsay Jensen, Seamus Linsky, and Barbara Quinn. Barbara, if you come to one more hearing this week. I was just saying that. You'll get a door prize. I know. This is two days in a row. She's the professional. Who's first? Yeah.
 I'll go first. My name is Lindsay Jensen. I'm the executive director for St. John's Main Street. And we are obviously here to show our support for the street vacation of the traffic berm. We are intimately connected to this space because our office is located at the corner of Lombard and Charleston. And because we've also been the primary drivers behind the revitalization efforts of this island. Thank you.
 Daily, I count the number of honks and sounds of screeching tires outside of our office. We're so excited to have safe crossings for our volunteers and for our staff. I know that our neighbors, that those who are directly connected to the traffic island, also feel the same way. They want the traffic berm gone. The berm is an auto-centric gateway to our business district, and it was designed in the 70s, an era that valued cars and automobiles.
 It does not promote walkability and invites cars to barrel into our downtown business district at dangerous speeds. We have a unique opportunity for a private developer to invest in our neighborhood and to create a vibrant, active, and pedestrian-centric gateway that features usable public space, trees and native plants, and our iconic St. John's marquee.
 The reconfiguration would enliven our side of the business district, which currently feels a little dead, quite honestly, with fewer businesses, less activity, and fast-moving traffic. I just don't see how keeping the traffic berm would address these issues and enliven that space. This is such a great opportunity to fulfill the city's vision of creating complete neighborhoods and to enhance our Main Street area. So, so much planning and time and thoughtful consideration has gone into reimagining this intersection.
 Between the time spent on the Lombard plan and recent community meetings where the developer met and sought input from the community, there has been ample opportunities to weigh in.
 My heart slightly sinks thinking about how much energy has gone into fighting this proposal, particularly in the 11th hour. I appreciate the passion and creativity, but would much rather see our neighborhood up in arms about affordable housing, something that would directly combat displacement in St. John's. This development is positioned in the URA and could qualify for the new multi-program at the Housing Bureau. If you as a council are going to push back or leverage this vacation for additional community benefits,
 I would urge you to put affordable housing at the top of that agenda. Commissioner Salsman's eyes light up. Thank you very much.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for having me here. My name is Barbara Quinn. I'm an activist in St. John's, long time. Actually, I worked on the St. John's Plan in 2004. That was three long years of many, many hours planning. And the reason we worked on that so hard was because we wanted to avoid conflict in the future and have a vision that we could develop in the future in a way that St. John's neighbors would like.
 Prime among our considerations was the development of a pedestrian district, a pleasant, safe place for people to walk and visit shops and see into the corridor. And the reason that we came up and suggested the removal of the blind curve was mainly for safety, but also a reconfiguration that would allow drivers to see into the corridor and actually see our shops and help the pedestrian district improve.
 develop. So this plan was fully vetted in North Portland among all the neighborhood associations, all the existing business associations including the St. John's Boosters who had a representative at our meetings.
 There is no way to address pedestrian safety with this blind curve without its removal. There just isn't a good way to make a blind curve safe. People just can't see those people crossing until they're 20 feet away from them, and they're zooming off of that main corridor at a pretty high rate of speed. So safety is the first and most important characteristic of a pedestrian district. Okay.
 Beauty and design don't count as high as safety, and we need that. So the adjacent school makes it even more important. If St. John's is going to become more dense, density should be located in the town center to help the shops. That is one of the things that came up during the plan, is that we don't quite have enough density to support an 11-block main street. So...
 Removal of ivy islands should not become an icon for gentrification. Gentrification is a huge and important issue in our neighborhood that needs to be addressed. But this is about safety, and this is about development that fits the St. John's plan. I'm thrilled because I think the plazas...
 are going to be a real plus for the neighborhood. They are going to look good. I think there's a lot of interest in eating outside near the shops now. That didn't happen 10 years ago. There was nobody who wanted to be outside in St. John's 10 or 15 years ago. So it's a really positive thing for us. The developer and architect did inquire about providing some native trees for the Baltimore Wood Corridor in St. John's, and it turns out our partner said that we're maxed out, so they at least tried to reach out.
 to us and we appreciated that. Once again, I just really feel that without, if we could get past the polarizing language here, that it's possible there could be a
 some kind of discussion and communication, this project could possibly become better if both sides could talk to each other. Without the polarizing language and a discussion with the developer, I think some of the qualities that people really like about the island could possibly be moved to these plazas. And I think that would be a real plus. And things like that have happened in the past in St. John's.
 It has happened, and sometimes things end up being better. So that's my hope for this project, that this energy will move it forward in a better way. My name is Seamus Vinsky, and I'm involved in a lot of groups in St. John's, including the vice chair of the Neighborhood Association. So I'm here today to urge city council to approve the street vacation at North Lombard and North Richmond. There's...
 been a deep history of public outreach and public involvement in this project, first with the original St. John's Lombard plan that was years and hours and hours of public time, volunteer time.
 And these are the safety improvements that are called for in the St. John's Lombard Plan. This is the preferred treatment of that intersection. The safety improvements here are consistent with City Council's own Vision Zero. The developer presented to the Neighborhood Association this specific design two times. He presented with groups organized by Main Street two times. It's been discussed and discussed and discussed. Okay.
 The community members in attendance showed overwhelming support for the proposed intersection improvements. The developers have been very cooperative and open to feedback. And, you know, the bonus here, of course, is that the developer is going to pay for these improvements. So it's saving the taxpayers a lot of money.
 I understand that those in opposition to the street vacation are anxious about growth in St. John's, about rising rent, home prices, about traffic safety and traffic congestion. I share those anxieties, but I have observed that a lot of the language that's against this specific street vacation for this traffic island gets misinterpreted.
 confused with the sort of anti-development and anxieties of large buildings and increased traffic. They're separate issues. So, again, I'd like to urge City Council to approve the street vacation so that the neighborhood could focus on those more important issues. Thank you. Is that your last panel? No.
 Yes, it is. Commissioner Novick, thank you all. I've just conferred with your PBOT reps. They are in the process of wordsmithing some language. They're confident they will get an amendment. They would like a little extra time to get to wordsmithing. So what I'm going to suggest is
 We will effectively treat the amendment as being on the table. The proposal that we will be taking up is to have a covenant. There's some legal language which is being worked out. If anyone would like to testify about whether they like that idea of some restrictive covenant on the plaza, please address that item. And when the amendment is drafted, we'll bring it forward this afternoon for a consideration. And that's okay with the city attorney to approach it that way? Thank you.
 Carla, how many people have signed up? We have 27 left now. 27. We're going to ask everyone to try to stay within two minutes. And for those of you who may be first-time testifiers, I know we have some people here who have been here before,
 I just want to say that this Council is very interested in what you have to say. We rarely make a decision based on, you know, the fact that 20, 30 people say the same thing, the identical thing. So what we would encourage you to do is, if you have a strong view one way or another, state it. If there's something new that you want us to think about or you want to highlight, you're free to testify to anything you want. But in the time we have together, we'd like to hear as many interesting and different ideas that you have to say.
 But you'll have a full two minutes, and we're going to call people up in groups of three, and let's take our first three. First three, please come on up, are Peter Brough, Betsy Vollet, and Barbara Babs-Adamski, and they'll be followed by Kenchen Gokul, Heather Bilyeu, and Chloe Frisella.
 For those who may not have testified before, at 30 seconds you'll get one beep as a warning, and at two minutes the beeper will stop going off. And there's a clock on the block in front of you. Who would like to start? Sir, you look teed up with the boards. Why don't you take us off? Yes.
 hello my name is peter brown i'm a resident of st john's and i'm here to speak against the proposed vacation of ivy island the first thing i'd like to speak to is what i perceive to be a lack of public awareness that ivy island may be given away and developed in my very limited free time i've gone door-to-door in my neighborhood asking whether people would like to sign a petition to preserve ivy island i talked to well over 100 people
 Overwhelmingly, people have no idea that the public land might be given away. Since the demolition at the adjacent corner, many folks have some idea that development is coming. Most don't know a four-story building is going to be built. None of them know that if Ivy Island is vacated, the proposed four-story building is going to move on to and occupy much of Ivy Island, what is now public green space. At that point, they usually grab the signature petition out of my hand so they can sign immediately.
 As a consequence of this experience, I would like to say that the endorsement for this project of St. John's Main Street and Neighborhood Association is not representative of the community of St. John's. The 15,000 or so people who are immediately affected by the loss of Ivy Island, it's more the 10-person board of the Neighborhood Association that has decided to send a letter supporting the proposed vacation.
 The second point I'd like to mention is how the St. John's Lombard Plan has been used to justify the vacation of Ivy Island. The Lombard Plan was developed with extensive input from the St. John's community as well as the city. The point I would like to make is how different the proposed Boulourie development is from the Lombard Plan. So I can just kind of hold these up. Okay.
 The only real similarity is that the slip lane would be removed. If you look at the image from the Lombard Plan and the proposed Boulourie-Dupran, they are strikingly different. The Lombard Plan envisions a large open plaza with ample tree cover and easy pedestrian access from east to west. Specifically mentioned in the Lombard Plan are improved sight lines into the commercial core and pedestrian walkability.
 The proposed building would cut off the sight lines that currently exist into the commercial core and make east-west pedestrian use more difficult. I urge the council to vote no on the proposed vacation of Ivy Island. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Welcome, and may I just say I like your T-shirt.
 Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. I like your T-shirt, too. Oh, she liked hers better. Okay, very good. I like to volunteer with Depave, so I was just... Yes, yes. It's a special green place for people in St. John's. It's named with a ground cover of English ivy that once covered it before University of Portland students and local citizens re-landscaped it with native bobs and Oregon grape.
 but no ivy. Most importantly, there are nine mature trees, not native trees, but black locusts with their fuller leaves that allow sun to easily filter through. The leaves follow the island, decompose, and there's no cleanup problem. The island is slightly hilled, not flat.
 Approaching it, you can see a view of the St. John's Bridge over the roof of Safeway on your left, and on your right, you can see into the heart of downtown St. John's. The island hosts one of three 45-foot Welcome to St. John's signs. They tell us about the school fundraisers and so forth, and they are easy to read because it's at an angle to both lanes.
 People need nature because it helps to heal the stress of urban hardscape. A couple of blocks from Ivy Island at Faith Johns Elementary School, parents, kids, and businesses worked hard to dig up large sections of blacktop on the playground and repave with the help of Depave, which the city supports, and plant native trees and bushes.
 I worked for Friends of Baltimore Woods for six years and saw hundreds of volunteers in that corridor remove non-native plants and replant and care for native ones, with the guidance of Saul, also supported by the city. On Ivy Island, we already have such a slice of nature. I believe the people of St. John's will think of a portrait to transfer public land to private developer when they see a four-story condominium in place of the island exchange. There is talk of building a plaza, but plazas are concrete, and we already have two.
 I have faith that PBOT can calm traffic in the two-block area when I see in Linton, across the river, what went from 50, 60-mile-an-hour traffic to 35-mile-an-hours without stoplights. As St. John's becomes more vertically developed, the value of this small piece of green open space will only increase. Give us pride in the place where we live and remind us of the mystery of nature. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, President Fish, Commissioner Saltzman, Fritz, and Novick.
 Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Babs Adamska, and I live in St. John's neighborhood. I'm testifying today in support of the vacation of the public property that's located on Lombard Street between Charleston and Richmond. I support this vacation to Fareed Balori.
 specifically because of the traffic improvements that will be paid for by Mr. Bellori's development company.
 In crossing traffic at North Charleston at Lombard, the intersection is extremely dangerous whether you're on foot, on a bicycle, or in a car. The slip lane diminishes the sight line, and as illustrated earlier with slides, it's a very questionable thing to even attempt it at that point.
 Additionally, bus riders who deboard the TriMet 75 on the east side of the development at Richmond, heading south when they get off the bus, even at the beginning of that slip lane, it's angled in such a way that decisions are difficult to make for our driver who is headed west.
 and I have stood with an auditor from the National Highway Safety Commission who's looked at that and said that that is unsafe in that circumstance as well. I understand the complexity of issues that are involved with this development, but I feel strongly that it is particularly a safety issue.
 I've obtained 77 signatures on my own as I stood at the corner of Charleston and Lombard. And then just before today's meeting, some other signatures were given to me that were collected by businesses in that area. Thank you for your consideration of this matter specifically as a safety issue. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Carla, the next three. Thank you.
 are Kanchan Gokhale, Heather Bilyeu, and Chloe Frisella, and they'll be followed by Donna Cohen, Joe Adamski, and Silver Boo. Welcome. Do you want to kick us off? Hello. My name is Kanchan Gokhale, and I'm a resident of St. John's, and I'm here to testify against vacating Ivy Island. Okay.
 My husband and I moved to St. John's four years ago because we fell in love with the character. And St. John's is a complete neighborhood, is what I felt, with a gateway, a downtown, and a business district. And the downtown also has space for a beautiful farmer's market. About a month ago, I learned that there is a proposal to vacate Ivy Island and give it to the developer to extend his building into what is now a public space.
 What this will do is it will block the view of the main street into St. John's, and it will destroy the gateway to St. John's. When I heard this, I was really horrified. And the only way I found out about this, because I saw some people standing there with signs, there was no other announcement that I heard about this.
 When I learned about this, I tried to find out what prompted this, and I learned it was safety and the Lombard Plan. When it comes to safety, I went and looked up this Vision Zero map that was mentioned earlier, and this intersection is – their intersections are represented as little circles, and this one is a tiny little circle where there are so many others which are way bigger, which –
 which identify the areas which have high risk, and this circle is not even close to some of the other ones in St. John's. And also, if this was really a danger issue for safety, it hasn't warranted high enough signage in that area. Okay.
 And Lombard Plan talks about one- to three-story building maintaining the identity and character of St. John's. There is no mention of giving up public space. It shows a plaza instead of building. I also went door-to-door, and none of the people I spoke to, except for a few, didn't even know that this was being considered, that Ivy Island would be vacated. I think if this happens, there will be a public outcry, and a lot of people who are not aware of what's going on will be really shocked if there are bulldozers on Ivy Island.
 So I really encourage you to vote no to give up this space and keep our identity and character. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you. Dear City Commissioners, my name is Heather Bilyeu. I am a concerned St. John's resident. I live very close to North Lombard and North Richmond, the proposed site of the Bellori development and vacation of public land known as Ivy Island. Some time ago, while I was a regular customer at Huck Lab, I heard the land and building were being sold and developed.
 I figured a new curved building would go in like Marvel 29 on the other side of town. Some months later, while eating at the local diner down the street, I heard the owner and other customers talking about how now the land was going to be given to the developer in exchange for a traffic light, and the slip lane would close and a four-story building would go there.
 I was very surprised by what I heard because it was different from before. I was shocked and I did not understand why the city would give away prime real estate and block the view of the St. John's Bridge from the public and close off the entrance to our town. The piece of land is beautiful and for everyone to enjoy. By then, the Huck Lab was closed and a lot of people in town would ask me about it because I have their stickers all over my car.
 I would tell them what I heard and ask them if they knew anything. Nobody I encountered knew big changes were set to happen. I met John Templey a few months ago, and we happened to talk about our neighborhood and the changes taking place.
 It was he who let me know that, in fact, it was not set in stone that the land was being given to the developer. I joined with him to help save Ivy Island. Our group held a town hall meeting to discuss the proposed development. It seemed now that safety was an issue where it had not been before. I live near and use the intersection on a daily basis. I walk, drive, and come from all directions, and I have never felt unsafe."
 If I truly felt it were dangerous, I would understand. The only thing I learned at the meeting was from the president of the St. John's Neighborhood Association that the city would never, never, never do any maintenance at that intersection. Ma'am, if you could just wrap up. Oh, sure. I do not understand why the city would refuse to do their duty and just give away our land. I cannot support this proposal. Thank you very much. Welcome.
 My name is Chloe. I'm a resident of St. John's, and I support keeping Ivy Island. St. John's is a valuable neighborhood. It's one of the things that attracts people to our city. It's a small-town feel and historic neighborhood. It's natural places and natural spaces like Ivy Island with its mature trees. These are key elements to St. John's.
 From the moment a person enters the downtown St. John's, whether traveling over the historic St. John's Bridge or ushered in by the welcome sign and the foliage of Ivy Island, one feels that they are entering a community and a little piece of history. Ivy Island highlights the small town feel of St. John's Business District and provides easy access. Ivy Island is a signature gateway into St. John's.
 this new intersection that would go in place of ivy island would get rid of our valued green space and it would obstruct the view uh of the saint john's business district and of the bridge
 This development would be a deterrent to the current feel of St. John's and has the interest of out-of-town developers in mind, more so than the people who made this neighborhood what it is. I am in favor of saving this historic green space for the good of the neighborhood and for its people. The developers might...
 provide some people with new spaces to live for the time being, but this is our character and our history of place. It is the character of this place that brought the people to it, and that will be what makes them stay. Well done. Thank you very much.
 Carla, next three. Donna Cohen, Joe Adamski, and Silver Boo. And they'll be followed by Richard Tennant, Susan Tennant, and Heather Tennant. Why don't you kick us off?
 Afternoon, Council. My name is Donna Cohen, and I'm a resident of St. John's. And I'm glad to see there are four residents here who served on the stakeholder committee for the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2 plan. During that process, we dealt with a lot of pedestrian safety issues, including that of a blind curve. And we need to call the slip lane what it is, which is a blind curve.
 I believe it's unsafe there. I am in that area regularly. I think the reconfiguration, the traffic reconfiguration is going to make the area much safer. In terms of the plaza,
 I too, I like Alan Jones' terminology of activating that area. That's exactly what I look forward to. Right now, the area around the island, that whole corner, nothing is going on there. I mean, it's just, to me, kind of a dead zone. So when I look at, you know, the design and I see the possibility of people being able to sit out there with coffee and just hang out there, I think that's going to do a lot for the community. I do...
 agree and think it's absolutely crucial that it be in perpetuity publicly available. That is something that would concern me. So I would want to know that. And I'd like them to take care of the plaza and just keep it clean. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Council. My name is Joe Adamski, and I, too, am a St. John's resident and have been active in local and community organization groups and efforts for quite some time. I have been as passionate supporting the vacation as some of other voices have been against the vacation. It comes from a point that we both care about this place greatly. Thank you.
 I don't know that the pros and the con groups speak for the entire community. I think we are a small group, but we have a shared love of the place, though I sometimes think we're misdirected, hanging on to a piece of something when we're forgetting those other elements of the community, such as schools, parks, safe sidewalks, the home laundry list of the things that we enjoy living in St. John's. I'm testifying today to support the vacation of the Traffic Island community
 I believe that the benefits of the intersection redesign and the creation of a gateway far outstrip any concerns about a perceived giving away of land to a developer. This is not a free lunch for the developer. The city is gaining the benefit of a needed intersection design. The community is gaining that gateway and that improved pedestrian access to the business district.
 and the business district is getting another asset in that collective piece of the downtown St. John's area. So on that note, I think we're kind of cutting off our nose to spite our face with getting into battles. I think as a group, as the two different groups, we need to coalesce and find out the things we value, but let's not fight over this vacation. I think that's the wrong thing. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Silver Boo, and I have lived in St. John's for four years. I moved here because of the small-town atmosphere and the St. John's Bridge. I have been meeting with the people of St. John's at Ivy Island to discuss the situation involved with the vacation of Ivy Island. In order to better inform the people of St. John's, we have been passing out flyers regarding this matter. I have been on Richmond giving flyers to folks who roll down their windows to learn what we are doing there.
 Most of these travelers have no idea what is going on with this wonderful oasis from the hurly-burly noise of the surrounding paved roads and brick buildings. The ones who are somewhat informed are outraged that anyone would consider rearrangement of Lombard as it moves traffic easily into St. John's Business District and affords the pleasure of a gateway viewing nine established trees and colorful heavenly bamboo among waving grasses and Oregon grapes.
 Not all of our citizens know what vacation of Ivy Island involves. Some have heard about it and think the apartments will be built across the street, behind the fenced area. They do not get why the city of Portland should give up the space for underground parking. After speaking with many people, the most asked questions are, why do they plan this structure without available parking on site? Where do restaurants and other new businesses park?
 How did the major changes affect St. John's? Why upset the unique setting that this lovely island affords St. John's? It is our gateway. Not all the people renting at Marvel 29 park in the underground parking of that building. They park on the surrounding streets and make a lot of people upset. What is wrong with this picture? My big question is, how will the Twimet buses be able to go around the corner on Richmond? Just from observing the width of the turning radius they now make, how can they make this turn on a two-way street? Okay.
 I understand that TriMet is making new buses 45 feet in length. Has that been included in this plan? It has been said that the slip lane is dangerous. I was nearly hit by a car on Lombard at Alta a few weeks ago. It is possible to put up speed bumps, flashing lights, and create crosswalks. Ma'am, if you could just wrap up, please. That costs a lot less than rerouting the entire entry to our sweet little river city.
 Thank you for listening. By the way, we are making notes as we're hearing testimony, and the questions that you're posing we'll have a chance to ask staff at the end. So thank you very much. Thank you. Carla, would you please call the next three? Our Richard Tennant, Susan Tennant, and Heather Tennant, and they'll be followed by Gary Boehm, John Petty, and Kelly Tadlock.
 Hi, my name is Richard Tennant, and I'm a member of the St. John's community, and this is my wife, my mother-in-law, my granddaughter, and my daughter. And what I wanted to tell you and inform you today is that I'm a member of the St. John's Heritage Society, and we were not informed of anything.
 Any of this. I didn't know any of the details of Ivy Island until John Tepley raised my attention by an article written in the St. John's Review. In the article, John explained that others might want to attend a meeting at the St. John's Neighborhood Association in order to voice our opinions. Susan, my wife, and I attended. During the course of the meeting, we both felt discouraged because the officials typified this project as being a done deal.
 I had just learned about the Ivy Island transfer, yet it was a done deal. I bring testimony to the city council about the lack of relevant information that would ensure the proper input that might help us build a foundation. A foundation is a base or basis upon which something stands or is supported. If an architect wants to build a foundation,
 Once a building to stand, an engineering study must be the first step. In a large project, a foundation is actually begun in the science of planning. The community is both the aggregate and can be the bond if the formula of strength, mass, and informational science is applied.
 A foundation is also a legal term. The lack of foundation is a valid objection that an adverse party may raise during a trial. I am here to tell you that a proper foundation was absent during the public input avenue towards this process. There was a proposal made in a bargain struck that seemed hidden and out of sequence. Someone offered a piece of property for sale in lieu of payment of signal lights.
 In any bargain, there is a movement between the seller and buyer, and a benefit of the bargain is struck between them. The buyer spends funds based upon the transfer of property, which generated an engineering detail. I believe it was only as after this bargain was struck, the other ingredients of public notification input were talked about. Thank you.
 I humbly present myself and wish all people here peace and love and good health. Thank you. I am against the removal of the island.
 I speak on behalf of the children also at James John School who will get the traffic coming out. They just put new green, a little greenness so they can have soccer on the trees. And so this has an impact. The trucks are not speeding through town at maximum speeds and above because they go a different direction. I also want to say that the...
 the conduct of this whole process. Somebody mentioned two neighborhood associations, two neighbors, Main Street. The public had absolutely none.
 And this conduct is unbecoming to the City of Portland, Department of Transportation, Main Street, St. John's, and the Association of the Development Commission. Lack of transparency for over 14,000 people is bad. When a Bureau of Transportation can call a developer and make a deal of real property belonging to the city and the people of St. John's,
 for developer service in exchange for property. And that developer acts on that as a conveyance to others and alternating his plan. And then when that developer goes to the developer
 neighborhood association puts in a call, I have a deadline. I need to know if you're for me or against me. They put in an electronic vote, and we don't know what day, what time, but it's illegal, and he gives that support, and that is not fair. And then when we come to the meeting in early fall, and there's 80 people, and the chair says, hey,
 It's a done deal. Okay. Now, the gateway at Marvel is one of the worst. We heard that earlier. You go to your Vision Zero Portland crash, and you will see this bomb. And you will look at the other area. Now, go down to Ivy. Not Ivy. Go to Ida McDonald's, the other gateway. And you will see one tree with a fence around it. That's a gateway for them. Now, these contributors of Marvel Island to Main Street, Marvel Island, are
 that to Main Street, and Fred Myers and New Season. We're going to have the next bomb, and the traffic is going to be right at the corner of Union. Ma'am, thank you very much. Mark my words. I missed your name. Could you give me again, please? My name is Susan T. Tennant, W-T-E-N-N-A-N-T. Thank you.
 Thank you. So I welcome the youngest member of the audience who is here to testify. Absolutely, and probably our eldest. There you go. Welcome to both of you. Thank you. My name is Heather Tennant, and this is my 91-year-old grandmother, and this is my 4-year-old daughter. And I'm here to speak against the removal of Ivey Island. We have had...
 ourselves have had five generations of st john's and north portland family four generations including grandmother that are living and grandmother herself has lived in st john's for a little over 65 years i live with my grandmother four days a week taking care of her in st john's grandma was also a part of the shirley ann fund for the local fire department
 My grandmother also helped to save the St. John's Library. She gathered neighbors, including Boy Scouts, school children, to stop its removal by protesting. So we come from a protesting family. My grandfather used to whistle and tap dance in the St. John's Theater that is still in St. John's.
 But the reason why I'm here is to say that our Ivy Island, St. John's is such a small community. We have great people. We have history. We have roots. I would ask that you guys take a drive through St. John's and you'll see how quaint and how lovely our community is. We may be a small community.
 but we stick together. We were not notified publicly in regards to the removal of Ivy Island. I, like so many other here that you will hear testimony still, and the ones that have given their testimony, we were not given any form of adequate awareness, and that's too bad. Four-story buildings don't meet.
 What you see when you enter St. John's, just because you have money and you claim that you're a good person doesn't mean that we should trust you. Thank you for your time. Thank you. And what do you have to say? Save Ivy Island. You know, say save our... Save the island. Wow. That's the best testimony today. Absolutely. And by the way, I'm pretty sure that during my seven years here,
 We have all at least once a year convened for one of our favorite events, which is the St. John's Parade. Thank you. We all proudly believe. President of St. John's Parade. Yeah, I think everybody here, I don't think anyone's missed it, and I think I can speak for myself. It's one of the highlights of the year. Thank you.
 one of the best parades in Portland. We appreciate it. Thank you so much. And if the street vacation is approved, I'm assuming that the parade would make the corner rather than cutting across the plaza, or have you thought about that? We don't know. That's a good question.
 Thank you for asking. Is Grandma speaking or is she just here? No, Grandma's here in support. Thank you very much. You'd be considered young in my family. My grandfather lived to 102. Wow. Congratulations. Thank you for taking the time, all three generations. Thank you. Carla, can you call the next three? Yes, the next three are Gary Boehm, John Petty, and Kelly Tadlock.
 and they will be followed by Judy Briner, Dana McIrlene, and Clinton Doxey. Okay. Welcome. Hi. Would you like to kick it off? Sure. I have this thing I'm going to read, and I'm going to try to make it in two minutes here. Okay. So it might be a little speed reading. My name's Kelly Tadlock, and I've lived in St. John's for the last 15 years, I think.
 And dear Mayor and Commissioners, here are the issues in a nutshell. The strongest pro-Buluri development vacate island position is the safety issue at Charleston. From this point of view, the only way to solve the safety issue is to remove the Lombard slip lane and square the corner with the traffic light. PBOT will not pay to do this. To have a developer to do this and trade in order to build on Ivy Island is a bonus.
 The city will privatize public property in this scenario. According to PBOT, there have been seven accidents at this corner between 2004 and 2013. Pro-vacate Ivy Islanders say that the number of accidents is excessive and creates an urgency that only the blurry development will remedy. The St. John's Lombard Plan is the authority for this traffic reconfiguration.
 The safety issue of the Richmond-Lombard horizontal line curve by the storage facilities is irrelevant. Save the Island will argue that it's a safety issue at Charleston, not an issue of the slip lane. As a safety issue, we can break it down into components. One, line curve. Two, vehicle speed. Three, traffic.
 walkability for pedestrian crossing. We can work on and make each component safer. When talking about safety, the conversation usually begins with the blind curve. Save Ivy Island would work with the developer to improve the sight line, make the blind curve a sighted curve by moving it back six feet. Curb extensions are already planned, which adds another three to four feet of visibility.
 The PBOT Safety Audit of 2011 had many low-cost solutions that weren't implemented. Ma'am, if you could just wrap up. Okay, sorry. The Charleston 7 corner is not inordinately unsafe. According to the crash map, it is as safe as Chicago 7, Baltimore at Lombard 7, and Levitt, which is very dangerous in my opinion. Ma'am, thank you very much. Thank you for your testimony. Welcome, sir. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Gary Beam. I had served as the president of the St. John's Boosters from October 1996 through December of 2009. In that capacity, I did participate in the St. John's Lombard planning effort. That and personally, I've been impacted by the gentrification of St. John's. I don't support this proposal for...
 lot of reasons. Some of it is due to the lack of affordable housing that the St. John's Lombard Blank calls for. This development does not indicate any affordable housing. Additionally, the claim of safety at the North Charleston and North Lombard intersection
 may be valid, but in my opinion, it's short-sighted. There is significant information out there through the Intersection Safety Audit of North Richmond and North Jersey that indicate...
 that the slip lane can be made safe through narrowing the entrance of it, appropriate signage, cleaning up the street clutter that exists. Additionally, it points out to something that's called a horizontal blind curve coming westbound as you round the corner for the
 the storage facility that's there. They do not recommend the northern crossing, crosswalk crossing from the island because that is a safety issue.
 Additionally, if you go to the PBOT website and look up the Vision Zero Traffic Injury Fatality from 2004 to 2013, the Charleston-Lombard intersection has very little pedestrian-bicycle interaction. One or two bikes have interacted there and no pedestrians.
 Throughout the commercial district, there are larger pedestrian issues than simply wiping out the blind curve, claiming that they're going to make the Charleston-Lombard intersection safer. Thank you. Thank you, and thank you for your many years of service. Sir. Hello, Commissioners. My name is John Petty. I've been a resident of St. John's for 10 years. I worked as a city planner, urban designer for 45 years prior to that. And I moved here because I love the green weather.
 that we have um this gateway we were talking about ivy island is one of two that were built in st john's something like 25 to 30 years ago one at the foot of the of the bridge and then the other one here at ivy island where this whether where we're talking about the slip lane the loan the lombard plans very explicitly says there's a safety issue here that needs to be addressed and it proposes a new interchange for that purpose
 But it also is very explicit in saying that the right-of-way that's vacated by the slip lane should be used to provide for a great visual gateway into St. John's and not to be occupied by a building. The building that's proposed would occur over the right-of-way line by several feet. I would suggest that.
 A way to approach this would be for the building to be restricted to being on the private property, that even though PBOT says there will never be any money to spend, public money to spend on this, you know, there are always fundraising mechanisms. Although PBOT says that any mitigations to the slip lane, as suggested in professional literature, would just be band-aids,
 I would suggest that it's been several years now that this hazard has been recognized, and to date there have been no mitigations to try and save someone who happened to be caught out in that slip lane. I would suggest that the building being back and –
 slip lane remaining open, mitigated until the money is there, and then the new interchange can be built and the new gateway can be done on top of what the slip lane used to be. Sir, thank you very much for your testimony. Carla, the next three, please. Are Judy Briner, Dana McErling, and Clinton Doxey, and they'll be followed by Tom Karwacki, Joshua Leslie, and Tom Stubblefield. Okay. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, everybody. Hi. Ma'am, would you kick us off? Sure. Thank you for having us here today. I really appreciate it. I am a relatively newcomer to St. John's, which means I've only lived there for 15 years. That means I'm new, pretty new still. I moved there from northwest Portland. I lived on Northwest 21st for six years.
 And I thought there needed to be many changes in St. John's when I moved there. I never, ever thought, let's start tearing things down. I never said or thought, let's tear a building down, let's tear this down, let's just completely change the neighborhood. I never thought about that. I just hoped that restaurants and different people would take over buildings that were already there. We have lots of empty spaces in St. John's now.
 that have never been built. So I feel that if Ivy Island was taken away and the building built there, we would lose a lot of the character of St. John's, lots of it. And I just saw pictures today of what it would look like. We all saw those. And I want to say that not only could that building be anywhere in Portland, it could be anywhere in the world.
 That building has nothing to do with St. John's at all. It could be anywhere. It's generic, completely generic. It looks very pretty, but it has nothing to do with St. John's. I also want to point out that because a lot of time has been spent on getting this building approved, that doesn't make it right. Just because the amount of time is spent on it does not make it the right thing to do.
 And I just want to say that as a voter, I am really hoping that we look for new and inventive ways to cure or to get ready for all the people that are moving here. Obviously, we're going to have very high density. We all know that. We're not arguing with that. But we need to save the character of our neighborhoods while we're doing this. We just need to be more creative about it. Thank you very much for your testimony. Welcome. Thank you.
 good afternoon commissioners my name is dana mcgurlin my address is 7525 north richmond avenue i have lived and worked in st john's in north portland for 20 years opening eight businesses during that time including the colony
 which is adjacent to the proposed union development. I am heavily interested in the neighborhood and committed to see its residents and businesses thrive. I'm here to request that the City Council only approve a vacation of the entire portion of North Lombard Street right-of-way, as was originally proposed and noticed to the public.
 and not the partial vacation proposed before you this afternoon. Fairly considering the community, the city, my and the petitioner's interest, I am opposed to the partial vacation as presented.
 At the time of my previous public testimony, I stated I was in favor of the entire vacation conditioned by discussion with the petitioner regarding cooperation between us as adjoining property owners.
 These good faith discussions were terminated by the petitioner when he became aware that the city initiated and requested partial vacation would circumvent the need for any further cooperation between us and that he would be able to obtain the property through an encroachment easement.
 Although the cost of the vacation and the proposed improvements presented in this hearing are very attractive, they do not reflect the visual magnitude and monetary value solely benefiting the
 the petitioner. The gateway to St. John's will be the gateway to the union development. Under no uncertain terms, the union will encroach with structure and presence into what is legally currently a public property. This monetary mechanism should not marginalize procedures or interested parties' rights. This is a valuable community asset is being traded for short-term improvement costs.
 Traffic safety as a result of the right-of-way vacation and sidewalk and road realignment should be examined more cautiously, and it is in more detail. Thank you very much. Semi-trucks' turning ability are tight, I'm almost done, at the dense urban and pedestrian intersection and crossing may be dangerously inadequate. Thank you for hearing my testimony. Thanks very much. I just have a question. You own the colony that was just right here, right? Yes.
 which is this one, colleagues, the white space.
 So this proposal would be quite different if that Plaza 2 were vacated also, and then you would get some of that property at least. That is correct. And I have done title search work that states that it would be very clear that it would revert back to my property from historic records, which they had stated early that they were unable to find proof of that.
 And potentially a future, if that is the case, and I don't know whether it is or not, but a future, you or a future property owner could petition to vacate that Plaza 2. I could. And then you could develop it or whatever. I could. So I think that that's an important point, colleagues, because this site plan is premised on Plaza 2 contributing a fairly large amount of open space that...
 eases the magnitude of the development on the proposed site plan. On that site as well lives my signage, my frontage to Lombard, which will be taken down and not put back up. It's a sign that's been there for 30 years. We'll have staff come back. Yeah, that's...
 I was wondering about that because that's really the sight line to your property. It is. And the access ways. And I think that the proposed design really just creates a buffer zone between me and the plaza. It really isn't incorporating my property or any idea of future development that may happen at some point, which –
 would be my attention, you know, and my intention at some point in time. And your signage is currently in the area that's designated as a bus at you? Yes, it comes about 10 to 15 feet, or it's within 10 feet. And...
 The petitioner and I had been in communications and negotiations, and he terminated them. I had responded, and he did not respond. I had caught in touch with him numerous times with very reasonable counter-negotiations. We can't get into that. Okay. Sorry about that. I appreciate knowing some more of the background because –
 Obviously, in a street vacation process, the adjacent property owners have a particular interest, and so I really appreciate you taking the time to be here. Yes, I would like to continue the dialogue if possible. Thank you. Very much. Welcome, sir. Hello, President Fish, commissioners. Thank you for the time. My name is Clinton Doxey. I live at 8540 North Charleston Avenue, two blocks away from the intersection at Lombard, where the proposed intersection or the proposal will affect that particular intersection.
 I think I'd like to try and keep it short. A lot of good points were made today. I'd like to just kind of focus on two. First point is safety. This is an issue that just can't be hammered quite enough. I cross it multiple times a day to get to the grocery store by foot, by bike, by car. I cross it to get to the bus. I cross it to...
 with my son and my family, and I've had multiple near-misses, one this week, quite frequently. And so for people to say that they don't feel like it's unsafe because they haven't experienced seems a little narrow-visioned in my opinion. So I just wanted to reiterate that the safety issue has been identified, and I'm here to kind of put a face to that. The second point I'd like to make is regarding the gateway issue, which is –
 A very, very pertinent point to make about this proposal, and I'd just like to say that gateways aren't just about signs. Gateways are about community, and the people, as you can see here all testifying today, are very passionate about it. People are what make the community, and the community is what makes St. John's, St. John's, and our gateway what a gateway is. Thank you. Can we call the next three?
 That would be Tom Karwacki, Joshua Leslie, and Tom Stubblefield. And they will be followed by Stan Hoff, Deshae Uisna. He already spoke, I believe. Okay, thank you. So we have about nine people left. So just for time check, we'll give everyone a chance to speak. Then we'll bring staff back up, and we have some questions based on the testimony. Then we'll have council deliberation to see where we want to go for those of you who are
 So I'm guessing plus or minus 4 o'clock we'll start deliberations. Welcome, if you'd like to begin, sir. My name is Joshua Leslie. I'm the current land use chair for the St. John's Neighborhood Association. Thanks for giving me this opportunity to present. I want to express my support for the proposed street vacation, which will eliminate the slip lane and redesign the intersection to bring it in line with the recommendations from the St. John's Lombard Plan.
 There's been a lot of conversations in the neighborhood about this project. The developers have attended four public meetings to answer questions, and they've been really open and responsive to the community and to the community groups that have reached out with them.
 I've talked to a lot of people in the community about this issue. There's definitely vocal opposition from quite a few of our neighbors, but based on conversations I've had, I think there's at least as much support for redesigning the intersection.
 Um, most of the people I've talked to want the intersection to be safer. Uh, they disagree on, um, the best way to move forward with that. But a lot of them do agree with the recommendations from the St. John's Lombard plan, which was developed through a community-based process. Uh, personally, I think the intersection at Lombard and Charleston is my least favorite in the neighborhood. Traffic doesn't stop as it goes from the highway. Um, and, uh, I feel every, unsafe every time I cross it. Um.
 i can't wait until that section becomes safer by reconfiguring the intersection and adding a traffic signal this has been on pbot's to-do list for years but with the long backlog of street projects i know it might take several more years until funding is available to make the changes i think this is a great opportunity for the neighborhood to get a public requested improvement made partnering with a developer to fund a transportation project like this is a good precedent and i think that it should happen again moving forward
 Beyond the safety of the intersection, the developers taken measures such as the stage setbacks of the building with the different colored bricks to match the building with the community design overlay.
 They're incorporating plazas and have agreed to relocate the Welcome to St. John's marquee onto the property. The tree mitigation plan, which the developer has offered, adds extra trees. I believe that the combination of the relocated sign, the trees, the plaza, and the proposed aesthetics of the building will make an attractive gateway to the downtown corridor. I hope you support this vacation. Thank you very much. And just by way of clarification...
 When we're finished with testimony, we'll have a discussion, take up the amendment. This is an ordinance. It is not an emergency, so it will be going to a second reading next week or whenever the sponsor so indicates. Thank you.
 Okay. Tom Karwocki, 7139 North McCrum. The University Park Neighborhood Association Land Use and Transportation Committee supports the vacation of this for safety reasons and because it's consistent with the Lombard Plan.
 We note that the new plaza would be about the size of two of the Cadillacs that you usually drive in the parade in, Mr. Saltzman, plus a smart car and possibly even a Prius. So it's fairly sizable, and it might be providing a public benefit. It's about the same size as some of the standard insurance set back there, so you can see what you can sort of get in 40 feet. Okay.
 So that's why we're in favor for safety and because it's consistent with the Lombard plan. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Okay. Welcome.
 My name is Tom Stubblefield. One second. I think you do have the authority to put conditions on the use and through a covenant so that you don't get stuck with this issue of putting the street vacation and then suddenly it becoming redesigned. So I think that's something you're going to want to look at. And, sir, that is the indication we've gotten from the City Attorney, so we're trying to get draft language as we speak.
 Hey, my name is Tom Stubblefield, and I live on Willamette Boulevard. My family home was on North Richmond Street, and I just sold the home we had for 60 years. And it's just a few hundred feet from there. I also own the St. John's Thrift Play Store, which is where Safeway is now. As far as the city giving up land to private, we located six streets in that area, thanks to the city of Portland. At the time, we were on a growth spurt, and
 It was redeveloped. I owned the store after that, and now it's Safeway. I've got a pretty good history on that square, or on the Ivy Island. When I was eight years old, I stood there with a safety patrol flag right in front of the old furniture store, and traffic came around. It was dangerous then, and it's dangerous now. Because you went to the school? Yeah, I went to school there back, I won't say when, but...
 It's right after cars came out. It was terrible. Sometime in the 80s. Yeah, yeah, right. So anyway, we have done, I'm on the board of the Main Street program, and we have done a lot of work on that island. And drove across Washington County getting all the plants, brought them in. UOP came in. We worked really hard. I spent the summer watering, which I got in trouble with the city. But anyway, the plants lived, and the city forgot about it.
 So that's a good thing. The second thing is it was Ivy Island. It had rats in there, and it took us forever. We got it cleaned up. It's gone. It looks great. But in 1978, it was a great idea. In 2016, it's not. We need to eliminate it. We're getting private money to help us. Let's go for it. It's going to save the city a lot of money. So anyway, it doesn't matter how long you've been there. If you came yesterday or in the 40s or 50s, it's still...
 a problem and it's a safety factor. In my second career, we restored that signal gas station there and we were working on it. And I saw probably the worst head-on collision I've ever seen on that blind corner. Nobody got killed. It was amazing. Yesterday, I was coming out of Main Street office and a lady was coming across the street with her child and
 It's a near mess and stupid. So anyway, all in favor of vacating the island, clean it up. Thank you. Thank you for joining us. Carla, next week? Stan Hoff, Shea Wisna, sorry, and Rockman Beach. And they'll be followed by Joseph Perkey, John Tepley, and Eugene Darko. Good afternoon, commissioners. My name is Shea Wisna.
 If the vacation is approved by Mr. Bellori and Mr. Bellori is given our public lands, then the union at St. John's will spill over onto Ivy Island and the slip lane. A four-story building on what is now a gateway is like building a wall where now there is a wide open entryway.
 There will no longer be visibility through the trees of Ivy Island into the downtown corridor. There will no longer be a gateway into St. John's. It'll just be a corner like any other corner in Portland. Right now our gateway works. Cars and buses are brought into our downtown via the slip lane. Vehicles are siphoned off from the traffic headed to the bridge.
 Based on data provided by the PBOT 2011 safety audit, we know that 42% of all cars approaching St. John's from the east utilize the Lombard slip. So the slip lane actually plays a major part in reducing traffic congestion. The safety audit suggests that without the slip lane, traffic will self-divert into residential areas to avoid the congestion on Lombard. Oh, and this is interesting.
 Turns out there's a second blind curve we'll need to deal with. A horizontal blind curve is what they call it at that intersection that we're planning on changing at Jersey and Richmond. This blind curve won't be fixed by raising Ivy Island because the problem is actually the shape of the block across the street from it where the storage units sit. Right.
 This explains why PBOT does not recommend putting a crosswalk at that north end of that intersection. It's too dangerous for pedestrians to cross there. Look, development is coming. We get it. In a sea of new construction of three- and four-story buildings, this is all the more reason to hold on to our commons, our public, open green space.
 Cars can be slowed down as they enter the slip lane. The safety audit had many low-cost solutions that were never implemented, such as improved signage, better painted direction on the asphalt, narrowing the slip lane to calm traffic. And how about we change the speed limit to 20 miles per hour throughout the downtown?
 By hanging all of our safety issues onto the Lombard Slip and the blind corner at Charleston, we run the risk of throwing away so much that's really wonderful about our gateway. And if we think that all our traffic woes will go away by eliminating the slip and squaring the block, I think we're in for a rude awakening. Thank you. Ma'am, I want to just comment. You said reduce the speed to 20. I've got streets in my neighborhood in Northeast that are marked 25.
 And I feel like I'm a hazard because going 25, the cars are passing me at such high frequencies. And I wish there was a better appreciation, a broader appreciation of what we mean by Vision Zero. So I applaud that comment. Sir?
 Thank you very much. My name is Stan Hoff, and I have been in and out of St. John's since 1978. Currently, I live in southeast Portland. And I can't tell you how many times that I and my friends go over to St. John's. We just love to go there because this same accolade I've heard for 20 years. St. John's has a small-town feel. Thank you.
 And I just believe that anything that contributes to its irregularities, it's so historical. There's so much that's – and I think with this ivy triangle, it would be very important just to really make sure that we totally understand the history of that little area because it does serve the purpose of giving that small town feel, which I really like, and it helps make St. John's a destination. And once it's gone, it's gone.
 And there must be some way to try to, if it does go, have things that contribute to that small town feel. Because St. John's is currently, and it is, it's a destination. It's not a grid. And because it isn't a grid is one reason it has that small town feel. And that's all I have. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Welcome. Rockman Beach. I run a family that's been in St. John's.
 since the 40s, and I run a business in downtown St. John's. I'm opposed to the removal of Ivy Island. I'm not going to... A lot of people have already expressed my concerns. The safety issue, that can... That's a separate issue. People try to connect that issue with simply the part about saving Ivy Island. The traffic pattern...
 As I say, that's a separate issue, and I think it can be addressed. As I say, I've lived in St. John's most of my life, and I run a business dead center in St. John's. So anyway, that's my opinion, is some of these other safety issues can be addressed, but that's a different topic from simply preserving that island. That's all. Sir, thank you very much.
 Carla, next three. Are Joseph Perkey, John Tepley, and Eugene Darko. And the last person who signed up will be Philip Fenster. And as these three gentlemen are getting seated, if there's someone in the audience that came hoping to testify, you didn't hear your name, would you please let Carla know, and we'll give you a chance to testify. Welcome, and sir, would you kick us off? Thank you, commissioners, for allowing me to testify. Thank you.
 What I have here is over 1,000 signatures of St. John's whose voices have never been heard and considered in the development at the Union of St. John's. Throughout the entire process, there was never enough engagement to ensure the community of St. John's would be properly informed about the details and impact of the proposed plan. I have five reasons why I think you should vote no on vacation.
 Public property should remain public and not be privatized. Two, the Ivy Island parcel and the eastern colony parcel both have large mature trees. The mitigation and write-up for these trees does not reflect their true value. Three, we are told that this is based on the St. John's Lombard plan and that our community asked for this. But the site plan for the two developments are decidedly different. Four.
 Four, inexpensive safety improvements that involve signage and paint and recommended by the 2011 safety audit were not implemented. Then our community is told that PBOT can't afford to improve the intersection and we must go with the Blurry plan if we want improved safety for our community. The fifth reason is that PBOT did not do a good enough job at engaging the community concerning this project. The outreach seemed to have been fully in the hands of the St. John's Main Street and the St. John's Neighborhood Association without PBOT guidance.
 The ensuing four meetings that they facilitated were essentially meetings in which the developer and the architect promoted their project. I attended two of them. There was no opportunity for an open discussion concerning the project and its meaning for the St. John's community by the St. John's community.
 A project of this importance that radically changes the face of St. John's, it needed proper public involvement. I think the process needed stronger PBOT and planning department presence in developing the discussion. Concerning what this corner was to look like, it specifically says in the St. John's Lombard plan on page 86 that specific design details still need to be developed through a design engineering process with public involvement.
 And to Ms. Jensen, who said that I came in on this on the 11th hour, this has been since June, so I don't think that we can consider this an 11th hour. And it has been a struggle, you know, with doing this through the community. Thank you, Commissioner. Can you give us your name again, please? John Tepley. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Joseph Perkey. I've lived in St. John's for the past 13 years. I'm a business owner of an architecture firm in the center of St. John's and a parent with students at James John School nearby this proposed development.
 I've been deeply involved in the community ever since I've lived here, including leading the volunteer and donation-based project with DPave and AC Portland at the school to put in the soccer field and remove 8,000 square feet of asphalt there. The first time I heard about the proposed project,
 traffic change in the st. John's Lombard plan I was I was interested in that it looked like a good solution to that dangerous corner and then in 2011 a student that made my kids school at James John got struck by a car on his way to school
 That increased my interest in that project. And I joined the principal when ODOT came out to start their study of that intersection, which resulted in agreeing with the St. John's Lombard Plan intersection change, which is included in this vacation project.
 I think that this is a great opportunity to further the Vision Zero goals with zero public dollars. And I think that the important sight lines that are spoken about in the St. John's Lombard plan are preserved with the cars coming to a right angle and seeing all the way a full block before they get to the next intersection. Okay.
 I would like to encourage you to consider any additional considerations, caveats, but keep a priority on the safety of our community at that intersection. Thank you very much, sir. Welcome. Hello. Thank you for having me here. My name is Eugene Darko. I help run a business that's local to St. John's. I am a father, and my son attends James John Elementary as well.
 I believe I've seen all of you at the parade. You know about the small town character. The proposed development destroys our gateway. That's an aspect of our character. I'm asking you to save the gateway because there are solutions to this problem. A 2011 safety audit shows the slip lane works. 62 autos traveled south and 44 traveled into the business district. We've just got to slow them down. Thank you.
 monday night at the neighborhood association meeting a member of the safety and livability team mentioned a 20 mile per hour limit like north williams has or how about a four-way stop at charleston and lombard it'll be good for trimet bus number four that always has to make that turn it'll be good for the students my son it'll be good for walkability and it'll be a good way to reduce speed in downtown in general there's a lot of talk about safety and
 Okay, so I want to talk about the 2011 safety audit, which explains that a blind horizontal curve makes a northern crossing at the Lombard-Richmond-Jersey intersection unsafe. That's page 43. Okay.
 to quote some longer term plans have identified the possibility of reopening the northern crossing and indeed full movement intersections should be standard practice as was done for the stopping site distance evaluation of the southern crossing a similar analysis was done for a reopened northern crossing conducting the same analysis but applying this to the northern crossing indicates that the more limited site distances argues against reopening that that's the intersection we're talking about
 making it a four-way intersection not a squared off one but a parallelogram even different than a square here so let's not destroy nine 30 foot plus tall trees let's not vacate the public land we don't have to do that i'm asking for your vote to save the gateway to st john's and to keep our small town character thank you thank you very much sir carla who else the last person who signed up is philip fenster
 Philip, as you're coming forward, does anyone else in the audience like to be recognized? Well, sir, you have the last word. Right on. Thank you for having me. My name is Philip Fenster, and I am a 15-year resident of St. John's. I support vacating the slipway in Ivy Island.
 Traveling the length of North Charleston, the intersection of North Lombard is a part of my daily bicycle commute. I find this intersection to be unnecessarily dangerous due to the inability to see traffic coming from the east and the slipway inviting motorists to glide right on through.
 I fear that implementing crosswalks or flashing lights would do little to slow motorists and that in the absence of pedestrians, it would be business as usual, exceeding the speed limit. At the very least, the slipway should have at least two speed bumps to effectively slow traffic.
 Over the years, I have seen great improvements to Ivy Island. I was a member of the team that removed that invasive ivy. I very much appreciate the value of plants as carbon sinks. The plantings on Ivy Island have great value as carbon sinks, and I do not take the idea of their removal lightly.
 I am confident that replanting as required by code would be met, but I would hope that the developer would voluntarily go beyond code in their replacement of plants in order to make the extra effort to combat climate change. I feel that the proposed public plazas create usable and inviting spaces for the community of St. John's.
 I do not see the vacation of the slipway as creating unacceptable traffic congestion, and if it were to increase congestion, I would encourage motorists to transition to bicycles. Regarding the proposed amendment, I support the vacation. Regarding the proposed amendment, my support of the vacation is consistent.
 conditional on the guarantee of the proposed plazas being included. Thank you very much. Well, that concludes the public testimony. Steve, do you want to have staff come back up? Yes, please. We could have PBOT staff come up and perhaps... And they'd be represented at the applicant. Christy, would you like to come forward or just start with you? And Commissioner Fritz, would you like to go first?
 Thank you. Well, first of all, thank you, everybody, for coming today. It's very impressive how many of you were able to take time away on a Wednesday afternoon to come downtown, showing that actually it's really not that far to St. John's and people can do it either direction. It's very accessible.
 And I really appreciate the passionate testimony on all sides. It's part of a rich tradition of the St. John's neighborhood to have people disagreeing with each other. I first went there 25 years ago, and it's no different. And that's great.
 It's different folks and it's different issues, but it's always people who care a lot about your community and who are reasonable people who disagree. And so we'll now have a discussion about is there a way forward that could find solutions that...
 satisfied even more of the needs, thanks to Kurt Kruger and the staff and also the applicant for looking to see, are there creative solutions that can address the St. John's Lombard plan, safety issues, still make a viable development, and satisfy many values? Because I think we all share the goal of a great gateway to St. John's that is clearly a public gateway and not a private development blocking the way into St. John's.
 With all that framing my discussion the amendment that I raised before Testimony started was to make sure that in particular Plaza one would always remain in open space And so I understood with this various proposals and perhaps we could come back with something Before the second reading my latest suggestion is that perhaps we could add
 put a public access easement on a certain distance from the curb, which there isn't currently a public access easement I can see, and that certainly needs to be part of a condition anyway. So I'm wondering whether that might be a solution that you could work on before we come back for a second reading, or if you have a different proposed solution to my concern. Christy?
 Sure. I think there are a lot of mechanisms we can use. That's one of them. The one we spoke about is that the property was subject to a design review that will be recorded against the property and requires the development not only of Plaza 1 but also of extended Plaza 2 subject to public use with no restrictions.
 And if there was any changes to that, which we don't anticipate at all, we'd have to go back through design review, which we don't anticipate. But we can carry that condition forward and articulate in this street vacation that should there be any changes, which again, we don't think there will be, that there would be a public review process to ensure that those changes comport with this discussion and the desire for the plazas.
 And easement is another way. There's a lot of different mechanisms. I think what it's important for me to communicate is that my client is all in, and we recognize that the beauty of this project is that those plazas are public and stay public. I appreciate that. Just occasionally we have had developers whose plans change. They sell the property. This is our one chance to have influence over the public right-of-way. I'm...
 disappointed that it wasn't a type 3 design review because I'm concerned about some of the elements of the design particularly showing the proposed site plan the encroachment of the building into the vacated area it really doesn't seem to comport with that st. John's Lombard plan that that this corner was envisioned to be more open in the plan
 What is – it says future restaurant here. What is this lower portion designed to be? So there's ground floor retail, and the idea is that it's flexible so that it can be broken up into smaller components based on the idea to have more local and small-scale retail.
 And the piece that I would respond to is that the St. John's plan is one thing, and then the design guidelines and development standards for that particular roadway is another thing. And so in order to comply with the building line standards, a certain percentage of that building had to be within a particular distance.
 And what we asked for to expand the plaza area was actually for a modification, a departure from what was otherwise required under the code, so that we could back that building off as much as possible. And there was a really robust discussion about that during the design review process. And then the building is articulated with varied setbacks in order to soften the edge as much as possible. The other thing in the St. John's plan is that the plazas are a bow tie.
 And the concept plan was based on the buildings that were there at the time the plan was adopted. So they're shown in the building footprints that were there at that time. And, of course, it doesn't necessarily anticipate that that particular building and that configuration would be there in the future. Thank you for that. You were actually raising a chicken and egg problem in that the design review has been approved assuming that the street vacation would happen.
 we say no to the street vacation then it has to go back to our previous plan which would seem to be a shame but we can't now modify the design at least that's my understanding and some information the city attorney can the council at this point ask for a rounded corner on that building or something else and and that's something maybe you can get back to us before this the
 the second reading or continuance of this hearing my other concern is raised by the owner of the colony and you mentioned that the design review is conditioned on the plaza being improved according to the plan it really seems like that plaza is a gateway to this development and not like a accessory to the colony
 And I need to say the ex parte contact I was at the gathering about six months ago, which was held in the colony along with fire bureau staff, police staff, I don't remember what
 if the transportation staff were all participating in this ex parte contact. But it's not an ex parte decision. No objection. Thank you very much. It's a street vacation, so in some instances where we're acting as judges, we're not supposed to have contact with the parties. This is a little different, but it is site-specific. I just wanted to get that out there because I'm very –
 sensitive to the concern that was raised by the owner of what about her sign, what about the orientation of the St. John's sign, what about taking this public, this plaza too, which is not being vacated, and essentially giving it to the developer, both for the responsibility to improve it, but also with the impression that it's part of the landscaping for that property rather than public right-of-way. Could you address that concern? I can. And then, Kurt, you might be able to help me out with a little more history on the sign. So two things.
 The only reason the street vacation actually went from whole to partial is because all of the research, including our own independent research with the title companies, the county's research, the city's research, and PBOT's research, indicated that there was no clear title post-vacation, which would have created an immense hurdle for actually building out the plaza consistently with the St. John's.
 plan. So what actually happened is that plaza stays in public property. And what we're doing is building the plaza on public property and dedicating it, of course, to public use because it's still public property. So it's actually kind of the best of both worlds. It's not a
 the developer is actually funding the maintenance and capital improvements for the plaza. What didn't have to happen under the St. John's plan or under design review was for us to extend that plaza and open up more private property in that gateway configuration and then dedicate that to public use.
 it should be noted, and I know it's hard to read on a site plan, that is complete, seamless space. There is no demarcation. There's no fence. That's my concern. Yeah, there's no gate. There's nothing. Okay.
 It's all public. Since that plaza, too, is still public space, shouldn't the other adjacent property owner have input into what it looks like, how it gets developed, where her sign is, where the St. John's sign is? So in the normal course, when you're in design review, everybody has notice of the design review that's within a particular distance of that property. And the plaza was developed in design review under that notice.
 If a neighboring property owner doesn't particularly like the design of something, they comment in design review, and then it's the city's authority, actually, not ours. It's the city's authority to determine whether the design is compliant with the design guidelines and interfaces well with all the surrounding buildings. If this is public property, it's not part of the site. So maybe, Kurt, you could address this. It was in design review. But I don't see why design review has jurisdiction over it since it's PBOTS. Okay.
 Again, for the record, crew growth transportation. So we have an agreement, actually, it's in code with BDS, Bureau of Development Services, that when we do a nonstandard improvement in the public right-of-way, which this would be, it requires design review. Okay.
 Wouldn't then the adjacent property owner who's not this applicant be required to be a co-applicant? No. No. PBOT's in control of issuing that permit within the right-of-way. And that's why we take it through the design review process to get public input on that non-standard improvement. If this was a typical street, curbs, sidewalks, street trees, we wouldn't ask anybody for any design because that's a standard that we're implementing. But because we're varying from that standard –
 The code requirement is to take that through design review to open up that public comment period. So what's the provision for the colony sign, and where will that be? So the sign, to my knowledge, to our knowledge, was permitted years ago through a short-term allowance, a permit that was set to expire, and I believe it expired five years ago. That sign is probably, for lack of a technical term, an illegal sign in the right-of-way that we would not permit today. It's a private sign in the public right-of-way, and we typically don't allow those.
 How does it – is it clear that the plaza is, in fact, public space and not part of the Courtyard Plaza? It doesn't seem like it is because this is seamless. So it seems like there's an appropriation of public space that looks like it's associated with the private development, and that especially if the colony sign has to come down –
 They seem out of luck. Well, can I just jump in on this for a sec? Because I'm feeling like I'm going to be eligible for college credit soon listening to this discussion. Don't we have the same situation throughout the city, like the River District, where areas have been – there's public space integrated into a design, and it's seamless, but it's clearly public space? Yes, we have that situation. And actually what's happening here is this is not a private appropriation of public space.
 The opposite is more true, that this is the expansion of public space onto private property as to Plaza 2 and an expansion of that. I completely understand the concern that, like, let's be sure –
 It's very clear that it's all public. It's designed to accomplish that, which is what they do in the River District and in other areas of the city, where you have an extension of a plaza space maybe onto private property. The design staff is very cognizant of that and tries to ensure that all of our design elements are seamless so people experience the space that way. So how was the design modified by input from the colony and by the neighborhood? Sure.
 of the Plaza 2.
 We would probably have to bring up BDS staff to answer that question. They are in the audience. Yeah. That would be interesting. I mean, I know you always do great public outreach. And when I was there six months ago, there was discussion about this in general. And there was a lot of, well, we don't know yet. And now here we are. And it seems like there is still an opening for looking at, how can the interests of the other property owner be safeguarded because, you know,
 She could come forward with a street vacation request tomorrow. Except that no one who has done the legal search on this has been – I mean, with all due respect, there's one property owner who has raised this issue, and we have four jurisdictions that have said legally there is no clear answer to that. So we can't resolve that through this proceeding, and she's no better off or worse off. That's right. Well, she is because her sign will come now. But her sign is illegal to begin with.
 Anyway, I think this is – let's come back to – let's stick with this panel first. I just want to make sure we get all the questions, and then we'll come back to that. Can I jump in for one sec? Because I – and I heard some questions. If I missed the questions, David, please blame me, not the author of the question. I'm just – I was trying to keep track of comments from the public. But one person raised a question about TriMet buses and the turning ratio or something. Could you address that?
 Sure. Commissioner Fish, I apologize. I was spending more time out of council chambers in the end, but I think I did catch that question. You were doing that at council direction to try to negotiate, so we appreciate that. We have consulted TriMet. They have been part of the design. We will make sure that the TriMet bus can make the corner at the new intersection. But what probably wasn't made clear is there will be a new
 westerly lane that's developed where Ivy Island is that will be the new gateway, the new entrance, the new roadway traveling into St. John's. So that corner is actually going to grow and have more room, just like a downtown street corner. TriMet will be able to make that turn. I've seen a lot of slides, and it's late in the day, and we've had a full day of council, so I'm just going to ask you a question that I should know, but I don't remember from the earlier slides. Someone testified that most of Ivy Island will be built on,
 And that sounded like the building portion would be on. What percentage of Ivy Island is actually occupied by a structure? Do we know? A corner. Okay. Most of Ivy Island will be in the road improvement and the plaza. Okay.
 the public plaza. Right, so my understanding was very little of the building is... Very little. And Ivy Island, the vacation is 5,000 square feet. The area dedicated back to the public through whatever mechanism we ensure that that occurs is near 9,000. And just so I understand this...
 There's less building on that footprint because the applicant sought an adjustment so that the building is actually moved back beyond what the code would otherwise require. Is that correct? That's true, and the building complies completely with all the density requirements in the code. I also wanted to make sure I understand what's before us here and what is separate because a lot of important issues have been raised here.
 some seem germane to this proceeding, some seem maybe are addressed in another forum. Are there any issues, Kurt, that have been raised about the design of the building that have any connection to the issue before us today? Thank you. I think the design of the building...
 Before a vacation or after a vacation are the key issues. If the vacation didn't occur and the applicant, we didn't go through this. We left everything as it is today. The sight lines will actually get worse because the applicant could build all the way out to the property line as the code would ask today. Would the applicant be able to build the same scale of a building? We had some concerns raised by folks about the number of floors and some of the massing.
 So that would still be as a right? That's correct. I don't... Could I just ask a clarification? I know you're in the middle of questioning, but I don't see why the... And I'm in favor of changing the street. Let me be really clear about that. But I don't see why the sight lines would be worse because there's this encroachment into the slip lane. So the problem today is that the...
 It would be easier if we were all standing at the corner and looking at this. All right. All right. Okay. We have a bus waiting. We have five buses out front. Enough for everyone in the audience. We're heading out there. We're having dinner on you, Kurt. Thank you.
 I retract that suggestion. Yeah. The building that the code requires would set that building up at the property line today. So if we didn't vacate it and the right-of-way there stayed the same, we would actually have a building that would move closer to the right-of-way than there is today. So that site distance would actually get worse if we left it alone. No, because it would be on the slip road. The curvature of the road right now doesn't have a building that's right up to the edge of the back of the sidewalk. Oh, I see. Yeah.
 Commissioner Saltzman, I want to make sure we're giving everyone equal time here.
 No questions? If I may, I wanted to highlight what Commissioner Fritz really painted as a chicken and egg issue. We struggle with this when we see this situation arise from time to time. It happens probably once a year where we think we see a street vacation that we would support for a traffic improvement, but trying to bring a developer along, knowing that there's an arduous process and a long road ahead, most developers choose not to jeopardize a project not knowing what that outcome may be
 10, 11, 12 months down the road. So what we in PBOT tried to do with the applicant was try to do this due diligence and reach out to St. John's residents, St. John's business, St. John's Main Street to get ahead of this so the applicant knew what they were getting into. And we did that with the recognized neighborhood association that the city identifies with. And is it...
 Is it possible for the council to have different conditions now that would modify the design reviews committee? Because if they had come to us, we could have said, no, you don't have to put the building right up to the right of way. We could have said we're going to vacate it and we don't want it all the way to the right of way. I'm not going to suggest council that has a limitation on what you can do. I think you have the ability to make modifications. Can I just do a time check and a process check?
 Currently, this is a first reading of an ordinance, so this would go to a second reading. I want to just ask a few questions. Commissioner Novick, is it your intention to seek a time certain for next week for this matter?
 I would like to do that. And what I would hope is, apparently the city attorney has said that if we instruct staff to come up with an amendment that will ensure that the amount of plaza space is not diminished and that there will be public access to that plaza space, then we could add that amendment after it's drafted next week without having additional testimony. Well, we've also had plenty of testimony from folks explaining that they would like to see such a mechanism. The legal terms of how we structure that, we will –
 because one of the things i want to just propose as a next step i don't want to foreclose this discussion we'll go as long as the council wants is that we asked carla to see if we have a time certain next week that we could move this to we make clear that the applicant working with pbot and commissioner fritz who is the sponsor of the amendment work over the next week to see if they can come to an agreement on an amendment that would have been brought to council
 and that we then see next week whether we're ready to take a vote on the matter before us.
 Is that conceptually acceptable to my colleagues? Yeah, the public easement over all the plaza area is really important. I guess we can figure out how to do that. And I'm comfortable saying that since Commissioner Fritz, you're the sponsor of the amendment, that it would be you, Commissioner Novick, the applicant, the PBOT staff would work together to come up with an amendment. If you're not satisfied, that will have consequences next week. Carla, can I ask you –
 We have public here, and I want to make sure we pick a time that's convenient. What time certain would we have available next week? I have 1045 in the morning, or really the afternoons are really both Wednesday and Thursday. What's the biggest thing? Wednesday is the 2.30 deconstruction. They've asked for two hours, and Thursday is the third in Harrison. What about 2 o'clock on Wednesday? That's taken by the age-friendly presentation. What's the 1045 on Wednesday? Okay.
 1045 is the morning. Right. That sounds good. That's usually, we're usually with that. Type sentence before that. The Southwest Corridor Project for 45 minutes and PP&R Labor Agreement. Steve, could we flip those two? Southwest Corridor just put this first.
 i don't really know i mean that's what i'd have to ask i have to figure out if um staff could and others would need to rearrange their time let's not do it so let's let's let's i think we have electeds let's grab 10 45 times certain on wednesday as a control date if for some reason the council needs to reschedule people will be notified but let's grab 10 45 and if history
 is any guide, it's likely the time certain would start a little after 1045. But I would encourage you to come at 1030 just in case. It will not be heard before 1045, but it will likely be heard a little bit afterwards. Commissioner Fritz would then, as the proposer of the amendment, work with her colleagues, her colleague and staff, and the applicant to work out an amendment. And that amendment, Commissioner Fritz, ideally would be posted how soon before the next hearing? Okay.
 Whenever we can do it. I can't tell you. Ideally, we'd have it the day before at least so we could post it so people could see it. And are there any other questions for this panel? So then, Mr. President, there's two issues that I think are compelling that I'm wondering if, obviously, we're not going to get everybody happy with the whole thing, but there's two things that I think we might be able to do a little something with. One is that corner with the building in the back.
 former right, the current slipway. And then the second is the treatment of the Plaza 2 and the signage for the colony and the appearance that it shared with the colony as well as shared with the new development. And so maybe as part of the discussions, we could just brainstorm to see if there's anything that could be done with those two issues. I'd like to have some options to be able to explore that whether we can or not.
 It may be challenging. But certainly with the issue with the colony, there should be something that we can do to make sure that the other adjacent property owner has their needs met. Let me be clear. By council process, those discussions can occur by right. Whether there is an agreement that comes to council that has a majority of vote is to be determined. If a council colleague feels strongly about it, I think that should be part of the discussion. And if there is some proposal that...
 And ultimately the sponsor, Commissioner Novick, wants to bring forward, that would be PBOT's decision. I would encourage that discussion. And there's nothing in our rules which precludes that discussion because we're going to a second. And a majority of council determines whether we vote next week or not in any event. We would vote on the amendment and then we'd have to pass it to second reading the week after anyway. Well, that's right.
 And I learned recently that it requires four votes for a street vacation because you're all right. Public right-of-way is an extremely important thing. I'm delighted. Usually street vacations, nobody, well, Commissioner Novick cares about them because he's in charge of PBOT. All this great staff care about them. I care about them all the time, and I really appreciate that everybody else here cares about this one. And you can see why, right? Because it's public right-of-way. We want to make sure that we don't.
 Give it away that we have invest in something else if we're going to not have it anymore I want to join my colleague in in disobserving that in the course of this I've noticed that it sort of unpacks as as a whole suite of issues Which are the issues that we're debating as the city is going through some growing pains and every one of these issues has Traction and is current and is real and
 And I want to thank everybody for the thoughtfulness of their testimony and the time. Without objection, Steve, we will have a final word. I just wanted to make sure that everybody watching at home understands that what Commissioner Prince just said suggests that if you want to make her happy, come and testify on all future street vacations. That will not necessarily always make me happy, however.
 We do have another humdinger next Thursday afternoon. If anybody would like to join us, that's going to be fascinating too. We may be limiting the testimony in some of those street vacations. They're otherwise done on consent. So without objection, this matter goes to a second reading. Carla, time certain next Wednesday at 1045? Correct. And we are adjourned. Thank you all. Thank you.