And this must recap my GDG. All right, good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, February 15th meeting of the Portland City Council, the AM session. Carla, could you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Wheeler? Here. Could you please call the first – oh, actually, no, I have to read this, sorry –
 So our next order of business is communications. I want to say a few words regarding council proceedings and decorum. The purpose of the city council hearings is to hear recommendation from the community on the public's business. In order to hear to everyone and to give due consideration to issues before the council, we have to endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings.
 To make sure that the process is clear to everyone, both those here and those watching at home or on TV, I want to quickly review some of the testimony guidelines. My hope is that these details help everyone to feel comfortable and indeed to also ensure that decorum is maintained.
 During the meeting, there's two opportunities for public participation. The first is communications. If you'd like to have the opportunity to speak to the council through communications, you need to make arrangements in advance to do that. We always welcome hearing people during communications. And, of course, throughout the session, first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances, there will be public testimony, but it has to be focused on the issue that's at hand.
 Please do state your name for the record. We don't need your specific address. If you're a lobbyist, we ask that you disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, we ask that you disclose that as well.
 Individuals typically get three minutes to testify. Sometimes, due to time constraints, we have to shorten that. If that's the case, we'll let you know. There's a lighting system up there and a bunch of beeps. It'll be really obvious when you have 30 seconds left, and then it'll just go ballistic when you hit your time limit.
 If you have handouts, please give them to Carla. She's the council clerk, and she'll make sure we all get them. It goes without saying that disruptions to the meeting, disrupting testimony, that is obviously not allowed. We want to make sure that everybody has an opportunity to be heard. We ask that people not...
 express applause or dismay with anybody's testimony. A simple thumbs up or thumbs down or jazz hands or whatever helps to keep the meeting moving. So with that, Carla, could you please call our first communications for the day?
 Item 125, request of Carl Wickman to address council regarding celebration of Portland's only covered bridge, Cedar Crossing. He is not able to make it due to family emergency. Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. Okay, very good. Next item, please. Item 126, request of Judy Cirillo to address council regarding captioning, an invaluable tool for those with hearing loss. Good morning. Good morning.
 I am Judy Cirillo. This year I'm president of the Hearing Loss Association Portland Chapter, and I'm
 We are a chapter of the Hearing Loss Association of America, which is a nationwide organization which works on legislation affecting people with hearing loss as well as communication skills and just support group, really, a lot of it is, because being a person with a hearing loss is a special situation, and there's more and more of us dealing with this.
 I also have a hearing loss. I wear two hearing aids. And I'll tell you, it's a frustrating thing. Even though I have pretty good hearing aids, it's like last night I was at a meeting and I was in the back row, unfortunately. That was a big mistake. And I...
 I had a really hard time hearing what was being said, even with the microphone, because different people with hearing loss have different issues. Some don't hear the low tones, some don't hear the high tones. So there could be certain sounds and syllables that are missed, and just a syllable or two can throw off the whole conversation. So things like noisy rooms, rooms that don't have adequate carpeting or curtains or high ceilings, these can all affect...
 And, of course, noisy restaurants are the worst. You know, you just can't hear in them. So I'll give you a little background information. The public, as you know today, people are many, many more aging people, and aging has a definite effect on hearing. So we're seeing many more people with hearing loss. We also live in a very noisy world. Thank you.
 Earphones, noise in the workplace, all these things over a long-term period do affect noise. Heredity is a big part of it. Both my parents lost some hearing as they got older, so I wasn't shocked when it happened to me. And people living longer, as I said. There are 48 million Americans with hearing loss. Hearing loss has been shown to negatively impact almost every dimension of life. Physical, mental, and emotional health.
 people's perception of mental acuity, social skills, family relationships, self-esteem, school, work, all these things are affected by hearing. And there is a law today under the Americans with Disabilities Act that people with hearing loss should be accommodated in the workplace. So whatever accommodations are necessary within reason ought to be made.
 It also obviously affects earnings, and it's an invisible condition. So people might think that someone with a hearing loss is very aloof or confused or they're not very intelligent, and all the time the problem is that they're not hearing right. And I was a nurse for many years in clinics, and I remember working with one woman. She had diabetes. I could spend quite a bit of time talking with her. And then one day I noticed on the chart that it said, this woman is mentally retarded.
 I got so angry because she wasn't retarded. It was just that the doctor hadn't picked up on the fact that she had a hearing loss. So this is the kind of perceptions that people have. Okay, daily impact of hearing loss. I told you about my situation at the meeting. I'm going to have to ask you to start wrapping it up, please. Oh, okay. Sorry. All right. Of course. I want to just thank the council for what they have done in the past to increase captioning at meetings on TV screens.
 I understand that the council unanimously approved the ordinance that requires TV screens in public places in Portland to keep the captions turned on. And I know Amanda Fritz was very instrumental in that and the whole council. And I'm personally enforcing it by visiting as many establishments as possible. Well, thank you. And I think this is wonderful. I love it myself. So thank you all very much. Thank you for your testimony.
 Carla, please call the next item. Item 127, request of Terry Munt to address council regarding Celebrate National Court Reporting and Captioning. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Terry Munt. And on behalf of the Oregon Court Reporters Association and the National Court Reporters Association, I want to thank you, Mayor Wheeler and council members, for inviting us here this morning to celebrate our National Court Reporting and Captioning Week.
 I have been a court reporter since 1976, and I now teach court reporting at Sumner College. Court reporting is a fantastic career. Obviously, court reporters work in the traditional setting in our courts. They also do pretrial depositions, arbitrations, hearings of all sorts. And you can see what captioners do. You have a wonderful example here of captioning.
 One of the messages that we want to share with you today is that court reporters use cutting-edge technology to bring the spoken word to text accurately and in real time, and you can see that yourself.
 According to an industry outlook study released in August 2014, approximately 5,000 to 5,500 court reporters will retire over the next several years, creating a real demand for new court reporters coming into the field. Annual salaries of court reporters and captioners can reach upward of $80,000 annually.
 And the career does not require a traditional four-year college degree. So our students are often out in the field working way ahead of their counterparts who are in a four-year college degree.
 So one of the messages we want to say is if you know a high school graduate, a community college student, someone looking for a career change to a fantastic career, tell them about court reporting and captioning. And tell them to visit our National Association's website or the Oregon Court Reporters Association website. Thank you for your time. Thank you for being here. Appreciate it. Carla, please call the next item.
 Item 128, request of Tevin Green to address counsel regarding Celebrate National Court Reporting and Captioning Week. Good morning. Good morning. I was actually here last year, and at that time I was still a student. I had, I believe, about six months left, I believe, maybe. But I graduated in June of last year, and I had a job maybe...
 Seven days later, basically. So there are jobs out there to be had, to be found. And I have a couple of friends that just found work after graduating, you know, seven months ago. And so I've been blessed to have the opportunity that I have. And I've enjoyed every moment. It took me a while to find what I wanted to do. But when I found court reporting the school,
 it just kind of clicked. And now that I've been working for the last six or seven months, it's been an amazing opportunity to
 work with the community in a way that I would have never expected I'd be working with the community. It is my job to scribe verbatim the testimony of the men and women in the state of Oregon. And it is a privilege because their word, their testimony is important. It's a part of their record and their significant legal matters that they're a part of. And it is just really, really important that that gets down. And it's great that it's my job to do that.
 For the most part, everything is very serious. It's a legal matter. Nobody, I mean, you walk into a law office and you say, hey, how's it going? Most people don't say, great, I'm at a law. I'm about to have a deposition right now. So it can be pretty tense sometimes, but there's always an opportunity for, not always, there is occasionally opportunities for levity, which is great. I just recently distinguished myself.
 the difference between a suite of furniture and a suite of furniture. I thought of suite hotels, you know, suite, S-U-I-T-E, so I had to actually stop and ask the attorney, suite? So that was a funny little circumstance that was in the midst of something much more serious, and it's a great moment to sit and realize that, you know, this is serious times, there are serious things happening, but my job gives me the chance to...
 embrace the little moments that are simpler in the midst of a very dramatic event, which is what most of my job is. But there's occasionally chances for a lot of levity. But yeah, I have enjoyed the job. I'm trying to tell my friends about it, but you know, it's hard to pitch off the bat
 Because they think just writing all the time. But, hey, like, it's kind of like a game. You learn how to create these briefs to write things quicker, faster. And you have a surprising amount of interaction with people in your community, which is easily my favorite part of it. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Thank you very much.
 uh next item please carla item 129 request of jeff mcallister to address council regarding how the city was remiss in adequate preparation for snowstorm jupiter and voice two proposals mr mcallister are you here today all right maybe next time um
 Could we please move quickly to the consent agenda? Carla's any item? I understand items 140 and 141 have both been pulled. Have other items been pulled? Mayor, the 141 will be pulled to the afternoon session. To the afternoon. Very good. Session 140 has been pulled. Please call the roll on the remainder. Fritz? Aye. Fish?
 I apologize. I have a little bit of a head cold and I can't speak well, but I do want to acknowledge that Julie Mancini is here on behalf of College Possible, at which this year we're awarding a $100,000 grant to support their outstanding work in our community. There may be other...
 grantees in the room, but colleagues, it's an honor roll of great community activities and programs which we have a chance to fund through our new special appropriation process. So I'm very pleased and honored to support that today. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Please call the next item. Let's go to the time certain items, take care of those, and then we can go to the poll item. Okay.
 Item 130, proclaim February 15, 2017 to be Stan Penkin Day in Portland. Mr. Stanley Penkin, could you come up here so we can embarrass you? Eloise, come on up. So I want to start with an apology. Commissioner Fish...
 was all teed up to read this proclamation, and as our arts commissioner, obviously, was a leading voice in this. However, today he showed up and he had no voice. The apology is this. I think I got him sick last week, so he very much wanted to read this. He asked if I would please read it on behalf of the entire Portland City Council. Whereas Stan Penkin
 was a strong advocate for the creation and passage of the Arts Education and Access Fund, commonly known as the Arts Tax, and has played an indispensable role in its implementation. And whereas Stan served as the first chair of the Arts Oversight Committee from December 2012 until December 31, 2016,
 Whereas, under Stan's leadership, the Arts Oversight Committee has been an accountable, transparent, engaged, representative body faithfully overseeing the distribution of public resources every year. And whereas, Stan is a dedicated civic leader and volunteer, serving as the Secretary of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association, Secretary of the non-profit organization Friendly Streets,
 President of the Oregon Children's Theater Board, Board Secretary of the Theater Group, Boom Arts co-founder and treasurer of the Oregon Art Pack, and is a member of the Portland Plan Comprehensive Plan Community Involvement Committee and the Cultural Advocacy Coalition. And whereas in 2014 Stan received the prestigious Civic Gold Award from the Northwest Examiner,
 and whereas the city of Portland is grateful for Stan's exemplary service to our community. And now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim February 15, 2017, to be Stan Penkin Day in Portland, Oregon, and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you, Mr. Penkin.
 Is it okay for me to leave now? No. Do you want to take a photo after people are done? Thank you.
 I have to say, I've seldom seen somebody more anxious about getting an award like this. You're very humble as well as the good things that you do. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fish has invited a couple of people to speak. Eloise Damrosch is here. Thank you. I'm Eloise Damrosch, Executive Director of the Regional Arts and Culture Council, and...
 I want to second everything that you said. In fact, I learned some things about what Stan does that I didn't know before. But we've been working closely ever since before the arts tax passed, very closely. And I've been amazed at how, first of all, he was willing to stand up and be appointed to a group that had virtually –
 only the barest bone structure and very little substance of what it was going to do. Citizen Oversight Committee is a pretty broad name, and...
 So I'm, first of all, amazed and thankful that Stan was willing to take on a pretty big charge. And then he managed with his committee to actually give form to what this job was and make sure that the taxpayers' money was being directed the way they voted to have it be directed. And I think he's done a remarkable job of that. And I think – I mean, I attend most of his meetings and –
 I really think that the citizen should be proud of what he has accomplished on their behalf. And I thank every one of them for passing this remarkable piece of legislation, which is doing some really great things that we're going to be talking more and more about as the tax moves along in its life. So thank you. Thank you, Stan. Well, I must say I am not all that comfortable with this.
 And it also feels very strange because I'm usually on this side of the table advocating for something and trying to get you guys to vote for something or maybe not vote for something. So it feels very strange. Also, there are other times when you have always, as you have been candidates for office, you have been on the other side of the Oregon Art Pack table and when we've been grilling you about your commitment to the arts. So thank you.
 mayor and commissioners. I am very honored by this recognition. I also want to thank the community of Portland. When Suzanne and I moved here from New York almost 14 years ago, we were very taken by how welcoming and inviting the city is. There are many opportunities to get involved, and if someone wants to get involved, it's really very easy to do so.
 I would just want to say that during these years, I've been really honored and privileged to have met and worked with so many committed individuals who give their time, energy, effort, and most of all, passion for good causes and doing good things. So while I appreciate this honor today, it does take a team and it does take a village.
 And some of those teammates are in this room today. So I feel that this proclamation belongs to them just as well as it does to me. And to Suzanne, my dear, wherever she is, dear Suzanne, who so often when I come home from a meeting, a gathering, a coffee date,
 And she takes one look in my eyes, as only she can see, and she says, okay, what the heck did you sign up for now? So, Suzanne, thank you, thank you so much for putting up with my meetings, my intense hours on the computer, late-night phone calls, my babbling on, my frustrations. Thank you, thank you so much. I couldn't do any of this without your support. Lastly, as I look around, I'm...
 these hallowed chambers and i see hundreds and hundreds of people here standing room only i just want to remind you all please remember to pay your arts tax thank you thank you commissioner fish um stan i just want to add um one more comment um it would be an understatement to say that the arts tax rollout was controversial um
 There were a lot of hiccups early on. And you have been a steadfast defender of the arts tax, as you have also been so diligent in making sure there was the kind of oversight which is necessary to retain public trust in this new endeavor. And to put the human face on this, today 30,000 or over 30,000 children receive now some arts instruction in the schools.
 And as Eloise will remind us, kids that are exposed to the arts tend to do better across the board in terms of their achievement. It's something about activating the right part of the brain. And so that's a lot of people in our community who benefit from this tax. And I can't think of anyone who has done more to maintain public confidence and trust in this tax than you. And so heartfelt thank you. And I hope you can join me on March 6th.
 March 6th at 9 a.m. is the date that the Supreme Court has scheduled to hear the final appeal of the arts tax. And the arts tax has survived, prevailed in every legal challenge to date. And on March 6th at Lewis and Clark Law School here in Portland at 9 a.m., the Oregon Supreme Court has scheduled a public hearing. And I know you'll be there. And when we win that last fight.
 We'll be on solid footing forever. So to my friend, Stan Pankin, thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Commissioner. My new guest. Would you want to take a photograph? If you wouldn't mind, could we take a photograph with the proclamation? Your friend's out. So everybody who's here with Stan, come on up. And where do we do it? Right here? Is this the best spot? Stan, do you want to bring your family up? All right. Thank you.
 Right in the middle. We'll do it quick. We need more balance. Very good. How do we look? Great. Thank you. Congratulations. We're going to celebrate next year too. I'm so happy for you.
 It's the friendly, it's the graffiti cleanup and caring for people on the streets that they do in the pub. No, I'm fine, thanks. Thank you, Scott. Oh, yeah, this is fun. So dear to our hearts. Thank you. I'll say one sentence. Very good. All right, next item, please.
 Next time certain. Item 131, Venture Portland North and East Portland Pilot Project Year 2 Progress Report. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to welcome Heather Hale forward, the Executive Director of Venture Portland, to present the annual report. Heather will introduce our other invited guests, and she will present this morning. Welcome, Heather. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I'm going to turn it over to Michelle while we do a little bit of furniture rearranging. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Mayor Wheeler, it's great to meet you, and I look forward to working with you in the future. Thank you. And if you could just state your name for the record, please. Thank you. I'm Michelle Wood, and I'm the president of Venture Portland. I'm also a small business owner. My husband and I own Integrate Architecture and Planning in the Kenton neighborhood.
 In 2016, after several years of significant business growth, Integrate expanded into a storefront location, rehabbing a vacant space in a historic building on North Denver Avenue. This move helped another home-based business launch a brick-and-mortar store. This move enlivened a critical corner in Kenton and would not have been possible without assistance from Commissioners Fish, Commissioner Salzman, and the staff at BDS, so thank you very much.
 By the way, I also want to acknowledge Matt Grum. Yes. Because a particular little glitch came to us. We went to Matt, and Matt had it, I think, resolved by lunchtime. He did. And it was the right thing to do, but it required a council office intervention. So, Commissioner Salzman, thank you. And thank you very much. It did make things much easier for us. And we're thrilled to be part of the business district in Kenton.
 2016 was also a big year for Venture Portland as we celebrated our 30th anniversary. In the three decades since our founding, we've grown into a powerful economic engine made up of 50 business districts in neighborhoods around Portland containing 19,200 businesses and providing 267,000 jobs. And we are the only entity in Portland that works exclusively at the business district level.
 making us the support system for all the city's neighborhood business districts. Ninety-eight percent of Portland's neighborhood businesses have five or fewer employees. As Commissioner Udaly and those dedicated business owners know firsthand, in Portland, small is really big. Venture Portland promotes these critical business districts and commercial corridors and supports the dedicated volunteers that manage them with training, technical assistance, and grants.
 In fact, over the last 21 years in partnership with the city, Venture Portland invested more than $1.3 million in business district growth, leveraging an additional $4.2 million in private business district investment. As president of Venture Portland, I know that the strength of this organization has always come from our collective efforts and the belief that the business of Portland is about more than just business. It's about people, neighborhoods, and culture.
 It's about passion and dedication and starting something because you believe that your idea is the idea. It's about a vision for our city that business owners, residents, and elected officials share. A vision that celebrates the individualism and distinct flavor that makes Portland, Portland. The knowledge that our diverse neighborhoods and unique views make up the very fabric that binds us and our cities together.
 Yes, the business of Portland is about a lot more than just business. It's about growing business and connecting neighborhoods and making more out of the business districts we all call home. Venture Portland means business, and so do all of you. So I'll turn it over to Heather to discuss our 2016 accomplishments and our plans for 2017. Thank you.
 Thank you, Michelle. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Heather Hale, and I'm the executive director of Venture Portland. As Michelle noted earlier, 2016 was our diamond anniversary year. We started our celebration with our annual city council presentation, followed by a festive and fabulous party highlighting business districts throughout the years.
 At the party, we launched a citywide selfie competition, encouraging Portlanders to take photos at their favorite neighborhood businesses.
 As always, the creativity of our small business community shined bright as business owners and customers sent in hundreds of photos at businesses citywide. Thanks for taking so many fun selfies, Commissioner Fish. I had a great time visiting some of your favorite neighborhood businesses with you. How many favorite businesses did you pick, Commissioner?
 There's quite a few. He was very prolific. He was prolific in the selfie challenge. Prolific is better than promiscuous. After the celebrations, we got back to the business of supporting neighborhood business districts with training, technical assistance, and grants. The following brief overview provides a snapshot of our work over the last 12 months. After five years of sustained double-digit growth, we once again expanded access to our capacity-building services.
 We increased participation in our training and technical assistance program 11%, with almost 600 business district leaders attending one of our trainings that covered everything from the legal responsibilities of nonprofit officers to the creation of an enhanced services district to asset mapping in our diverse and rapidly evolving neighborhoods.
 And we addressed more than 500 district-specific requests from business districts citywide, a 22% increase over what I reported to you last year. This in-depth, personalized support helped associations successfully navigate major leadership transitions and effectively manage significant business mix and demographic changes in our diverse and evolving neighborhoods.
 Over the last year, we provided more than 2,300 hours of training and technical assistance to business district leaders from emerging and established districts.
 a 38% increase over 2015. And for a little perspective, in just the first six months of this fiscal year, we've already exceeded the entire number of training and technical assistance hours we provided in fiscal year 13-14, a clear sign that the need for our services is growing.
 We also significantly expanded access to our grants, awarding a record-setting $112,000 to fund 36 business district projects, leveraging almost a half a million dollars in additional business district private investment. That's a more than four-to-one match, making these dollars some of the most efficient that the City of Portland spends.
 In addition, 69% of our total grants went to underserved business districts in East and North Portland. The following are a few examples of how these catalytic funds strengthened districts. Thank you.
 After helping Central Eastside launch their hugely successful night market, which just happened over the weekend, last year, this event now draws 20,000 people into the district twice a year in February and May. We awarded an economic development grant to the Central Eastside Industrial Council to help them create an enhanced services district, expected to be the first created in the city in more than a decade.
 After significant business district research and outreach, the Midway Business Association discovered that 80% of Midway businesses had no online presence. And when I say no online presence, I mean no Yelp review, no Google Map listing, no Facebook, no other social media, and no website. What?
 With 84% of all purchases now researched online before being made in person, this incredible digital divide was putting Midway businesses at a huge economic disadvantage. With our grant funds, Midway rebuilt its website, creating search engine-optimized microsites for Midway businesses and bringing 22% of their members online for the very first time.
 Montevilla also revised their website to provide microsites for district businesses, highlighting the diversity of businesses in this rapidly gentrifying district. They also used their brand new site to drive traffic to their street fair, which, in its second year of a full street closure, attracted 12,000 attendees, making it the single largest public event that occurs in East Portland.
 We also helped Knob Hill take advantage of the Once in a Lifetime World Indoor Track and Field Championships that came to Portland with a shopping relay race, and then supported the district's resiliency efforts following November's devastating explosion. Finally, we funded a new multilingual website for St. John's, which better met the needs of this diverse district and helped to increase their membership by 60%.
 The overwhelming majority of Portland businesses are neighborhood-based, which means neighborhood businesses power Portland's economy. All year, but especially during the holidays, Venture Portland helped ensure cash registers rang citywide.
 In addition to helping launch six new business district events between Halloween and New Year's, we once again partnered with our Homegrown Little Boxes program to generate more than 19,000 business visits and almost $400,000 in holiday retail sales in just 16 shopping hours.
 And we continue to support Multnomah Village's Golden Ticket Program, which has generated $4.5 million in retail sales in Hillsdale and Multnomah Village over the last five years. We also increased our own private revenue generation 154%, leveraging $550,000 in private funds last year, a 1.5 to 1 match to our city grant.
 We helped connect neighborhood businesses and city bureaus. For the third year in a row, we worked with all permitting bureaus to ensure that 100% of business district street fairs were permitted. This is a yeoman's effort, with extra huge thanks to PBOT staff for continuing to make this process manageable and affordable for volunteer-run business associations.
 The closure-related parking cost reduction made these huge events, which collectively attract one million visitors during the summer months, significantly easier for business districts to fund. With Council's unanimous vote last fall, we...
 Excuse me. We corrected a systemic inequity, ensuring that business and neighborhood associations now receive the same notifications for the first time. And we continued our partnership with BES and PBOT to mitigate the impact of construction and demonstration projects on neighborhood businesses, especially during the critical holiday retail period.
 We supported neighborhood economic development efforts citywide, hosted business-specific focus groups on proposed zoning changes, especially mixed-use and design overlay with BPS, and as a member of the Age-Friendly Portland and Multnomah County Task Force, Venture Portland maintained our Age-Friendly business certification. Last, but certainly not least, I want to recognize Venture Portland's dedicated volunteers.
 Our board, made up of one representative from each business district, contributed a whopping 1,369 volunteer hours last year. These volunteer hours, equal to .68 FTE or 26 hours a week, were in addition to each board member's work in their own business and business district. Our success would not be possible without this exceptional commitment."
 Last year, following the success of our East Portland pilot project, you all invested additional resources in Venture Portland to expand this effort into North Portland.
 This catalytic effort addressing disparity, gentrification, and displacement in nine targeted districts has three short-term goals to increase membership, volunteers, and revenue. I'm thrilled to report that in the first 18 months of this work, we have radically exceeded all of our goals. We increased membership 96% so that almost half of all business district members in targeted districts are now new. Thank you.
 We increased volunteerism 29% while diversifying business district leadership and bringing it in line with the demographic populations they represent. And we helped these business associations generate $160,000 in new revenue to help support neighborhood businesses.
 And that's not all. We also made significant progress on our long-term goals to create a business support network that crosses business district boundaries, create stronger ties between businesses and residents, and improve district identity and positive public perception of East and North Portland.
 We helped districts launch more than a dozen events designed to connect residents with businesses and make cash registers ring in economically lagging parts of Portland. We improved perception of East Portland with 15 positive media stories. And we increased district capacity to help the city invest more than $100 million in public infrastructure projects in these nine districts. So how have we done it?
 First, we hired professional staff as business district organizers and placed them directly in business districts. We offered seed funding to help business districts experiment with new programs to better serve the diverse businesses in their districts. And we provided innovative and personalized technical assistance to districts, including...
 helping them identify 49 geographic nodes or commercial clusters across nine districts and two city quadrants, analyzing almost 5,000 diversity points, including business type, size, location, longevity, and business owner gender, ethnicity, and race, as well as the diversity and leadership skills of district volunteers to help these targeted groups set strong membership goals and diversity benchmarks.
 Our organizers visited more than 2,000 businesses, and using their feedback, added 78 new business benefits to better serve the business mix in these rapidly evolving districts. And finally, we helped design 20 new district-specific revenue-generating events. I could talk about the success of this project all day, but wanted to let you hear specifically from the business district leaders who have benefited so greatly from your support. Marina. Thank you.
 Hello, council and mayor. I'm Marina Martinez-Gateman, and I'm too close to the mic. Way too close.
 I am the district organizer for 82nd Avenue, Foster Avenue, Foster Area, and Kenton Business District. Last August, we launched Around the World in 82 Dishes, a month-long international food tour on 82nd Avenue. Seventy percent of the 45 participating restaurants were minority-owned, and one-third went on to become brand-new business association members because of the program. Could I just interrupt you a second? Are the captions showing up or not? Okay. Sorry.
 Sorry, go ahead. Oh, sure. So one-third of our participants went on to become Business Association members because of this program. We produced a five-language passport and generated more than 300 purchases during the campaign. Without pilot project funding for passport production and translation and dedicated staffing to successfully address cultural and language barriers with these diverse businesses, this hugely successful district-wide event would not have happened.
 I hope that you will all join us for our second annual tour of 82nd Avenue in August. I'm also of course the organizer for Foster Road and as you know, Foster is preparing for an extensive 18 month long construction project that will result in a radical new multi-million dollar streetscape.
 While the majority of district businesses are thrilled about this coming change, we understand that change is scary and lengthy construction can be threatening to a business's visibility. To support businesses during this time of transition, to mitigate the impact of long-term construction and to help anchor businesses in our rapidly evolving district, Foster used our pilot project funding to launch a new business website and district map.
 and create a family-friendly tasting tour of the district businesses. We also want to note that because of the pilot project helped strengthen relationships between business districts, 82nd Avenue and Foster Area were able to work together to rapidly mobilize four other neighborhood associations to address harassment and intimidation occurring at our places of worship.
 We used pilot project funding to develop a multilingual statement of support for the diversity that makes our community strong. As the only staffer of the six business and neighborhood associations involved in this effort, I can easily say that without pilot project funding for my position, this powerful statement of our shared values would not have happened. Thank you. My name is Nadal Call, and I'm the Secretary of the Gateway Area Business Association Board.
 I'm also the owner of Furniture Plus on Northeast Halsey and the chair of the Halsey-Weidler Group, which is helping manage the city's $35 million investment in the Halsey-Weidler couplet. The pilot project has been invaluable for Gateway. We used the pilot project funds to launch two new events in 2016, including a district cleanup that removed nearly 500 pounds of trash from our district,
 and a passport promotion during National Small Business Week that generated almost 200 business visits and made cash registers ring with an additional $5,000 in sales. The pilot project investment of staff in our district also freed up my time as a volunteer to help guide the multi-bureau, multi-million dollar infrastructure project that is bringing a new streetscape, gateway park, and housing to our commercial corridor.
 This pilot project has been both a game changer and a lifesaver for Gateway, and I strongly urge you to continue this funding. Finally, as a Venture Portland board member, I am able to see the exponential positive effects the pilot project has had on all of the participating districts. This project just makes good business sense. Thank you. Thank you.
 So I'm also the organizer for Kenton, and this fall, Kenton used pilot project funds to significantly expand our Trick or Treat on Denver Street event, drawing 1,000 kids to this annual safe and family-friendly event. This spring, we will launch a new district map targeting businesses on Lombard Street, who, like Foster, will be experiencing a lengthy construction as part of their new multi-million dollar streetscape.
 I hope to see you at our brand new Paul Bunyan Beer Fest, which will raise funds for the critically needed renovations to our iconic Paul Bunyan statue. It will be.
 Hi, my name is Brad Forkner. I am the organizer for the Midway and Williams business districts. As you heard earlier, Midway used pilot project funding to address the significant digital divide in our district. On Earth Day, we are launching a new event called Business to Butte, linking our not very well-known businesses with our district's largest destination, Powell Butte.
 without the pilot project seed funding and creative support system there's no way midway would have been able to implement this event that will involve more than 50 businesses and 20 partnering organizations i hope that you will join us on one of our three guided viewed tours and then follow a self-guided tour of midway businesses thank you hi my name is calvin hoff and i am the district organizer for the gateway area montevallo east tabor and park rose business districts
 As you heard earlier, Montevideo used our pilot project funds to restructure our website and expand our street fair. We also used pilot project funds to launch Frosty Fest, a brand new weekend-long holiday event that not only increased retail and restaurant sales 10%, but helped Montevideo businesses survive December's severe weather.
 In October, Park Rose held its second annual Trunk or Treat at Park Rose High School. This innovative event gathers the businesses in our non-pedestrian-friendly district in a safe and walkable space to provide candy to kids and coupons to adults. After launching the event in 2015 in record-setting rain, we drew 1,100 attendees this year, a 43% increase. District businesses and local partners, like the team from PPV's North Precinct,
 dress up, and have a great time giving back to our hugely diverse community. We are also using pilot project funds to promote the businesses that contribute to the Park Rose Business Association's college scholarship program. In a school district that speaks more than 24 languages, district businesses have raised more than $80,000 over the last several years to make college attainable to Park Rose's best and brightest. Thank you. Thank you.
 As you may have noticed, the Williams District is undergoing massive changes with 10 new high-rise buildings, more than 1,000 new apartments, 100,000 square feet of new retail space, and a newly completed commuter bike lane. We've been under construction for the last three solid years.
 To remind people that Williams isn't just a difficult construction site, we used pilot project funds to launch Walk Williams Wednesday, a six-month program featuring late business hours, discounts, deals, and the opportunity to win prizes just by visiting district businesses.
 In order to combat the previous displacement of Williams' African-American population and the ongoing gentrification pressure in this vibrant district, we are honoring our history and embracing our change by incorporating district history into all of our programming. I hope to see all of you walking Williams next on March 8th. Awesome. Thank you, Brad, Calvin, Marina, and Nadal.
 Business owners and business districts citywide have come together over the last 90 days to weather a series of crises, ranging from protests to severe weather. By leveraging their entrepreneurial creativity and promoting their shared values, they have proven that the business of Portland is about more than just business. And it's working. Our ongoing public-private partnership truly drives Portland's economy.
 Last year, Portland's neighborhood businesses contributed more than $100 million in taxes, helping fund essential city services like our first responders and parks.
 And now it's your turn to once again invest in the businesses and business districts that make Portland Portland. As you design the fiscal year 17-18 budget, we ask you to transition our overwhelmingly successful pilot project into a fully funded and ongoing catalytic investment initiative that will continue to benefit targeted business districts most in need of support.
 This $200,000 investment will touch one-third of all neighborhood businesses in Portland's rapidly evolving districts and provide critical stability for the professional staff and district volunteers working to strengthen our economy and ensure our shared prosperity. Together, we are growing business and connecting neighborhoods. Thank you for your continued support. I'm happy to answer any questions if you've got them. Thank you.
 Any council questions? Commissioner Fish? Thank you very much. Excellent presentation. A couple of things. The $200,000 in that slide, that's a one-time ask. Oh, I'd love it if it was ongoing. But I'll take the money in any way you're willing to give it.
 Heather, your annual dinner is in April? Yes. Do you have the date offhand? It is April 24th, the fourth Monday in April for our annual meeting. Okay. And I know we've put an invitation in to have a special guest speak at that event. Yes. Okay.
 And my goal is going to be there to make sure that I take more selfies than Commissioner Fish. I love it. That would be great. A city council selfie challenge. I'll volunteer to get him home afterwards. Perfect. I'll drive the mayor. Wonderful. I want to just share something with you, Heather, and my colleagues. On Friday, Jamie Dunphy and I went out to Park Rose to visit some small businesses.
 And we stopped at an old warehouse building, which had been dilapidated and out of use, and now is home to something called Swell Extracts. And they are a cannabis-related business that's very heavy on technology. And they create an oil, and then they create a product. Whatever anyone in this room thinks positively or negatively about cannabis, it turns out that
 It's a pretty good job creator. And it's now, I think, Mr. Call, he's nodding, so you probably have the statistics, but it's become one of the bigger growing employers in Park Rose. And the other value of going out there is I learned firsthand how challenging some of the permitting issues are because there's really no precedent. And every single bureau has some rule that doesn't quite fit what they're doing, right?
 But I thought it was interesting that in the middle of Park Rose, in a space that's been underutilized for a long time, you have this growing business. And there were a lot of young people there making a decent wage with benefits. So perhaps that's the future. The other question I wanted to ask you is –
 We've been working for a number of years on getting PBOT, the Transportation Bureau, and BES, the Sewer Stormwater Bureau, to coordinate. And the goal was when doing capital construction projects, we wanted to make sure we timed the work so it did not unduly negatively impact the businesses. And we had coffees in the neighborhood and found out what people's unique needs were. PBOT has now been transferred to Commissioner Saltzman. I think it would be –
 charitable to acknowledge that January was a rough month for all of us, including the frontline people that report to him. Are we on track to continue that collaboration, or do we need to have some follow-up meetings, or how would you take the temperature of what we're trying to do in terms of coordinating among city bureaus? Thank you.
 Yeah, I think we're absolutely on track. You know, PBOT has been an outstanding partner, and we're very excited to be working with you, Commissioner Saltzman, as you settle in with this bureau. The communication has increased. The construction blackout during the –
 critical holiday retail period that these bureaus have agreed to has been exceptional. Doing one cut and getting all the work coordinated instead of multiple cuts to the streets has also been great. And again, PBOT has just done an outstanding job ensuring that all street fairs got permitted despite where construction is happening across the city for the third year in a row. So it's been very good from the on-the-street perspective.
 And I would say that Dan's office has already been enormously helpful in terms of working out
 some issues with respect to the Portland Rose Festival, again, because he has the Transportation Bureau and we've had a meeting or two. So we want to continue a high level of coordination. It doesn't mean that we can't, you know, prevent these projects from happening, but we want to make sure that they're sequenced in ways that don't unduly impact peak shopping seasons and hours of operation that really –
 unduly burden small businesses. And the final thing I wanted to ask Michelle, since you and I had a letter to the editor of the Tribune yesterday.
 Since Thanksgiving, we really have had a lot of severe weather. We know it's had a significant impact on small business. Put the human face on that. What does it mean for a small business to have as many days offline as they have had since November? Sure. In some cases, it can mean the difference between black and red for the end of the year. Some businesses especially depend on the holiday shopping season to get into the black season.
 And this year we found many, many small businesses not able to make up that gap in the final months of the year. So that was really hard for businesses. It's also hard when employees can't come to work, so business owners are –
 faced with paying employees for days that they can't be open or not paying their employees and having to worry about then their employees being able to make rent and so forth. So the weather was extremely challenging this past year for small businesses, specifically retailers, but also businesses who just couldn't get their employees into work and were forced to sort of close business and operations for days at a time.
 That's one of the reasons, Heather, you're encouraging people this week of Valentine's Week to show small business the love and to get out and take your sweetie out for dinner, buy from a neighborhood local business, and help folks that really did have a rough winter season. When we started talking to the community about this issue about, hey, pay attention to your neighborhood businesses, if you are looking to make a purchase –
 Think first, is this something I can purchase in my neighborhood? It's not that big an ask. People usually say, actually, I think I can do that. So it's really a matter of just the PR campaign of trying to get people to make that choice first before they go online. You know, spend 10 minutes running down to the store that's in your neighborhood or in the neighborhood where you work and support a local business.
 I would also say that all of you could be incredibly helpful using the bully pulpit that you've got. When there is severe weather or other things, instead of telling people to stay home, tell them to stay off of the roads if they're not safe to be passed. But it's perfectly great to go walk down the street and make sure that you're going to your neighborhood business to help them stay in business despite severe weather.
 Michelle, could you tell us what is the current trend with regard to rent of commercial space in Portland for small businesses in the business districts? What are your operators telling you?
 It's not the same exact situation as it is with residential rents and housing, but commercial rents are increasing steadily, and business owners in neighborhoods that are being gentrified are certainly finding that rents are raised to a point that they have to leave the neighborhood. So that's one of the things that Venture Portland is really trying to work on, is to keep some diversity in our neighborhoods, to make sure we're supporting these businesses that would otherwise fall through the cracks.
 by creating business districts that create this sort of network of support in the neighborhood. So we have a lot of our revenue-generating events are specifically for that reason, to get attention to businesses, to make sure that they're able to stay where they are. But certainly rents are increasing all over the city. Okay.
 I would also say that we have a great partnership with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Their economic planner provides us an annual overview of what's happening with commercial lease rates in districts all across the city. So we're able to look at places that are underprivileged.
 on the brink of gentrification, that are going to be experiencing gentrification, and so that business associations can work with property owners in their districts to try and mitigate displacement of longstanding businesses. Very good. Do you have any statistics on what percentage of Portlanders are employed by small sole proprietor businesses? Sure.
 Neighborhood businesses provide about half of the jobs in the city of Portland, so 267,000 at last count. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. This is a fabulous report. Thank you all for taking time away from your business or from your jobs to come and give us this. Your funding goes to the Portland Development Commission, right? Yes.
 And so are you required to turn into them more detailed reports of how each grant was spent and the outcomes of that? Yes. We have a very extensive grant stewardship program that tracks all of our evaluations. We have a benchmarking program that we use that looks at how grantees perform year over year if they're working on ongoing projects.
 And then we do provide on a quarterly basis a very extensive written work plan review to PDC, our contract manager. We also provide that to Commissioner Fish, who is the liaison to Venture Portland. And then we do an annual report as well that provides a big wrap-up, both in that work plan format as well as in a narrative. Okay.
 Thank you. Very good. Before I call for a motion, is there any public testimony on this? Yes, we have one person signed up. All right. Why don't I go ahead and give you guys a break. Thank you. Excellent presentation. Thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. We'll let you stay just in case somebody raises questions that perhaps you'd like to address. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, these mics are really live.
 My name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And one thing that we heard in this presentation from Venture Portland is that they had activity in two quadrants. Of course, in Portland we have five quadrants, so in nine districts in those two quadrants. In addition to helping small businesses right in the neighborhoods where the only neighborhoods a lot of Portlanders can afford to live in, though I think we also want to look at
 making sure that particularly small business in the Southwest is not disproportionately pale and white. So I hope that in your future ongoings and as the...
 Dr. Moreland-Capua on the PDC board, work with Venture Portland, we'll see that not only are we stimulating businesses among the diverse neighborhoods, we're also making it possible for diverse people to come and do small business in the whitest quadrants of Portland. And of course, you know, we face challenges. We have a growing popular city, but for businesses,
 business owners, when we hear that a mere theft of a plastic card that becomes valueless after it's reported stolen,
 As part of one of two police shootings in our city, we know that we have a lot more work ahead of us besides just business incubation. The death of Quanice Hayes reminds us that just as we are able to find money to put into incubation, business stabilization, and improving commercial districts, we have to make sure that every citizen in Portland feels not only equal opportunity in business incubation,
 but safety thank you thank you good morning good morning my name is lightning i represent lightning super watchdog pdx multnomah county uh i really like what i'm seeing here some of the issues that i might have is that when you're looking at this many jobs being created or the possibility of more jobs being created in the future we have to i think look at this from
 the city itself as a whole that if they're able to produce these kind of results, and we're looking at these numbers from the small business community, the innovators, creators, tech companies coming in, starting out small, with the potential to end up like Amazon, who's building a 900,000-square-foot warehouse over near Gresham, we have to start understanding that we need to increase the investment dollars
 to Venture Portland, plain and simple. We need to increase the value there. We need to increase the opportunity. For us not to do that is just not, it's not wise for the city not to. In my opinion, Venture Portland should have a minimum of a million dollars funded to them. To me, that's on the low side. But we have to also look at the small business owners become the big business owners in the future if they do very well.
 And this city has to recognize that and fund them as though they will become a Jeff Bezos and then invest in a large warehouse that we just saw recently. And we need to fund these small business owners and take it much more serious on job creation, future employment for all the people in the city. And also I'd like to see Venture Portland work with, and I'm sure you possibly do,
 with Uber, Lyft, Airbnb, and utilize their services to provide advertising for your services and more jobs created. Because we're seeing something here in this city where these outside companies coming in are growing very fast, but they're also doing a tremendous amount for this city and the small business owners in place. So we need to take advantage of
 of the big businesses coming in and supporting the small business owners alongside them and growing at a rapid pace. Thank you. Thank you. Is that it? I'll entertain a motion. Move adopted of the report. Second. And a second. Please call the roll. Fritz? Well, as always, this is a very exciting and comprehensive report. Very grateful to Heather Hale and all of the people who came today, as well as everybody who's working so hard in our business.
 business districts. I was exceptionally glad to hear from Marina that the districts are working together. So those small part-time 10 hours a week, 15 hours a week, by partnering together, you get close to a full-time job. And I'm sure each one of them is more than a full-time job, but that's what you get paid for. So thank you very much for doing that. I was particularly struck that the Little Boxes report for Multnomah Village, it was 19,000 visits and nearly 400,000 in profits. And I think that's a really good thing. And I think that's a really good thing.
 And in Gateway, it was 250 visits and 5,000 in profits.
 So that's reflective of some business districts really have to don't have the folks living around them that have the cash to be able to spend locally, nor have they previously had assistance with setting up websites and such. So I say congratulations to Gateway. That it did start things moving. And more and more people should be starting to think where is a coffee shop in my neighborhood rather than is there a coffee shop in my neighborhood, which for many years has been really a challenge.
 I actually agree with Lightning that we should increase funding not only for the small grants for Venture Portland, but also for the neighborhood associations and diverse civic leadership. Venture Portland gets $200,000. The 95 neighborhoods and six districts
 diverse civic leadership partners get less than that, versus last year we allocated $100 million in special appropriations. And while I share Commissioner Fish's delight in being able to fund outside organizations, we get so much return, both in the business districts and in the neighborhood associations, diversity and civic leadership partners, to, you know, yours is 4 to 1, I think theirs is 6 to 1, return on investment, and we should...
 as much as possible, I believe, fund the things that we are responsible for, and then look to a few other things that we would like to as well. So thank you very much for spending the taxpayers' money wisely, for generating lots of business taxes, which is very helpful to the general fund, and I look forward to continuing to work with you. Aye. Thank you.
 Well, to Heather Hale and her team, congratulations on the report. Another stellar year. And Michelle Wood, Board Chair and the Executive Team, and all of our partners who took time out today to be with us, thank you for your service. There's a couple of facts that on a day like today I think we need to remember. When we buy something at a local business, 70 cents of every dollar stays here. That's incredibly powerful. Let me give you a personal example.
 I know that I can go on the internet and buy books at a discount. That's the world we live in. But at what cost? The reason that I go to Powell's and Daedalus Books and Broadway Books and all my favorite local independent bookstores is because they're supporting local jobs.
 They support Little League. They pay taxes. They give back in many different ways, taking nothing away from the Internet retailers, but they don't pay taxes. They don't employ people locally. They're not investing in things like Little League. So I would ask people to remember that. You can go online and save a buck, but at what cost?
 And I think that supporting our neighborhood businesses is a way of keeping the dollars local, supporting our values, and ultimately investing in the kind of Portland that we want and a Portland future that we want. So I'm grateful to Venture Portland for the work they do.
 I think I almost had the votes here to take a motion after Lightning testified and do a special take the funds out of our contingency. But you have demonstrated this year, as you have in prior years, that every dollar we invest in Venture Portland has a ripple effect.
 And I'm especially proud of the work you've done in East Portland to build the capacity of the emerging business districts, which we hope will become the destinations of tomorrow. So thank you for your good work. I'm proud to vote aye. Well, thank you, as always, for a very impressive report. And that report reflects the good work that Adventure Portland has done in the past year in organizing business districts.
 And thank you to all the business owners who take time out of a really tough, demanding job, being a business owner, to come here and testify. But more importantly, to spend time organizing your districts and your fellow businesses and to market yourselves. And I'm very impressed.
 I'm sort of stunned by the lack of online presence of so many businesses in some of those neighborhoods. So offering those micro-websites seems like a tremendous benefit because so many of us do everything online these days. We're counting on an online presence in order to sort of ferret out what business we want to patronize or not. So great work and very impressive report. Thank you. Bye.
 Well, I want to thank Heather and Michelle and everybody who testified this morning. It's great to have people take time away from their day, and I know business operators are very busy people. It was time well spent. I found this to be a thorough and excellent report. I want to underscore one statistic I heard today, which is that half the people in this city –
 over 267,000 people are employed by neighborhood businesses. And so maintaining the health of those businesses is critically important, and I'm glad we have partners like Venture Portland out there helping to create that support network, provide the technical assistance, and give us feedback and information on how we can be helpful to that effort.
 I also just want to point out, as I was looking at the slideshow, which I thought was great, these businesses in many cases represent the identity and character of our individual neighborhoods. They are in many regards what make Portland Portland and what make individual neighborhoods special.
 And I ask that question about the rent because, frankly, while I don't have a philosophical objection to national retailers, they don't provide that identity and character that's unique to Portland the way sole proprietorships are here in our community. So I think it's something worth fighting for and worth continuing to strengthen and preserve.
 So obviously I will add to my colleagues' chorus of support. I vote aye. The report is adopted, and we'll see you in the not-too-distant future. Thank you. Thank you. Carla, if you would mind, could we bring the item 140, because I believe there's some staff folks waiting to testify. If you could bring 140 to the front of the regular agenda, please.
 Item 140, amend Joint Office of Homeless Services Intergovernmental Agreement with Multnomah County to support ongoing implementation of activities to prevent and end homelessness through partnership with the county and the A Home for Everyone Collaborative and increase funds by $2,558,474. Director Krieger, good morning. Good morning. Kirk Krieger, Housing Bureau Director. With me is Jennifer Chang.
 The way that we're structured is the Joint Office of Homeless Services created last July through intergovernmental agreements. So their entire budget from the city flows through the Housing Bureau, and we have an intergovernmental agreement that governs that flow of funds and the governance of the Joint Office. And Jennifer Chang administers that intergovernmental agreement, and she'll explain the reason for this resolution.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. As Kurt mentioned, my name is Jennifer. I'm with the Housing Bureau Policy Team and also serve as the liaison of our bureau to the Joint Office of Homeless Services. I know yesterday morning City Council heard a great briefing from the Joint Office of Homeless Services on the progress that we've made
 over the past nine months through very targeted and intentional efforts through a home for everyone. This ordinance that you have before you is an amendment to the Joint Office of Homeless Services, IGA, that further advances this work.
 It accommodates council funding from last year's fall bump, or this current year's fall bump, to provide expanded emergency services and shelter and housing placement activities that are already. Sorry to interrupt. Could you just clarify? Those funds have already been approved.
 So the funds referred to in this particular ordinance were already approved by the Fire City Council. Yes. And those from the fall bump, which were approved, go to fund expanded shelter and emergency services and housing placement activities.
 And it also allows for some funding to support increased permanent supportive housing investments that are furthering a home for everyone's goals. I know Commissioner Fish and others had discussed this yesterday as an ongoing important gap and need in our community.
 So the collaborative work between the city and the Housing Bureau with the joint office continue, and we're looking for ways to build upon that collaboration. In addition to accommodating these funds, the amendment also makes some technical and grammar corrections to the IGA language, and that's a basic summary of it. Thank you.
 Any questions? Any public testimony on this item? If you could just stick around for a few minutes in case there's questions raised. Thank you. Yeah, this, and just a reminder for public testimony, this is a technical amendment to the IGA with the Joint Office. This is not about the funding. The funding was already approved in a public process before the City Council. Name of the record, please. I missed my opportunity to speak about the funding. Are you all right? Yeah.
 Yeah, I just forget every once in a while that I'm tied up. Okay, sorry. Sorry, sir, you can start over. I apologize. Okay. My name is Wayne Wigness. About five weeks ago, I'm inside for the first time in a few years. I shower every day. I got rid of the bugs that were eating me alive. I'm able to lay down when I study, and I have a place to be during the day and to organize myself. These are the things that make a home, help make a home, not just simply being inside at night.
 I feel the change already. You know, I review my old comments online. I pass people I maybe flipped off in the past, and I realize, wow, I really had a chip on my shoulder. But that's what it does to you. It puts you in war mode when you have to experience agencies like ODOT or the police sweeping away everybody you find safety, trust, and a sense of belonging with. And then you're left alone sleeping with a pickaxe next to your head looking over your shoulder every five minutes.
 Then, to follow that up, you get to read in the paper about other people discussing what to do with your life, about how shelters and overpriced units so small you can't even invite a friend over are a solution to homelessness rather than the underlying cause. There's experiences like these that make me want to show up to public meetings and say, hey, you're killing me. But then when I show up to these meetings, for example, the Board of Commissioners,
 After listening to them kill about 45 minutes congratulating one another, they say, hey, could you please keep it to two minutes because we're running out of time here. Now we're – well, okay, I missed the funding opportunity to speak about that. But now we're discussing handing $3 million to an agency that has not involved homeless people in their decision-making process. Okay.
 On the contrary, I tried showing up to a Home Forward meeting two months ago, and TPI was blatantly turning homeless people away at the door. It was a public meeting about homeless people. This is not Home Forward. This is a home for everyone. Home for everyone. Well, there's a difference. It's at the county, and they have a specific subcommittee that is made up of homeless men and women that have input into the plan. Well, I've been looking for meetings. I haven't found one. If you give us your e-mail address and your contact information, we'll make sure you're invited. Thank you.
 That's not going to help the other 4,000 who should be talked to before we discuss what to do. If you could stick to the technical amendment, we'd appreciate it. Thank you. Be technical, man. You've got to be technical. That's what we're discussing. Yeah, technicality. This is job security for them, not solutions for us. People are dying. You think shelters are a solution to homelessness? I invite you to try being homeless. And other bigger cities that have been there tried that.
 The problem, as I see it, begins with the founding fathers. James Madison said it is the role of government to protect people's right to own property, but who put what in place to protect people from property ownership itself? This was an issue back in the 1700s, but it's more of an issue today. Land use has hit unprecedented heights. Exit options have not narrowed. They've disappeared entirely. This is going to get worse before it gets better. It's not going to get better until somebody tries something new.
 But I'd like to thank you, Ted. I heard about you going down to St. Francis and getting to know people directly. Not all homeless people agree with me. I can't speak for everybody, and that's the whole point. We need to involve, you know, talk to them, not just the select few who can manage to get emailed about this vague meeting somewhere. Real solutions begin with real observations. So thank you for going down and actually getting to know people and places. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning. Okay.
 Super Watchdog PDX. One of the concerns I had on this was on the federal funding itself on the HUD grants. And I noticed the numbers were at about $1,826,000. And again, my focus is I want to see the federal funding increased. And I don't want to see our position in the city be jeopardized toward federal funding, uh,
 in the way we might deal with the new president, Donald Trump. I want to make sure that we have an understanding from elected officials in the city that we need to also start focusing on that federal funding. And if you don't want to deal with president Trump, deal with vice president Pence, deal with the housing bureau. I believe it's Mr. Carson at this time. Uh,
 But we need to have negotiations continue to go because we obviously don't have enough funding here from the federal level. And we need to increase that. And the only way to do that is through negotiating. And we have to have representatives from Portland try to get in on those meetings, try to get in on those discussions. It's very important. If you dislike President Trump, that's okay. Deal with the vice president.
 deal with other people, but negotiations have to be made from this city or we will lose out on the opportunity of those federal funds. President Trump doesn't think much of Oregon, doesn't think much of Portland. That's okay. A lot of people from here don't think much of him. But it doesn't mean we still can't negotiate on things that will benefit the city as a whole and the people in the city as a whole. And as elected officials...
 We sometimes have to look past the point of whether we like someone or not and understand your job is to negotiate federal funding to continue to come to this city in a reasonable manner to take care of the people in this city. Whether you like the president or not, that's okay. But we have to have strong negotiations and have people trying to have meetings.
 and ask for this type of funding and keep us posted on what we are denied and why we are being denied and try to correct that to get on the receiving side of this federal funding and future funding in the future that we might be able to obtain through the federal government. Thank you. Thank you. We've got 12 seconds. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 Lightning brought up an interesting fact in this whole concept, and that we have to work together. We're stuck. I don't like any of you up there, but we're stuck with each other. We have to work with each other because of what's outside the gates. There's an old saying when I was studying Latin about the barbarians at the gates, and that's what we have. We have barbarians at the gates. You guys have spent...
 I know of 13 years spending millions and millions and millions of dollars, and we still have the same number of people on the street. If you talk to you, it's about 1,800. If you talk to people that actually work on the street, it's more like 4,000, 5,000. We don't know. We don't know where all the camps are. This money that you're using is wasted over and over and over again.
 We have 16,000 people hanging by their fingertips, according to Mark. Not me. According to your lead person on this, 16,000 that are in garages, that are on sofas, that are living with their parents. They're hanging by their fingertips. That's why we keep putting people into emergency shelters, and we end up with the same number of people on the streets because they fall off.
 And we have the other thing that's going on with the rent. And I congratulate you. I was late today because I was in federal court. And it's now back into state court. I don't know if you know that or not. Judge Simon kicked it to state court, which made me laugh. We have to work together, ma'am. I don't like you. I don't trust you.
 We have to work together, commissioners. I don't like you. I don't trust you. But we have to work together. We have to stand together because what's outside the gate is worse than me, worse than you. These people are vicious. And when lightning rings out, we have to get some more federal money. The first thought that went through my mind was good luck with that one. So anyway, I wanted to say that to you.
 From this point on, I am trying to be patient. I'm trying to be cooperative. And I will try to be nicer, a word that really does not sit well with me. And thank you for your patience. I know I'm over time. That's the Irish in me. I usually do go over time. Thank you, sir. Okay. Good morning. I will take this up with the county. I recently – Shedrick Wilkins. Thank you, Senator.
 The interesting thing, we've had a very cold winter, probably the worst in eight years. And I went into the bus station to use the bathroom and I got chased out. My comment about housing is, is housing a fixed structure? Is it a person living in a tent? I can own property and sleep in a tent. But you have to use the bathroom. Bathrooms are out of privacy. Right.
 And one of my things, we rejected Terminal 1, although the city voted for it, but it was rejected by the business community. I have a feeling that in the Bud Clark Commons, you could pay people to go into the bus stations and clean the bathrooms. One of the reasons why they don't allow people to go in there is they mess up the bathrooms.
 and pay people at the Bud Clark Commons who were in the basement when I was there to clean these things. And the bus station and the train station are open 24 hours a day. Actually, during the winter storm, I actually went in the bus station to warm my hands, but they won't allow you near the bathrooms.
 So can something be arranged where if we have another cold winter like this that people could be encouraged who are sleeping in tents? And people are going to sleep in tents anywhere. Every time I see a sweep of the bus station area, the tents flow back in there anyway. So why don't you just make Chinatown a tent city? And historically, I want to tell you one thing. My father came here in 1950. He slept out of a truck and used to eat at the Blanchet House.
 and yet he got a good job later on and Portland treated him quite well. And why don't you treat homeless people and try to make sure when they're cold and they have to use the bathroom. You know, if you use the bathroom in the bushes, it's indecency. And yet there's these bathrooms there, and the only reason why they won't let you use them is basically they have to clean up. And can't you get some volunteers? I'll volunteer to clean up the bathrooms and stop chasing people out of warm places.
 And there's also a second story on the train station that's basically vacant, that's warm, that nobody uses, or the train station as well. And it reflects on Portland. And you know what? When you go into the Bud Clark Commons, there's a big sign in the front door that we treat people here like human beings, even if they do or don't make it in this city. And my father made it in this city, but he was homeless. Thank you, sir. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And it's sometimes difficult for citizens to limit their testimony to the technical aspects because we have to go in and we have to look at the 10-page PDF. And I guess it would be great if one of you or a staff came back. So it's kind of unclear from the exhibit.
 where I'm presuming this is a net increase of $2,558,474. But I don't know if that's to the $15 million or taking it up to $15 million. And I think many of us, not necessarily needs to be cleared up right away, but would like to know if 100% of that money is administrative and staff-
 and how that contrasts to capital investment and expansion in actual numbers of spaces where people are not sleeping outside and defecating on the sidewalks because the security guards will chase them from the PDC-owned train station and bus station. The gentleman who testified about recently getting housing, unfortunately sometimes a home for everyone does meet in the big room,
 on the north side of TPI at the Bud Clark Commons. And sometimes, from personal experience, even if you're on the list, it is difficult for people that don't look like they're getting $20,000, $30,000, $40,000, $50,000, $100,000 salaries to get in there. But I'll talk to the gentleman and make sure that he makes a connection with Mr. Jolin so that we can have stakeholder input. Thank you. Thank you very much. Were there any further questions for the City Council? Please call the roll. Dr. Ritz?
 Well, thank you, Mayor, for bringing this to council and for having a discussion about it. It was unfortunate that nobody who testified was at the joint session we had with the county yesterday going over the A Home for Everyone plan for more than two hours. That will be posted online, so I do encourage you to review the...
 presentation, and it was live at the time also, I believe. One of the things that stuck with me the most was in the past two years, 6,000 people have been housed who were previously homeless. The reason that we're still seeing people on the street is that 6,000 people became homeless. So people who say that...
 Mae pobl yn dewis bod y tu allan. Er bod yn ymwneud â'r gofal meddwl, mae'r amserau meddwl wedi bod yn rhan o'r rhesymau oherwydd eu bod yn ddim yn fyw neu'n ddim yn fyw. Maen nhw'n Portlandwyr. Mae Portland yn eu throedd. Maen nhw ddim yn gael ymchwil. Rwy'n glodd iawn o ran cefnogi'r
 Mae'r cyfrifiad yn gwneud rhywbeth y gwnaeth y Cyngor ymlaen y flwyddyn diwethaf. Diolch am y ddysgu. Dwi'n sori nad yw'r Cyngor Udaelei wedi gallu bod yma. Dwi'n gwybod ei fod yn sylfaen, a byddwn i'n gobeithio ei fod yn well. Rwy'n hapus i'w staff fod yma. Bydd y cyngor yma, yna'r rhai ohonom yma, yn cofio ein bod ni wedi cyfrifo 350,000 o ddolwg ar gyfer prosiect cyflog, er mwyn i'r Prif Weinidog a phobl eraill gael wybodaeth am beth yw'r cynllun, sut y gallant
 yn deimlo'n fwy rhan o'r broses. Rwy'n hafodol o'r cymdeithas ymlaen, a'n ymddygiad i'r Prif Weinidog o'i sylweddoli bod Cymru i bawb yn cael pobl â phrofiad byw ar y cymdeithasau. Mae gennym ni lawer o bobl, yn y cymunedau ac yn y cymunedau heb-gymuned, sydd ddim yn gwybod beth yw'r cynllun neu sut y gallant ymddygi. Rwy'n gobeithio y bydd y prosiect hwnnw'n symud ymlaen yn fuan. Rwy'n hapus i'r cymunedau a'r cymunedau a'r cymunedau a'r cymun
 oherwydd roedd ymgyrch ddwy awr o ran ein bod ni wedi cael adborth a chyflwyniad llawn ar Gwlad i Bawd a'n gweithgareddau cyd-destunol i leihau'r llesiant yn ein cymuned. Ac i bawb sydd yma heddiw sydd ddim yn gallu ymuno â ni diwrnod diwethaf neu'i gweld ar TV cwbl, gallai ganddo i chi ddod â copi o'r PowerPoint o'r cyfrifiadur o'r cyfrifiadur o'r cyfrifiadur o'r cyfrifiadur o'r cyfrifiadur.
 which was excellent and would welcome feedback on the priorities laid out in that powerpoint thank the housing bureau thank you jennifer in particular for overseeing these this iga an intergovernmental agreement that's a very important
 uh office that we form the city and the county and i think it will i think as we saw yesterday i think it is uh providing better services and certainly better service coordination uh to our public so thank you hi wheeler uh thank you very much and i want to thank the housing team for coming back i the ordinance is approved could you please call the next item which is the first on the regular agenda
 Gwnaeth y Prif Weinidog ddod i'r cyfarfod ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod o ddysgu ar gyfer y cyfnod
 a chymorthi'r newid o Gynorthwyneb Cyhoeddus Metropolitân Pwyllgorau. Roedd hi'n cymryd y llwyth o'r hyn y roedd hi'n ei ofyn, cyn i mi ddweud, i'w ofyn, beth ydych chi'n ei angen? Roedd hi'n cymryd y llwyth o'r un pryd y byddai'r Gweithiwr Cyhoeddus yn rhannu cyfnod o ddwy wlad o ddwy wlad
 Commissioner Fish and Mayor Wheeler and I went to the Muslim Educational Trust and heard some very frightening things there. I've been a U.S. citizen for 25 years, and this is the first time that I have felt like a second-class citizen, knowing that anybody, even with an American passport, can be denied entry, apparently. So I was very excited about this particular project. I know that the whole council...
 joins me not only in standing strong and together and supporting our community with statements, et cetera, we really need to go beyond that and do things. And it's particularly using people with expertise to make sure that our neighbors have their rights.
 I could just read the findings in the ordinance because they so well describe the need and the vision project, but instead I'm going to turn this over to Alex Bezos, Michael Hsu in the Public Defender's Office, and Casey Jarmer from Unite Oregon. Thank you for being here this morning, gentlemen. Thank you.
 Good morning. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fritz. Commissioners, thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for that eloquent exposition of this project. It's exactly on, of course. My name is Alex Bassos. I'm the director of our community law programs at the Metropolitan Public Defender, including our current immigration programs. We have more than 60 attorneys and 120 staff over two counties. Thank you.
 We so appreciate your willingness to allow this emergency measure. It seems to us that the only thing that we really know right now in this time of fear and uncertainty is that we don't know what's about to happen, and we need to be prepared for whatever's about to happen so that we can respond quickly and effectively.
 we've seen just in the last few days, uh, a woman in Arizona who was doing everything she was supposed to, uh, taken away from her citizen kids. Uh, we saw in this state, uh, a brother with nothing on his record who was just in the wrong place at the wrong time, taken in by ice. And just yesterday, uh, a dream act kid with nothing on his record taken in, uh,
 we just don't know what's about to happen and this additional funding will allow us to respond effectively and quickly to whatever that is it is our plan to partner with organizations in the community we have talked to so many folks and we're so happy that um
 Mr. Jamma is able to be here today and talk from that perspective of the community organizations. But we have talked to so many folks who are feeling this great need in the community. So it is our plan to partner with those organizations primarily, to work with them and through them to respond to that fear and uncertainty that's out there, to talk to as many folks as possible, to help them with that.
 whatever solutions we can in terms of immigration, clearing people's records, preparing them for legal safety plans in a worst-case scenario, whatever we can do to help people in the community. Additionally, we're going to partner with the immigration nonprofits who are out there to accept the cases that they have been reluctant to take.
 Anything that has any kind of a criminal record, even an old arrest, is something that the existing immigration nonprofit attorneys are reluctant to take, partly because they just don't have any state-level practice attorneys for the most part and aren't familiar with criminal records and how to look at them and what's there.
 And then there is a small army of attorneys out there who want to volunteer and do pro bono kinds of work. So we want to be resource attorneys for them, providing them with the information they need so they can be most effective in helping us out. It's going to take us all working together, and this emergency measure allows us to do that. We thank you so much for allowing this. Thank you.
 good morning good morning uh thank you city council for the opportunity to speak today my name is michael shu and i am currently a staff attorney at metropolitan public defender since president trump issued his executive order on january 25th prioritizing undocumented immigrants for deportation the immigration population has been living in fear i personally understand that fear because up until two months ago
 I had been living as an undocumented person in America and had been doing so for the past 21 years. I attended elementary school here, high school, undergrad, and law school in America. And in 2011, I graduated from Lewis and Clark Law School with honors and passed the Oregon State Bar. There are other educational and professional accomplishments that I can list, but those do not paint the complete picture of my journey because America is also where...
 At the age of nine, I first learned how to kick a soccer ball. It's where I learned how to carve a pumpkin for Halloween. It's where I learned how to roast turkey for Thanksgiving and how to sing jingle bells for Christmas. It's where I have represented veterans in court hearings. And it's where I've volunteered my time tutoring at-risk youth. In other words, America is where I grew up. America is where I volunteer, work, and pay taxes.
 It's where I consider my home. One of the most difficult things about being undocumented is the inability to feel safe in one's own home. Undocumented people are constantly worried about being uprooted from their communities, separated from their loved ones, are detained in a center with no way to find help. Some of that fear was alleviated by President Obama when he created the DACA program in 2011. Some people call it the DREAM Act program.
 It gave undocumented people who arrived in the United States as children the ability to apply for a work permit. I was a beneficiary of that program. After I graduated law school, I obtained a work permit and became the first undocumented person in America to be licensed to practice law. Wow, that's impressive. So for the first time since I was nine, I felt like I could come out of the shadows and live my life to its fullest potential.
 My situation is not unique, however. Over 750,000 people have received work permits since the DACA program was created five years ago. With the new administration, however, people have been thrown back into a state of fear. They're going back into the shadows. Employees are afraid of losing their jobs. Students are afraid of losing their ability to pay for school. And mothers are afraid of losing their children.
 I would ask the City Council today to support Metropolitan Public Defender's goal of creating a program that protects vulnerable immigrant communities. The program's goal is to create a legal team that has extensive knowledge of criminal laws and criminal justice issues and apply that knowledge to the immigrant community. Immigrants need these services now more than ever. This program would provide them with that service so that fewer immigrants in Portland...
 would have to live in fear. They can hopefully escape from the shadows, contribute to this beautiful city, and find solace in America, the place they consider home. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioner. My name is Casey Chama. I'm the executive director of Unite Oregon. It's hard to follow that kind of testimony, so I really appreciate you being here. It's a great pleasure.
 As you said, so many of our community members who are undocumented have similar experience working hard, paying tax, and making sure that they send their kids to school and create business and jobs. So thank you for your contribution to our community and our country. As myself also, as a former refugee who came to this country and this city,
 I could relate to that experience because I call also Port Red home. I call Oregon my home state, and I call this country my country. It's a great place to live. But as my colleague said,
 that since the election, our community is facing a lot of fear and uncertainty. We have been engaged in the community since the election and really having discussions and meetings and creating a space where people can share with us their most intimate fears that they have after this election. And I echo, it's a difficult time.
 But I don't think so fear should limit us as a society, as a community, what we can do for those most vulnerable populations in our state and our city. So with that, I really, really appreciate you taking the step forward, making sure that immigrants, which is going to have the access, the legal advice that they need to get the support that they need.
 I've been working in this field for many years, and one of the things that I also learned or at least I observed is that immigrants and refugees interact with our system, not only through immigration but the entire system, whether it's the legal and all the above. But the immigration is a very, very specific experience that immigrants have to deal with their own to make sure that they stay here.
 What I realized that when people have small minor infractions or bigger legal issues, between larger issues to smaller issues, immigration has the only solution is deportation. There is no legal system between when somebody, the scale of the justice is not equal. It's all deportation.
 So when I met Alex and came to my office and he shared with me on this project, I was really excited because just that couple of days ago I got calls from clients who are exactly in the same position what this project is supposed to be helping. People who are calling our office and say that, you know, I'm afraid, I'm a permanent resident, I may have, you know, I don't know whether I should apply or not, and as a community member I'm afraid.
 I'm not a lawyer. I can't advise them. I told them, no, I cannot advise you, but I have to bring somebody to help you. So this project is really what is needed. But also sometimes I also notice that DAs, when they are negotiating with someone, if they give a plea to someone to take it,
 there's no discussion between the immigration consequences of that deal. They just only look into a legal perspective. And then later on, the individual realizes that because the bleed deal that they took, it has immigration consequences with that deal. So this kind of a project that the immigrant project that Mr. Bosa public defender proposed
 proposing is actually what we need in order this time to make sure that people are protected. So with that said, thank you so much for your support, and I'm really looking to be working with Alex and his team. Thank you. Thank you very much for being here. Are there any questions for this panel? I have a couple, and thank you for that outstanding presentation. In the handout you gave us, it says that it would cost about $250,000 to launch this.
 Immigrant Protection Project. Would that be the annual budget for this going forward? Commissioner Fish, yes. We believe it would be about $250,000 a year to have two attorneys and some staff that would support them. By the action we're going to take today, we're going to contribute $50,000. Where else are you going to seek funding?
 We are hopeful that we are going to get some money from the county. We are doing fundraising at various levels from foundations, individual fundraising, high-level donor fundraising. We're reaching out wherever we can, and we're pretty hopeful that we're going to be able to put that money together. But even if it were only the $50,000, we would cut the project into its constituent parts and go forward –
 with something it would it would serve the people of this community even if we weren't able to get any additional money but we are very hopeful that that we're going to get that additional money as i'm sure you're aware there's a lot of concern in the community uh just in the number of people calling us wanting to donate and volunteer and do whatever they they can um
 Commissioner Fritz is sending me a subliminal signal. Thank you, Commissioner, for yielding. On that topic, I know that there's a lot of people like me who are like, I want to do something. And Unite Oregon is already a nonprofit. Would you have the capacity to set up a fund for this so that if somebody in the community wanted to send $10, $1, $100, could they send it to you and it gets directed to this project? Or is there another way that people can participate? There is, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you so much for mentioning that. Okay.
 immigrantprotectionproject.org is a website that by the middle of today should be open and working and will allow people to donate. It will be a page that will describe fully this project and has a mechanism for donating. So I'm...
 I have this sinking feeling that we're going to be in this situation for at least four years. And I am very appreciative of the mayor and Commissioner Fritz for bringing this forward today. But I think we have to plan for the longer term.
 So I hope that in our regular budget cycle, the same ask, or potentially more if necessary, is put forth and that we consider that as part of the city's response. Currently, as you gentlemen know, we're a sanctuary state. There's a little confusion about what the city's status is versus the state. But technically speaking, as I read the state law, we're a sanctuary state. We can't use public funds.
 to prosecute people whose only offense is they might have overstayed their visa or be undocumented. So that's the law that we're bound by. I think that makes us a sanctuary state and a sanctuary city. Of the two executive orders that are in question here, the sanctuary city one, in my view, is –
 overbroad and unconstitutional. We'll test that. But the folks that hated the Affordable Care Act set the precedent on that one. And so we're going to find out if what's good for the goose is good for the gander. If you can't compel states to expand Medicaid at the threat of coercion, of having Medicaid money withheld, I can't see how you can follow through on President Trump's threat to cities on sanctuary cities.
 And of course, the Muslim ban, another so-called federal judge just declared that unconstitutional this week. So the tide is going our way. But I would, as part of the city's response, I know the mayor has obtained council approval for us to file some amicus actions to join with other legal actions. I think that.
 The city of San Francisco is a model challenge to some of this, but our attorney general is pursuing. So I'm pleased that we'll be investing some resources in the legal front. But this closer to home is about as close a nexus to what we need to do with the people that we serve.
 And so, Mayor and colleague, I would ask that this also be considered in the regular budget and that we be thinking about a four-year cycle of support because there's a ramp-up phase to get a program like this going. You're not going to be able to get the most competent lawyers to come if you tell them it's only a six-month gig. And I think we have to prepare for the long-term fight here. So I would hope that we could invest over a four-year period. Thank you.
 thank you and thank you for you so much thank you is there any public testimony on this matter yes we have two people signed up shedrick wilkins and charles bridge crane johnson okay and mr walsh it sounds like you want to come up too why don't you go ahead and come up again sir
 Again, I'm Shedrick Wilkins. And my contribution to this whole thing, on this Sunday I went to the St. Peter's Catholic Church, which was harassed by some Trump people in the last couple of weeks. They said these Catholic people shouldn't be here. They're not Christians and a bunch of stuff. For at least the next six months, I will be there at noon when they have their mass.
 I wish only to comfort these people. They might feel uncomfortable with these people chanting outside. There's like, I guess, six or ten people. I understand two weeks there was, we are called interceptors, in which there were 100 people there. And I didn't know anything about this, but I read it in the Portland Tribune. So at noon on Sundays, I will be there. And my purpose is to comfort them, to make sure they don't feel worried that they're going to be deported.
 And I do feel confidently here that Commissioner Fish is saying that some money will be allocated from the city to try to make sure that they can stay here. And that also means I'm not wasting my time. So it's kind of bad for me to sit there and put in some time when this is a hopeless situation. It does appear to me that California, Oregon, and Washington State do seem to have a need for not to oppose Trump's views about how
 non-resident shouldn't live here. So I am doing my part, as Commissioner Fritz said, to do something about that and just to comfort them that the whole entire city here doesn't want to get rid of them. Thank you for doing that. Thank you, Senator. Good morning again. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I would just like to compliment Commissioner Fish. You were thinking along the same lines I was. This is going to be a four-year project.
 I was amazed how fast ICE reacted to the election. Think about this. They were in our courts. They were in the county court arresting people. We got information that they were on the buses and the trains also. So when the TriMet ticket guy threw the person off the train, they went into the arms of ICE.
 That was about two days after the election we were getting reports on it. So ICE has been given a green light by somebody. And then on the news, if you're following the news, you saw it was more than here. It was like five states, six states that ICE is going crazy because they got a green light from somebody. So the $50,000 is honorable. It's a good move. It should be more.
 It should be like the commissioner. I think that I understood you, Commissioner Fish, when you said, look, this thing's going to go on for four years. The $50,000 is kind of like a down payment. It's going to be more. The activist community will surround this building. And I said this to the commissioners in the county.
 We will physically put our bodies around this building if we have immigrants inside the building to protect them. We need you to stand next to us. That's what we need. When it really gets bad, we need you next to us. I don't want to look around and not see you. Where a lot of protests and a lot of vigils, you're not there. This one, you must be there.
 Because it's going to get really bad. This guy in the White House is crazy. There are more technical terms we could use, but he's crazy. And he gets up in the morning and he does what he feels like. That's crazy. So the $50,000, I'm not asking for an amendment. I'm just saying to you straight out.
 It's going to cost you more. So think about that. And we have to protect these people every way we can. My father came from Ireland. I'm first generation. So I'm very sensitive to this. Please stand with us and don't abandon us when the feds come down and they do things like going after the marijuana and all that. They're going to pressure the hell out of us. And we need you really badly. Thank you, sir.
 Good morning. Good morning, commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And as Mr. Walsh has noted, the stand you take and the public actions you take are going to be perhaps even more important than this $50,000. I believe across the river, sort of the parallel person to our police commissioner, Ted Wheeler here, is Sheriff Mike Reese. The last I knew, unfortunately, Sheriff Reese had an internal investigation going on
 because of lone wolf collaborators with ICE and CBP. So in addition to all four of you voting aye here momentarily and passing this important funding, you need to, as Mr. Walsh said, stand with the immigrant community and unfortunately attentively manage the police department and the sheriff's department
 I don't think anybody in America would say there are zero racists or zero bigots employed by sheriff's departments and police departments. When people go into the justice center above our jail, that weird building, IGA type of building over there, their immigration status is talked about right in court. In theory, on the pretense of protecting that person. But if a jail staff person overhears that discussion and that jail staff person
 decides to go lone wolf and rogue and just call up ICE and say, hey, case number such and such, Fernando so-and-so, we need to know that that person will lose their job. So please make the seed investment. Some of you who watch media closely may know that about every tech company made a public statement about the importance of immigration.
 And so when the people were here from Metropolitan Public Defenders, they mentioned high-level donors. I'm sure they're going to go over into northwest Portland in the 1400 block.
 and knock on the door of Microsoft Corporation so that Microsoft Corporation cannot just protect its own immigrants but can be a participant in this community and fund this project with us. And that would apply for our other neighbor a couple blocks over, eBay. I forget where Google's office is. We all know that...
 Airbnb is going to contribute not just to protect their own high-salary workers, but also the low-income food service workers and sanitation workers that we all depend on. So I look forward to strong leadership from the business community as well as the $50,000 seed you're putting in. Thank you. Good point. Thank you. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog PDX. I absolutely agree with this funding being implemented. Thank you.
 One of the concerns I have is that pertaining to the Syrian refugees and seeing the suffering of the people, I want to also make it be clear that we need to offer foreign aid at this time. I disagree with President Trump on how he's rolled out this executive order. I think he's done this too fast with not doing a lot of thinking in the direction he needs to go.
 I believe that the immigration system itself needs to be modernized. Reforms need to be put into place. This will take time, though, such as with these attorneys, to overlook that, implement this on a gradual basis over time. Mr. Trump's position on keeping the United States safe, I do agree with him on that. I do agree with the vetting process being looked at.
 and understanding that we do need to implement certain things that will provide more safety for the people in the United States who are here currently, people coming from foreign countries. Also need to have that understanding we're trying to provide more safety for the people in the United States, have a more clear understanding why we do have 50 million refugees at this time,
 why things are so unstable at this time, how we implement things to correct that and stabilize situations for people so they don't have to flee their countries. And in some areas, as Turkey and Sweden and other areas that have had open-arm policies,
 are changing to this time because they don't have enough capacity. We need to keep looking at this very close, make sure that resources are still provided to the Syrian refugees, and amp that up at this time, and continue to work with President Trump and understand, to look at this from a humanitarian position,
 that when people are suffering, you have to step up also and try to do what you can do. And that needs to be looked at very close. Thank you. Thank you. Carla, please call the roll. Ritz.
 Well, thank you, colleagues, for your support on this, and particularly thank you, Mayor Wheeler. The first time I told him about this, again, I only got halfway through, and he was very supportive. And this is just the first of many actions that the City Council will be taking to look after all of our community members. One of my favourite union chants when we're on Labour marches is, working folks are under attack. What do we do? Stand up, fight back.
 And I think right now immigrant folks are under attack. What do we do? Stand up, fight back.
 And I usually don't use the word fight in my political advertising because my sentiment is if you're fighting, then that's not where you want to be. You want to be in dialogue, you want to be pressing hard, but you certainly don't want to resort to violence. In this particular instance, I think that has clearly not worked. We have not been able to elect a president who...
 would not have done any of these things. I became a citizen in September of 1992, having lived in Portland for six years. And I was in September because I mailed the voter registration card as I left the courtroom so that I could vote for Hillary Clinton as First Lady. And I...
 I cherish that right to be an American citizen, and I know that others do too. And yet, even I, as an immigrant who looks and talks like I do, is a privileged person compared with others who are here or want to be here seeking that American dream. So, colleagues, I very much appreciate your support on this. State Representative Anne Leininger,
 obviously my favorite state representative she's mine um alex base at basos and michael shu thank you for being here thank you casey jama and your leadership of unite oregon uh mayor wheeler and commissioner you daily and i watched an event last night that was standing up and rallying for immigrant rights and um casey has been a leader in our community for many years now and is is the
 person that we turn to to help with challenges. When we had the
 alleged bombing that was going to be in Plania Courtauld Square in November, Thanksgiving. Casey was the person that I contacted to say, how can we help the Somali community and how can the Somali community be held safe? And so I greatly appreciate his leadership. Commissioner Daly was at the event last night, even though she's very sick and that's why she's off today. I know that she is going to be bringing several other measures
 measures forward very soon, colleagues, to support Portland United Against Hate, because we can't actually wait for the regular budget process for that either. That was started in the... One of the places that it originated was in the Oney
 Budget Advisory Committee last year when suddenly after the election it became clear that cutting one percent or five percent was only part of the challenges that we're facing today as a community and so I appreciate Commissioner Udaly attending last night and being very clear that she is going to continue that work in partnership with the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement and with our community. I just want to also just mention we could have I could have asked for more we
 We could probably have put the entire amount down, but people are wanting to help us.
 I felt that last night as people gathering together. Just tell us what we can help with. So you can go to immigrantprotectionproject.org. Let's see how much we can do in our community. Send $10, send $100, send one if you can, so that you have done your bit other than attending rallies, because after a while, that's still important to show people that we care. It's also, we've got to put our...
 Words into action. Mayor Wheeler is working on coordinating a welcoming cities resolution. My Portland Parks staff and director Michael Barty are looking at if ICE comes into our community centres, what are their legal resources. I know that the city attorney's office wants to make themselves available. So we can fight this. We are Portland. We have leaders in the immigrant community and we are friends.
 with our immigrant communities. So this is a very exciting action. Thank you very much, colleagues.
 Oh, sorry, two more. I forgot to thank Tim Crail in my office, my Chief of Staff, who has led this work ever since I mentioned it, and also our community partners, which are the American Civil Liberty Union of Oregon, Oregon Law Center, Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization, otherwise known as ERCO, the Oregon Latino Health Coalition, CAUSA, Latino Network, and many others. So thank you to all those community members. Hi. Fish? Hi.
 I want to thank the mayor and Commissioner Fritz for bringing this forward, and I wholeheartedly support it. And I think, Commissioner Fritz, you're right. Providing seed money and then challenging the community is exactly the right thing to do. But I also hope we have a chance during the regular budget to consider a multi-year request. My mother was born in Montreal, Canada, came to this country and seeking a better life.
 My mother-in-law was born in Córdova in the south of Spain, and she came here with a sixth grade education and no English to start a better life. We all have stories of how immigrants and refugees have shaped our lives, and we know that immigrants, refugees, and Native people built this nation. And so it's appropriate for us to stand with folks in this time of peril.
 This is one of a number of actions which I will wholeheartedly support. I thank the Metropolitan Public Defender Agency for their great work. It's times like this that you actually get more attention for the work you do, which is hard work and not very glamorous, underfunded. The lawyers in a public defender office have chosen –
 and jobs that are probably easier but they have chosen this work because it's pure public service and so you deserve our thanks and our respect thank you colleagues hi well i want to thank uh commissioner fritz mayor wheeler for bringing forward this funding request
 And I also want to acknowledge Metropolitan Public Defenders for the role that you're playing with immigrants and refugees, but also for the role you play every day with low-income Oregonians, juveniles, and criminal matters. You're a very strong organization, and I'm not sure how we would function as a society without an organization like yourself. So thank you for that, and I look forward to working with you as we stand up for the rights of immigrants, refugees in our community.
 I want to add my thanks. Commissioner Fritz, thank you very much for your leadership on this and your team's leadership on this. You're right, I got about halfway through the description and said I'm in. I was asked a very provocative question by a former colleague of yours, Randy Leonard, about 12 years ago when I approached him and said I was thinking about running for public office.
 And the question that he asked me then, and it's a question I think about a lot still, which is this. What are you prepared to lay it all down for? What issues? This is right now the single most important issue before us that I am prepared to lay it all down for.
 And we will continue to, and I'm going to use, it's the right word, we're going to fight. We are in a fight for what is a core American value. We're in a fight for what is a core community value. The fact of the matter is this community is better for having an immigrant community. And I could bury you in facts, but I won't do that for you today. But Michael's story, I think, is just one.
 many incredible stories I've heard. And this has touched a nerve with this community. We went to a great event last night. I was really sorry I had to follow Casey Jama in the speaker's lineup. That's always a bad thing. Casey's so eloquent in the way he presents these things. Not long ago, most all of us here went to Metropolitan University.
 The Muslim Education Trust, sorry, the Muslim Education Trust out in Tigard. There were something like 1,400 people in that room.
 And every single event I've been to related to this matter, it seems that the passion is actually growing. It's not withering because people feel that something really, really important is on the line. Lane, I see you here, and I appreciate the work that you and the public defenders do. It's very important work. Commissioner, I appreciate that we're putting real money –
 behind an actual solution. It's tangible. It's immediate. It's going to start to have an impact starting right now. And I agree that there's a lot more that we can do. And I want you to know, I speak for this whole council, and I don't think anyone here is going to correct me. We're prepared to lay it all on the line for this issue. So thank you, Commissioner, for bringing this first of many packages forward.
 Thank you to your team. Thanks for everybody who worked on this. Thanks for the community partners who put their blood, sweat, and tears into this effort. I vote aye, and the ordinance is adopted.
 that's the good news now some bad news um i'm looking at our agenda it is now 11 45 we have eight more items to cover some of them are meaty so uh with the forbearance of everyone here if you could try and keep your testimony to two minutes i don't like doing it
 I don't like doing it, but if you could try and keep your testimony to two minutes, I'd appreciate it, because we also have a marathon session this afternoon. I want to make sure that the council has time to do other business between those two things. I would ask the clerk to return item 145 to my office. I still have questions about that. So with the forbearance of my colleagues, I'm going to ask that 145 be returned to my office. Read the title.
 Yeah, please do. Okay. 145, authorize disposal of surplus shields property and authorize the Portland Police Bureau to proceed with donation of the property. Okay.
 I don't hear any objections, so that's withdrawn. Please read the next item. Sorry, I'm doing your job. 146, authorized grant agreement with HACC Oregon and Oregon Nonprofit Corporation to build open data web applications to promote engagement, awareness, and quality of life with city data not to exceed $22,500. Very good. Thank you very much. All right.
 and just just to be clear we've reserved 10 minutes of testimony so if you could try and keep it in that time frame and i appreciate it okay we'll be brief
 Thanks so much. So my name is Shannon Carney. I'm the performance management analyst at the City Budget Office. I'm here today with my colleagues from the Portland Housing Bureau and Portland Fire and Rescue. We have coined ourselves Earth, Wind, and Fire, so you can decide who's who. So we're here today to say a few words about a grant agreement that we're proposing for council consideration with a local nonprofit group called Hack Oregon.
 And our peers have been collaborating on this project, and we're hoping to enter into this agreement in a joint fashion. At its core, Hack Oregon is a community-powered nonprofit. They build open data projects to promote engagement, awareness, and quality of life here in Oregon. The organization's motto is making public information public knowledge. And they are a strong force driving civic engagement with the local technology community.
 They train hundreds of adults on open source software coding and project management skills in a real life production environment. And the trainees work side by side with experts in the field on projects, one of several web application projects each season that address real world challenges. So that's really where the City of Portland and other organizations like ours come in. To be successful, this organization relies on data and public data.
 So the city of Portland, we obviously have a wealth of that type of information. Currently, not all of it, and in some ways not even a lot of it, is easily accessible to outside organizations like HACC Oregon.
 Outside of a public records request, it's just not that easily available. So our respective bureaus here today seek to change that dynamic. We want to work with this organization not just in response to a specific request, but as a partner interested in the questions posed by the technology community and especially in the creative solutions that they might propose to some of our longstanding challenges. Thank you.
 This type of partnership is key to treating the city's data not just as information that must be collected, reported, and archived, but actually something that is a strategic asset that we can learn from and drive better decisions.
 The project with HEC Oregon is anticipated to build a demonstration open data portal for the city. And we hope that this will be an impressive showcase of how interesting and useful our existing day-to-day city information becomes when we share the information in an accessible format and partner with our community to ask and answer new questions.
 This project is, I think, unique because Hack Oregon has engaged city staff such as us that may never have otherwise found ourselves at a hackathon or a weekend startup event. I anticipate that our understanding of what it takes to build a large-scale technology project will pay dividends in the city in future years, as well as our connection to the community for recruitment and bringing in new talent and skills to the city in our workforce. Thank you.
 The project, while it is a one-time grant, we anticipate that it builds deeper relationships with the organization, and we can build that with other bureaus, too. So with that, I'll pass it to Bimal. Hi, my name is Bimal Razbandari. I work for Portland Housing Bureau as a data analyst and evaluator. For the past couple of months, I've had an opportunity to take a class at HACC Oregon, as well as to collaborate with them on a housing-related projects.
 Well, this has been a great opportunity for us, both for the city as well as for the Bureau, to work with a local open source organization and community so that we can share data in a very useful manner. And of course, I mean, we do benefit a lot from this working with enthusiastic volunteers, coders, programmers, and data scientists associated with the Hack Oregon.
 as they develop civic applications, and hoping that through this partnership we'll be able to gain more insights about the housing-related issues, and this will particularly lead into making better policy and civic engagement.
 I realize that we are not there compared to, like, Boston and San Francisco in terms of working with open source community. But I'm very enthusiastic about this collaboration with the HAC Oregon. And I'm sure this will be a win-win situation both for the city as well as for the open source community and the residents of the city as well. And thank you for giving us this opportunity. Thank you, sir.
 Good morning. Mark Whitaker with Portland Fire and Rescue. And so from the Fire Bureau's perspective, certainly what interests us most about this project was just the ability to collaborate with professionals outside of government and give them a chance to look at our data and perhaps tell a story that we're not telling or tell it differently or identify differently.
 gaps or new things that we haven't looked at. And so that's why when this opportunity was presented to us, we viewed it as a chance to innovate and hopefully learn some new things and hopefully walk away with some new ways of presenting and thinking about how we interact with our data and present it to the public. Thank you. Any council questions? Any public testimony on this item, Carla? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Any public testimony? One. One? Come on up. Thank you. Well, thank you.
 if you could just hang around for a few minutes just in case we have follow-ups good morning hi there good morning i'll be very brief because i know that um we're running on record sorry i'm sorry so i'm catherine nikolovsky i'm the founder and executive director of hack oregon and i thought that i could add to the earth wind and fire team today uh very proud to hear them uh making statements on behalf of hack oregon and the work
 that actually we've been doing since summer. We're preparing for a public demo of this open data platform on May 1st at the OMSI IMAX Theater, so everybody is invited to actually see what we build and meet all of the volunteers behind the project. I think that one of the things that...
 When we're in such a tense political time nationally right now, looking at all of the overwhelming positivity and talent and creative energy that we have in Oregon, this is something that everybody can feel really good about, because we have enormous amounts of talent, both across tech and design and other kinds of strategic development. We're fundamentally nonpartisan and have really no stake in what happens
 kinds of stories we're telling around these themes. We're trying to break ground on important issues like housing and homelessness to try to understand how to better allocate resources and bring something new to the table that is sometimes beyond the scope of what government actually can afford to do because it's very expensive to run these data projects. And we have
 all of these folks that are coming out from some of the best technical areas in Oregon working together on these super teams alongside teams with government. And it's not even about open data as an issue. It's about every other issue that data is a part of.
 And so if we can understand the Portland budget better to apply toward things like emergency response and homelessness and housing, we think it benefits everybody. And that creative exercise is also producing a lot of workforce development talent. And we do get other kinds of funding to run this by actually training and putting people back into technical positions. Thank you. Congratulations on your success. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners. Charles Bridge, Crane Johnson. And another piece of the data puzzle we need to open up, and something that you unfortunately have to witness all the time, is that
 So this table is too often occupied by people like Shedrick and myself, more white men, not really what leadership in Oregon needs. So I just wanted to particularly note that this is one of the few women we've had come up for citizen comment. And I hope that Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Wheeler will take a look at this.
 If we're getting equity in public engagement, now part of that is just stand back. I probably need to come up less, but I thought it was so important that Mayor, you, Commissioner, in addition to opening the data to Hack Oregon, for example, on the people that sign up in the five comments, do we get any kind of diversity there? Are we really reaching the level of inclusion we want to as a city? That's a small project that Hack Oregon people may not want to take on, and they might find the data's not there. But if we're going to be...
 a city of leadership. You need to listen to these ideas that Hack Oregon is bringing forth so that decision-making can be, we can really live democracy. It didn't work that well in November. I think not a lot of people in Oregon are happy with how our democratic process is going.
 We have a populist demagogue in the White House, yet here the people feel we have an unpopular national leadership. These ideas to hack Oregon is suggesting as we grow the tech community in here, and that is the real job creation place, take that seriously and have a very open and engaging policy to let specialists, data analysts, engage with the city and form a community.
 develop policies that will protect privacy but open data. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon.
 I like how some of this computer technology can be used to make fast surveys, statistical things, like how many people are – these things can actually go into databases and extract the information, count numbers, and tell me how many people are being evicted, how many people are on food stamps, how many people don't get food stamps, and stuff like that. So it's important when you say something, people always quote statistics here. A company like hers can basically confirm that very rapidly. Thank you. Thank you.
 Is that the end of public testimony? Please call the roll. Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish? Very pleased to support this. Aye. Selmsman? I appreciate the collaboration between the Housing Bureau, the Portland Fire and Rescue, and the Budget Office. It sounds great. Aye. Wheeler? I'd like to see more of this. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please.
 Item 147, accept bid of McDonald Excavating, Inc. for the Southwest Bond Avenue Surcharge and Retaining Wall Improvements Project for $3,142,479. Good morning. I am Larry. Barely morning. Barely.
 I'm Larry Palap from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to McDonald Excavating for the Southwest Bond Avenue surcharge retaining wall improvement project for $3,142,478.69. Thank you.
 The original engineer's estimate on the project was $3,260,619. The Bureau's confidence level was moderate. The project was advertised on the city's electronic procurement system on November 4, 2016, and bids were opened on December 20, 2016. Eight bids were received. In response to the solicitation, McDonnell Excavating is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $3,142,478.69.
 which fortunately is 3.6% under the engineer's estimate and includes all bid items included in the original engineer's estimate. The Bureau of Transportation, along with procurement services, identified an aspirational goal for certified disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business firms, subcontractor and supplier utilization of 20% of the hard construction cost for the project.
 McDonald Excavating, acting as the prime contractor, identified the following areas of opportunities for subcontracting, trucking, and flagging. There is $628,823, or 20.1%, of DMWESB utilization identified on this project. It is apportioned as follows, DBE subcontractor supplier at 15.86%, and WBE participation at 4.1%.
 McDonnell excavating is not a state certified DMW or ESB contractor. They are an Oregon corporation, and they are in compliance with all city requirements for contracting. If you have any questions of the procurement process, I can answer them. I don't think anybody from PBOT is here. Paulings, any questions? Any public testimony on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Please call the roll. I'm sorry, I need a motion and a second to accept the report. Motion second. Please call the roll.
 Thank you for the report. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Aye.
 Just for future reference, I've gone on this on. I have a larger question about procurement and contracting. I want to make sure that we are opening doors that go beyond just trucking and flagging. I want to make sure that we're reaching down and creating journeyman opportunities, advanced training opportunities so that these companies can actually expand beyond just trucking and flagging.
 I don't mean to belittle trucking and flagging, but that's some of the lower value added in these projects, and the big resources come higher up the construction food chain. So I want to continue to work with you on that. You know that. The report is accepted. Thank you. Please read the next item. Thank you.
 Item 148, accept bid of Paul Brothers, Inc. for the Willamette Park Redevelopment Project for $934,087. Now it's afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Larry Pallatt, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Paul Brothers, Inc. for the Willamette Park Redevelopment Project for $934,085.95. Thank you.
 The original engineer's estimate on this project was $960,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was moderate. The project was advertised on the City's electronic procurement system on October 10th. Bids were opened on November 28th. Five bids were received in response to the solicitation, and Paul Brothers, Inc. is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $934,086.95. Thank you.
 which is 2.7% under the engineer's estimate and includes all bid items in the original estimate. The Bureau of Parks and Recreation, along with Procurement Services, identified an aspirational goal for certified disadvantaged minority women in emergency small business contractor and supplier utilization of 20% of the hard construction cost for this project,
 Paul Brothers, acting as a prime contractor, identified the following areas as opportunities for subcontracting, concrete work, trucking, fencing, signage, hydro-seeding, and metal fabrication. There is $271,290, or 29.1%, of certified firm utilization on this project. It is apportioned as follows, DBE subcontractor at 12.2%.
 and WBE subcontractor supplier participation at 6%. Together, they're apportioned as follows. WBE fencing, signage, and insulation and manufacturing of precast pavers at $72,400. DBE, which is disadvantaged business enterprise, concrete work and trucking at $112,090, and an ESB at metal fabrication and hydro seating at $89,600. Okay.
 Paul Brothers is not a state-certified DMW or ESB contractor. They are an American corporation and are in compliance with all city requirements for contracting. Thank you. So a little better on the spread of the services. Yeah, agreed. Council questions? Yes.
 You know, I think we've – I seem to recall we've had this discussion before about Paul Brothers, but what's the significance of the fact that they're not a state certified, but they have EEO certification and are in compliance with our Equal Benefits Program? Yeah.
 So what's the distinction you want us to track on that? The state certification, Commissioner, is the disadvantaged minority, the women, or the emerging small business, narrow category. EEO is a federally mandated piece of equal opportunity employment. Essentially anybody who's going to be in business now after so long is pretty much going to be EEO certified, but essentially we cannot do business with them if they are not EEO certified. The equal benefits...
 is part of a resolution from, I believe it's 14 years ago, requiring that firms that offer benefits to employees and their spouses do not discriminate based upon any kind of sexual orientation or any other qualifying event relative to their employment. So they really are very, very different. And the last two are requirements of the city for us to engage in business with the firm. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you. Any public testimony on this item? I move the report. Second. No. Okay. We have a motion. We have a second. Please call the roll, Carla. Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your partnership on this. This project is funded partly by the Water Bureau and partly by Portland Parks and Recreation. Thank you for doing the procurement. I'm glad to see over 20%.
 which obviously surpasses the goal, and also that the disadvantaged businesses and the women businesses are the majority of that allocation, so that's good. The parks gave a presentation on this project in November. It involves the entrances to the park and Greenway Trail to create better separation between bicyclists and pedestrians, construct new trails to create an additional looped walk for park users, and moving the dog off-leash area.
 so thank you very much looking forward to getting it done all right fish well we're looking forward to seeing it as well and it will uh it will join a brand new pump station which is going to be quite a community resource hi saltzman hi wheeler all right the report's accepted thank you very much thank you all next item please
 item 149 amend sub-recipient contract with community alliance of tenants to increase the grant amount by and an amount not to exceed 270 000 to support legal services program director krieger good afternoon thank you mayor members of council kirk krieger housing bureau director
 I'd like to introduce Kim McCarty, who does all of our fair housing planning within the City of Portland. And because of the intense interest over renter protections, I thought it would be good if Kim could quickly summarize this amendment. Thank you. Thank you. So this amendment is an amendment of our master ordinance. Our master ordinance requires that any contract over $100,000 come back to Council.
 So this contract with the Community Alliance of Tenants adds to their contract $270,000 to support legal services and advocacy for renters. It's also specifically asked that they do their outreach in East Portland with a focus on low-income renters, immigrants, and refugees. And it also includes a robust coordination with Self-Enhancement Inc., APANO, and ERCO.
 So I'm open for any questions you may have. Any questions? This was previously approved in the budget. Where's the money coming from? Yes, the money was previously approved in the budget for advocacy and legal services, and then we followed through doing a procurement process and selected CAT. Very good. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Thank you.
 If you could just stick around for a few minutes. If you want to sit over there, that's fine, just in case there's questions. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals with Justice. I was curious, how much did we spend last year on this? Do we know? Or is this brand new? Come on up. All right.
 The Community Alliance of Tenants, last year, their grant was a little over $100,000. This year, it's $218,000. But this particular activity is new. Okay.
 Okay, and this is renters, legal defense? Yeah, so one quick additional element of context. Matthew Schaub with the Housing Bureau. Thank you. This allocation of funds was a part of the discussion around funds associated with the Home for Everyone planning effort, specifically looking at legal services for individuals that were homeless or at risk of homelessness. And in the partition of the responsibilities between the city, the joint office, and the county, renter protections stayed with the city.
 Very good. Thank you. We would just applaud the increase or the ongoing funding. We need these kind of programs. Renters are in desperate shape. We're all afraid. I mean, I'm a renter, so the landlord could come up to me tomorrow and say, we're raising your rent $1,000.
 And because of what's happened recently, I have some protection. Not a lot, some, but he can still do that. So legal help for tenants is a worthy goal, and we support it, and we congratulate you. See, that can be nice. Congratulations on this one. Thank you, sir. Please call. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll.
 Well, thank you very much for the procurement and for the explanation of this. I've got several awards in my office, and the one from Community Alliance of Tenants is one of my most treasured. So thank you for working with this great organization. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Easy aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Item 150, direct the Portland Housing Bureau to adopt an administrative rulemaking procedure. Ah, very good.
 Good afternoon. You can just state your name for the record, Victoria. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Victoria James, a housing policy analyst at the Portland Housing Bureau. So this piece of legislation would allow the Portland Housing Bureau to adopt formalized rulemaking procedures for the rulemaking authority that we were granted through the inclusionary housing ordinance passed on the 21st of December. Okay.
 Essentially, this resolution just lays out the period of time that we would need to notify the public and sort of the procedure for that. And it basically just sets up the procedure that we would need to go through any time we are adopting, amending, or repealing rules in relation to the limited rulesmaking authority that we have on inclusionary housing. Thank you, Victoria. Thank you.
 Any counsel? Matthew, since you're here, could you give us a quick update on the steps the Bureau is taking to set up a stakeholder group to consider potential modifications going forward to the renter protections legislation we passed? Sure.
 So we are working – so Matthew Schaubold, for the record, from the Housing Bureau. I actually have been sick the past couple of days, so I had to cancel a meeting with staff from your office, the mayor's office, and Commissioner Udaly's office, and we've rescheduled that for this Friday to talk through what the stakeholder process will look like and to work through what the work plan will be. Thank you.
 I understand from one of my staff that there's a difference between the two code sections of 30.01, 120 and 3.130. Are we clear on who does have the adoption power? Yeah.
 So the Housing Bureau has fairly limited rulemaking authority, and for Title 30 it's in relation specifically to the inclusionary housing program, not the program structure itself, but the detail of implementation as far as the requirements and the offsetting incentives. Those are based in code. And one of the incentives is the property tax exemption, which is in Title III. And so the rulemaking authority as it relates to –
 Any sort of process or reporting requirements associated with the program that's outlined in code would be, the authority would need to be granted to the Housing Bureau in both Title 30 and 3, which it has been. And so the rules that the Housing Bureau would be creating would relate to both because the inclusionary requirement is both in the zoning code as well as Title 30, and one of the incentives is in Title 3. So that's it.
 would not change the code then, because the council is still in charge of changing the code. Correct. And then my other question was regarding where we are with making all of the administrative rules similar between the different bureaus. I know that the Housing Bureau hasn't had one. Do you know, have you been part of any discussions on, could we perhaps have a standard that we could look at for all bureaus?
 At this point, we haven't been part of a conversation, although we did talk with the auditor's office with respect to formalizing a lot of our Portland policy documents, which you'll be seeing in the next weeks and months, as to what the standard protocol is. And the guidance that we've received from the auditor's office as well as city attorneys is absent a formal city policy.
 formalized, standardized city process to, as best we can, use the Attorney General's guidance on administrative rulemaking, which is what we followed. Well, colleagues, I really do think we should have a single system throughout the
 So I'll check in with Celia Herron in the Office of Management and Finance. My understanding is that one of the changes since the last time we discussed this is that, in response to my concern, thank you, we've added that the commissioner in charge shall be provided prior to the adoption, amendment or appeal of these rules.
 So I appreciate that. Colleagues, I'd like you also to consider doing what the Director of Human Resources does when she is considering role changes, which is at least to notify all the councils of what those changes are. Because since we're delegating that responsibility, and community members might not normally be going every week to the Housing Bureau's website or whoever's website and might not then be aware, we can help –
 raise any concerns that we think might be in the community and help publicise the fact that it's happening. So certainly if I'm ever in charge of the Housing Bureau, that would be my...
 resolve so I am in charge of the housing Bureau indirectly as the Commissioner and What I will do is I will work with your team and also work with Kristin Dennis, and we'll get that ironed out Thank you you bet any further questions for this esteemed panel Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes me Maris wearing are we still considering the amendment to exhibit a I?
 Okay, we need to move the amendment to Exhibit A. So we have a motion and a second on the amendment. Let's take up the discussion on the amendment. Any further discussion on the amendment, please call the roll on the amendment. I'm sorry, who seconded? That was Fish. Thank you. Fritz. Thank you. I do appreciate your response to my concern. Aye. And also yours. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment passes to the main motion. Is there any further public testimony on this item? If none, please call the roll.
 Fritz, I'm reading further into my notes. Staff in OMF are waiting to be instructed about a rulemaking process citywide for all bureaus. So I'm happy to work with Christian and you on helping that to happen. Aye. Thank you.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Next item, please. Thank you both. Item 151, approve the designation of seven trees as City of Portland Heritage Trees and remove the Heritage Tree designation from five trees. Commissioner Fritz? Colleagues, I'm sure you're all quite disappointed this is so late in the agenda because I know for several of you this is one of your favorite events of the year. Okay.
 I'm very happy to introduce the seven new trees and to explain why the removal of designation for five trees. The Heritage Tree Programme is an important part of raising public awareness regarding the contribution that trees provide to our community. Thanks to Urban Forestry Commissioner Greg Everhart, formerly a City of Portland employee and still volunteering after she's retired, she's going to give us a brief explanation. Thank you.
 Great. I am Greg Everhart. I'm on Urban Forestry Commission, and I chair the Heritage Tree Committee. And I wanted more time, but I'm going to try and reduce it to the essentials. Can we get our PowerPoint presentation? Because this is sort of a matter of show and tell. I do hope when you get your copy of the current Heritage Tree Guidebook that you will see these trees. I also, for the commissioners where I knew where...
 you lived not like literally but by neighborhood I gave you a map that I hope you'll use in your neighborhood it actually shows the discrepancies that we have not every neighborhood has a heritage tree and so we'd like to change that so for instance commissioners Eudalia and Fritz live in neighborhoods I believe that have no heritage trees
 where Commissioner Fritz or Commissioner Fish has moved from one that had only one but now is in a more older part of town that has 12 magnificent huge trees. And Commissioner Saltzman actually just I think because one site had so many trees is
 is in another part of town that actually is rich in heritage trees. So what you see around you every day is something that can really inspire you. When I came before the council last year, the ordinance has trees to be delisted as well as new heritage trees, and we need you to approve both lists. But I didn't bring pictures of the trees that were being delisted, and I apologize for that. I realized later that there was an interest in that.
 There were two last year. This year there's five. And I'm sort of, I mean, that's not enough years to see a trend. But we've had this program for 20 years. And I am concerned that some of the early giants are now starting to age out in, you know,
 We are all, they are, we're all going to die, but I think we need to sort of step up this program because some of those initial trees are fading. So I want to show them as sort of a last thing where we honor them and point out that we're also going to need more funding for this project. Currently, we have no program where we actually look at all these heritage trees each year.
 We operate on a complaint basis, or one of the committee members or an arborist in town sees a tree in trouble and calls it in, and then staff responds.
 and when staff actually needs to go and do work on the tree or, you know, in these cases, take them down, that also comes out of a very limited budget. Before you start, could you just explain to us what does a tree have to be in order to qualify? I'll get there. Yeah, people sometimes use the acronym HOLI, and I never know what the why is, but basically historic, connected with a historic person, event, or an historic site.
 Old, old age. And is that on public and private property? Both public and private. The qualifications for both are the same. They need to be large or old or of an interesting or unusual horticultural variety. Okay.
 So you qualify – if it's a public tree, the city can actually just designate it. But if it's on private property, the private property owner signs a consent form, and they basically say, in other words –
 We protect and value this tree, and we actually commit any heirs of the property or anyone to whom we sell it to also protect it. So it's actually a designation that brings protection to the tree. It brings a plaque. It gets it into the guidebook that you'll get. And people like me and visitors of the city, if you don't use your guidebook, leave it in your office where people that are waiting to see you can look at it. But it's...
 It's just a special thing. There are maybe 300 of these trees. The population ebbs and flows every year. But they are magnificent, from the smallest to the very large. But I want to show you the ones that are no longer with us. We lost four trees this year. The first was an American chestnut. This is a tree that you've heard of being in trouble throughout this country today.
 This one lost that limb. You see a big scar on it. The tree started to die. It's located between the sidewalk and a home that's used as a daycare. And the city forester, by code, can declare a tree emergency and remove a heritage tree. And in this case, this tree is gone, but we need you to delist it.
 But I've got two American chestnuts that I planted 26 years ago. How much longer do they have to survive before they might become heritaged? How big are they? Not as wide as that one, for sure. Nominate them, and we'll come out and measure them. I'm on a mission now. We're going to get some in my neighborhood before next year's report. Yeah, that'd be great. That's exactly what we need. When they're removed, what do you do with the wood?
 There's a whole process. An elm tree could be infected by Dutch elm disease. Others are quite valuable wood. And so urban forestry, I don't have the city forester with me, but it's something that actually the whole community of Arbis is working on. If it's environmentally zoned, the wood is actually returned to the site. Right.
 So we lost the Madrone tree a couple years ago. It became play equipment in Madrone Park, for which it was named. So Urban Forestry is actually in the forefront leading with sort of repurposing. Is there a specific process related to that? Yeah, but I can't cover it in 10 minutes. Okay, so the answer is yes. I'll look it up on my own. Okay. I'll have Jen get the information to our city forester.
 This is a hybrid birch, and you can just see that it's losing leaves up top. It was reported by the homeowner as well as a volunteer tree inspector. Again, it was an immediate hazard, and it got its removal permit. But you can see just how big some of these trees are. And I wanted also to show you that there's diversity. However, the last three of the trees to be...
 delisted our elm trees. And we've got elm trees in the city that are 100 and more years old. That on the left is a branch that was four foot in diameter that came down that left the other two branches unstable. So this tree was definitely a hazard. They're so big that they hit
 can hit a number of buildings and the street was this in the storm yeah yeah just it can be wind it can be water we'll have more delistings next year because we had ice and snow damage this year
 This tree is actually still standing. This is in Laurelhurst. It's a magnificent tree. It wasn't deemed to be an immediate hazard. It's a potential hazard. It's been on the list for 20 years. I actually lived near this tree, so I visited it numerous times. It's in Laurelhurst on the street.
 It's actually impressive to see when a tree is reported how carefully urban forestry checks on it and prunes it and kind of does everything they can do. They have cleaned out the deadwood and the crown. They have taken weight off the end of these extremely long branches. Right.
 But it's over 100 years old. That's how old Laurelhurst is. And it's had a succession of ever bigger branches come down. And even with the pruning, they're really to the point where they can't
 do anything more for this tree. There's decay in the crown, the top of the tree, in the trunk, and at the base. So in this case, because it wasn't an immediate hazard, it was potential, we used the process that's in code, and we sent public notice, and we had a hearing at the Urban Forestry Commission. We did have one person testify saying she just hoped it could be there for another year or two,
 But Urban Forestry and my Heritage Tree Committee have arborists that are tree risk assessors. And the neighbor that is next to this tree agrees with us that although they've loved it, it's time to go. So because it's a heritage tree, we need you to concur with delisting it so then Urban Forestry can take it down. Thank you.
 This elm tree is down. It actually was flagging in the elm monitor program was where this was spotted. So they go around, they're checking for signs of Dutch elm disease. This tested positive, and so it was removed immediately because it's something that can spread to the other trees. So those are the five candidates for what we call delisting. They will come off the list, and that means that
 come arbor month in April, we'll be able to have them out of that guidebook, and it will be more accurate. It won't be completely accurate because we've lost some trees that I can't tell you about until the Urban Forestry Commission okays it. So this is the good news part, and I will try and be brief. But I want to add the diameter at breast height of these trees because you have had to rule and make regulations regarding removal of trees. And I just...
 I can't stress too much that trees grow at different rates. And so you're going to see some very significant trees that aren't that big. But where I know that, I will give you their age. So this tree is very close to my age. It's over 60. Okay.
 It has a diameter breast height of only seven inches, but it's the largest bald cypress that we know of in Portland. It's in the Maple Hood Neighborhood Association, which has only three heritage trees. And it's in a site where we had two trees designated last year. This tree is horticulturally significant, and it's also historically significant because there was a nursery there
 that lasted through two families, two generations each. And the current owner was the daughter of that second nurseryman, and she's really got a wonderful tree collection there. So this tree, which is native to sort of the southern swampy part of this country, is now being planted as a street tree but has not reached this size. So it's a great place for people to see what a bald cypress can do.
 The next tree is very unusual. I have the curator of Hort Arboretum on the Heritage Tree Committee. None of us think that there's another one of these trees in the entire city. This is from China, northern and central China. It's named Lacebark Pine for the way the bark, after about 10 years, starts to flake off. And you've got that sort of astonishing multicolored trunk.
 Is there one in the arboretum? No. No, no. Martin has been inspired to see if he can find one. But it will be, this tree is 62 years old. It'll be years before something would actually show this bark. Again, this is only 10 inches diameter breast height.
 Now this tree, by contrast, is about five feet across. This is 66 inches. The house was built in 1916,
 It may have grown from an acorn that someone brought from the Midwest. A lot of people settled here from areas where this tree is native. A northern red oak. This was my favorite tree of the two days that we toured all the potential nominees. It's had great care. It probably can live several more centuries. And the people that nominated it live there, so they're very devoted to it.
 I put this one next because it's really an unusual tree, and you've just seen a huge tree. But this camper down elm is only 20 feet tall.
 On the other hand, it's trunk, just because of the way it grows, is over two feet in diameter. It's kind of like a little storybook tree. And although we have two of these trees on our list, this would be the second one for Foster Powell. We don't have many heritage trees anywhere east or even near I-205. But you can walk under this tree and see this incredible structure. It is probably 70 years old.
 because all the camper down elms come from one original tree. They're actually a cultivar that's grafted. Go back to that for one sec, because that elm,
 It does look suspiciously like a weeping willow. Are they related in any way? No, one is in the genus Salix, which has whole different characteristics. This elm actually is related to, more closely related to some of those giant elms that we see on our neighborhood streets and that we had as failures. I don't think you saw the three elms that have or will be coming down.
 It's just some people really like weeping trees, so you're correct. It's got a similar form to a weeping willow, but different leaf. This tree is called Cindy by its neighbors. It's a landmark up in Arbor Lodge. It was nominated by a member of their tree team. And we haven't figured out why it's named Cindy, but people go there. It's a landmark. They meditate. They pray. They do yoga.
 And we felt from kind of a functional point of view that this is a great example of a large-form conifer that's actually happy in a planting strip. So from a stormwater habitat, all those kind of functional reasons for a tree, this is actually a great example. It would be a great place for people to visit. And it's huge. It's native to Oregon, not necessarily to Portland.
 The final two trees are in one of our parks, Fern Hill Park. They would be addition to the two trees that Concordia Neighborhood has, although they just lost one, so they're really down to one.
 They are 25 and 27 inches DBH. What's significant about these trees is that they are not a cultivar. We did just finish our street tree inventory. We've got a lot of these trees, but they're a form that's very tightly oval and vertical. You see them in narrow planting strips. So we think this tree would actually be very resistant to some of the pests and diseases that
 It's not invasive, and having it as a heritage tree would actually promote people planting it more frequently. So that's one of the trees, and there's this one that's in a more shady setting. This is my last slide. I'm really sorry to rush through and not really describe how they're nominated. If you want to ask me any questions, I'm happy to answer it. But I wanted to close with the fact that heritage trees are not distributed equally through this city.
 And there's a lot of potential reasons for that. It's lot size, planting strip width, the history of large lots, tree collectors that may have been wealthy individuals, just some parts of the city being older than others or having nurseries or old orchards.
 We think these trees are inspiring. Some of them are really just awesome and majestic. And so we welcome you to spot trees. We hope that we will find more partners in some of these neighborhoods and actually add some more types of species and perhaps at least find, say, the tallest native conifer in every neighborhood that currently doesn't have a heritage tree. So that's it.
 Fabulous, thank you So I'll share my tree story Sure So when I was growing up Those of you from here remember that the Lloyd Center Used to be a lot smaller than it is today And it used to have sort of an H shape to it And then an atrium restaurant I can't remember what the name of the restaurant was But the restaurant looked out 11th
 What was it? The Aladdin. The Aladdin. It looked out onto a really large, beautiful tree. And I was like seven or eight years old, so I couldn't tell you what the large, beautiful tree was. But that tree was in my great-grandmother's backyard. Right.
 And so my grandmother and my mom used to like to take me there and say, that's the yard that we used to play in and grew up in. And, of course, as the Lloyd Center expanded, it disappeared. But that's my tree story. Now you all know. Any questions regarding this good report? Thank you for your good work. Any public testimony on this matter? No.
 This is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to a second reading. Thank you. Thank you very much for all your work on the Urban Forestry Commission. You're welcome. And taking this report, that was very helpful. Thank you. Item, last item.
 Item 152, refer amendments to the City of Portland Charter, Chapter 7, Finance, to the May 16, 2017 special election ballot to authorize council to interpret and administer provisions of the transient lodgings tax. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Thomas Lanham. Let me tee you up first. And I'm the placeholder on this, but only –
 because we need to have somebody to get it on the agenda. The resolution before us today asked voters to approve a common-sense update to our city charter concerning the transient lodgings tax, specifically as it relates to the new so-called sharing economy. The transient lodging tax is a tax on all hotels and motels in the city of Portland. Our charter language dates to the 1970s and needs to be updated to reflect the growth in short-term rentals
 which we understand is anything below one month stay. At present, any guest staying at a traditional brick and mortar hotel pays a 6% of City of Portland transient lodging tax collected by the hotel. When it comes to short-term rentals, however, the rules are being treated very differently. Most of the companies in the short-term rental business are currently following the law, collecting taxes directly from their website.
 A handful of companies have taken a different position and claim they aren't subject to the city charter, so they don't even bother to collect local taxes. As my colleagues know, one of these issues is currently in litigation. This not only reduces revenues owed to the city, but impacts our ability to provide basic services, but also creates an unfair advantage for certain short-term rentals.
 The City believes it's time to make sure that everyone plays by the same rules, and Thomas Lanham and Scott Motey are here to provide a concise presentation on why we should refer this to the voters in May. Welcome. Thank you, Commissioner, and I should have said good afternoon. I'm Thomas Lanham, the Revenue Division Director, and this is Scott Motey joining me from the City Attorney's Office today.
 Before you today is a resolution referring a measure to the May 16, 2017 special election ballot asking voters to amend the Portland City Charter Section 7-113, transient lodging tax, also known as the hotel-motel tax.
 This change is housekeeping in nature and is intended to modernize the charter by expressly allowing the City Council to define charter terms by city ordinance to reflect today's hotel, motel, and internet-enabled short-term rental marketplace. The bulk of the current lodgings tax language in the charter was written in 1971 and therefore uses terms such as operator and owner in the description of the proprietors of traditional brick and mortar hotel operations.
 It is these owners and operators who are responsible for collecting and remitting the hotel tax, among other obligations. In a recent U.S. District Court ruling, the court ruled that the traditional dictionary definition of those terms does not encompass the short-term rental industry operating on websites such as Airbnb, HomeAway, and others, and in essence finding that they are not owners or operators.
 The ruling also called into question the City Council's authority to define those terms, as it has done in numerous code amendments over the years, most recently in December of 2016. This charter amendment is necessary to level the playing field in the industry in ensuring that all hotel and short-term rental guests in Portland pay a uniform tax and that the City collects all the tax revenue it is entitled to under the charter. So I'll stop there and entertain any questions you may have. Thomas, I have a couple questions.
 Do you recall offhand currently what percentage of short-term rentals are in compliance with our basic consumer safety rules? Approximately 20% of the listings that we can see online are in compliance with our code. Okay.
 And that could be solved very easily, as I understand it, if the folks who run these internet portals simply refuse to allow anyone to advertise that didn't establish that they had a valid business license. That's correct. And, colleagues, we are aware of other legal challenges which have been brought in the
 that the companies involved don't actually provide the service that is advertised. They're just a broker. They're just, in essence, a glorified app. That argument has been used to seek to shield them from federal civil rights laws, local consumer laws, a whole host of things. I honestly wish we didn't spend so much time having to fight this from a defensive posture. I wish these companies were better corporate citizens, but we are required to take these actions and
 The reason I strongly urge us to act on this today is that we cannot anticipate today or tomorrow where technology is taking us.
 And we should not be hamstrung in providing common sense extrapolation of our charter to cover new technology. This change would allow the Council to interpret it broadly in the future to cover new and innovative ideas that come into the marketplace. It seems like a common sense and straightforward thing to do. And it's without prejudice to the view that we will continue to take in court that our charter currently actually does cover the other issues.
 the underlying economic activity any further council questions is there any public testimony on this item come on up can you do it in two minutes good afternoon mayor wheeler and commissioners i'm linda gardner i'm a lobbyist and i represent expedia expedia is an american travel company located in the pacific northwest
 It owns and operates several online travel brands, including short-term platform vacation rental sites such as HomeAway and VRBO.
 Expedia urges you to vote no on the referral of the amendment to the transient lodging tax provisions of the Portland City Charter. Expedia believes that it is ill-advised. It has the appearance of being an attempt to expand taxing authority. This is a responsibility, as you know, reserved for the voters of Portland, and we're concerned that this measure could be seen as circumventing that right.
 And as you also know, you also have a great deal of authority under Article I, Section 2 of the Charter and Section 13-201 to enact ordinances and also to administer the authority that's given you under the Charter.
 I want to also use this opportunity to let you know that Expedia feels that we can do much more working together cooperatively to achieve your goals of collecting more of the transient lodging taxes to which you are entitled if we have a productive dialogue about how we can develop processes and procedures that both meet your goals and fit with our business model.
 Expedia is committed to working cooperatively with the city, and we hope that the city is also willing to work cooperatively. We think we can accomplish much more that way. And I do have to say that I heard a lot of what you said, and I think that a lot of the differences in compliance are based upon different business models and some differences
 people collect and some people don't collect the revenues. And I'm not prepared to talk about your litigation or anything like that because I'm not even involved in it and actually have been fairly recently hired. Is that my dinger? Sorry. But I think that if we have an opportunity to talk to staff, and thank you, Mayor Wheeler, a couple of your staff members have most kindly agreed to meet with us next week.
 We look forward to it. We don't view them as mutually exclusive. If there's a way to enter into a negotiated agreement where Expedia or HomeAway or VRVO or any number of parties want to comply with the law, I think you should always be open to that. But regrettably, we're in court. And as you know, at least one of these lawsuits was not initiated by the city. But thank you for being here. It's regrettable to us as well.
 We appreciate it. Thank you for your testimony. Is there any other public testimony? Please call the roll. Well, thank you, Ms. Gardner, for your patience in staying to the very end of the agenda. I appreciate that, and I agree with Commissioner Fish the two things are not mutually exclusive. I think this does clarify more cleanly, and I'm happy to support it. Thank you, Mr. Lanham. Aye. I sincerely hope that we don't spend
 as much time in the future as we have in the past, engaging our friends in the sharing economy in this way, Mayor. I'm all for technology and change, and members of my family that love using the sharing economy and the convenience that it offers. But let's be clear. This Council has consistently said that we have an obligation to make sure the rules apply to everybody.
 We collect a modest tax, which is then used to provide basic services. If we don't collect the tax, it just shifts the burden to other parties or reduces the level of services we provide. And we have said that the law should apply to everyone and that we have established some basic consumer safety and protection rules to protect Portlanders and guests.
 and in my eight years on the council i i have i have never witnessed anything quite like this and again i i i hope this is not a preview of where the new economy is taking us um and we know there's a lot of very smart people particularly in silicon valley coming up with innovative and creative ideas to capture the power of the internet and harness it going forward but the bottom line is we're talking about collecting a modest tax
 on the lodging and making sure that community standards apply so that anyone who engages in this transaction knows that they have a safe unit. By safe unit, because we've been accused of over-regulating, let's be clear, we're talking about making sure there's a working smoke detector
 that there is an inspection and there's a basic egress and ingress that is required of any place of domicile. So these are not cutting-edge issues. They're not unique issues. But what we have seen consistently from this industry is an unwillingness by some, not all, but by some, to flout community standards and to not be particularly good corporate citizens.
 And I regret that we have to take these actions. I regret that we're in court. I regret that Thomas Lanham spends as much time as he does having to send sharply worded letters. But we have an obligation. We have met our obligation. It is time for this industry to step up and meet its obligation. Aye. Holtzman. Wheeler. Aye.
 aye the resolution is adopted before we adjourn I just want to clarify so we're adding item 141 from the consent agenda to the beginning of ready regular agenda at that point okay great we're adjourned thank you everybody oh there it is teen Carla could you call the roll please yeah fish Saltzman you daily Wheeler here could you call the first item please
 Item 153, authorize a contract with Parametrics, Inc. for professional services for the Broadway and 94th Pump Station upgrade project, number E10783, in the amount of $423,629.00.
 Okay, so no presentation. Paul, you'll be walking us through an amendment? It's actually a new contract.
 Why don't you introduce yourself and tell us what you want us to do. Paul Sudo, Supervising Engineer for the Portland Bureau of Environmental Services. Good afternoon. So the Northeast Broadway 94th Pump Station Project is essentially a pump station upgrade project that we're doing. And this is to authorize a contract for consultant design services for the project.
 So we basically have got some – I've got a quick project background. It's a pump station we built in 1989, so it's beyond that 25-year life cycle. We typically like to get our pump stations rehabbed in, and it's kind of a dated design, so we'll be modifying the current type of design to our traditional wet well submersible type pump station.
 It is a very tight site, so we have some issues with ODOT right away. It's near I-205 just south of Rocky Butte, and there's some maintenance issues currently at the pump station. So as I mentioned, we're basically going to convert it to a duplex-type pump station, improve site drainage as well, and make it more maintenance-sustainable and more reliable. Okay.
 So as far as the PTE contract with Parametrics, it's essentially more of our standard engineering and project management type of services supporting the pre-design phase, design phase, advertise, notice to proceed, construction, and startup closeout phases for the project.
 The total fee is $423,629. The MWESB portion is $138,325, which comes out to 32.6% of the contract.
 And the total project budget is $2,024,000. So, colleagues, I move the amendment, which corrects the finding 3 and substitutes 138.325 for the 150.386. It reduces MWESB participation from 33.8 to 32.6, still, I would say, stellar, and also modifies the impact statement accordingly. Second. Second.
 so we have a motion in a second why don't we take care of the amendment first is there any further discussion on the amendment Carla please call the roll on the amendment hi fish hi wheeler I think amendment passes back to you that's the presentation that's the presentation first reading great this is a first reading it moves to second reading its first read first reading not emergency anyone sign up test I didn't have a sign up sheet
 Great. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next item, please, Carla.
 Item 153, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Woodlawn King Street Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E10331, for $4,700,000. Mr. Fish? Mayor and colleagues, this ordinance would authorize a contract to replace or repair over 73,000 feet of public sewer pipe that is on average 90 years old,
 or older and failing due to age. This is the equivalent of 14 miles of pipe. The project will benefit portions of six neighborhoods in inner north and northeast Portland and will take about a year to complete. With us today are Dave Hammond and John Houell, who will walk us through the presentation. Gentlemen. Good afternoon.
 As Commissioner Fish has stated, my name is John Houle. I'm a supervising engineer with the City of Portland Bureau of Environmental Services. And with me today is David Hammond, who's the project manager for this project. And as Commissioner Fish has stated, we are here to request authorization to award the contract for construction of the Woodlawn King Streets Sewer Rehabilitation Project.
 It is within the BES Phase II Large-Scale Sewer Rehabilitation Program, and funding for this project is available in the Bureau's approved capital improvement budget. Now, Mr. Hammond will go through and provide a brief overview of the project. Good morning. My name is David Hammond. I'm with the Bureau of Environmental Services. As John mentioned, the Woodlawn King Street Sewer Rehab Project is part of the Phase II Large-Scale Sewer Rehab Program.
 Currently funded under the Bureau's approved operating fund, the map you see on the screen shows 23 neighborhood project areas, all outlined in purple. This Phase 2 program addresses the system needs and targets the worst sewer pipes in the city. As of December 2016, six projects have been completed to replace or rehabilitate approximately 30 miles of sewer pipe at a cost of approximately $80 million dollars.
 This project, the Woodlawn King Streets Project, is located in North Portland and it's shown in green on that map. This project is bounded by Lombard Street to the north, Going Street to the south, Vancouver Avenue to the west, and 17th Avenue to the east. Many of the sewer pipes in the project area were installed in the 1920s and have begun to deteriorate. Several sewer pipes and manholes are now in need of rehabilitation or replacement. The project is now in the process of being completed.
 The top picture is an example of a pipe in poor condition that will be rehabilitated. The bottom picture is an example of a pipe in good condition that does not require any work at this time. Rehabilitation or replacement of sewers in poor condition will protect the public health and the environment, increase sewer capacity and reliability, and reduce the risk of street flooding and basement backups.
 This project will improve the aging sewer infrastructure in the project area, constructing approximately 10,500 lineal feet of new mainline pipe and 52 manholes, rehabilitating approximately 5,700 lineal feet of mainline pipe and 10 manhole bases, and replacing approximately 358 service laterals. Construction of new mainline pipe and the replacement of existing service laterals will use the open-cut excavation method.
 Approximately 220 lineal feet of mainline pipe near King Elementary School will be constructed using a trenchless method known as pipe bursting, and 5,700 lineal feet of existing mainline pipe will be rehabilitated using the trenchless method known as cured-in-place piping, or CIPP. This project will cause minor short-term traffic and parking disruptions. BES public involvement staff have reached out to residents and business owners in the Woodlawn King neighborhood,
 to identify and mitigate specific issues, including minimizing work in front of commercial properties and scheduling work around special events. Newsletters were mailed out to 6,481 residents and property owners within the project boundaries. Project presentations were made at Woodlawn, King, Piedmont, and Humboldt Neighborhood Associations. Surveys were conducted with local businesses regarding their hours of operation and other daily operations.
 A web page was created and maintained with current project information, schedule, location, method of construction activities, public meeting dates, and noise variance permit information. Temporary traffic control measures will maintain traffic flows as well as ensure worker and pedestrian safety. Nighttime work will be required along Northeast Killingsworth between MLK Boulevard and Northeast 8th Avenue.
 These night work areas were identified by a traffic analysis to improve safety. Special events such as the neighborhood farmers markets, Alberta Street events, North Sunday Parkways, and MLK Dream Run were identified by outreach staff during these events. No travel lanes, parking lanes, or sidewalks will be closed, and no material storage will be permitted on those streets. The engineers' estimate of construction is $4,700,000 and has a high level of confidence.
 Bid advertisement for the construction contract is scheduled for late February 2017. Procurement services will then select the lowest responsible bidder and award the contract. If authorized, procurement of a construction contract will occur between March and May of 2017 with construction activities commencing in June. The duration of construction is one year. Now we're available for questions if you have any. Thank you very much, colleagues. Thank you.
 Is there any further questions for this panel? I'm sorry, Commissioner, your daily's not here because she actually lives in this neighborhood. So...
 She might have something to say about the planned work on Killingsworth between MLK and 8th or 9th, although my recollection is that's largely a commercial strip. There isn't a lot of residential. There's some, but it's a lot of commercial. But the night work is not going to prevent the restaurants and other businesses from operating? No. No, it'll be late at night, like 11, 12.
 Okay. When you say that you're working around certain community events and you listed six or eight community events, does that mean you don't do work or does that mean you reduce work? What does that actually mean? You don't work in the areas that would impact those events for the actual event itself or for parking or set up events. The crews would still be out there or they'd be somewhere else. Geographically, you just stay away from those areas and you don't allow parking or staging in areas that are needed by –
 operations of that event or for participants in the event. Good. That makes good sense. And looking at the large purple overlay map, that strikes me as being a very substantial set of projects. Is that typical that you come in and do a large series of these projects at once? These aren't coincidental. These have been done over the course of
 Starting in 2010 and continuing through 2016, and we anticipate that these projects of that type and scale will continue well into the future. Great. Good. I appreciate it. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, gentlemen. You're welcome. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? I don't have a sign-up sheet. Great. This is a non-emergency first reading, so it moves to a second reading. Thank you. Thanks, guys. Next item, please.
 Item 154, authorize a contract with CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc., for professional services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Outfall 3 improvements for $674,612, project number E06923. Commissioner Fish? Mayor and colleagues, Brenda Sherwood and Paul Sudo are with us this afternoon to walk through this.
 The treatment plant's Outfall 3 was built in 1999 as part of the Combined Sewer Overflow, or CSO, program. Field inspections have determined that there is damage due to sediment deposits. This project will restore complete function and increase effluent discharge capacity, among other benefits. Take it away. Good afternoon. I'm Paul Sudo, Supervising Engineer with BES. And I'm Brenda Sherwood, the Project Manager with BES. Okay. Thank you.
 So this first slide essentially shows us the project location. And essentially, I think most folks are familiar with the plant. It's in North Portland. The green area is basically the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, and the red area is actually the project location. So the outfall system is located in the Columbia River just off of Hayden Island. So it discharges into the Columbia River and outflows.
 Just a little more background on this. It's basically the treated wastewater from the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant that then travels from that green area down basically north to Hayden Island. It's about two miles, that distance there, in pipes until it gets to the outfall and then discharged into the river.
 So the project objectives are basically to rehab and do some more analysis to make sure we do it right and not have to come back in the future. These kind of murky shots you see here are some underwater photography of our typical outfall system. There's kind of a hand there with a glove on it grasping a flange of the pipe, and there's some missing hardware there in pieces. This is part of the inspection results that we have.
 And the other thing I wanted to mention about this outfall, outfall three, it's intermittently used. So what that tends to lead to is this sanding in of the outfall during various river conditions. By the way, this reminds me, one of the benefits of being sick is you end up watching a lot of cable TV you might have missed. I was watching the other night, what do you call it? Must have been good. Yeah.
 Anyway, it's a cable show that was doing underwater photography. And because of mapping and technology, the way they showed things underwater is they drained the Atlantic. So they do a simulation as if you've drained the entire ocean.
 And then you go down and look at the submarines that were, you know, from World War II or battleships or other things. And the technology allows them to do it. And it's just fascinating watching the draining of the ocean and then the close-ups of everything under – National Geographic. Another benefit of being sick is you end up losing brain power. But anyway, I'm not taking anything away from these photographs. I'm just saying that National Geographic just drains the whole river. I can do that. Sounds cool, I guess.
 So with the sanding in and the damage to the outfall, essentially what we run the risk of is not having peak capacity through the outfall during wet weather events. So here's some more kind of diagrams here. The top photo, the black and white one, basically shows the profile or side view of the outfall. There's a pipe on the bottom. It's an 84-inch diameter pipe with 18 diffusers, and those are the vertical lines that you see.
 And the dashed line that you see just below that hatched area was the original design condition for the outfall back in 1999. So you can see under that, that ideal condition, all the diffusers were above the sanded-in layer.
 so they could discharge properly. And then that hatched area is a result of one of our recent surveys that shows the sand, basically what we call a sand wave, since it's kind of a dynamic process. So if we go back, you know, a few months later, that hatched area could look very different.
 And then just jumping down to that more colorful photo, that's more kind of like a plan view, topographic view of the river bottom essentially. The yellow line is the actual outfall and the yellow dots on it are where the diffusers are. That would be kind of sticking up out of the screen. Okay.
 And I just want to point out here, basically, the blue areas are areas where the river bottom is shallow enough to allow the diffusers to protrude above it, but the green areas are kind of the mounds that we're concerned about. So this is just a snapshot of kind of the challenge we're dealing with on this project. So what we need to do for this project is to model various conditions, do some sampling out in the river to make sure we capture our worst-case conditions so when we do the improvements, the diffusers –
 can tolerate various sand deposition that can occur in the Columbia River. And since we're in the river, I did want to point out we're expecting to be required to do in-water work, and there's a restricted period there because of the salmon fishing that occurs in the Columbia that will be from November through February.
 So the project budget and schedule, the total project cost is estimated to be $2,354,000, with the construction contract estimated to be $1.1 million. Since we're just starting this project, there's a low level of confidence in that construction cost estimate, so we just made some assumptions for the repairs. We'll need to do the analysis and modeling to confirm those numbers. So is the 674, is that –
 Is that the initial phase? What is that actually for? That's for the professional services, for the consultant to do the work so we can basically put together a biddable set of documents for construction. So that for us is known. And is that included in the two, three? Yes. Okay, thank you. It's included in the total project cost. Okay, very good.
 So from a schedule standpoint, we're expecting to get the pre-design completed this calendar year and then to design the following year to advertise in basically the spring of 2019 and meet that in-water work window from November 2019 through March of 2020.
 Now, the PTE contract, CH2M Hill was selected based on a competitive process. And as I mentioned before, the fee for that is $674,612. And we set this up kind of two-tiered. We have some base tasks that we know we need to get done for $508,733,000.
 and these contingency tasks of $165,879. And these are for potential biological assessments that we might need to do and a sediment evaluation. And this will be triggered by the Army Corps of Engineers when we get into the permitting. And we would expect to know this by the time that we get done with pre-design and start the design phase.
 So if we were able to utilize the optional tasks, our MWESP participation increases from 10.7% to 23.5%.
 So that's it. We recommend the contract award to CH2M Hill, and thank you for your time. We're happy to answer any questions. Good presentation. Any questions, colleagues? Any public testimony on this item? I do not have sign-up sheet. Very good. This is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second reading as amended. Thank you for your time. Thank you both. Next item, please.
 Item 155, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the construction of the Middle Hillsdale Rainfall Derived Inflow and Infiltration Pilot Project Laterals Project, number E10617, for an estimated cost of $3,400,000.
 Mayor and colleagues, my goal today is to, in the course of the afternoon, introduce you to all of the employees of your environmental services that are coming up two at a time. I'm waiting to hear who brands these different projects. And we're joined by BES engineers Patty Nelson and Tammy Cleese. Great, thank you. Did I say that right? Cleese? Thank you.
 Please, yes. This is the last of three pilot projects designed to keep stormwater and groundwater out of sanitary sewers in southwest Portland. Cracks in sanitary sewer pipes allow groundwater to flow into the sewer main, causing overflows. This project will replace 228 deteriorated laterals in southwest Portland.
 By preventing stormwater from getting into sanitary sewers, the project will reduce overflows and protect public health and our environment. Ladies? Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Tammy Cleese, Supervising Engineer for Environmental Services. And joining me today is Patty Nelson, the Project Manager for Middle Hillsdale. Thank you.
 And as Commissioner Fish already reported, this is part of a bigger program, this project is, for our rain-derived INI program. And we're targeting southwest Portland to address sewer capacity, pump station capacity, and wastewater treatment issues and concerns. Good morning. As Tammy said, I'm Patty Nelson. I'm a senior engineer with Environmental Services, and I'm the project manager on this project.
 So today we're here to authorize contract for the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Middle Hillsdale, we call it RDII for short, lateral project. The project is necessary to meet a DEQ mutual agreement in order to relieve sanitary sewer overflows. This is a picture of one of our sanitary sewers overflowing in a street.
 The goal is to prevent stormwater from entering the sanitary sewer system and reducing overflows and protecting public health and the environment. Just a little diagram of what RDII is. It's rainfall-derived inflow and infiltration. Basically stormwater enters our sewer systems through deteriorated pipes, including main lines and sewers, for a variety of reasons with roots, root intrusions, joint failures, and a number of other things.
 What we've found is that through rehabilitation of the sewers and the laterals, that we're seeing a 70% reduction of the rain-derived inflow and infiltration. So that is quite effective. And this project specifically focuses only on the sewer laterals.
 As Tammy mentioned, this is the last of the three pilot projects focusing on the sewer lateral rehab. And I'm sorry, I apologize. I missed it in the prior slide. Could you go back? Where is the sewer lateral? What is a sewer lateral? Okay, let's see if I can navigate.
 I don't know quite. I don't know. So from the house, there is a pipe shown running underneath a tree with some roots into a larger pipe. Yes. So that's what we refer to as a sewer lateral. Got it. So it's not the big pipe itself that you're talking about. It's the connectors. Exactly. Got it. So it's collecting the sewage from the houses, taking it to the public sewer, to the main line. Okay. Thank you. Mike Stewart, they call them laterals. We call them pigtails. Okay.
 Are they the same? We'll get to you later, but that's the question. It's a pigtail and a lateral. They're first cousins, so chew on that one. They have better names. Don't be distracted by this. We'll come back. Okay, this project is located in southwest Portland. Just ordering at you, Robert Gray Middle School is on the southern boundary. Sunset Boulevard runs through the middle of the neighborhood. It's generally the Hillsdale neighborhood.
 This project will rehabilitate 228 laterals, which is equivalent to 4,500 linear feet of 6-inch pipe. But unique to this project is we're also doing work on private property. So we have 152 properties where we're going on to private properties, and there's 67 additional linear feet of sewer lateral pipe, ranging from 4 to 6 inch, that we'll be rehabilitating. And I'm sorry to ask a basic question, but I'm curious. So is that...
 Public property or private property? Whose responsibility is it? Private property. And so are they contracting with the city, or are we simply doing it? Again, this is a pilot project. So what we did is we did outreach to the neighborhood and sought –
 property owners who are interested in participating, secure participation agreements, assess their sewer laterals to see the condition and whether or not there was a benefit, public benefit to rehabilitating them. And then we went ahead and secured easements for participation. And that gives us the rights then to go onto the property and rehabilitate the sewer on the private property. Okay. And who's paying for all that? We are. Okay. Okay.
 So to follow up on the mayor's questions, it's fair to say that the laterals in these cases haven't technically failed. Is that correct? So they haven't reached a point where they have failed and would otherwise have to be replaced by the homeowner.
 They have not. But because of the condition of the lateral, it's causing stormwater, excess stormwater to enter the sewer system, which is putting our permits at risk because it's exacerbating our stormwater over our CSO system.
 Even more so than just our permits, we have a memorandum of understanding with DEQ to solve that very overflow that we had on the very first slide. And the only method that we have, what's causing that is the infiltration into our system. We can only get so much of that out using just the public. So in order to stop that overflow and meet our DEQ requirements, we have to get the inflow and infiltration out of the entire system. Right.
 We can't get enough in just the public section. The net effect is that we're in compliance with an agreement with DEQ, and the homeowner gets a benefit because the lateral is being replaced. And so it's a twofer. But absent us finding a willing homeowner to participate in this, which does have some inconvenience since the front of the house gets torn up,
 they're under no obligation to replace their lateral unless we approach them. Is that correct? That is correct. That's helpful. Thank you, and I appreciate that digression. That's very helpful for me. Okay. Our engineer's estimate for this project is $3.4 million. The level of confidence is high. We're hoping to advertise similar to the other project late February with construction starting in June, and similar to the other project, we're anticipating a year for construction.
 In terms of outreach, this project has been very intensive, as you can imagine, working with individual property owners. So outreach started way back in 2014. We've done another number of mailers to property owners. We've had open houses, and our staff have gone out door to door. With those members or property owners who are participating, we've done a little bit more outreach, working specifically with them and talking to them about what their needs or concerns are.
 And with that, do you have any questions? Great. Any council questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Very good. This is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second reading. Thank you for the presentation. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Item 156, authorize a contract with Brown and Caldwell for professional services in development of the Bureau of Environmental Services Resiliency Master Plan for an estimated cost of $499,299. Commissioner? Commissioner?
 Mayor and colleagues, climate change and earthquake risk pose challenges for wastewater and stormwater infrastructure. This contract will help BES develop a resiliency master plan identifying risks and prioritizing spending to reduce the risk of infrastructure failure.
 A resiliency plan will help inform BES's capital and operating planning and development for the next five to ten years and put us on a trajectory of improvements for the next 50 years. I'm going to introduce BES Principal Engineer Jennifer Belknap-Williamson. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners.
 I am the person you were wanting to see earlier who is responsible for some of those names of projects. So my role in BES is planning our capital program. So it's not completely my fault, but we do have long project names. So I manage what's called the Asset Systems Management Division, which does capital planning and asset management, which is about how we reduce risk with our infrastructures.
 Thank you. Yes, so I'm Jennifer Belknap-Williamson. Here with me today is Anne Castleton from Portland Bureau of Emergency Management. And so I'm going to share what we're planning to do with the BES Resiliency Master Plan for the wastewater and stormwater infrastructure. And at the end, Anne will share some thoughts about how that fits in with the broader city resiliency work that's going on.
 So this is an exciting project for us in terms of looking at lifeline utilities that really form the basis of our community. So wastewater and stormwater service provision is one of what we call a lifeline utility that can have a major impact to the community's ability to bounce back after a natural disaster.
 And we're really looking at what we can do to improve the resiliency of our infrastructure so that our whole community can be more resilient.
 You're probably familiar with the Oregon Resilience Plan, which looked at the things we need to do as a state to prepare for a magnitude 9 earthquake. And one of the main drivers behind it is for utilities that form these lifelines to look at how they're vulnerable and how we need to reinvest in our systems so that our communities can recover more quickly.
 The current estimates are that our wastewater infrastructure could take anywhere from one to three years to recover after a major earthquake. Through this project, we'll be identifying ways that we can chip away at that problem and hopefully bring our recovery time back to a matter of months.
 So the BEAS Resiliency Master Plan is going to focus on two major natural disaster risks, risks associated with earthquakes and then also with climate change risks. We're going to be looking at how we can reduce risk of infrastructure failure and also how we can increase our ability to bounce back faster after a major natural disaster.
 The scope of the project is starting with where we have the risks for what we're calling our backbone infrastructure. So that's things like our treatment plants, our pump stations, our largest pipes, the things that will be the most difficult and the most costly to repair or replace after a major natural disaster.
 So we're going to be looking at what are the risks of that infrastructure in a seismic event under climate change scenarios, and what are the actions we can take to reduce that system vulnerability. And then we'll be looking at how to prioritize those actions so that we can take early actions that get the most bang for the buck and spread out this work over a 50-year timeframe so that we're minimizing the overall rate impacts to the community while still making meaningful progress.
 And the end point is to develop an implementation strategy. So I'll share a few examples of the type of technical work that this professional services contract will support for us. There's a lot of great work going on in the city and in the region that we're going to be building upon. You may be familiar with the Portland Water Bureau's study on seismic risks, and we're going to be taking maps that they developed. Here's an example of one of liquefaction risk studies.
 And liquefaction is what happens when you have groundwater in soil that when it starts shaking, the soil changes from being able to be a solid, stable thing that can support buildings and pipelines to being essentially a liquid soil. So you can kind of think of quicksand for what that looks like.
 And so we have these detailed liquefaction risk zone maps now from the Portland Water Bureau study, and we're going to be bringing in the BES infrastructure into looking at what is our likelihood of failure of large pipes and what can we do to reduce that failure rate.
 So another example down there on the other side is a fragility analysis, which is where you look at where your pipes are most likely to break. And that can help us inform which pipes do we want to repair proactively, which ones do we want to have a good plan in place for how we would repair them if something did fail inside them.
 Another example of a seismic risk assessment we'll be doing is looking at the two wastewater treatment plants, Columbia Boulevard and Tryon Creek. We're scheduled to do a lot of investments in these two treatment plants over the next 10 years for capacity expansion and replacing aging infrastructure. So we're going to be really looking at what are the best practices right now for designing those types of structures and systems so that they're more resilient for worker safety and then for ultimate functionality. Thank you.
 Switching gears on to the climate side risk of things, as you're aware, climate change poses a lot of variability in terms of future predictions of rainfall changes and how that may impact us from flooding and other risks.
 So we're going to be looking at how we can manage meeting our levels of service to our customers around drainage and flood control management and water quality requirements. And look at the range of future scenarios that are out there for climate change and consider how we might do things differently for stormwater management or for building or designing our systems to minimize the impacts of these changes.
 An example of what that looks like is what's called climate downscaling. You have large global climate models that can give you a prediction for a region, like the whole region of the Pacific Northwest, what 50 years from now or 100 years from now our rainfall patterns might look like. But they're at a fairly coarse scale. So through this project, we're going to be downscaling those to what does that mean for Portland? What does that mean for our sewer system and our stormwater system?
 And then we'll be looking at different approaches to designing the system to be more resilient to those future scenarios.
 The schedule for this project, as I mentioned before, this is a very long-term implementation approach. You know, there's 50 years here. This is not to scale. But the next year and a half of this project is this professional services agreement to really work with us on the risk assessment, the policy and design recommendations, developing either new capital projects or looking at our existing capital projects that are planned and what we need to change about them to make them more resilient.
 And then the implementation phase is the next five to ten years with ongoing implementation over the next 50 years. But through that time, we'll probably be getting new technologies and new data in to support the work. Hold this slide for a second, Jennifer. Given that...
 We can't really predict when the big one is going to come, but the New Yorker magazine certainly has our full attention. Does this timeline anticipate that a substantial amount of the work will be done in a certain time frame? Is it sort of front-loaded, back-loaded, or how about that?
 I think part of this study will help us better understand that to get an understanding of what our highest risks are and what can we do in the short term to really shore up those risks. But I do think it's going to be a gradual improvement over time. I think in the next five to ten years, we're doing a lot of work on our large diameter sewers that we have planned.
 And so I think we'll make improvements in some of those key critical infrastructure areas. I think in some of our other infrastructure, like pump stations, we have 99 pump stations that help us bring wastewater to the treatment plants. Those are probably going to take us longer to make them more resilient. The other piece of this in terms of what can we do in the short term versus the long term, I think, as you noted, everybody's aware of this issue now and, again,
 There's a lot of work going on between jurisdictions and different government agencies trying to figure out how are we going to deal with fuel shortages or electricity problems. And those are things that we as a bureau can't control, but they're going to affect our ability to recover. So we certainly are going to do our best to try to make the most impactful work early on. But I think it's going to be a really long-term incremental progress.
 So the goals for this project are really through looking at the lens of the Bureau of Environmental Services infrastructure that's wastewater and stormwater related. How can we help protect the community while still managing the rate impacts to our customers and working to build the knowledge base within our own internal staff to integrate resiliency further into both our capital program and our operational practices?
 And there's a lot of good work going on in this throughout the region. And as you probably know, the City Club of Portland came out this morning with a report on ideas for how Portland can better recover from a major earthquake. Actually, I was pleased early on they gave a shout-out to the city for the earthquake.
 for the Willamette River crossing plan that I think we begin next year. Yep. Yeah. So, so the water Bureau is doing some great steps to invest in the resiliency of their infrastructure. And our goal is to be right there with them. And, um,
 We're working closely with supporting and building upon these different city, state, and efforts. The climate change preparation strategy is a really good blueprint for work that needs to happen throughout the city, and BES has a lot of actions in that strategy that are going to be implemented through this resiliency plan.
 and then the mitigation action plan that Portland Bureau of Emergency Management managed the development over the last year of, there's actions in that that this plan will also help support. So we're looking for it to be a really good integrated piece of work that can help not only BES's infrastructure, but overall community resiliency efforts. So with that, I'll give Anne a few minutes to just share some thoughts, and then we'll open it up for questions. Thank you.
 Okay, Mayor, Commissioners, I am Ann Castleton. I'm the city's COOP planner. And Director Merlo was planning to be here and wanted to be here, and when she found that she could not, asked me to step in and address you. Because we support this resilience plan, as Jennifer just mentioned, we have the Oregon Resilience Plan, which lays out kind of a list of
 kind of a strategy for us, and we've just finished in October the Mitigation Action Plan. So the plan that Jennifer is proposing really allows BES to step into a leadership role in accomplishing some of those things that are really necessary. And one thing that Carmen wanted me to mention is just that
 PBM has seen over the last five years or six years a lot of maturation in the way BES is addressing risk and approaching risk, and that now conversations seem to revolve around building in redundancies and quick recovery and things that, from the PBM perspective, we love to see. We're happy to see.
 I would just say personally as the city's coup planner, I've now looked at all 25 of the city's plans several times over. And one of the things that keeps coming up is all the interdependencies between what bureaus expect other bureaus to do and what we're looking for them to do. And I would say that every single one of those plans takes as an unquestionable assumption that they will have running water and sewer. Okay.
 And those are currently at our current levels questionable assumptions. So I don't know if we can continue to take those assumptions for granted, but supporting this plan I think would go a long ways towards us understanding our situation more clearly. Thank you. Colleagues, any more questions?
 I appreciate this very much. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? I did not have a sign-up sheet. All right. This is a non-emergency first item. It moves to second reading. Thank you very much for the presentation. Thank you, ladies. Next item, please. Item 157, authorize intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County Department of Community Justice in the amount of $375,000 to hire at-risk youth for outdoor maintenance and landscape services.
 Mayor and colleagues, this item authorizes the continuation of a 25-year partnership between the Portland Water Bureau and the Multnomah County Department of Juvenile Justice Project Payback Program. The five-year $375,000 agreement is budgeted for $75,000 a year. If approved, it will run through fiscal year 2020-2021.
 this agreement is in the bureau's financial forecast and approval of this item will not have an impact on rates this program provides an opportunity for at-risk youth to do seasonal work for the water bureau and develop good work skills while learning work habits while learning professional skills crews help with basic maintenance of bureau sites and facilities and work on landscape and site restoration work at the conclusion of capital projects
 Here to tell us more is Tom Klutz, and he's joined by Director Mike Stewart. Gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. I'm joined by Tom, our property manager. Commissioner Fish gave an excellent briefing. Do you have any questions? I have a question for you. Is the connector that BES identified in that chart the same of what we call a pigtail?
 Or does our pigtail stay on the other side of the private property line? Our pigtail would be on our side. Okay, so it's not. But generally speaking, it serves the purpose of their lateral is two parts for us, a service line to the house from the meter to the house and a pigtail from the meter to the main line. Very good. Thank you.
 I have a comment. I don't have a question. This is very much appropriate to the conversation we had yesterday at the joint meeting with Multnomah County. I realize this is reaching into the juvenile justice area.
 and I'm obviously very, very strongly supportive of this type of effort. It was also mentioned during our meeting yesterday talking about housing issues, that we have a number of organizations here like New Avenues for Youth outside in Janus and others that work with homeless youth, and they have their own set of job training programs. And we had quite a...
 Interesting conversation about their results. I think they had something like 180 people participate in their program, 40 actually found employment. And it just occurred to me as I was reading the TEP to this and Commissioner Fish's comments that this is sort of center of target in some of those opportunities areas.
 If you're ever looking for a broadening of those opportunities, it might be interesting to go beyond the juvenile justice program and start looking at the homeless youth continuum as maybe another potential source. And we've been working with the county on this for 30 years, I think. Great. And we also have a similar program through the community justice organization for adults. Excellent. Question, Mike. So the benefit to the young person,
 is develop good work habits, learn some professional skills, potentially get a reference for a later date. Do we know whether any of these young people who have participated while incarcerated have subsequently sought employment with the city in some capacity? I don't know. Maybe Tom knows. Not to my knowledge. We could certainly ask them. I'll follow up on the mayor's comments. I'd be interested in knowing because, I mean, in a perfect world,
 Young person that does this gets the attention of a supervisor Does his or her time and is released be nice to know that that? there might be a Entry level position down the road in the city where that person could build on the skills they develop all While doing their service like I can tell you this for sure they work hard Thank you both. Thank you any further questions. Is there any public testimony on this item? Good afternoon. I
 I'm Cedric J. Wilkes. I'm a former juvenile delinquent. This is an important program. Actually, I dropped out of Madison High School and I ended up mowing lawns and doing landscaping jobs and things like that. And then after washing dishes and stuff, I worked at a restaurant and found out that without a high school diploma, this is what you're going to be doing.
 And so I think it's quite instructive to have at-risk youth do these kind of jobs and realize that's maybe the kind of jobs you'll be doing if you don't go to school. And the interesting thing is I might not have dropped out of high school. As a juvenile delinquent, I actually climbed on a school roof, and the police thought I was stealing something, but I managed to evade three police cars –
 So those are the kind of skills you might want to have if you join the Army. But I'll just say I kind of wish I had got caught, and maybe I would have finished high school knowing what kind of jobs you can get if you don't go to school. And then, too, when I took my GED test, I found out you should study the book and sit down like all the students did in high school. Great. Thank you for that. There being no further public testimony, Carla, could you please call the roll?
 This is an emergency. We need four people. Oh, geez. Dan is joining us at 3.
 Why don't we take a recess now? We have a time-certain item that doesn't start until 3, so we'll hold this in suspense and recess for about, looks like, seven minutes. Carla, and I have an excused absence at 3. So you don't need, for the afternoon work, we don't need more than three. Is that correct? Correct. Those are non-emergency ordinances. Okay. So I'll come back at 3 for the emergency vote. Great. Thanks, Commissioner. All right. Good. We're adjourned until 3 o'clock, according to the large novelty clock. That was interesting. Thank you, Greg.
 Oh, Daniel, we're going to vote on an emergency ordinance. We need your vote on that. It's routine, and then I'm going to split, and you're here for the afternoon. Okay. Because it has an asterisk before. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 Place them on the table. Yeah. All right. Good afternoon, everybody. We are back. And when we left off, we were about to take a vote on item 157. Carla, would you like to call the roll, please? Fritz? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And the next item, please, if you could read the next two items together, please. All right.
 Item 158, Improve Land Use and Other City Regulations Through the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment Package 8, Technical Amendments. Item 159, Improve City Tree Regulations Through the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment Package 8, Technical Amendments.
 Now, with the forbearance of my colleagues, here's how I'd like to proceed on this. Commissioner Udailey has an amendment. She is obviously not able to be here this afternoon to introduce that amendment. I've got some Bureau amendments. Commissioner Saltzman has an amendment, I understand. Commissioner Fritz has a potential amendment to that amendment.
 So here's what I would propose we do. We could continue this, but I think that's a bad idea since we have a lot of people here prepared to testify. So let's put all of the amendments on the table. We'll get seconds for those amendments. We'll ask somebody from Commissioner Udaly's team to read or explain her amendment. Then all the amendments will be on the table prior to the
 planned testimony so people will be able to testify with those amendments in mind. We'll be able to take some public testimony with those amendments in mind. And then next week, we'll actually vote on the amendments. If that's
 And that would be after the staff's presentation? That is correct. Yeah, that's great. So why don't we go ahead and put the amendments on the table up front prior to the staff presentation, or would you prefer colleagues to do it after?
 I think it would be better afterwards because the public at home might not know what we're talking about. Okay. And does that square with you, Commissioner, as well? Very good. So let me first start off by saying this is a first reading of the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment Package 8.
 otherwise known as recap eight this hearing is for legislative action to amend the zoning and tree coats staff is going to present the planning and sustainability commission and urban forestry's recommendation and then we'll hear testimony from community members the council will then deliberate and as i said we probably won't take formal action until next week
 I'd like to thank the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Bureau of Development Services for bringing this project forward and all of the groundwork that went into making this possible today. And so without further ado, I'll turn the hearing over to both Joe Zender and Paul Scarlett, and I'll let you guys do your own introductions. Thank you, guys.
 Well, good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm Joe Zender, Chief Planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And I'm filling in today for our Director, Susan Anderson, who's out of town with PSU President Vivelle, presenting at a conference on the successful partnership that we've had with PSU and PSU students working on the Climate Action Plan. So you're stuck with me today. Thank you.
 But today what we're presenting is Recap 8, as the Mayor said, and this is our annual process to undertake technical changes to the zoning codes. These are changes that clarify provisions, simplify provisions, and address problems that BDS staff has at the counter as well as applicants, overall adding to the efficiency of our system.
 Today, this package of amendments were recommended to you by the Planning and Sustainability Commission and by the Urban Forestry Commission because this packet includes both zoning code and tree code changes. So with that, I'll turn it over to Paul Scarlett.
 thanks joe good afternoon mayor commissioners my name is paul scarlett bureau of development services director i am pleased to be co-presenting with joe and this is a an arrangement that's been i'm going to go out and lemon save for the eighth year at least since it's recap eight and we've been doing this as a partnership between bureau planning and sustainability in and this year i also want to point out that the parks and recreation bureau
 particularly urban forestry, was part of this process as well, because it's including amendments to the tree code. The couple of things that really stands out in terms of trying to improve the zoning code to allow for the development review process to go smoother, easier, and a lot more straightforward for customers and employees, it's done through this process. There's small amendments. And so we've...
 enjoy the arrangement to identify and participate in a collaborative way with Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff. I want to particularly thank our staff, Kristin Cooper, who is one of the lead staff from Bureau of Development Services who has worked with staff from Bureau of Planning and Sustainability in identifying and finding solutions which goes through the process with the Sustainability Commission and so forth and then here to Council.
 there are a couple of items I'd like to call your attention to that will assist us in this time of robust development and activity where we can allow for the process to go smoother with these changes. For example,
 We have a lot of Latin division occurring. Over a two-year period of time, there's about 322. With this amendment, one of the amendments calls to straighten out the lines, more of a technical term, trying to reduce the squiggliness. And so we had about...
 close to 60 of those situations. And they do create difficulty, especially in the future, trying to figure out how do you build around infrastructure and so forth. So that's one of the amendments as part of this report. Another item that we have been able to manage since September is we have a process interpretation which essentially says if the resources on the
 if a structure is on the city's resources and it needs to be removed, it needs to be a 120-day delay. That's a practice, an interpretation. State law was an interpretation that occurred last September. We've had a practice. Now we're codifying the practice as part of Recap 8. So that will be a good thing. It gives folks around an opportunity to have some say about the removal request. Okay.
 another item is and I touched on the parks recreation having also play a role in there is that since the adoption of the tree code back in 2015 tree protection roots our roots protection of tree roots has been not very clear and so we have an amendment here that
 speaks to how far from a tree where development is occurring where there needs to be protection. Steph will go a little bit more into details with that, but I just wanted to touch on a couple of things that will make
 the developers' lives a lot easier because these are a lot more straightforward. They've been addressed, resolved through these proposed changes. And overall, of course, we have been doing this for, like I said, about eight years and look forward to that partnership. I think it works really well to identify these small changes, which then can go into effect and make the whole development review process smoother and easier. So thank you. Thank you.
 So with that, Mayor, I'm going to invite up Sandra Wood and the staff team to do the presentation. Very good. Thank you. And then after that, we're going to hear from Chris Smith from the Planning and Sustainability Commission and Mark Bailo from the Urban Forestry Commission as well.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Sandra Wood with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I am the co-development manager, and with me today is Catherine Hardinger, who is the staff planner and the ReCAP 8 project manager, and Jeff Cottle, who is our environmental planner and our environmental team, and worked on the Title XI changes. And as...
 Both Joe and Paul mentioned we're here really representing a larger team of people, so we have several people in the audience which we might call up for questions as you're deliberating and discussing amendments and such.
 Just a quick refresher. Recap 8 is amending four city codes, so I thought I'd put a whole list of the Portland City Code up on the screen. There are 33 titles in the city code. The last one is the Planning and Zoning Code, which is Title 33. Title 11 is the Tree Code, and that's our newest city title. As you know, several years ago, we consolidated all the tree regulations into one city title, number 11. Those are the two main things we'll be amending today.
 Within each of the titles, it describes how those titles and regulations can be amended. In the zoning code, it describes that a staff at Bureau of Planning and Sustainability brings recommendations to the Planning and Sustainability Commission, who holds a hearing and makes a recommendation to the City Council.
 For Title 11, the tree code, it actually says that staff from all three of our bureaus bring recommendations to the Urban Forestry Commission and the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Indeed, in this case, both held hearings and both have recommendations and send separate recommendations to the city council, and both of the letters are in your documents.
 We are proposing amendments to Title 17, which is the Public Improvement Code, and Title 24, which is the Building Regulations Code. Both of those are not substantive. They're incidental, and they're just being made to make the other codes consistent. So language changes. Thank you.
 So what is RECAP 8? As Joe described, it's an annual amendment package to keep the zoning code current and well-functioning. It has a variety of subjects in it, but we put them all together into one project to achieve economies of scale and have one discussion with the public. The key feature of RECAP is that they are minor policy amendments and technical amendments, not big, broad, brush policy decisions.
 As we are deciding on what the work plan is, which we do take to the Planning and Sustainability Commission for a hearing, and we did in this case also, we rank all the suggestions we've received from the public and from staff by these four criteria, one of which is a variety of stakeholders affected by the regulation, the geographic applicability. Does this regulation affect every property in the city or just a few properties? What?
 What's the degree of impact? In other words, how problematic is the regulation when one can't meet it? And the regulatory improvement, like what is the potential for improving the regulation without adding complexity? So we try to be as scientific as possible when we're choosing our work plan, and that guides us to make sure that we are addressing the right issues and getting the biggest bang for our buck.
 Recap 8 includes many code amendments. In the zoning code, we are proposing 12 minor policy amendments. That's in the blue box there. Most of them have to do with land divisions and property line adjustments and about 15 technical and clarification items. For the tree code, we're proposing eight minor policy amendments and nine technical amendments.
 And with that, I will pass it on to Catherine to describe the public involvement process and the substance of the work. Thank you. Thank you. Hi. So as Andrew just said before, Jeff and I are going to highlight some of the items that are actually in the recap package. Before we get to that, I just wanted to kind of review some of the public outreach we did around this project.
 So the public discussion draft came out in August of last year. There was a seven-week review and comment period associated with that. During that time, we met with a number of neighborhood coalitions, DRAC, the Citywide Land Use Group, and we also did commission briefings with the Historic Landmarks Commission and the Urban Forestry Commission.
 The proposed draft came out in November. We continued meeting with the coalitions. And then the Planning and Sustainability Commission and Urban Forestry Commission both held hearings in December. And when we're done, you'll be hearing from commissioners from both of those bodies. And the recommended draft, which we're here to talk about today, came out on January 18th of this year. So I want to go over a few items. These are in this – you may have noticed this appeared on your desk while you were in recess –
 So it may be easy to kind of follow along in here. So the first item I want to highlight is number three, related to property line adjustments and regular lot lines. A property line adjustment relocates a single existing common property line between two abutting lots. So this amendment introduces new standards to encourage regularly shaped lots by requiring the adjusted line to either be straight or no more than 20% longer or shorter than the existing line.
 So in the example on your screen, this would no longer be allowed without an adjustment because the new line, the old line was just a straight line. The new line would be too long.
 The next item relates to 6 and 7 for lot and plat consolidations. This amendment really just streamlines and simplifies the lot consolidation process by allowing the creation of three lots in one procedure rather than requiring three separate procedures. So in the illustration, to go from the kind of configuration on the left to the configuration on the right, currently you would need to go through three lot consolidation procedures. This amendment would allow you to do that in one.
 The next item is number 10, related to right-of-way dedications. This amendment really just more clearly states the existing policy that development standards, including setbacks, density and FAR, building coverage, and landscaping, apply to a site after dedication of public or private right-of-way dedications.
 Number 11, related to loading standards. Outside the central city, when loading spaces are required, they must generally provide forward ingress and egress from a site, even when there's no parking on site. So as you can imagine, that can take up a good amount of space dedicated exclusively to a truck being able to turn around. So we removed this requirement in central city a number of years ago, and as the city continues to get more dense, it made sense to remove the requirement outside of the central city as well.
 And lastly, Director Scarlett mentioned this, number 14. This amendment would require notice and a 120-day delay for the removal of ranked resources from the city's historic resource inventory. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to Jeff Cottle, who is going to be talking about some of the amendments in Title 11 related to trees. Thank you.
 Hi. So thank you for having me. Yeah, so as was mentioned previously, we had eight minor policy recommendations, changes to the Title XI tree code. I'm just going to highlight three of those, one that, again, Director Scarlett had mentioned. But the first item was number 34, which is related to heritage trees.
 So to give a little bit of background briefly, the Heritage Tree Program was actually established in 1993. There are almost 300 trees within the Heritage Tree Program currently.
 And that includes private, public, and street trees. And so it was this amendment addresses heritage trees on private property. There was a heritage tree removed from the West Hills in December of 2016 illegally. Oh, I would also say heritage trees are provided the most stringent protections within the city. It actually comes to you, the city council, for approval to be added and to be removed illegally.
 So in that process, when the private tree was removed, it came to Urban Forestry's purview that the maximum they could charge was $1,000 plus a $250 administrative fee, so $1,250. And that amount is inconsistent with what exists for city and street trees, which is on a per-inch basis. So what we are proposing here is for private trees to make it consistent with what is existing for city and street trees.
 The fee structure would be $300 per inch for damage to a heritage tree and $600 per inch for removal. The next couple of items are 37 and 38. We actually are in this. I'm sorry. Is the inches circumference or height? It's DBH. So it is radius. It's diameter. Radius. I'm sorry. Diameter. Diameter. Diameter at breast height. Yes. Sorry. Okay.
 So the next two, 37 and 38, which is we are addressing these sort of together, and this is one of the issues that Dr. Scarlett had raised. So one of the things that has been happening, the issue that has come up at the permit counter is requirements for tree protection for any development activities at all, including if you're doing something in the front yard and you still have to protect things in the backyard. So this is...
 Part of the tree protection is a root protection zone as identified for all existing trees that are to be preserved, which is what is in the graphic on the right there of the slide. And so what we have done is to try to streamline that process and not require tree protection in all cases. We have identified particular activities that would not require tree protection, and those include when work is done within 10 feet of an existing structure and as long as there are no trees to be proposed to be removed,
 and that work is not within the root protection zone of existing trees. If a homeowner is doing a replacement of a deck or a fence and not expanding the size of that deck or fence, it would also not require, currently it does require tree protection, so it would now no longer require that.
 And then we've also identified the allowance for the installation of required landscaping within the root protection zone without any kind of issue with BDS. So basically during the development review. Currently, the language was unclear related to landscaping in those zones, in the root protection zone. And then the final one is number 39. So as a part of all development, in the development situations,
 An applicant is required to preserve one-third of existing trees on the site. And so as a part of that, they prepare a tree plan that identifies which trees will be preserved and which will not, if that is the case. As a part of that tree preservation, the intent of Title XI was to not include things that are dead, dying, dangerous, or nuisance species in that tree preservation. And the language is a little...
 unclear on that. Those types of trees are addressed, but not specifically related to the tree plan. So to further clarify that, we have added language where when a tree inspector comes on site and they are confirming those trees that are to be preserved, if they are in any of those categories, dead, dying, dangerous, or nuisance, they will identify that and then a
 And if the trees, if there are not alternative healthy non-nuisance trees available, they do have the option for it, fee in lieu.
 So those are the three that I wanted to highlight related to Title XI. And with that, we will just say that you have two ordinances, one that addresses Title 33, 17, and 24, and then another separate one that addresses Title XI. So we would recommend adoption of those ordinances, along with any amendments you might have today, and then also to adopt the commentary as legislative intent. Thank you. We appreciate it. Any further questions for this panel? Great. It's my understanding Chris Smith is here.
 representing the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Thank you. I'm sorry? Oh, yeah, Mark, why don't you come up now, too, as well? I'm instead of Mark. You're instead of Mark. Okay, very good. And both of you, as you give your testimony, obviously, if you could state your name for the record. Good afternoon. I'm Chris Smith. I am Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and I was presiding at our hearing and work session on this topic. Thank you.
 I believe this is the first PSC recommendation that's been carried to the new council. So, Mayor, let me welcome you on behalf of the PSC to your new role, including as our commissioner in charge. Thank you. Recap when done well is a relatively non-controversial topic. This year, I think it was done well. We had a minimum of public testimony. Okay.
 The testimony we did have was primarily around tree protections, including some desire to strengthen the protections that are in the package. And I'm sure you'll hear more about that from my colleague. We chose to amend only one area of the package as it came through us, and that had to do with the lot line adjustments and the goal to simplify the package.
 those reconfigurations so that people have a better idea of what they're buying in terms of the shape of their lot. We slightly shifted the balance to allow a little more flexibility while still preserving the basic intent of that program. We had one commissioner who dissented from that view, but the package was passed by a large majority. And I'm happy to answer any questions. Very good. Thank you.
 No questions? Okay, so I'll start. Good afternoon. Thank you for having me. My name is Meryl Reddish. I serve on the Urban Forestry Commission. And...
 First, I want to thank the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff for helping us make this a smooth process. I think that they were very responsive to the Urban Forestry Commission's concerns, and we work very well together. We held a public hearing. It wasn't...
 heavily attended. It was during sort of the bad weather, but we used that opportunity to really go through each and every item and look at it with kind of a fine, and we looked at it and went over it with a fine-tooth comb. So we really had a good understanding about what all of the items meant and
 We really support what's in this recap proposal. There are a couple of things that I just wanted to note because I think that they are worth noting, and that is the heritage tree penalties that were increased and are now consistent with trees on private property. So we were satisfied about that.
 And then the other thing is the amenity bonus. We were really concerned at first that the preservation of trees were given a lower amenity bonus, and we asked for that to be increased, and that was done. So we were happy about that.
 There is one thing, though, that I want to bring up because I have the mic right now, and it is not part of this recap process, which you heard is just technical and small adjustments. This is something that is quite larger and is more complex, but it's really, really important, and it's a concern of the Urban Forestry Commission and the community as I hear it.
 As you know, Title 11 and tree preservation standards do not apply for lots under 5,000 square feet. And so what we are seeing across the city are developers who are developing lots that are over 5,000 square feet. They have big trees, either native dug firs or other large trees, and they are developing
 Divide the lot, and the lot is then under 5,000 square feet, and so that they can remove all the trees. And what we're seeing is a loss of trees and a real problem across neighborhoods. So while the recap program, of course, does not address something as large and complicated as that, I want to bring this to your attention because...
 The technical tree, excuse me, the tree code advisory committee that Commissioner Fritz convened a couple years ago to look at the tree code included this, among other things, in their recommendations. So I hope that in the future we can do a bigger revision of the tree code and really see what is working and what is still being, what we're losing as a community and a city. So thank you. Thank you, Mal. Great. Any further questions?
 questions for either of these two? Well, on that subject, there's 41 items in this recap project. I've already got an additional 45 items for the tree code alone that we would really like to work on. So although we're doing some of the most urgent things in this process, I appreciate you bringing it up that at some point we really do need to get serious about correcting things that have worked differently from the way we thought they would. Thank you, Commissioner. I want to thank you both for your service.
 This has been really important work and good work up to this point. So thank you both for that. So at this point, why don't we go ahead and read into the record amendments and second them for discussion purposes. Then we can take public testimony. We won't actually vote on anything today. We'll just continue it to next week. So I'll start if you don't mind. These are,
 amendments that have been brought forth that were alluded to by the bureaus. The first, and you should have all received a memo with these four amendments in them, and if not, let me know and I'll make sure you get one. The first is related to Item 3, regular lot lines on page 95. Remove the requirement that the adjusted property line must be at least, must, excuse me,
 Remove the requirement that the adjusted property line must be at a right angle to the street, removing the unintended consequence of making property line adjustments without an adjustment incredibly difficult to do in certain areas of the city. Can I get a second? Second.
 Number two, related to item 33, definitions. Seep or spring, stream on page 113. Remove amendments to the stream definition eliminating the language that would require that streams that are in pipes be preserved in tracts. In tracts. And I'm getting enough. Do you want to come up and explain that one? Okay, we have a second, so I don't need that yet. Item three. Okay.
 I told you these were technical. Correct typos and formatting errors in Title XI section of the report at the city auditor's request. Second. Second.
 And number four, finally, and this one is not currently in the recommended draft that I'd like to introduce for consideration, I'd like to add a technical fix to Recap 8 that would implement the council's intent from last December related to inclusionary housing parking requirements. That is, waive parking requirements for projects that build affordable housing and require parking for those that pay a fee in lieu.
 second second okay so we have these amendments on the table they have been seconded for the purpose of discussion commissioner saltzman so your last amendment let me just create that was a restatement of what we did that is correct it is an inclusion of what you did so okay it it makes it consistent with the inclusion how inclusionary housing parking requirements and i concur with that yeah okay uh yeah so i have uh an amendment i think your offices have all received copies but
 I'll give you out then, just in case. And I'd like to thank Commissioner Fritz for her suggestion to clarify this amendment. For the record, this amendment applies to circumstances where a proposed development triggers the dedication of additional public right-of-way, for example, the widening of a street or a sidewalk. The purpose of the amendment would be to calculate the floor area ratio based on the site area as it exists before the additional right-of-way is dedicated at the time of a building permit application.
 calculating the floor area ratio after the dedication results in reduced development capacity and in the case of residential development can limit the number of housing units, whether market or affordable. I'd also like to thank Damien Hall for bringing this issue to my attention over the years, or over at least the last year or two.
 So that is what this amendment does? Second. And Commissioner Saltzman already incorporated my suggestion, so it doesn't need to be amended. Okay, great. So we now have Wheeler amendments. We have Saltzman amendments. Commissioner, you daily have an amendment. I don't know if somebody from her team wanted to read that. I'd be happy to read it into the record and get a second for discussion purposes. But at a minimum, it would be great if somebody could come up and explain it to us. And I'll either introduce it or not at your discretion.
 hi it's marshall runkel from commissioner eudaly's team thank you mayor members of the council uh the amendment that commissioner eudaly's office would like to offer came up in the context of a uh one of the great things about this job is helping community partners through the development review process so uh that this error came to light in uh looking
 at the requirements for a project in the Cully neighborhood. It's the Living Cully Plaza, which was formerly the Sugar Shack, one of the biggest blights in our city, in my opinion. If you look, this is...
 This amendment would just adjust the requirements that are included in a table so that the requirements in design districts with a D overlay would match exactly what the requirements are in other design districts in the city. So if you look at the whole table here,
 The criteria is consistent in all of the other design districts in the city. And because of a scripting error in translating the table from one format to another, it just wasn't translated into the D design overlay area. So I think that this is...
 clearly consistent with the idea of recap where we're spotting and correcting errors. I don't believe that there's any policy issues, that this is just correcting a scrivening error. I'll second that for discussion. Is that okay if we go ahead and put this in the record as the daily amendment? I do have a question about it, though. I'm surprised to hear there's a D overlay in CULLEE.
 I'm not familiar with the zoning map. That might be a question for staff, but more particularly, as Commissioner Udalli has drawn our attention to this particular table, I see that it's got design overlay zones for type 2 and type 3, and the cutoff is whether the project costs $2,188,650. And my question to staff is how on earth did we arrive at that number, and is it still the right number?
 So that would be something I'd like to get some more information about later. Okay. Any further questions from me? Thank you very much. You did well. Thank you, sir. We appreciate it. Good. So we now have – I think formally, did you offer the amendment there? No.
 I'm offering it on behalf of Commissioner Udaly. Commissioner Fritz has seconded it for discussion purposes. We now have all of our amendments on the table. Actually, I have one. Oh, I apologize. And I apologize to staff. I only just noticed this. And I've only got one copy of it, so if you two could share. Oh, no. The rest of you. Good job, Gordon. Very good. Excellent. There you go. This is part of the recap agenda.
 relating to the length of terms of commissioners in 33.710.030. And the existing amendment, actually it's not quite clear from where it's been typed up, the existing amendment says that in the event a new member is unable to be appointed prior... Don't look at that, it's going to be confusing. In the event that a new member is unable to be appointed prior to the expiration of an existing member's term, the term of the existing member may be extended to...
 I certainly understand the challenges of filling the many boards and commissions within the Bureau of Development Services. And I knew when I was the commissioner, I knew they were coming up. And so having the deadline, it seems unreasonable to say that there's only one person in the entire city who can do that.
 be found to fill out and to continue their term. In some of our boards and commissions, particularly the Planning and Sustainability Commission, we had term limits on the Sustainability Commission. We had term limits on the Planning Commission when they were combined that then started the clock all over again. So we do have some members of the Planning and Sustainability Commission who have served for...
 a lot longer than two terms. So there's two reasons. The amendment I'd like to propose is adding, in the event of an unexpected vacancy and a new member is unable to be appointed prior to the expiration of an existing member's term, the term of the existing member may be extended by up to four months rather than one year. So there should be a little more urgency to getting somebody new into that position. The other problem with the way it's couched right now, the
 It puts the staggered terms perhaps to be on a more people rolling off at the same time as needing to come on. So it kind of gets out of the staggered terms that we set up with all our boards and commissions. So I'd like to move that amendment for discussion. Great. And I'll second that for discussion purposes. And I'll have it all typed up properly for next week. Sorry. Okay. Very good. So we now have amendments on the table. We've heard the testimony. Is there public testimony? We have a list here. Thank you.
 We have five people signed up, or maybe four. The first three, please, coming up, are Greg Everhart, Peggy Moretti, and Alan Hippolito. Good afternoon. I'll start. I'm Greg Everhart. I'm actually here...
 a Sunnyside resident not as a forestry commissioner or Heritage Committee member but you could guess that that's the topic that I'm interested in so I actually have given a short package of three sheets to you it has sort of my outline of input and then it has a letter I thought that was very moving and and pertinent regarding the grand fir that was removed illegally and I want to
 Note that not only was that tree 24 inches in diameter at breast height, we were not allowed on the property to see how old it was, and the penalty was $1,000 plus the 250 feet fee.
 That's not something that discourages someone if they are bound and determined to develop a property. And that's what the Friends of Overlook Bluff were really concerned about. We have some of these private trees in particular that are in sites that it's just really tempting. And the property owners of that Grand Fir paid $1.8 million for their property. So possibly even this fee would not have...
 you know, deterred someone who could, you know, buy that much property and then perhaps subdivide it. But based on the 24 inches, it would at least have been closer to $15,000 in penalty. And I wanted to add to Jeff's comment because they actually did have to plant some replacement trees, and that's done on an inch-for-inch basis. Yes.
 But they chose really small, cute ornamental trees, and they'll never have the value that a big conifer has in terms of wildlife, stormwater, and so on. So I know that for some people, they're concerned that private property owners have signed on at one deal. They have basically agreed to protect their tree there.
 It could be perceived that now we would be punishing them if they damage or injure their tree. So the last two pages are actually the sample form that Urban Forestry Staff gives to people when they're contemplating actually consenting to this designation. They may have nominated their tree, but when they see this, they realize it is actually a serious business, that they are waiving some of their rights
 um they're promising to care for this tree and they're actually promising on behalf of their eventual heirs or anyone who might actually buy the property for them so it literally says it's going to bind their all their successors heirs and assigns it's unlawful for any person to remove or destroy a heritage tree to injure misuse or remove any device sometimes trees are cabled and braced
 It's already something that people are aware of. So I personally am just glad this might protect some of those 150 or so private trees from the rampant development that's really doing in a lot of our unprotected trees. Thank you very much for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Peggy Moretti. I'm the Executive Director of Restore Oregon. Okay.
 Restore Oregon is a statewide nonprofit working to preserve, reuse, and pass forward the historic places that make our communities unique, livable, and sustainable. I'm here to endorse the codifying of the 120-day demolition delay period for properties listed on the Historic Resources Inventory. It represents a very small piece of a much larger policy strategy necessary to curb the demolition epidemic that has been chewing up Portland neighborhoods.
 The vast majority of demolitions are adding no real density, simply replacing modest affordable homes with bigger, more expensive ones. An examination of demolitions by Restore Oregon in 2016 revealed that for each housing unit demolished, the replacement was just 1.3 new housing units, and almost all of them are very significantly more expensive. .
 The proposed demolition of a 137-year-old farmhouse in the Reed neighborhood is a current example of the value of this demolition delay. That house was built in 1880 and sits on an 8,000-square-foot lot. It appears a developer plans to demo this neighborhood icon and replace it with two more expensive homes. The delay period, however, has afforded a neighbor the opportunity to attempt to purchase the property, save the house, and possibly add an ADU.
 In addition to demo delay, we also need better incentives for restoration and reuse. I'm just seizing the opportunity to put that plug in. And those would come in the form of tax credits, tax rebates, fee reductions, code flexibility, and expanded deconstruction requirements.
 The new Goal 5 rules, which Restore Oregon fought to create, need to be implemented by the city. And that should include an update of the historic resources inventory, because you cannot manage what you don't know you have. And a process by which new historic districts will be able to establish design review standards through a public process that reflects the needs of that neighborhood.
 Portland's unique older neighborhoods and commercial corridors are under a greater threat now than at any time in the last 50 years. So as you grapple with demands for affordability, sustainability, and economic development, the members of Restore Oregon ask you to remember that the preservation and reuse of older historic buildings plays a significant role in all three of those goals. Thank you.
 And further, it is the historic homes, neighborhoods, churches, theaters, schools, fire stations, and storefronts that make Portland authentically Portland and not a bland anyplace USA. What you do in the next year is going to determine what Portland looks like for generations to come. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, members of the council, Mayor Wheeler. My name is Alan Ippolito. I work for Verde, a tax-exempt nonprofit in northeast Portland's Culley neighborhood. Good to see you both last night at the Portland United Against Hate Vigil. Thank you for your time.
 So I just wanted to provide a little context to this, the application with regard to Udailey's proposed amendment that you all are discussing today. So several years ago, Verde, together with Habitat for Humanity Portland Metro East and Hacienda Community Development Corporation through HACI,
 what can only be called a bootstrapped operation, right? We're not deep-pocketed developers. We're able to acquire the former sugar shack, the block-sized strip club complex that runs from basically Cully to...
 Killingsworth, Portland Highway, purchased it from its former owners that were later received or were subject of significant legal action for money laundering, prostitution, with the idea of one keeping another business from coming in and buying that building and doing the same thing, which there was another purchaser kind of right on our heels, but then also turn it into a place that serves Cully children and families and reinforces Cully's identity as a diverse neighborhood in a changing Portland.
 The fact that this error in application or translation to this table has put a significant barrier in our way. We have a representative of our sustainable food sector at the table with us negotiating a co-development opportunity that would bring jobs, contracting, and improve the site.
 This is one of the real barriers to us, that somehow we find ourselves not subject to the same thresholds that apply to these other planned districts. We went through, in a similar project at Cully Park, we went through Type 3. Type 3 is a very challenging process, especially for small community-based developers like ourselves. And so if this misapplication could be addressed, it would remove a significant barrier to our ability to return that property to a community that
 serving use. It's not, we can always sell it. There's demand for the property, but the things we're getting are more about storage facilities and dollar stores and things that don't offer us the chance for deep community benefit. And so the extent this error could be corrected, it could remove a challenge to our returning the property to serving communities.
 Is this an exemption from design review? No. The design overlay, I think, is a function that came from the Cully Main Street and transportation study that happened in 2013. I know what a design overlay is, but is the result of your amendment to remove this property from –
 the design overlays requirement somehow. No, it merely... I'm sorry, go ahead. It's just the type of review. If it's under, they get to use the type 2 instead of type 3. So it's about the type of type 3 versus type 2? Yeah, based on the exterior, the value of exterior improvements proposed, and that's what these thresholds apply to, that if we're equal to or under 2.188650 million, then we're in type 2, which is still review and review
 appropriate for the circumstances, and over 2.1, et cetera, then we'd be in type 3, which is just a whole different ballgame for the type of work we're trying to do. Thank you very much. I didn't mean to interrupt you, Alan. No, no, that's all I had. I appreciate the time very much. Great. Thank you. Next. And thank you for your leadership yesterday, Alan. That was really a great event with Portland United against Tate. We've got some good work ahead, so I'm really glad we have a chance to do it. Thank you. Damien Hall is the last person who signed up.
 Greetings There what mayor Wheeler commissioners Fritz and Saltzman thanks for the opportunity to speak to you today I'm here in support of the amendment to Minor adjustment item 10 which Commissioner Saltzman has proposed as with the language addition Commissioner Fritz just
 I'm going to speak real briefly about what that amendment would do. It fixes an ambiguity in the code by clarifying that development standards are calculated after dedication. That's the current version. Here, this amendment would...
 not include floor area ratio in that rule. Basing FAR on pre-dedication site size provides the potential for construction of more residential units in the city at all affordability levels, especially in close-in opportunity areas where it's most needed.
 uh to be clear this is not a major change or a departure from current policy and the status quo because far and hide allowances remain the same and it's not the master stroke that's going to solve the city's housing deficit but it does allow for incremental progress towards some of the city's most challenging housing goals and it also has the additive benefit of not costing the city anything to implement
 Finally, as demonstrated by the letters, which I believe were submitted to members of the council and have copies of those, if you haven't received those, this amendment has support from widespread support from both the affordable housing community and the market rate development community and really presents an opportunity to allow those communities to have another tool to try and
 could bring more units online in the city. And unless you have any questions, that's really all that I have today. Thank you very much. We appreciate your testimony. We have one more. Oh, one more. Excuse me. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Simon. I've been a long-time Portland resident, and I've been to these type of meetings before, and there was talk about, you know, from Blond-Haired Lady of St.
 preserving old buildings, and then he's talking about increasing housing. I don't believe in – first of all, I think we should preserve these heritage buildings. I think they're important to the heritage of Portland and to its personality. Okay.
 And also, but as far as increasing density, as this last gentleman mentioned, I don't believe it's really appropriate to just cram more people in the downtown area, especially if it's prime business space for store and retail and business office and so forth. I think projects like what they're doing with the light rail line where more condos are being built in the,
 Rural areas that could be served very nicely through mass transit, such as the MAX, to downtown is a much better idea. And that's sort of the old concept that Portland has always had in the earlier parts of the last 20th century. Thank you very much for speaking. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it.
 Could we have BPS come back up, please? I just want to clarify a few things. Number one, it's my understanding you're going to put the amendments on your website. Is that correct? And we're going to ask for public written testimony on those amendments? That would work out just fine. Okay, great. And I don't know if anybody has any further questions.
 questions for the team at this point? I don't know whether you're able to answer that question about why it's $2 million, $1.8 million, blah, blah, blah. Does anybody know that answer? So there are many dollar thresholds in the zoning code, and they get automatically updated every March 1st based on the cost of construction. So the nonconforming thresholds is another example. So then the numbers start looking stranger and stranger because it's based on a percentage. Okay.
 So it started, I think, as a flat 2 million threshold, and then it starts to get weird after a year. Yeah.
 Yeah, perhaps in Recap 9 that might be looked at again, because when I saw that, that was definitely for some particular exemption for one property that needed it to be exactly that. Right. So I'm very glad to hear that it's not that nefarious. Right. And we're also, you're probably familiar with the Design Overlay Zone Assessment Project, where we'll be here in August, not in August, in April.
 April 26th, before council, with an assessment of our whole design overlay system, where it's mapped, what's working, what's not working. We just had a great session between the Planning and Sustainability Commission and the Design Commission, a joint session, to make sure it's meeting our goals. So those thresholds we'll be discussing more in depth during that process.
 But that area in Cully does actually have a D overlay? It does. Kristen was just looking up the plan. It's from 2012. That property got an EXD overlay. The EX zone always comes with a design overlay on it. So it's a little spot. Okay.
 very good spot by commissioner you daily thank you and appreciate the explanations great any further questions for now then with that we will continue this uh both of these items items 158 and 159 to 11 a.m on wednesday february 22nd one clarification you'll be taking written testimony on the amendments until next week until until that is correct and if people want to do that where do they go to get information on the amendments
 They can look at our website, and it's www.portlandoregon.gov slash BPS slash recap, and we'll have the amendments there. On the front page of planning, if you could put a direct link to it, that would be helpful, please. But what I'm hearing us say is we're not going to be taking any more verbal testimony questions.
 Right next week. That's correct. So we've had our staff testimony. We've taken public testimony. We've introduced our amendments now. And so next week at the continuation, we'll begin the deliberations on those amendments in the main motion. And with that, I believe we are adjourned. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Nice job.
 I think Kristen's absolutely right. It's a sign that's gone well when there's hardly anybody here for a lunch. Thank you.