Mm-hmm. Let's pray for this. Mm. I shall do that. City Council is now in session. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? So are there any consent items that have been pulled to the regular agenda? I have not had any polls. Okay. So proceed to communications.
 First item is item 149, request of David Yaznoff to address council regarding ride sharing. Item 150, request of Mike Galtney, Maddie Moskrop, and Elizabeth Keeney to address council regarding Oregon Episcopal Schools government, politics, and citizenship course, a student policy proposal for municipalities. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. It's good to be here this morning. My name is Mike Gwaltney. I'm chair of the history department at Oregon Episcopal School. I have with me this morning 10 students from our 11th and 12th grade government politics and citizenship class. There's nine 12th graders and one 11th grader. They're here this morning as a result of a project in our course on engaged citizenship.
 And they have put together for you this morning a proposal that they think would be good for the city of Portland. That's based on their reading and understanding of the law in the United States. And as Portlanders, their ideas about what would be good policy.
 I should state that the policy that they are going to talk to you about this morning has nothing to do with the position of our board of trustees or with the institution as a whole, but it's something that the students have developed in the course. Our mission at OES is very clear that we exist to help students realize their power for good as members of citizens of local and global communities.
 Just their being here this morning and your listening to them demonstrates that power for them. So I want to thank you for your attention to their conversation this morning. Like you, I'm sure we believe, as Margaret Mead did, that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens are the only thing that have ever changed the world. And that's what these students plan to be.
 So I would like to ask if you could take items 150 to 153 sort of as a whole for all the students. Certainly. And I'd like to introduce Peter Graham to speak a little bit. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Hello, everyone. Mayor Hales, members of the council, and the community. My name is Peter Graham. I would like to thank you all for your time and willingness to listen to us today.
 We have come here to talk to you on the subject of gun control and actions you can take to help make this city safer. We know that Mayor Hales has shown his support in the past for gun safety and has stated gun control as one of his priorities. Oregon U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer has also made this one of his priorities, introducing his new report this week called Enough is Enough. We share the same understanding that guns are an ever-increasing risk within our community and that there should be limits on the handling and sale of firearms.
 We are here with the hope to inspire action and remind you that this is a problem that cannot be ignored any longer. And so we propose that you consider an ordinance that would ban sale and possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines within Portland. This is an issue that affects us personally, and so I pass the floor to Elizabeth Keeney and Madeline Mosscrop to talk to you about the perspectives as Portland youth. Thank you, Peter. My name is Elizabeth Keeney.
 Mr. Mayor and members of this council, LaBray Franklin, a young citizen shot at Rosemary Anderson High School in December, could have been one of us. We are here to represent LaBray and the rest of Portland's young population. We agree with LaBray that the state of gun violence in this country, and increasingly in our city, is messed up. We need you, the City Council, to look out for our safety.
 We support you in making what would be a bold but important change by enacting better gun control within our great city of Portland. Due to the rising number of shootings over the past few years, there has been consistent pressure on this issue. According to the research firm David Hibbets and Midgall, 63% of Oregonians are in favor of stricter gun control.
 My friends, many of them women my age from different schools and backgrounds all over Portland, are concerned with the state of gun violence in this country. We, as young voters, would like to support you, Mayor Hales, in your endeavor to make Portland a safer city. I would now like to introduce Maddie Moskrop. Hi. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Maddie Moskrop.
 So, this issue is far more important to students than many adults realize. Many of my peers and close friends have brought this issue up, and we have had interesting and engaging conversations. This is something that pertains to nearly all high schoolers in Oregon, as friends from Lincoln High School, Wilkinson High School, and Catlin Gable have all come forward telling us about their ideas on how to make both their communities and schools feel safer. Excuse me. Guns are scary. Shootings are scary.
 When I was in middle school, I don't ever remember doing a lockout drill, and even when we started, I didn't really see why. But now my sister in sixth grade was working on where to hide, and the idea of someone, a student, attacking other students has become something that is actively taught to children, as if it is just a fact that we need to live with.
 Passing an ordinance to ban assault weapons in high capacity magazines will not make us safe immediately, but is an important first step in enacting stricter gun control and limiting the most dangerous weapons in the city. Next, I would like to introduce Rowan Barrage to introduce our proposal. Thank you all. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Rowan Barrage. We have learned in our government politics and citizenship class that individual people and groups can make a difference when they are engaged in community concerns.
 As young people who are members of our community and future voters, we implore you to consider our proposal. We ask that Portland City Council adopt an ordinance that would prohibit the possession, sale, and manufacture of assault weapons and large capacity magazines. We believe that in a city as progressive as Portland, the public will demonstrate significant support for this common sense gun control proposal.
 With the passing of such an ordinance, Portland will become part of a growing group of cities that are committed to protecting its people, especially students. Cities across the country have begun to adopt similar, if not almost identical, proposals, and we strongly believe that Portland should be among them. That was Zach Solomon. Hi, my name is Zach Solomon. You may be aware that in the 2008 court decision in District of Columbia v. Heller, the Supreme Court did not uphold the D.C. laws prohibiting the ownership of handguns.
 While it seems like this would be a loss for gun control legislation, Supreme Court Justice Scalia wrote in his opinion that like most rights, the Second Amendment right is not unlimited. It is not a right to keep and carry any weapon whatsoever in any manner whatsoever and for whatever purpose. In a second Heller decision a few years later, the Supreme Court again found that the Second Amendment is not unlimited, and the court held that the D.C.'s strict ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines is in fact constitutional.
 The Heller II decision has been mirrored in other cases, such as the city, such as Freedman versus the city of Highland Park, in which it was declared that although the city of Highland Park's ordinance provides a marginal burden upon the Second Amendment right to self-defense, it does not severely burden the right.
 The Federal Circuit Courts have prescribed a sliding scale approach to levels of scrutiny within the Second Amendment. Any law that restricts Second Amendment rights requires an extremely strong public safety justification and a close fit between the government's means and ends. The fact that these other cities' laws have passed this stringent qualification bodes well for any challenges a similar law would face in court here. Therefore, we believe that the sale, manufacture, or use of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines in Portland extends beyond the limits of defensive use.
 Mayor Hales, when you stepped into office and outlined an agenda for your time as mayor, you mentioned the importance of gun safety for the citizens of Portland. As you said, assault weapons and high-capacity magazines are dangerous weapons that can cause mass casualties in moments. Even more recently, in the wake of the Rosemary Anderson high school shooting, you mentioned that the students of Portland know firsthand that gun violence is a real threat, and they know the importance of real action on the issue.
 Passing a citywide ban on the most dangerous offensive weapons would send a strong signal that the mayor and Portland's council mean business on the issue. And to conclude, I'll pass to Peter Graham. Thank you, Zach. I'd like to thank you all again for listening to our proposal and our views as members of Portland community. It is our belief that following through with this action will make our community safer and also have Portland join the other cities that have passed similar legislation at the forefront of growing gun safety movement.
 At this point, I would like to invite any questions, comments or concerns regarding our proposal that we may answer for you. MR. Well, let me start. First, I just want to thank you for coming this morning and with this well-thought-through, well-organized presentation. Several things, several levels, on several levels, this is great. First of all, we had a major hearing last week on another issue, and I think the
 The average age in the room was probably triple what it is in your delegation this morning. So it's great to have young, politically active people in this chamber, because sometimes we only hear from folks that are at the other end of the age spectrum. So we especially appreciate you having the interest and civic instincts to be here and to be advocating on issues.
 Secondly, you're talking to a city council that agrees with you about these policy issues. And third, I think now there's a better chance for some movement.
 on these issues than there has been in many areas, including the question of an outright ban on certain types of weapons. We need changes in state law to allow us to do that. But we think this legislature is moving in that direction. They've already introduced a bill that will eliminate the loopholes in registration.
 you know, in certain background checks that has been a problem in the state. There's also another bill that's been introduced that will deal with people that have restraining orders for domestic violence cases not having access to guns. So we believe we've got a higher level of cooperation with the legislature, and we need that in order to have the authority to do some of the things that I think all of us here at this dais and that you think we need to do in Portland.
 So we are chafing a little bit under the restrictions that we now have in state law, but we think we have a legislature that will give us more room to move on these issues than we have had. So I'd urge you to continue your advocacy not just here in the city, but also with the state legislature about these issues. And, in fact, we'll make sure we keep you posted about when those hearings are going to be held. I'm going to go down and speak. LaBray, Franklin, and others who have been victims previously,
 gun violence in portland i think might also be able to go down and speak so it's really important that they hear from you on these issues and that the voices of youth in our state are heard on these issues in salem so keep keep the pressure on us keep the pressure on the legislature keep enlisting other students and and people in the community to join the cause i think you're right there's a very large majority in our city that want to see
 stronger gun laws in our city and better yet in our country, but we can start here where we can. So again, I just want to thank you and encourage you to keep working this issue. It will take citizen pressure to get us where we need to be both here and in Salem.
 Other comments from council members? Thank you, all of you, for the good work that you've done and for coming in to testify on this important issue. Senator Ginny Burdick is leading the work in Salem, and I believe our organicist school is in her district. So she would be really happy to hear from you. And as the mayor said, I encourage you to go down to testify there.
 Thank you very much for your testimony. I just wanted to let you know that regulating guns is one of a number of things that the state prohibits cities from doing. They prohibit us from regulating studded tires. They prohibit us from having local taxes on tobacco. And so if they just passed a law saying we no longer preempt cities from doing anything, we could do tons of neat stuff.
 Thank you very much. Again, thank you. As a matter of fact, I was just in the Rosewood Initiative last night talking to people in that neighborhood, the very eastern edge of the city, and since the first of the year in East Portland, there have been 79 shots fired. We've had six gang violence call-outs in East Portland. So 79 bullets fired.
 going somewhere in East Portland, in that part of East Portland, in just six weeks. So it really tragically illustrates how serious this problem is. So I really appreciate your focus on it. And again, keep the pressure on us, keep the pressure on the legislature, enlist others in the cause, and we'll get something done. Thank you very much. Let's hear it for students. We can break the rules of decorum. Thank you very much for being here.
 Before we move on, do we have other communications items or did we cover? I think we got them all. Okay, great. Before we move on, I want to welcome some visitors who are here in the chamber from the Bordeaux metropolitan region. Mr. Jean-Baptiste Rigaudi, who's the head of the urbanism department for the city of Bordeaux.
 Helene Dorneau, who's the head of Greater Bordeaux Energy and Climate Action Plan, working obviously with her colleagues here, and Vincent Duport, who's a counselor for ecology, energy, and climate change here.
 for the Embassy of France in the United States. So we have three professionals here from this very subject that we spend so much time thinking about in Portland, which is what can we do here about climate here at the local level? What can we do to build a livable city? What can we do about energy and sustainability at the municipal level? So I want to welcome them to the chambers, and again, welcome to our guests from France. Thank you.
 They're here, of course, under the assistance of First Stop Portland, and Sarah is leading them all over the city to meet with a lot of folks in the city as well as with Metro. So welcome. Welcome. All right. Let's move on to the consent calendar. And I think we have, as I see it, no requests yet to remove items from the consent calendar. Is that right? Correct. Okay.
 Then a roll call on the consent calendar, please. Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. All right. Time certain, 154. Appoint Julie Ramos, Kiosha Ford, Angelo Turner, Julie Falk, Vanessa Yari, and Kristen Malone to the Citizen Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review, a division of the City Auditor's Office.
 Auditor Caballero, do you want to present? Do you have others presenting? Okay. Constantine, come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and members of City Council. I am Constantine Sevier, Director of the City Auditor's Independent Police Review, and today we have six new CRC members that we will be presenting to you.
 The root of Portland's greatness as a city lies in its people, as demonstrated by the wonderful presentation earlier by the young folks from Oregon Episcopal School. I can think of no better example of the city's greatness than the individuals who serve on the Citizens Review Committee. The CRC was created in 2001, along with IPR, to serve as the city's representative in its police accountability system.
 The CRC serves a number of important roles, including hearing appeals of community member complaints of officer misconduct, reviewing the policies and directives of the Portland Police Bureau and IPR, and hearing directly from the public on community concerns involving the Police Bureau. The work of CRC has led to some substantial changes to the Portland Police Bureau over its life.
 including changes to the Portland Police Bureau's vehicle tow policy, the use of profanity by officers directed at community members, and the requirement that officers provide business cards to community members when they have a contact with them. Long before Black Lives Matter, the CRC was working on the issue of having the police bureau treat individuals that it comes in contact with in a manner that is equitable and represents the values of our city.
 The CRC did a review that came out in 2010 on bias-based policing at the Portland Police Bureau. What we ask of these community members that will serve on the CRC is not an easy task. The work of police accountability and civilian oversight of the Portland Police Bureau has made significant advancements in the last five years, but the duty of speaking truth to power is not one that is something that –
 is ever easy, and our staff members at IPR and CRC members have the scars to prove it. In the course of their work as CRC members, these new members will examine some of the worst moments of community members and police officers' lives. As all CRC members now serve on a rotating basis on police review boards, in force cases, they will be reviewing officer-involved shootings and in-custody deaths.
 These new members will be subject to intense scrutiny. Their judgment and their decisions will be challenged. But I believe these new members are up to it. The city is very fortunate to have these six volunteers. Unlike in some other jurisdictions, CRC members are not paid for their service to the city. And frankly, it is something that we could not pay their fair value for.
 The new CRC members that I present to you are an amazingly diverse and well-qualified group that IPR was able to recruit through an extensive months-long recruitment effort led by our staff members and particularly by Irene Konev who's sitting next to me. For the first time in the CRC's history
 With these new members coming on board, a majority of the CRC members will be under the age of 40. Five of the six new members are women. Traditionally, we've had a difficult task of attracting women to serve on the CRC just due to our inequitable society, frankly. The fact that we have so many women, and particularly young women, who are willing to provide their service to the city, I think speaks volumes.
 greatly to our values as a city and the efforts made by the auditor's office and frankly by the city as a whole. I believe that the professional background and life experiences of these new members will enrich the CRC and benefit the CRC. And that is the end of my little spiel.
 Anything else? No, sir. Questions for the team? We have the biographies or the brief resumes of these folks in front of us, and you're right. They bring great qualifications.
 to this work. So thank you. Thank you. All three here, congratulations and thanks to Irene Coneff who has been working on this for a very long time and also for the new members of the team for finding such a great group of recruits. It's been a lot. We've never had this many women on the committee and I'm really appreciative of that. Thank you. Thank you all. So does anyone want to speak on this resolution? Is anyone signed up? Yes, we have one person. Dan Handelman. Good morning, Dan.
 Mr. Mayor, I was wondering if I could have two extra minutes because of my history with this issue. Thank you very much. I am Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. The first thing we noticed about this agenda item is that the CRC is described as an advisory board to the Independent Police Review, even though CRC makes recommendations directly to the Bureau, including findings about appealed misconduct cases, the Council itself, as they did just a few weeks ago, and from time to time the Auditor.
 And I know that you all have, I mean, I appreciate that you said you have the biographies. You also have the full applications, which are required by the ordinance to read, and I hope you all have done that. One of the things that struck us also is that all six of these people are being nominated for full three-year terms, even though two of them are replacing people who resigned over the last six months and whose terms were not completed.
 IPR seems not to understand the need to stagger the turnover, even though it's been consistently true since 2002 when CRC was created that an average of two CRC members per year resign. With an 11-member body, they should be appointing three or four people to term out together. The term lapse of the four previously longest serving members means the person with the longest tenure is now Roberta Rivera, who's been on CRC for just one and a half years.
 I also need to mention that the IPR held the orientations for these new members without public notification for the first time in several years. Especially with what I just mentioned, these folks, I don't know if any of the old CRC members were there because we weren't invited, but they lacked the historic viewpoint that could be given from people like me who attend many or all of the meetings of the CRC. So that was kind of disappointing. Thank you.
 And as we go through this analysis, this is not, we're not, as we say every time, we're not trying to get personal about people. We're just trying to analyze things from an institutional standpoint and what might serve the community best. As you just heard, you now have...
 a number of five women and one man coming on board, which means that CRC will for the first time ever have seven female members and just four men. Only three of the six self-identify as Caucasian, meaning that there will now be six white people and five people of color on CRC. They do not ask about sexual orientation in their diversity check boxes.
 In terms of backgrounds, it's also somewhat improved, though. It seems odd that two of the new recruits both work for Legacy Health Systems, and the last batch of nominees left the CRC with five current and former attorneys. That number is now down to four, so there's a little bit more diversity in backgrounds.
 Only one seems to have background, though, in police accountability issues, per se. And it's Ms. Falk. It doesn't say it in her mini-biography, but she worked for the Police Assessment Resource Center in Los Angeles, which did the shootings and deaths in custody reviews before the OIR group did. She worked with them in 2003 when they were doing their first report on Portland. So that's helpful. And she also worked with the sheriff's deputies in Los Angeles to advocate for
 for health care, which means she's worked with the police and worked with the group that oversees the police. And we always look for that balance in the candidates. Mr. Angelo Turner lists that he worked on a vehicle stop advisory committee in San Diego. It's not really clear what that was, but I'm assuming it wasn't to advocate for more vehicle stops. It's safe to assume in his case.
 One of the members lives in Oregon City, which I think is the first time a CRC member has not been a resident of Portland, but I'm not sure because we don't have complete records on that.
 Two of the members both list the director of Bradley Angles House as a reference, which could be a good thing if they're willing to place the prism of domestic violence on their consideration of police misconduct. We've talked a lot over the years, and I think recently before council, about how police violence and domestic violence are similar, with the community responding, oh, I know him, he would never do that, etc.
 So we're hoping that that can be a point of discussion for CRC. IPR noted themselves that they removed the question about the applicant's criminal history as part of the ban-the-box effort, and we're not sure how that jives with the fact that CRC members all have to undergo a criminal background check anyway, but it is a good step forward. It feels like there's not much evidence that we can see of other people other than IPR.
 Ms. Falk, I already mentioned having both experiences working with the police and knowing what it's like to be on the other side of the baton. We want to continue to remind Council that DOJ agreement should not affect CRC's quorum at five of 11 members because a small faction can meet and make decisions without the knowledge or input of the majority. We've been pushing for the CRC to adopt rules for the appropriate use of that quorum, and we continue to do that.
 And, of course, we have to keep reminding you about the weaknesses of our oversight system, which is that the IPR and CRC and the Police Review Board should be much more integrated than they are now, that the Police Review Board hearings should be open to the public, or at least the people who are subjected to the police conduct. People should be able to appeal the deadly force cases to CRC. IPR should have true power to compel officer testimony, and CRC should not have to accelerate their timeline for hearing appeals. Thank you very much. Thanks. Any questions for Dan? Thank you. Okay. Sure. Come on up.
 Good morning, Council. My name is Stephen Entwistle. I represent Healing Man Sanctuary. I represent individuals for justice. I represent 100 million friends. And I'm a whistleblower for the less fortunate here in Portland. We agree with Dan Handelman's concerns and comments about the new IPR appointees
 And we would like to see some of those changes occur that were outlined. And because this is an important issue, and it's just, to me, it's kind of, to me, it's an unfortunate, my own personal opinion, that we even have to have an IPR. But we do, under the circumstances. And so...
 That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay. Could we, Mayor, address the issue that Dan Handelman read about the staggering of terms? Yeah. Since this would be the majority of the CRC term limiting out at the same time, that seems to be problematic. Yeah, Constantine, do you want to respond to that mechanical question about
 Should we be staggering these terms differently in order to have some more institutional memory? You know, that's an issue that I think as a CRC, you know, one, we have a brand new CRC and,
 It's a conversation that the CRC needs to have along with some of the other issues related to the DOJ agreement. So I'm open to having that conversation. It does make sense just to have them staggered because, one, we've increased the CRC to 11 members now. It used to be that CRC members would have two-year terms. Now they have three-year terms. And I believe we have five current CRC members now.
 four of whom are going to expire out, I believe, in 2017. So, yeah, that's a conversation that we've been thinking about as well. Well, so there's a couple ways to go about that. One would be to change, I assume that's in code, but change that in code so that we change the appointment dates downstream from folks that are now being appointed. Another would be, and we may want to do both of these, another would be that, you know,
 real life being what it is, some people on the CRC will resign early because people aren't able to control future events and their career changes or they have family changes and otherwise can't stay for the full term. One opportunity might be to
 ad hoc change some you know some effective dates when that happens and those two strategies aren't mutually exclusive but i think we face this on a lot of our um face potentially face this problem on a lot of our appointed boards and commissions but i don't think it's the case with the planning and sustainability commission where we do stay where we do have a bunch of staggered terms
 On the Planning and Sustainability Commission, if you are appointed to fill an unexpired term, you then get two additional terms after that. Right, right. So you might want to look at the language and how we deal with that in other boards and commissions. Right.
 Right. So is this, are we supposed to vote on this today? This is a resolution. Yes. I wonder if we could maybe hold it over to give you a chance to look at that to see who's, which members, what the expiration date of the members that these members are filling would be so that we can appoint them to fill those terms and then they would be able to have two additional terms after that.
 So the issue that we have is that we have a bunch of CRC members who are leaving, and the CRC needs to be able to function. So I think the question of expiration dates is something that we can work together with the CRC, have them part of the conversation, and figure that out while have these new members come on board.
 Okay. But these folks are subject to, are potentially available to be reappointed after this, right? Maybe we should appoint them to one-year terms, and that way we could get, if the remaining four members that are ongoing are expiring in 2017, we appoint, if it needs to be done today, we appoint these six to one-year terms so that you can figure out what the expiration date of the terms that they're actually filling are.
 Or would it make any difference to hold it over to next week?
 Sounds like you've got upcoming meetings, right? Yeah. So we have upcoming meetings. We have CRC members that we want to plug into work groups at the CRC as ongoing. And, you know, just the number of issues involving police accountability and civilian oversight of the police are pretty large. And we're down to five CRC members right now. Do you have a meeting scheduled before next week? We do not have a meeting before next week. If we do it next week, we're good. Okay. Well, yeah, I guess –
 I'm not going to resist that slavishly, but again, it seems to me that when we really want this to kick in is on reappointment for a second term, not necessarily on their first term, right? But the point is that Mr. Handelman made is that six people will all be expiring at the same time. Right. But if at that point some of them leave, some of them get reappointed to one- or two-year terms, and some of them get appointed to three-year terms, then we've solved the problem. So, again, I hope –
 One, I'm glad these six people are willing to do this. I hope at least most of them are willing to do it longer than three years. At that juncture, maybe some of them will say, I'm good for another year, appoint me to a one-year term if you have that available.
 I appreciated being appointed to an expired term on the Planning Commission because theoretically I could have had almost three terms. So we have had people term-limited out of the CRC that I would have loved to have seen expanding on. So we can do it your way, it's just then that they are limited to a maximum of six years. If we do it with filling the expired terms, they could potentially serve seven.
 Just the one thing about the CRC, there is no term limit for the CRC. There's a term limit for the Police Review Board, but CRC members are able to – so we've had CRC members serve 10 years. Well, I think that's a problem, too, then. All right. Well, my recommendation, Commissioner, would be we adopt this resolution and appoint these good people, but we ask Constantine and the auditor's office to –
 Auditors here, they've heard this conversation. Let's come back with a plan for staggering terms so that over time we don't have that wave problem again. I think there are a number of ways to solve that and you've suggested a couple. But I think maybe we ought to seize the moment of six good people that are willing to do good work as volunteers but then find out what other than endurance will determine their tenure.
 Yes, that's good counsel. I lock them up while they're working. Six birds in hand. That's right. I would ask you to discuss the issue of term limits, though, as well as the staggering of terms, because when we have important committees like this, there's a value in requiring the turnover and giving somebody else the opportunity. You don't want to lose all the institutional memory, nor do you want somebody who it becomes difficult
 ungracious to say, well, thank you. We've had enough of your services without term limits. Yes. Yeah, I agree with that statement as well. So, yeah, very good points. We've seen that with the Planning Commission as well. Folks that have been there a long time, that adds a lot of value. But at some point, we need new leadership. Okay.
 Okay. Thank you for the conversation. So we can count on you and the auditor to come back at some point with a change in the ordinance to set up a structure that you think makes sense based on this discussion and what you heard from Mr. Handelman. Indeed, Mr. Mayor and Council. You have our commitment that we'll be working on this, and we'll work together with the CRC to provide something to you folks in short order. Okay. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Do we have the – are the applicants here? Yes. Yes. They're here behind us. Are they going to –
 Introduce if they're available to answer questions, but they could certainly stand and introduce us. Just be here if they could stand and say their name Thank you Thanks very much both of you. Thank you. Did you have a question or comment? Come on up? My name is Joe Walter represent individuals for justice. I have a question Couldn't you just do before you vote? Couldn't you just do an amendment on this on this resolution? I?
 we could but i personally would rather be more thoughtful about it and give the auditor who manages this independent function and her side we get very we get very nervous about okay i promise to do this when we hear people say that it gets lost somewhere along down the line if you have an amendment saying exactly what you want to do then it's kind of controlling so we would prefer that you would do the amendment i know you're trying to be nice
 We're not nice. We're more direct. So we would prefer an amendment saying that you would alternate the expiration dates of the people that are on the committee.
 Mr. Walsh, we've got a majority of the CRC present today, and they have certainly heard this conversation. Right in back of me, yes. So they, I'm certain, will take to heart our request to bring back in relatively short order an amendment to the term limits. Yeah, I thought you would go that way, but we want it on the record that we would like to see the amendment, and obviously we're not going to get that, and that's okay, but...
 But it's on the record, and that adds a little more pressure to them. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Any further discussion? I want to take a roll call on the resolution. Fritz? Usually these things are somewhat routine. So thank you very much, all six of you, for being here, for being willing to serve. It's one of the most important committees that we have. It's a lot of work. I hope that we will have liaisons to the council offices, as we have in the past when the committee was up to full strength.
 because I personally find it very helpful to get regular briefings, although I do recognize that's an additional trip to City Hall, along with all of the work that you're going to be doing. Thank you very much, and thank you to Dan Handelman for providing excellent analysis of the six appointees, above and beyond what was available to the public, well, summarizing what was available to the public. I appreciate your diligence and also bringing the term issue to our attention. Aye. Aye.
 Seltzman. I want to thank all of you for signing up for a tour of duty, maybe more. We really appreciate the work you're going to be doing and it's a lot of work and so we really appreciate the time you're taking out from your jobs to help keep this a great city to live. Thank you. Hi.
 Thank you very much for your willingness to do this. I wanted to note that we have heard from CRC members in the past that the time deadlines in the Department of Justice settlement might make it rather difficult for you to complete your reviews. And I just want to let you know that if that is a concern, bring it to our attention. It's something that we want to monitor and bring up with the Department of Justice if it really begins to pose a problem. Aye. Hales.
 Yeah, I appreciate all those comments. Appreciate the six of you being willing to do this important work and our staff for queuing up some excellent volunteers. Just want to let you know, as police commissioner, I'm interested in hearing from you as well, not just in cases where you're sitting literally in judgment, and that's important and significant work, but also you're going to have a view of the system that,
 the public safety system that we operate in this city and Develop opinions about how to make it better and I'd love to hear from you in that capacity as well that yes This is an independent body. Yes, it hears cases But that doesn't mean that you don't learn some things that I could use to hear about how we could improve anything from training to
 to communications, to things I haven't thought of here in this moment. So please don't be shy about that as well, that you have every citizen's got a right to come to me as an elected official of this city and, in this case, as the police commissioner and say I have an idea for how to make the Police Bureau work better. But you're going to have a vantage point that not every citizen is going to have, and I look forward to hearing your thoughts from that vantage point and really appreciate your willingness to serve. Thank you very much. Aye. Thanks.
 Okay, let's move on to the next time certain item, which is 155.
 Accept $1 million from East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement dedicating 37 acres of the coal wood property as natural area. Nothing like an item that starts with except $1 million. Mr. Fritz. I know. This is a very joyful occasion, and in fact there's been many things to celebrate with the coal wood site. This is to accept the grant from the East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District and to accept the grant from the East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District
 It's a project which has multiple benefits for our community, including adding to the commercial and industrial base, protecting important national areas, and providing open space and access to nature in historically underserved neighborhoods. Last year, we purchased, we being Portland Parks and Recreation and the City of Portland, purchased the 85-acre Colwood property, which was formerly a portion of the Colwood National Golf Course.
 32 of these acres are part of a mitigation project that includes wetland creation and forest restoration that protects natural habitat and water quality along the Columbia Slough.
 The East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District shares our goals for the natural area portion of this acquisition, and they have generously agreed to contribute $1 million to reimburse parks for some of the acquisition's costs. We had previously used system development charge money for the purchase, and that returns the system development dollars back into the system development charge bucket that can be available for other purchases and other improvements to provide additional parks resources.
 So this partnership will result in 37 acres of the Colwood property being preserved in perpetuity as natural area. Warren Jimenez, the Deputy Director of Portland Parks and Recreation, will now give a brief PowerPoint presentation and introduction. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning, Council. Just to sort of emphasize a couple of points that the Commissioner hit on, I have a short PowerPoint presentation to talk about that.
 But a little background, and again, just sort of a reminder, the Trust for Public Land facilitated a land use application for rezoning of the Colwood Natural Area property. It was brought to Council in October of 2013 for your consideration, and at that point, Council chose to rezone the northern portion of the Colwood property, which
 for industrial use. What you see on the map here is actually the lower two-thirds portion, which is what we're talking about today for the investment. And in March of 2014, City Council approved the actual acquisition of the bottom two-thirds of the Colwood golf course.
 Again, a little bit more background, public ownership of the colored property certainly ensures a couple of different goals. Certainly keeping the open space permanently is a key goal and offering that green open space in the industrial area is really key and important attribute that we've heard from the community.
 More than one-third of that, bottom two-thirds, will be restored and enhanced and managed as a natural area, including permanent protection of habitat and water quality along the Columbia Slough. And the property will offer a unique opportunity for access to nature in an area that doesn't necessarily have that kind of access today. Okay.
 And this is in response to, I think we know the Cully story, but this is in response to really a need for the Cully community. And some of the key quotes that we've used, and you've seen these before, one from the Regional Equity Atlas, Cully just suffering from poverty and lack of open space and lack of food access. And from Tony DeFalco from Verde, the story I keep hearing from parents and kids is that they don't have a safe place to play.
 And the purchase of this coal wood property certainly tries to address those issues. We've made some key investments in the Coley neighborhood. This is a map of the Coley neighborhood. You'll see there in red is the coal wood property.
 The other investments that we've made, and we're continuing to work in partnership with key neighborhood stakeholders and key partners like Verde, is just to the south of Colwood, the Thomas Cully property area.
 What's located here also on the map is something called actually Werburn property on this map. It's a little dated map because that's actually Kunimax Park, which will be opened later this spring. So we are trying to do our part to address really key gaps in our system. And I think that's what makes this coal wood acquisition in this property and this opportunity so exciting.
 And what's even more exciting is the partnership with East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District. Some of their priorities include permanently protecting the natural lands for habitat and water quality, climate and biodiversity values, as well as providing that public access to natural and open space that were areas that are either underserved or lack that kind of access.
 Jay Udlhoven, the executive director, is here today and he'll certainly be able to provide more about their priorities. But we saw this as an opportunity to partner with them in the acquisition of Colwood.
 And then the district also saw an opportunity related to the Colwood property to institute some innovative community-based models for planning, design, and implementation, as well as prioritizing investment, really, in the community for job creation opportunities in the Colwood area. And the IGA reflects some of these key priorities and values. Thank you.
 So the grant, East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District has awarded the city $1 million to its land and legacy program. Like the commissioner mentioned, the contribution will be used for the acquisition of coal wood. And the total acquisition cost was $5 million. Another key partner in this was BES.
 Bureau of Environmental Services. They contributed $500,000 to this acquisition. East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District will be a partner in a million dollars for this acquisition. And then Parks SDCs will contribute $3.5 million for the property acquisition.
 The terms of the agreement, the city will commit to protecting the natural area. The agreement also includes right of first refusal if for some reason the city considers doing something different with the natural area or conveying it to a different entity. Obviously, that isn't what we're interested in doing, but this certainly protects their investment in adding this term of the agreement in there.
 They will have the right to participate as a direct project collaborator in future planning. At some point in the future, we will be doing a master planning process. This certainly is later in the future down the road. And the term of the agreement is we'll work in partnership with them, as well as the community, like what we normally do in any sort of master planning process. And, of course, recognition of their partnership is really key, given the level of investment that they're doing.
 The other key things that I just note is going back to investment in the local community with future partnerships. I'll note that those conversations are happening. For example, we've started those conversations with Verde about operations, in particular with the golf activities that we're doing there. And so we're working with them to try to create those opportunities. I know our workforce development manager is working really closely to them to see if we can create that pipeline for those job opportunities with the golf course.
 And the mitigation work that's happening there on the property is happening and going as we speak. And Verde is a partner in that with Trammell Crow doing those plantings.
 Just a couple of quick thank yous. Certainly the Board of Directors, especially Bob Salinger, who is on the board, Rick McMonigle, who is here today and is the program manager, worked closely with Rick, and really key staff, Cynthia Castro, Zelene Nunn, Deb Levin, Eileen Argentina, and as well as Jay, who is here today, Executive Director, who would like to talk for a few minutes about this opportunity today.
 As well as, certainly last but not least, Don Goldberg, who, as you know, has been really key in sort of teeing us up for success on this project, who's also here today. Thank you. If our other invited guests could please come forward. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, members of the City Council. My name is Jay Udelhoven. I'm the Executive Director of the East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District.
 I am in the enviable position today to come here and ask you to accept our funding for this important project. So on behalf of the district's board of directors, I would like to thank the city for leading the effort to protect this area.
 As you may know, the East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District, it's a relatively small government agency with a big name. We work with residents, citizens, landowners, land managers,
 east of the Willamette in Multnomah County to care for land and water. And we do this both in the rural areas and the urban areas. We have many programs, but one of which, one of the important ones, is our Land Legacy Program. And through that program, we can use direct purchases, or we can partner with like-minded entities such as the city to
 to protect important agricultural areas and natural areas. And the coal wood project really represents a good example of a partnership that we can undertake through the Land Legacy Program.
 We see this as a really important opportunity to provide local community members access to nature, but also access to the planning process for the future of the site and economic opportunities that are related to the area. So we look forward to working with the city on this project and on other similar projects. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions today? Thank you so much.
 I appreciate you being here, and obviously this is a major commitment by the district, so we appreciate the partnership. As do we. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Goldberg. Good morning, Mayor and commissioners. My ego is getting tremendously big from this project. All justified. I want to thank everybody. It really has been a pleasure on such a long process. The outcome is what we're all here for, and it's been tremendous.
 And I've preached the entire time about balance, and that included balance funding, balance process, and balance outcome. And this funding source adds to that balance of the funding. We know that we'll have a lot of money to spend in the future on actually building out the project, so it's always nice to...
 receive funding of this nature. Also, Commissioner Fritz was there last week, but a lot of people are probably not aware that the project won last week, the Columbia SLU Project of the Year achievement. So I want to thank everybody, and I strongly support this.
 I understand your ego was properly controlled by an impersonation of you by a member of my staff. Yes, a certain member of your staff and I are going to be having a conversation. So Don Goldberg at the Trust for Public Lands just testified. I thought you won the award at the Columbia City Watershed Council, so you're being very gracious. It was a good team effort, though. We appreciate your leadership, Warren Jimenez and your team in the Portland Parks and Recreation Council.
 Balance is a really good word for it. Thank you. Thank you. Looking forward to seeing that video soon. That was great. Anyone else like to speak on this wonderful item?
 If not, it will pass the second reading, right? It is not an emergency ordinance. So any council comments, final council comments before we do? Again, thank you for your partnership. This is a great piece of work. Yeah, I'd just like to offer my thanks to the East Multnomah County Soil Water Conservation District for their generous contribution to the Colwood Park open space and Trust for Public Lands, Don Goldberg. Thank you.
 It'll pass to second reading and be on our consent calendar for final approval next week. Thank you very much. Okay, good work. Let's move on to regular agenda item 161.
 Accept bid of Civil Works Northwest Inc. for the Union Pacific Railroad East Portland Connection Water Systems adjustment for $507,286. Good morning. Good morning, Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Civil Works Northwest. The original engineer's estimate on this project was $660,000. Okay.
 On December 18, 2014, seven bids were received, and Civil Works Northwest is the low bidder at $507,286. The Portland Water Bureau has reviewed all bid items and believes the prices offered are good. The city identified five divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. Subcontracting participation on this project is at 29.4%.
 I will turn this back over to Councilor if there is any questions about the bidding process. Dave Peters from the Water Bureau is here to answer any technical questions you might have. Questions for either Dave or Christine? Do we know if any of the other contracts had higher levels of minority participation in the subcontracting? In the subcontracting, I'm not sure, but we did receive bids from a...
 a minority firm, women-owned firm, and an ESB firm as a prime contractor, but they were not the low bid. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Then I need a motion to adopt the report. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call on adoption. Fritz? Thank you for your work. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Nice to see one come in underestimate on an occasional basis. Thank you.
 Okay, next regular agenda item 162. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Riverview Forest Main Replacement Project number E08866 for an estimated cost of $1,900,000. Okay.
 Mr. Gibson, good morning. Good morning. We have a presentation over here. I'll stall while we get the slideshow set up. Good morning, Mayor Hales and City Council. My name is Scott Gibson. I'm Principal Engineer at the Bureau of Environmental Services, and with me today is Dan Hebert. He's a senior engineer. He also leads our pump station engineering team, and he's the overall project manager for this Riverview Force Main upgrade project.
 We're here today asking for authorization for a contract to construct the project. We have a short presentation, and then we'll answer any questions. Okay. Great. Hey, good morning. This is, as Scott said, I'm Dan Hebert. I manage the pump station engineering section. Really short presentation here. I hope to answer some questions. The Riverview Pump Station force main replacement project is intended to replace a line that was installed in 1965. It has an 8-inch cast iron pipe that's had some...
 maintenance issues for about 20 years now. It conveys a flow of about 500 gallons a minute, and right now it's aligned in the east, southbound lanes of Highway 43, which is in ODOT right away. So we've had to coordinate with ODOT and significantly coordinate with ODOT. Because of some traffic concerns and need to maintain traffic there, there's going to be quite a bit of night work involved in getting this project done, which tended to increase the estimated cost for the construction work.
 As I mentioned briefly, we've had about 20 years or so of minor releases, cracks, and holes in a pipe that were primarily due to some bedding issues from the original construction of some formatter that was up against the pipe and caused it to erode and crack. So we're going to replace the project with an 8-inch ductile iron pipe that will be protected and should provide for at least a minimum 50-year service life and perhaps much more than that.
 As I mentioned earlier, the ODOT conditions and restrictions are going to result in some night work. We've done quite a bit of outreach with the neighbors and the neighborhood public to make sure they understand that and to advise them of when that's going to happen, and that will continue through the construction project. Scott mentioned the estimated construction contract cost is $1.9 million. We have an optimal level of confidence in the estimate. Thank you.
 Right now, the costs through pre-design and design permitting on the project are about $398,000. And our total project cost is estimated at just about $2.5 million. Just to give you an idea of where the project's located, I know this is a little hard to read on a small screen, but the pump station itself is located about a half a mile south of the Selwood Bridge on the west side of Highway 43. And the force main is about 3,000 feet long, travels southbound.
 crosses a bridge and then goes across Highway 43 and discharges to a manhole in Riverview Street, I think it is. Just a few pictures to wrap it up. The picture on the left is the pump station facility, which was remodeled in about 2005, converted from an old-style station to a new submersible pump station. The picture on the right is just the force main alignment pretty much down the fog line of Highway 43.
 Another couple of pictures on the left, again, just the alignment of the southbound lanes and the foreground in this picture. The ODOT bridge, the new force main is going to be hanging off this west side of the bridge on some actual structural attachments already cast in as part of the bridge. The older force main went around this, and there's kind of a looped alignment, which is where we had a lot of the problems with corrosion and cracking and leaking and
 past. And just a picture of the discharge manhole, which isn't really showing very much. It's a manhole plate in the street. Purchasing will report back to council on procurement bills and the bid, and we're planning for construction this summer. With that, I'll try to answer any questions you might have. So is this force main taking sewage flow to the Tryon Creek treatment plant? It is. Okay.
 Yes, they do end up at the Triant Creek treatment plant. They go through the Elk Rock Pump Station facility and then get pumped down to Triant Creek. Any other questions? Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? And if not, then this is a non-emergency ordinance, and it will move to second reading. And then why don't you stay handy because the next one is you too, and that's item number 163. Thank you.
 amend contract with HDR engineering Inc for final design and construction support services for the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant biogas utilization project number e 10033 for nine hundred ninety five thousand four hundred and ten dollars That's all yours. Thank you. Let's say Presentation
 Once again, welcome and good morning. With me today is Vu Han. Vu's an engineer who works in our wastewater engineering team. He's the project manager for this effort. And we're here today asking for authorization to amend a contract with the engineering firm of HDR to add final design and construction support to their current scope of work and to adjust the contract amount accordingly. We have a presentation I think you'll find a little more interesting, and then we're here to answer questions. Okay. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Digester gas or biogas is a byproduct from the anaerobic digestion process at the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant. The plant produces about 600 million cubic feet of biogas annually or about 1.6 million cubic feet a day. Our biogas has about 60% heating value compared to natural gas.
 Currently, of the total biogas production, we beneficially use almost 80% of it. This diagram illustrates the current utilization of the biogas. Of the total production, about 16% is used in boilers for heating uses on-site. 41% is used to generate power used on-site. Another 20% is sold to the nearby Malarkey Roofing Company for their manufacturing process.
 and about 23% is still flared. The objective of this biogas project is to find the most beneficial use for the remaining biogas that is still flared, as you can see in this picture. The city retained HDR Engineering Firm to evaluate a number of alternatives for the biogas. The analysis consisted of five main alternatives.
 Alternative 1 and 2 are very similar, in which we would expand the existing gold generation system to make more power. Alternative 3 is to treat the biogas and convert to vehicle fuel. Alternative 4 is to treat the biogas and sell as natural gas commodity.
 Alternative five is to use the biogas to drive biosolids and reduce the number of truck trips in our biosolids land application program. The analysis used the triple bottom line approach, which took into account the costs and benefits of the financial, social, and environmental aspects.
 The analysis also aligned with BES adopted 12 strategic levels of service and the climate action plan. And the recommended alternative is biogas use for vehicle use with further consideration on pipeline injection. What does pipeline injection mean?
 Pipeline injection means you would inject the product into the utility company gas pipeline to wheel the product to a remote location. And what, to where? Yeah.
 To anywhere. So it would just go into the mix of what the gas company is selling, right? At that point, it would be an accounting exercise. Treated to the point that it's essentially the same as natural gas and anybody could burn it. That's correct. You would have to provide the gas quality to meet the pipeline specifications. And then you could pick up from the other end and it could be anywhere. Okay.
 This is similar to home solar when you'll be generating more power than the house needs. It's allowed to go back into the grid as a credit. From the alternative analysis, and as shown in this present value summary, two alternatives, cogeneration with biogas storage and biogas for biosolid drying, have significant negative net present values. That obviously means they are not good investments from the financial standpoint.
 The other two alternatives, cogeneration with no-bough gas storage and gas sales through industry as natural gas commodity, are roughly breaking even. The vehicle use alternative is the only one with significant positive net present value. That is the $8.2 million shown in the analyzed period. All of the analyzed alternatives have net benefits from the sustainability standpoint.
 which are shown in the monetized values for the social and environmental impacts. However, vehicle use alternative is drastically more, in order of 10 times the financial impact. The main reason is that it will displace the use of the dirty diesel fuel and therefore reduce the greenhouse gases and other air contaminant emissions into the environment.
 The expected simple payback for the recommended alternative is 8 to 10 years. So why do we want to do gas treatment for vehicle use? I just mentioned it has the most economical and sustainability benefits, but other factors for this recommendation include it has the most opportunities for grants and financial incentives, it is a sustainable, renewable source of energy,
 Unless our wastewater treatment plan goes away, we will always have biogas. The energy market is extremely volatile, so we'll be insulated from the market fluctuations as well. Another factor is that it utilizes a domestic source of energy, so we are that much less dependent on foreign oil. Also, there's a likely public and private partnership comes out of this project.
 It also contributes to building alternative fuel infrastructure in this region and contributes to the climate action plan. This graph shows the industry estimates for greenhouse gas reduction of four-cycle transportation fuel options compared to gasoline. Non-plug-in hybrid electrical vehicle gets about 20% reduction.
 CNG, which stands for compressed natural gas, gets about 25% reduction. Plug-in electrical vehicle gets about 55% reduction. Now, plug-in vehicle, electric vehicle has zero emission during use. But the key here is full life cycle. In many parts of the country, or many parts of the world for that matter, electricity is still generated by fossil fuels.
 So that is why plug-in vehicle only gets credit for about 55% reduction as opposed to 100%. The renewable CNG, which is the recommendation, gets a whopping 75% reduction. To give you a sense of the renewable gas capacity, the flared gas volume is enough to produce 1,500 diesel gallon equivalents a day.
 That is enough to power about 120 F-150 trucks or about 40 waste haulers or 25 school buses on a daily basis. Put it another way, this is equivalent to about 25% of the total daily fuel consumption by the entire city of Portland fleet. The top part of this slide shows a process for biogas to vehicle fuel consumption.
 The biogas goes through a gas conditioning system to remove contaminants, such as carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, siloxane, and moisture, then gets compressed and dispensed into vehicles. The bottom part of the slide shows a rendering of a complete system where biogas enters the left side of the slide through the gas conditioning system, then compressed to the required pressure level,
 stored in the cylinders shown, and dispensed through fueling equipment similar to gasoline fueling equipment. As for current developments, we are in discussion with the local utility company, that is Northwest Natural Gas Company, with the potential of using their pipeline network for wheeling the gas product, and possibly for joint marketing of the gas.
 or as a partner for third-party off-takers. We are also in discussion with our own city fleet on the use of renewable sand G internally. We are also in discussions with the treatment plant, biosolids haulers, other city refuse haulers, as well as other potential off-takers. The original project scope and the current project budget were established a few years ago for a co-generation expansion project.
 However, through the alternative analysis, that is not the recommended alternative. The recommended alternative, which is vehicle fuel, and the current revised scope is to include a biogas treatment system, compression equipment, storage, and fueling facilities. The current budget is $5.6 million, which was set for a cogeneration expansion project.
 Our current cogeneration system, which was installed about seven years ago, was more economically viable at the time due to the financial incentives from grants and tax credit programs, which covered a third of the project cost at the time. Those incentive programs for cogeneration projects have dried up and in the recent years redirected toward the alternative fuel infrastructure projects.
 The revised project budget is $10.9 million, which has been conditionally approved by BES EIP Adjustment Committee with concurrence by the City Council and approval of the final design. BES has submitted an application to the Oregon Department of Energy on the Alternative Vehicle Infrastructure Tax Program in the amount of $2 million dollars.
 The project cost could be further reduced by the financial incentive. This application has passed the screening stage and is now in the technical review stage. Ordinance number 185872 approved HGR engineering contract for the only pre-designed phase. Because we had to do the alternative analysis and did not know the exact outcome, BES elected the phase approach.
 with a separate ordinance for the final design and construction services. The current pre-designed contract is $298,600. The contract amendment is $995,410, which makes the total revised contract amount of $1,294,010.
 The reason for the larger contract amendments is because the final design and construction phases are larger phases of the project than the pre-design. And the fact that there is a scope change in this project from cogeneration to vehicle fuel. This council item approves the contract amendments for HDR engineering for the final design and construction services. The level of confidence rating for this project estimate is moderate.
 The next steps for the project are to complete the final design, complete discussions and agreements with the utility company and or the off-takers. We project to start construction in early 2016, start up and have gas product available in the year 2017. We'll come back to the City Council at least two more times on this project.
 Upon the completion of final design and before construction, an ordinance will be submitted to authorize for bidding an award of a construction contract. Also, upon complete discussions, negotiations, and agreements with the utility company or the offtakers for the gas, an ordinance will be submitted to authorize for a revenue contract or contracts. And with that...
 We'll take any questions you may have. Questions? So I very much appreciate this thorough presentation and your staff for previously answering my staff's questions. So the construction contract would be for about $8 million, somewhere in that order. Is that right? If we get awarded with the financial incentive or the tax credit program.
 So I'm a little concerned. Obviously, you've done a very thorough analysis. This seems like the best option, both financially for the ratepayers and also socially for the environment and other considerations. I'm a little concerned about moving forward before we've got an assessment of who's going to buy this product. And in particular, I'm wondering, for CityFleet, what would be the cost of converting CityFleet to be able to use this fuel?
 We are looking into that. We're looking into the number of vehicles that would come to the treatment plant for fueling. The classes of vehicles, obviously, the bigger vehicles, the better bang for the buck.
 And it is the cost of the conversion of the equipment and the cost of the conversion of the shop to handle the maintenance of the vehicles. We're looking into that. But it requires more investment. But you will get a full offset of the diesel fuel price as opposed to a wholesale price. So it's a higher risk, higher reward.
 When will we have that information as to what's the risk and the reward? We hope in about within three months. So before we approve the construction contract? That's correct. Yeah, we'll have to come back at the end of the final design to get authorization to go out for construction. So I'm mindful of the conversion of some of the city cars to biodiesel and then the –
 concern about is that a sustainable source of renewable energy. I love the public-private partnership. This is a uniquely public-private partnership, and also it references the domestic input because this is a reliable source of ongoing fuel,
 As long as we all keep flushing our toilets. So that's really a good thing. I'm going to be very concerned about the cost of converting the vehicles and what the payback is. I appreciate it that you're saying that the payback just for this part is 8 to 10 years, but that's assuming that we can sell the product, right? That's correct. The project on the table is to wholesale the product. Sounds like you've got kind of a layered approach there, right? I mean, you can sell to the gas company.
 If I understand your presentation right, you potentially would have the option of selling the product to the gas company until such time as we generate other reliable users, whether they're our contractors or ourselves, right? So maybe in the short run you're selling it to the gas company. Maybe as we cycle the fleet you're selling it to fleet. Maybe you're selling it to our garbage haulers if we put that into our renewal contracts with them.
 when they come back for franchise approval, it seems to me, maybe I'm overly optimistic in looking at this presentation, but you've got lots of options about who the buyer is and that those might change over time. That's correct. The gas company itself is a player in this project here. So we are in discussion with them as well. They're not required to purchase it from us, right, unlike some of the situations with electric cars?
 purchases of solar-generated power? That's correct. But I neglected to mention the SB 844, the Senate Bill 844, that requires the Utility Commission to set aside voluntary programs to incentivize projects to help with building alternative infrastructure projects.
 in this region, and that is a program that we will have to work with the utility company to have access to. And remind me why it's currently being used, 20% is being used for on-site digester and building heating, 20% is sold to a nearby user. Why can't we just sell off what is currently being burned off? Why do we have to additionally treat this to go into the natural gas system?
 The infrastructure to sell off the gas in Milwaukee was put in 30 years ago, 25, 30 years ago. So it's reaching its capacity at this point. So in order to sell the whole portion of the gas that's flared at this point, you would have to add to the infrastructure, which is –
 Number one, expensive. Number two, it's pretty hard to get permits to build pipeline through private properties and all that. So this is also renovating the other 80% of the system in this proposal? No, this project right now only deals with the portion that is flared at this point. But you just said that the malarkey piece needs to be replaced too, right?
 No, it's just it's at its capacity, so expanding it would be difficult. So we can get – they're taking all the gas they can use. We're sending as much as we can get to them, and it's not a viable option for the other remaining 23%. There's no other nearby industrial user like them, right? Well, then I'm sorry to be dense, but why does it need additional treatment?
 They're using it to make roofing shingles, right? Yeah. Yeah, actually, they buy raw biogas from us because they have equipment that's capable of using raw biogas without treatment. But we cannot get more gas for them, and they don't have the need to get more gas. Thank you. They do not have need for more gas, malarkey roofing?
 We are still talking with them at this point, but they're pretty much reaching their maximum at this point. So I guess I'd be interested in knowing, and you don't have to tell me now, but what is the cost if we were to expand the pipeline capacity to Malarkey compared to the $10 million we're looking here to get a fueling station, which we're not sure yet. We have off-takers lined up and –
 We're dependent on a $2 million grant. So if that's something, this is a first reading. If you can provide me that information. It may provide all of us. I'm just. First of all, we have an initial proposal from Northwest National at this point. We have not accepted it. So we're making a calendar proposal to Northwest National.
 With regards to malarkey, it's like a couple miles or a mile and a half of pipeline there, and it goes through many private properties, railroad tracks and all that. It would be very expensive and very hard to get permits just to build additional pipelines. So that analysis exists somewhere. I'd like to see it.
 We didn't do that specifically, but the cost benefits from this option is a lot more than that option in the alternative to sell biogas to the market. I'm a little confused. I mean, I'm very supportive of what you're trying to do here, but I'm confused because on the one hand you're telling me there's a cost-benefit analysis and on the other hand you're telling me it doesn't exist. I mean, we're paying HDR almost a million dollars here.
 Yeah, we will, if we approve this, be paying them a million dollars. We can double back and give you information. It seems like the analysis should exist. I appreciate that. And I think one of the things that, in my mind, is relevant here is the value as a fuel, both environmentally, socially, and financially, is quite a bit higher.
 than the value as a biogas burner at Malarkey. So there are certain options that were not included in the analysis because they, on first blush, didn't seem to pencil out. So we can go back and make sure, provide additional information to you on what that might look like. What I'm saying is a lot of the bang for the buck is in the actual use in vehicle fuels. Okay.
 And we wouldn't get that with malarkey, so it wasn't one of the five that we identified in the formal analysis. Yeah, I guess I appreciate that, but it does seem, like I said, I like the idea of using this gas for fuels. But I also know we have issues around do we have the vehicles to use them, whether the city or our…
 waste haulers or school buses. Those all sound like attractive sources, but I also know that there's cost and acceptance issues around those. You know, I've been around these issues long enough to know that, you know, getting the demand for that is great. This may be not as easy. And then there's a $2 million grant we're depending on, and that makes me a little nervous, too. Yeah, and the...
 I think you all have keyed in on the biggest issue to success, and that is finding a market or a buyer for the vehicle fuel and making sure that that works for them as well as for us. And as far as the financial benefits, which portion of those do we try and capture by, say,
 doing it with city fleet or we do some sort of a marketing arrangement with northwest natural gas whereby they could market the gas to other providers and the returns will be different depending on which customer we ultimately sign up on sign up with and we've got a lot of work to do to figure out where we're headed
 Prior to any construction contract award, then we will have answers to. You will have all those answers. Do we have the grant? Yeah. And to more to the point is we do need HDR support in helping us evaluate these alternatives and figure out where we're going to be headed. They've been very supportive and very knowledgeable, and so we're relying on them heavily, and that's part of this contract as well to help us make those decisions.
 one other question i have is just this is pretty innovative of other treatment plants elsewhere in the world done such a thing is this the first is this the 10th such installation where are we in that creativity curve here there yeah there are uh none out there in this region but they are looking into it um
 The city of Renton is working on an agreement with BP doing the similar things. And Washington County, the Rock Creek plant is looking at the same thing for their extra biogas that they have. I don't mind just being first, but it's interesting when others have tried things out for us sometimes. Good. Any other questions? Okay.
 thank you both for a great presentation we'll take public testimony so anyone wants to speak lightning come on up good morning good morning my name is uh lightning i'm with lightning watchdog x i don't mind the uh added money needed for hdr engineering i think it's very beneficial and it's it will be done right some of the concerns i have on this is that
 As Commissioner Fritz stated, it's on the vehicle conversion cost. Especially my focus is on the diesel. And I understand you just need to replug the diesel engines and do a carburetor to do this. But again, through your reports, you can state otherwise on what is necessary to do that. Another issue I have is on the overall cost. If I would like to see it actually go through Northwest Natural Gas,
 and really not do the vehicle conversions at this time. And the reason why I'm saying that is that it's my understanding sometimes there's a 10% to 20% loss of power due to this type of fuel, difficulty in starting on cold weather, gas leaks at the carburetors, corrosion of equipment from the biogas, limited range.
 and there's been many drivers that have stated dissatisfaction. Now, when we're reverting back to the overall cost of the fuel that we really didn't get into, I'd like to maybe also in your studies is to look at nitromethane to see if we could possibly, from a cost factor, if that could possibly go in that direction also. Again, as I've stated, is that I definitely want to see this
 work with Northwest Natural Gas on an overall value here. And as far as on getting the grants and the payoff in eight to ten years, it definitely looks like something to possibly proceed forward on at this time. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. One of the thoughts that went through my head as I was listening to the presentation, it's an awful lot of loose ends on this.
 And also, it seems to me to be so preliminary report that people watching this must have been totally confused. I know I was watching some of the expressions on your faces, and from time to time, you were confused also. At least that's the expression that you had on your face.
 When I was working for a living, one point was a utility supervisor at Long Beach Naval Shipyard, so I have some background in waste. So I understood some of it, but I was lost. So it seems to me that we may be running into a backlash because Commissioner Fish has
 said to us that anything that approaches a million dollars that he would bring before the council. I think on this one, it was preliminary, and there was an awful lot of, I don't know, or we're working on that, or yeah, we have to get back to you on that. And that shouldn't happen. If you ask direct questions to your staff or to the BES, they should have direct answers.
 So they should have been prepared to answer the question about the fleet and how you and what the expenses would be to change over to fleet to use this biogas. So those are some of the things that went through my mind. I don't object to any of this because it's so preliminary. I hope and we appreciate some of the questions from the commission. They were good questions.
 And I hope you keep an eye on this because I'm uncomfortable with this for some reason. And I think it has to do with the loose ends and the non-response to some of the really good questions that you asked. Thank you. Thank you. Can I just add one thing real fast? The statements made that we'll save money on the biosolids,
 I want to have a calculation on that also because, as you know, in the past we've had discussions on transportation costs to various locations. So I want to see how that's factored in on this overall project because everything they've stated actually looks very good at this time. It just needs more analysis. Thank you. Okay. I think we'll get those numbers. Okay. Good. Thank you.
 Any other questions or comments? So, again, some follow-up required here, and look forward to getting more information from you as you've got it. But then this passes to second reading, and this is just for the engineering contract. Obviously, you'll come back on the construction phase if it's still viable. Aye. No, sorry. The rest of you haven't voted. Just trying to run an autocracy. Roll call, please. Roll call.
 That's a second. That goes to second reading. That's right. Sorry, I said that. Confused myself. Second reading. Now, I'll get back to agenda. 164. Amend the amended and restated intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County for the funding of the Selwood Bridge project. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, we have had since, I believe, 2009, an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County, which commits us to spending up to $86 million on the Selwood Bridge project, and the current IGA says that we will make our final payment at the end of this month. The problem is, we don't know at this point what our contribution is going to be, whether it's $86 million or something less than that.
 So this is a rather technical amendment to the IGA, which would postpone the final date for making our final payment until a time at which point we think we will actually know what we owe. I'll turn it over to Greg Jones, Jonas Berry. Greg Jones with the Bureau of Transportation. As Commissioner stated, this is a technical amendment to adjust the payment dates for the bond proceeds to be given to
 Multnomah County for the bridge. And right now it appears that the
 Completion date when we will know the actual cost is closer to November of 2016. So we're not in a position to make the payment this month. If we were to try to make the payment this month, we would either overestimate or underestimate. So it's, I think, been a good working relationship with the county to modify these dates so that we can do a more accurate payment.
 okay questions greg or jonas all right thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item this is an emergency ordinance and we need to take a roll call food fritz as my staff's analysis says this is a good thing thank you commissioner novick aye saltzman novi aye hales let's hope everything we approved passes that test aye okay uh next
 Item is 165. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Bureau of Maintenance. And this is the second reading. Roll call. Fritz. And we took out the one property. Aye. Yes. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. And we are recessed until 2 p.m. Thanks for your nice tweets.
 I think we can. Okay. Let's come back to order. Would you call the roll, please, Carla? Yes. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Novick? Here. Hales? Here. And let's take item 166. Yes.
 accept report from Multnomah County Health Department on youth access and exposure to tobacco and e-cigarette products within Multnomah County very happy to welcome chair Khafre and her team here this afternoon thank you very much thank you good afternoon thank you so much for having us here today to talk about youth access and exposure to tobacco and e-cigarette or vaping products
 Over the last several months, the Multnomah County Board of Health, which is also the Multnomah County Board of Commissioners, has heard testimony from our health department and from the Oregon Health Equity Alliance about the impacts of tobacco and the emerging e-cigarette market on our community's health. We've also heard from high school students, from the police officers who work in our schools, and from scientists who study these products.
 And as the county is planning to consider taking action tomorrow at our board meeting, we want to make sure that all the information that we've been hearing is shared with you as well. We've also been to four out of the five cities so far in Multnomah County to talk with our residents across Multnomah County about this issue because it's so very important.
 So we all know that smoking is harmful, and it kills nearly 1,200 people a year in our county alone. We don't want our kids to smoke, and we have spent decades changing public opinion around smoking. However, there's a new product on the market, or not so new anymore, but it still seems new to me, called e-cigarettes. These are being marketed in flavors that are attractive to children and can be legally sold to youth.
 This industry threatens to reverse the progress that we have made in reducing smoking among youth. I was really shocked when I first learned that my 9-year-old could go to any store in our community and legally purchase and use e-cigarettes. Many of these vaping liquids contain nicotine and other ingredients that
 cannon are harmful. Recently a child died from ingesting e-cigarette liquid and just last week a Portland child spent nine hours in the ER after she ingested this vaping liquid. We don't know what ingredients are included because there is no labeling requirement for e-cigarettes. But we do know that they're popular with kids and that use has tripled among U.S. middle school and high school students between 2011 and 2013.
 Multiple states and local jurisdictions across our country have taken steps to address this growing health concern. As I said, tomorrow Multnomah County is considering expanding the Indoor Clean Air Act to include e-cigarettes and restricting sales to and use by use of these vaping products.
 In addition, we are going to consider taking action this summer on retail licensing, which is a key component to this. Right now, we don't know who's selling these products in our community, and it makes it very hard to educate the people that work in these stores and the owners about the emerging markets.
 We do know, however, that the federal government does a study every year, and Multnomah County has the dubious distinction of having one of the highest rates of illegal sales to minors in the country. So we believe that as the Board of Health, we have a responsibility to consider how we can stop kids from buying and selling and using e-cigarettes, and how that we can educate retailers and keep our community healthy.
 I hope you will support us in these efforts, and I'm really happy to introduce Dr. Jen Vines, who is a county health officer. Thank you.
 good afternoon mayor hales and commissioners i'm jennifer vines i'm the deputy health officer for multnomah county health department and i'm a family doctor by training and then also trained in preventive medicine and got a master's in public health for this very reason because the chance to impact the health of so many people really comes through working with policy makers like you and like our board of health so it's truly a pleasure to be here today we're going to give you a very brief overview of the landscape of tobacco and nicotine in multnomah county
 I'm going to speak briefly to the health effects of nicotine, especially as they relate to our young people.
 And then we're going to be talking about youth access to these products. Again, as Chair Kafoury said, electronic cigarettes are completely unregulated, and any meaningful conversation about keeping these out of kids' hands should also include mention of the tobacco retail environment. So let's go ahead and get started and talk about nicotine and the effects on the young brain. So people think of nicotine as just, you know, the addictive substance in cigarettes, and it's all the bad things in cigarettes that affect your health, and the nicotine, you know, keeps you coming back and continuing to smoke.
 In fact, nicotine itself has health effects. It's associated with accelerated cardiovascular disease. And in young people, their brains are particularly sensitive to the addictive effects because their brains are still developing. So we have animal models that suggest long-term structural changes to the parts of the brain that control intellectual function and the brain's reward system pathways. And the Surgeon General's report on smoking cites several studies that associate youth nicotine use and behavioral problems later in life
 like anxiety and depression and other substance abuse. The image you see here is how quickly even three puffs of a cigarette can saturate the brain's receptors in a young person.
 So these pictures are sort of intended to be shocking. I find them shocking. This is completely legal. We know it's becoming more common. Again, its use has almost tripled among Oregon 11th graders from 2011 to 2013. And here we are in 2015, again, probably with use being even more common than that. But the reason that we talk about young people in relation to this topic is that the vast majority of smokers begin by age 18. Okay.
 So again, young people's brains are particularly susceptible to the addictive effects because they're still developing. Young people are also the targets for the millions and billions of dollars that are spent on marketing these products, not just tobacco, frankly, which should be illegal to sell to minors, but also now, of course, the burgeoning electronic cigarette industry. So these are examples of electronic cigarettes themselves there in the middle, and I brought some examples to show you. So this...
 from a distance probably looks like a regular cigarette. This is in fact meant to be a disposable electronic cigarette. So this is pre-filled with liquid nicotine inside. And then you just inhale and that triggers the battery to vaporize the liquid and then inhale and
 Exhale your puff of smoke there, just like a cigarette. This is called a vape pen. And so the mouthpiece is here. And I can take that off. And you'd unscrew the mouthpiece. And then people will purchase different flavors. So these are some examples. So I can choose from blow-in raspberries. Okay.
 or Irish cream or blackberry cobbler. And again, sometimes the ingredients are listed, again, completely unregulated, so may or may not be what's actually in these liquids. Then to fill up your vape pen, and in this case you press the button which heats up the liquid to vaporize it, and then you just inhale it and exhale it that way.
 I'll go ahead and next slide. So these are photos from the Multnomah County Tobacco Retail Assessment that the health department did with community partners. And so you can see on the right, you can see tons and tons of flavors to choose from, again, in these little bottles.
 And when Charcafore talks about, you know, children ingesting these liquids, I suspect this is what's happening, right? So, again, unregulated, not childproofed, bright colors. They smell sweet. So even our youngest kids are getting their hands on these liquids and risking overdose. And we know that calls to poison control have also exploded in parallel with the explosion of the use of these products.
 On the left, you can see some, well, maybe it's a very busy, there's a lot in there, but what's actually mixed in there is electronic cigarettes mixed in with candies and sort of other things for people to help themselves to. So again, this is a local retailer where the nicotine products are not behind the counter. Again, they're mixed in with other products that kids may be interested in. I'm going to hand it off to Jay Douglas. Yes.
 To hopefully now that I've gotten you to feel a sense of urgency around this issue, Jay's going to talk through some of the policy solutions that we've been discussing with our Board of Health.
 Good afternoon. Again, my name is Dr. Jay Douglas. I'm your Environmental Health Director. And I have the privilege of leading a team that is responsible for ensuring that the existing laws around the Indoor Clean Air Act are followed and adhered to when it comes to tobacco. And we recognize that we've had some public health successes when it comes to reducing the use of tobacco in our population today.
 held in contrast to some notable concerns that we're still dealing with. You heard just a little bit ago about the very high rate of illegal sales that we are still experiencing in Multnomah County. Multnomah County, unfortunately, leads the country in terms of its access to legal sales in the retail environment to youth. So that's why we do focus on the retail environment as the mechanism by which we need to begin to address issues
 how youth are accessing these products, existing combustible tobacco, the burnable tobacco, and then these new e-cigarette products. A number of jurisdictions have taken action. Retail licensing is probably the most prominent action that many states and eight communities in Oregon have already taken. And again, that's to begin to identify where these products are being sold and to hold those.
 the owners of those establishments accountable to existing law. It's something that we're considering. We know that we need to work with the retail environment in a number of ways, and what you're going to see coming up are different strategies that other jurisdictions have used, including placement of retail shops relative to schools,
 prohibiting tobacco sales in certain environments. Pharmacies are kind of a notable and logical one. Limiting the advertising. We just heard about the extraordinary numbers, dollars being spent to target advertising, especially to youth. You'll notice, you'll see in that slide, we've had some other pictures from that same survey, where advertising is just...
 covering, blanketing the fronts of these small retail stores and are often at high, like I have a five-year-old granddaughter and these are at eye level for her. And there's no doubt that these bright colors and good smelling flavors are enticing to young people and I think can begin to normalize the presence of these products in environments where children...
 Small children, larger children can easily reach out and take them. So we know that there are a number of strategies. I do like the graphic that you're seeing here about the other kinds of activities that require a license, which does not at this time include selling tobacco.
 We do know that putting products behind the counter will increase the likelihood that the employee will have to think a little more clearly about selling a product to a person who's underage.
 Price discounting is a strategy that industry uses to make it easy. We know that youth in particular are extraordinarily price sensitive, and so strategies for reducing packaging size and allowing coupons to reduce the price is kind of an easy way to invite people into the use of these products. And there are jurisdictions that have banned flavoring. We know that these flavors are...
 are noxious and flavoring is used to make them more palatable. So again, a number of strategies that have been considered, all of which we are considering also in the context of that retail licensing. I just want to review the three actions that we as the Department of Health have asked our Board of Health to consider undertaking.
 We know that we do not want to create another generation of people who are addicted to nicotine and battle lifelong addiction with this substance. At a minimum, we want to establish a minimum sales age for these products if adults choose to use them. That is their prerogative, but youth, we want to make sure that we keep these out of the hands of our youth.
 We also know that the vast majority of adults will not use these products, especially because we know so little about what is in the products, both that are being inhaled and also expelled, that we want to make sure that people who choose not to use the products aren't inadvertently exposed by other people using the products.
 And so we're looking to expand e-cigarettes into the smoke-free workplace policy. We are also encouraged by some conversations that are happening in Salem during this session that would expand the Indoor Clean Air Act to include e-cigarettes and thereby making it unlawful to use these products in any place where tobacco can't be used.
 And finally, we know that there's a lot of work to do in the retail environment. We know that the vast majority of retailers would like some help and support. We know of many retailers who are choosing not to sell any tobacco products, and so we'd like to encourage that. And for the ones who do choose to sell tobacco products, we want to make sure that they understand what the laws are and that we are able to support their adherence to those laws. So that...
 is the end of my remarks and we're happy to take any questions. Thanks. Actually, if you could go back to your three policy columns there. So thank you very much for doing this. As somebody whose children are all now 20 plus years old, I'm not having to think about some of the dilemmas that some of you might.
 And therefore, I'm also not aware of the pressures, at least personally, as aware as I would have been, say, 10 years ago, of the pressures that kids are under. So I really appreciate this eye-opening, for me anyway, presentation. Do you have – does the Board of Health have the legal authority to do –
 these things now, or do you need legislative changes in order to have that authority? In other words, to establish a minimum age for purchasing, and also the column that's missing but I want to hear more about, which is the retail regulation and licensing column. Do you have the authority you would like to have?
 excuse me that's a great question we do believe that we have the authority and we are that's why we're going to be taking action for having a first reading on the the first two pieces of this tomorrow we're asking the other cities in Multnomah County to participate in whatever way they feel
 they need to appease their constituents and their lawyers. Some feel that they need to positively affirm our ordinance. Some feel that they need to pass their own ordinance. We just want a uniform standard, and that's why ultimately we are spending time in Salem, lobbying the legislature. Obviously, all of these issues matter,
 best if it's in a statewide context. The licensure piece is a little more complex than just saying, you know, thou can't sell tobacco to minors or e-cigarettes to minors. So we're hoping that the legislature takes action. We're going to wait until sessions finish. We're going to be spending a lot of time lobbying. And then this summer, we'll look into setting up a program of our own if the legislature does not take action. Okay. Okay.
 Other questions? I have some comments, but maybe I'll get the questions on the table. What are you going to set as the legal age for being able to buy this stuff? We're looking at making it consistent with the tobacco regulation, so it would be 18. Did you think about making it 21 like alcohol? We've had conversations about it. We haven't heard a lot of comments from the public about the age difference.
 It's interesting. I learned as part of our marijuana discussions that marijuana affects brains disproportionately up to 25. And so especially knowing how addictive this particular form is, I'd be interested in seeing if we could push the age limits. We have not yet had a discussion about whether we want to formally adopt yours. Are we covered by your ordinance unless we say we're not? You should talk with your own legal counsel. We believe that acting as the
 board of county commissioners on policy directions from the board of health that you do not need to. You're underneath our rules and regulations, but that's something that you should talk with your legal counsel about. And you raise a really good point, which is about the legalization of marijuana. One of the things that we hadn't, I don't think maybe you smart people have, but I hadn't anticipated when we started this conversation, is that
 Teens being smart and wily are way ahead of us, and they already are smoking hash oil in their e-cigarettes in schools. And we've heard from some of the school resource officers who confiscate these products on a daily basis from students that kids are smoking them in school, in class. Okay.
 Well, we'll check with our city attorneys, but I believe personally that the county board of commissioners and the county board of health have full authority to do this without cities having to do anything. If it's helpful to you for us to pass other ordinances of our own, you know, obviously I'd be interested in having that conversation, but I don't think we have to act personally.
 to a firm authority that I believe that you have. And this is one of those cases where there's a fairly clear assignment of responsibility for public health to one government, namely the county, and not to another, namely cities. But my opinion, and again, if we need to do something to back your play, I'm certainly interested in,
 like Commissioner Fritz, I would say my personal feelings are go stronger, go more aggressively into this arena with our support. I suspect our unanimous support from this council.
 I'm very interested in the issue of retail licensing. And in other words, I don't think a free market is a good way to address an addictive substance. And frankly, I'm a little frustrated that we're even having this conversation. If we had an effective Food and Drug Administration in this country, you wouldn't be having to take this on at the county level. But unfortunately, I guess we don't.
 But anyway, I think we have to get pretty aggressive about the marijuana issue in terms of licensing. And I think the traditional approach, which you sort of mentioned in passing, doesn't really work. And that is to draw circles around things and say, don't locate within this circle or that circle. I think we actually have to be much more directive and say, we want these kinds of facilities here, here, and here, and actually nowhere else.
 and figure that out, not only on a public health basis, but on a land use basis. And let me go off on a little bit of a riff here, but I think it will be helpful. For example, there are places where we want land use change. Let's say a roadway somewhere in Portland where there's an old trailer sitting out there and they're selling used cars, and it might be good to have a mixed-use building on that site. We don't particularly want to make it economic to keep the old trailer out there.
 and say sell marijuana instead of redeveloping that property. So we have a land use interest in not having new economic uses applied to land uses that we're trying to phase out. And I think that issue comes to bear here as well, that if it's possible to make a high rate of return from selling products that are fundamentally unhealthy but are lucrative –
 that might also contradict some of our community development goals as a city and a county. So, again, my belief is that we're going to have to be much more than traditional regulators and say don't be near here and don't be near there, but to say actually you're a particular type of use that we want to assign to certain places in the landscape where we believe it will do the least harm.
 And I don't know exactly how to finish that paragraph now, but as you can tell, I've at least in my mind started it to say, hmm, we better get this right, because there are very powerful economic incentives behind marijuana and behind vaping, and I think we better get pretty smart and aggressive about it. So I'm really glad you made this presentation. As you can tell from my comments and others here, we're seeing...
 Please go. We're behind you. But we also may need to do some things in concert, like the marijuana issue, which we have staff in my office and others working on. Other comments? Your riff set off something in my mind, and that is, since these products are not currently regulated under state law, could you impose a tax on them? Is the prohibition on taxing also not in state law? That's a good question.
 I think potentially we could. One of the challenges with taxation in this product came to a head last legislative session, and the reason that they're not illegal currently for minors is because they got caught up in a taxation issue. And I think it was our belief that we should move forward with this first and that second, if we want to tie that into the taxation of tobacco products as well.
 Right. But if they don't manage to move on that, maybe this summer you could add a further economic disincentive by taxing the heck out of it. Yeah. And again, whether that's something the county should do under your public health authority, that would be cool. Maybe we do it as a city. Maybe we do both. I think those conversations ought to continue. So, yeah, using tax policy as well as regulatory and land use policy.
 to address this issue is all, I think, fair play as far as I'm concerned. Other comments? I would encourage you to consider raising the smoking age. In fact, I would suggest raising it to 45, because I think if you're going to kill yourself, it should be an informed decision. And I think at 21, you don't really know yet what your life is worth. I was curious about the...
 high violation rate in terms of selling to underage people. And I would just want to – what is the – I mean, what are the penalties for that? What enforcement mechanisms are there? What enforcement resources are there? Is there – I mean, I kind of assume that you would be the ones to police that, but actually I'm not aware that there are Multnomah County underage sales police. So what are the mechanisms that are available?
 I can offer a small amount of information about that. In Oregon, it's the Oregon State Police who have the jurisdictional authority to monitor the sale of underage. And obviously, they're very often distracted by other things. And so I would say it's not a very robust enforcement strategy that we have here in Oregon. Really? Yeah.
 I'm learning a lot in this discussion. Yeah, the Oregon State Police. It has to change. When I was a county commissioner, we used to have deputy sheriff or sheriff cadets do underage things. In fact, I went along on some of them. I couldn't speak to that. I just know what the enforcement strategy is today. Yeah, because the Oregon State Police essentially don't work in the urban environment. They're working on the highways in between cities.
 And that's what they do, and that's fine. But, yeah, to expect them to be doing this kind of police work is, to me, bizarre. So that's another glitch. And I think that one of the problems that we've found is that because there's no retail licensure program, we don't know – I mean, you can guess that 7-Eleven is Fred Meyers, but you don't know which mom-and-pop shop unless you're actually out there.
 Look, you know, driving up and down the streets to find out, you don't know who's selling these products. And I'm sure you've all seen pop-up vans and, you know, like the food carts that sell tobacco products. So it's in order to make an enforcement program effective, you need to have the licensure piece tied together. Mm-hmm.
 So were you talking about Oregon State Police only being authorized with respect to e-cigarette sales? To tobacco. Tobacco, okay. At this point, there is no enforcement mechanism for e-cigarettes. Yeah, nothing there. Something must have changed because when I was on the county commission, I went out on stings with sheriff's cadets. I'm going to look over my shoulder at my staff. No one's volunteering an answer to that question. We'll look into that. That's an important point. Did I get it wrong? Come on up here. Okay.
 Sure. Pull up another chair if you want. Please.
 Carrie McFarland with the Health Department and the tobacco team within the Health Department. Did I get it wrong? So to answer the question, it's a bit nuanced, but Cynar is the program at the state. Cynar? Cynar, and that is a program named after a former federal congressman who was interested in looking at the illegal rate of sales of cigarettes to minors. And so here in Oregon, we administer the Cynar program.
 which does do monitoring of illegal sales of cigarettes. So the Oregon State Police are actually retired Oregon State Police officers. Can you get it closer to the microphone? Thank you. Sorry. Thank you for that correction. So they're actually retired Oregon State Police officers that go out and do these sting operations with a minor decoy. My apologies for the confusion. No, that's fine. That's fine. Now it adds up. And are they funded through the county? No.
 Through the state program. Through the state program. And so to get back to Jay's comment about under-resourced, that's why our enforcement system is not currently robust. I just had one last question, and that was on the retail licensing. So does the county not have the authority to do retail licensing on tobacco sales? We have not. But.
 Yeah, we're looking into that issue. We think it is a lot cleaner if the legislature takes action and it's a statewide program so that folks in Multnomah County
 who don't have to have a license when you don't have to across the border and clock. I mean, having statewide is obviously a better idea. But if they don't pass something in Salem this session, we're going to look at doing something on our own. It's also a longer process, as I said earlier, because we want to involve the retailer community in the conversation so that
 what the level of fees set at. We need to find out what information and education they would like from the county. So all those decisions will make for a robust program that is adhered to. This might be a question for Ms. McFarlane. It may be that the retired Oregon State police officers have historically been responsible for enforcement, but are the county and the city precluded from doing our own enforcement? Sure.
 So theoretically, we could decide to enforce the laws ourselves. All right.
 Yeah, again, I'm not an attorney, although we have some on the council, but we're Home Rule City and you're a Home Rule County. Right. So we have a charter, you have a charter. But I think it's been a question of finances that most of the time when you have a retail licensure program, you're using those funds to hire the staff to go out and do the enforcement and education, so they go hand in hand in most cases. Yes.
 So that's what you're anticipating, that first you do the licensure, and then we can actually fund some enforcement? Exactly. Enforcement and education. Any other questions for this great panel? Well, I want to say thank you for bringing this up as an issue here in our discussions, and obviously for the Board of Health and for the community at large. It's really important.
 And I hope you'll call on us to work at both an elected level and a staff level in cooperation on this. Again, we're having to delve pretty deeply into the questions about marijuana right now. It seems to me that is pretty connected to these issues. I suspect we'll have a lot of the same retailers involved if we do nothing. Okay.
 And do nothing doesn't sound like a good option here. So we want to encourage you to be aggressive on this issue with our help and support and also to do the detailed work at the legal and technical level to make sure that we do this in a smart and effective way.
 So call on us. Rahels, if I may, could I leave you with one more technical piece of information? And it has to do with the smoke-free workplace and sort of folding electronic cigarettes into places where tobacco use is already prohibited. As we've heard public comment, and I've sort of participated more and more in this conversation, I just want to make sure you understand that when people say, no, no, electronic cigarette, it's just water vapor. There's no risk to secondhand exposure. That is not true. And the science is limited, but there is a substantial...
 emerging body of evidence that suggests that there are
 all kinds of chemicals in these liquids that are exhaled and that can be inhaled by bystanders. So given the choice, I'd rather stand next to someone smoking an electronic cigarette than a regular cigarette based on what we know now. But I just want to be very clear that we not only want to not lose ground with our youth in renormalizing smoking behaviors by including electronic cigarettes in smoke-free workplaces, we also want to, as
 As Jay said, we want to protect people who choose not to use these products and don't care to wait the years to decades that it's going to take to really sort out what's in them and determine the health risks that are there. So as the author of the city's fragrance-free workplace policy, does a smoker of a blueberry cobbler e-cigarette have blueberry cobbler breath? It's actually a serious question. Good question. Most likely.
 as we found out when we were doing the fragrance free policy, we fragrances are proprietary too and you can't find out what's in them. So I would suspect that some of these flavorings are also odiferous. I mean you said that they smell good to kids. So that again might trigger harm to bystanders even if it's not cigarette smoke type, you know
 It may be a more pleasant fragrance for some people, but for others it may cause asthmatic attacks or other allergic reactions. Right, and part of it is they're so unregulated that when studies, you know, just take a few off the shelf to actually see what's in them,
 then you can only comment on what's in those bottles on that particular day. But we're seeing different kinds of organic compounds, carcinogens, heavy metals, particulates. So again, with tobacco, the burden was really on the public to wait for the science to catch up and then for the policy to catch up. We have a chance to do this right by including electronic cigarettes in places where tobacco smoking is not allowed and to really, again, protect the people who are choosing not to use these products. Thank you.
 Yeah, I'm glad you used that phrase because obviously the burden shouldn't be on the public. And again, it's frustrating that we're even having this conversation. Something's going to be inhaled and ingested. And if the manufacturer of that product is not willing to disclose in detail what its contents are, then it is reasonable for the community to assume that those contents are toxic until they're proven otherwise. We don't have to prove that someone's product is safe.
 they have an affirmative obligation to prove their product is safe. And if they're not meeting that responsibility, then all the more reason to regulate. So I think, again, we as a community and you as a Board of Health and we as a city have every reason to be aggressive on this issue, frankly, given also the history of these kinds of issues in the past. It's not like the folks that brought us tobacco were entirely negative.
 transparent in what was being done to that product when it was being manufactured and marketed. So I think we have every reason to put the burden of proof on the other side of the counter. You'll be glad to hear that the tobacco-free parks policy that we're going to be taking up in a little while includes e-cigarettes. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else like to comment on this presentation? Please, come on up.
 afternoon good afternoon commissioners I definitely think that it was your name in the record oh I'm sorry Laquita Lanford that this was a very I'm really happy that this is this conversation is being brought up as we're going
 going into conversation about our new marijuana law that's going to happen this July. And as a person in a community that does a lot of advocacy and working around youth or just being, I take public transportation, wherever I have to go, these are the things that I have to see.
 But it is a very important conversation that we definitely need to be looking towards with our youth. And the fact that they can and currently is using it for marijuana. And, you know, it's just being labeled as like when you go to the store like a blunt paper with all these different flavorings. You know, so...
 The conversation was good to be a part of and actually hear and learn a little bit more about that. We talk about prevention opportunities in the schools and more prevention opportunities around what it can do to a youth's brain in that short period of time. One thing that I do not like seeing, and I was talking to Ms. Judith and Holloway, about seeing a parent smoking and they have their kid in their hand and that baby has no, like,
 Nothing can be able to say but you're just smoking away and so with us being able to have some restrictions around this This would be really good for our community And going forward with just some of the things that we have to deal with on a health level Good. Thank you. Thank you very much anyone else Then can I have a motion please to accept this report so moved? any further discussion roll call, please I
 Thank you very much for getting on this and being ahead of the curveball, catching up as quickly as we can. And I learned a lot this afternoon. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you very much for your report and your leadership. Aye. Novick. I learned a lot, too. Thank you very much, and Godspeed.
 Yeah, I look forward to doing the work with you on this and helping support good public policy, whether it's made at the county board or in city councils, including this one. One other point that I want to get into the record is there's also – we have a public safety responsibility at the city, just like you do with the county, and the manufacturer of butane hash oil –
 is a public safety menace in this country, both in terms of deaths and injuries and the leading cause of residential fires in a number of areas around the country. So it's such an explosive substance that it's actually a big public safety issue as well. So I hadn't myself made the connection that, oh, that's how that substance gets used. It gets put into one of these vaping devices and then inhaled. So we've got another issue there in terms of the hazard of,
 of these largely unregulated addictive products. So I'm really glad that you're on this. We're looking forward to working with you to do the right thing. Thank you. Yes. I think I forgot to vote. Oh, Commissioner Novick, please. And I'll do that too. Aye. Thank you very much. Okay, we're a little bit ahead of schedule. And I don't know if our presenters are here, so we'll have to take a five minute break and then resume at 2.45.
 OK, turn the order and take up item number 167, please. 167, presentation from the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization Chair on Education for Sustainable Development. Great. We're very pleased to welcome Dr. Hopkins and Dr. Smith here this afternoon to talk about this collaboration.
 Charles Hopkins is the chair of UNESCO's Education for Sustainable Development Project, working in collaboration with the Greater Portland Sustainability Education Network, working to
 to educate teachers about sustainability and therefore everyone else. So we appreciate your work. You're here to update us today on the work that's being done and on how Portland can be a constructive participant in this partnership and we're very glad that you're both here, so welcome. Thank you very, very much.
 I'll take about 10 minutes to paint a larger global picture, and then Kim will take about 10 minutes to talk more specifically in the Portland context. So that's sort of the plan, and then we leave a bit of time in case there are some questions for it. So in that larger picture, I think most people are aware
 That we are now moving globally from the Millennium Development Goals and trying to come up with new global vision. It's called The World We Want, and we will be creating, and countries are sort of voting on the new Sustainable Development Goals. Now, the problem is that at the international level, things are moving fairly slowly.
 It's into negotiations and so on, back and forth. But the really good news is that at the local level, at the regional, the city level, the state level, things are moving much more quickly because it isn't a win-lose thing. It's not like we're giving up our coal-fired plants if you'll give up yours. It's much more at the local level.
 And so what this program is called The World We Want, and there are now 17 large new development goals that they are working on. But inherent within them is the role of education, public awareness, training programs in general.
 And the largest gathering of heads of ministries of education, ministers, deputy ministers, secretaries of education, just happened recently in Nagoya in Japan, where they came together to form the Hachinagoya Declaration on how countries should be using public awareness, public education, education,
 understanding training programs, both in the public and private sector, to try and move forward. Kim was the head of the U.S. delegation there and is just finishing the report to the State Department on U.S. role within that.
 So as we move forward out of that declaration, and you have a copy of it there forward, one of the issues is that we should be revisiting and looking at the purpose of our education programs. And that's not just K-12, but it is public awareness, public education, et cetera. And there is a roadmap that countries have agreed to, and I'll come back to that in a moment.
 Move forward. The idea of education, public awareness and training first emerged in Rio in 92, because they realized in order to move forward and address issues, you need an educated, knowledgeable public. So there were four components to it. One is access to quality basic education. I mean, there are still...
 roughly the student population of the United States for whom there is no school in the world. And then think of the number of students who mentally have dropped out of school. They may be there, but it's not serving them well. So that's one thing. The second thing is reorienting our existing education. It's largely our most educated countries that are leaving the deepest ecological footprints.
 So the idea of repurposing, rethinking, revaluing, and so on. But a large one is this public awareness and understanding. It's extremely difficult for cities or countries to even move forward if you don't have the political support, and even corporations. There's no use building a Prius if no one will buy it.
 So we need a knowledgeable citizenry in order to move forward, and that's part of what we'll be talking about now. Now, there are different levels of implementing this. Unfortunately, one choice that too many are making is to ignore the idea and just focus on math and language and the K through 12, etc.
 But there are the events and so on. And if you look at this as working your way up, learning about sustainable development, then the idea of repurposing education. For instance, in the province of Manitoba, the goal of the education system is to produce people who will live in a sustainable manner. In Finland and so on, we can go through. But sort of the highest level we can envision now is aligning our,
 public awareness and education and so on, and training programs within the goals of the community itself. And we refer to this as a regional center of expertise in education for sustainable development, of which Portland is one. Now, the idea is this. If you look at it, there's two groups of people that we try to bring together. This is a program that started in 2005.
 and is now spread around the world. On the one hand, we are trying to bring together the messengers in the community, so formal education from preschool through to higher education, together with NGOs in the community, museums, science centres, et cetera, those who inform.
 the general public, together with the people who know what are the social, environmental, and economic issues facing the community now and what's coming. So urban planners, it could be researchers in universities, it could be the private sector. So how can we get that information?
 into the hands of the messengers, so that our school systems and so on are talking about locally based real issues. Cities and towns are saying, what is it that we wish every citizen knew about our own goals and what we are trying to do in the city? And how can we align in a collaborative way instead of all these random acts of sustainability going on? How can we bring the messengers together?
 to work in a synergized way with the urban planners, the city, and so on. It could be higher education researchers, et cetera. So that's the big picture. And if we look down below at the outcomes, where we've been doing this for roughly 10 years, we were fine.
 that students within the schools are much more knowledgeable. They take interest because they're being taught the core curriculum, but it's based in local reality. It's place-based. It's hands-on and engaging of students in actually doing things. Now, these regional centres, they say there are roughly 135 of them,
 And what they, it is a project of the United Nations University. About 135 in the world or in the United States? Yeah. And how many do we have in the United States? Four, I believe. Right? We don't count Texas. Sorry, Texas is no longer active. So we have three. And Portland is one of them. Yes. Portland. Yes. And I'll explain some of the history on that. Okay.
 Now, one of the things that the regional centers are trying to achieve, the UNESCO's Global Action Program, we had a UN decade of education for sustainable development that went from 2005 to 2014. It came to a close in Achi, Nagoya, where Kim was,
 And the new program that's replacing it is called the UNESCO Global Action Program on Education for Sustainable Development. Now, it has five priority action areas within it. One is advancing policy. It is so very, very difficult to try and move forward for people to do things if there isn't a policy that...
 funds them, gives permission and so on. And so we're looking at how can we embed policy in programs. The second one is transforming whole institutions. Instead of it just be greening a school or greening a university, it's looking into what gets taught, what gets evaluated, what gets funded, etc. Or a private sector, a business, or a city.
 How do you look at this in its entirety, in its purpose? The third one is improving the capacity of educators, higher education included. That's my particular role within UNESCO is reorienting teacher education.
 The fourth one is working with youth and building youth councils and so on. And the last one is the one that really applies to why we're here, and that's looking at how to build more sustainable communities. What is the role of education, public awareness, and training programs in trying to build more sustainable communities? So that's the fifth one. Now, as we point out, there are...
 It's very difficult to see, but that is a world map, and on it you have the various ones, of which Portland is fairly new, and yet it has quickly risen in the visibility on the international level.
 Part of it, just in the few days that I've been here and meeting with different groups, I can see that it is kind of embedded in the DNA of the community. There is a much larger concern that is here. And so I'll turn it over to Kim to carry on. Thank you. Thank you very much. We need to go forward. Here, I'll do it here. Just a little arrow, though.
 Yeah, go forward. I don't know why it's going backward on this one. All right. So, yes, we are an RCE, though I do want to identify that we have a local name, the Greater Portland Sustainability Education Network. We felt that captured a little bit more what our goal is, that to create a multi-sector network, focused on, and I know you were talking about training teachers, but it truly is formal, as he said, informal and non-formal education. So also working with the media.
 And so one of the things that Portland has done that is quite distinct than a lot of the other RCs around the world, there are many structures that are different models, but because we have very purposely integrated, if you go, we have the handout on gypsum in the gap, so we say gypsum, you can link on our gypsum page and see all the partners. We have partners from all across the sector. Some are still siloed, you know, and...
 So one of the benefits that we have already, so two years ago when we first started to apply, Mayor Hales, there was a letter in the application, I think that was sent to you guys early on. And so with Multnomah County and Metro and lots of different folks came together and said, you know what, we really can increase our collective impact if we created a network like this to have a more sustainable future, hopefully just by,
 equitable, healthy, those kinds of core things too. Because we really are an E4 model. E4, education, environment, economics, equity. All right? So our core main goals, you can see there. I'll get that down here.
 Within the work, one of the main things, and even coming today and meeting with you, we really want to make sure, I mean, we understand what's coming from the Global Action Program. Okay, so I have this document. Yes, thank you for recognizing. So I led the U.S. delegation to the UNESCO conference, and they said, RCEs, you've proven yourselves for 10 years. Portland, you're new, but, man, you've proven yourselves. How can you help implement the gap?
 Right? Well, that's fine. But really, we want to make sure that the work that we're doing is aligning with your initiatives, making sure, you know, what's the Portland plan? You know, what's going on with our climate action plans, metro level, all of this. The greater Portland region, our region, are the four counties. So Multnomah, Clackamas, and Clark, and Washington. All right? So when we say greater Portland, we're using the data, classic, you know, intertwines coalition for livable future of those four counties. Okay.
 So we want to ask that for you, with you. It's like, how do we align? How can these kinds of networks increase the collective impact of our region by working with some of the things you're trying to do? How would we be able to leverage existing resources with these cross-sector partnerships? How can we step outside those silos? And I know a lot of us are already working on this kind of model, but this is where the UN came in and said, this is something that is proven to work. And so...
 Where can we find some synergies? We all are right tight for cash, tight for resources, tight for time. So finding ways that we can create win-wins, collective impact through efficiencies, really finding some efficiencies.
 And of course, we have a strong partnership with Hands on Greater Portland, and a lot of you I know do volunteer work, so how can we also increase civic engagement? So those are our five main objectives that GIPSON established when we started. I just want to give you a little bit of an idea about the structure, so where you might fit in, but also so you know who's doing the work. We have over 120 organizational partners already, 300 individual members,
 And so around you can see all the stakeholders, really it's all of our community, right? But these are the voices that have come in and advised how to set up our work. We have a coordinating committee, about 15 people that actually represent all the sectors, and really aligning, you know, identifying the bylaws and working on projects. But the four core circles out there, those are the subcommittees that really I depend, I'm the coordinator,
 for the RCE or for GIPSON, but I really depend on this team to coordinate the partnerships through governance, doing the promotion of events through outreach, you'll see that, developing programs and trainings, and working with the research and development folks. Generally, that's coming out of higher ed, so PSU, et cetera. UP, Portland Community College, is a big partner. They've been funding us so far. Checking time here. I see folks coming in.
 So you have this. This is a document. You guys are able to ask questions around this, but I also want you to be able to reflect on these later, so I don't need to go through every point, but I want you to see what types of tangible tasks are being done. So the governance committee really has the funding
 tasks in addition to managing such a complex relationship. And I tell you, one of the biggest challenges, there are other RCEs around the world who their challenge is building things from scratch. Ours is making a container big enough for how much is actually happening because we already have so many players. So the governance folks are trying to do that.
 In terms of programs, lots of trainings, exhibits, forums that we've had already, because we've already been actually kind of building over the... We're formally accepted for a year now. And then Hands on Greater Portland, we've been doing volunteer projects. Proud of our virtual youth conference as well. Several Portland schools have been involved with that. If you're interested, of course, the outreach. If you would like some more things tweeted, which you guys do plenty of. But there you go.
 But we're really happy to have all the partners actually on a GIS map that our students at PCC are managing.
 And then Metro has funded a grant to actually do a full asset map of who are all the sustainability providers across our region, and how can we find each other? How can we actually do a network analysis to show that we have actually increased our collective impact? All right? So that committee really is responsible for that big grant, and we have that for the next two years.
 Finally, just to put it in context, the way the UN generally puts the United States, we are with Europe, but UNESCO and the UNU has us in the RCEs, the Americas. So there's sometimes some collaboration going between Canada, so North America, Central and South America. So if you look at the map again, you'll see where the RCEs are located. And our next, so we try to replicate good practices and support each other and learn from each other.
 And RCE Grand Rapids in Michigan, their mayor is actually their lead. It's actually in their city. So anyway, the next RCE is the Americas meeting is in Grand Rapids, by the way, if you're interested. So we made some commitments. We actually submitted some commitments to UNESCO for the Global Action Program. And Chuck said what those five were. You saw that map. We can check off number one.
 We're here. We're talking. This is good. Number two, we're really trying to formalize Gypsyn and then working with PCC, seeing all of the partners. Hopefully PCC is doing tons of whole. You guys know. You know how much PCC does around transformation.
 Well, Dr. Smith, you work at Portland Community College, right? I should probably have said that. I am an environmental sociologist, and I'm a sociology professor at Portland Community College, Slovenia. I've been there 19 years. Yes. Thank you. In addition to being coordinator. So anyway, the rest of it, you can see what we're trying to do. So is Portland Community College has been taking the lead on this? Yes. And is that going to continue, or what are the next steps?
 That's a very good question. They want to be a core partner, but they've been funding it all individually, but there's 120 different partners, and this is their bridge year, and they're like, okay, they've been giving me a course release to run, one course release to run an organization the size of four counties, and with all these goals. But at least they've been funding us for a while, and they are saying in June that we have to reorganize and find new funding structures.
 It's pretty remarkable that a so-called junior college or community college has been taking such an amazing role in this international organization. Well, community colleges are an important nexus between all the sectors. K-12, higher ed, also industry, workforce training, all of that. So in many ways, while sometimes community colleges don't have as high a status, they certainly model that.
 this network. And so it's worked very well actually having them be one of the core leads. And do you think Portland State University is going to want to step up and help out? Well, they've always been a partner from the beginning. We had our first meetings there. And they provide staff capacity, but they haven't provided funding. But we'll be looking into that more. Other questions? You can see these are our core goals. And I think that that actually brings us to the questions. Anything else?
 I have a really big dumb question, which is, when you're educating people for sustainable development, what are you educating them about? What do you want them to learn?
 Well, if we go back to those four areas, one of them is trying to improve the quality of the education system itself. And so quite often what we do is embed local social, environmental, and economic issues. I've just finished some research in 16 countries, the high-scoring PISA countries. These are the countries that are most respected in their school systems. And where...
 regions have taken this approach of using education for sustainable development as a delivery method, their test scores have gone up, the children are better prepared, and so on.
 So you're asking a really good question. That first one is access and retention and quality education. The second one, though, is reorienting. Why are we educating? And therefore, what should be taught? What should be tested? What should be funded? How do we prepare people more for the world they're going to inherit? Thank you.
 That's just informal education. Then there's the training and the public awareness and the building part, which I think is more applicable for cities, because you have the formal education component. But it's the city itself that has a very hard time moving forward if you don't have political support.
 May I answer a little bit more? So from the professor hat, too, we've been working on a lot of this. Is it curriculum? Is it something that's embedded in a discipline? Really, it's not. It's not just let's have a sustainability education class. It's how can we infuse sustainability across all disciplines with skill sets that citizens need, that youth need, lifelong learners need, critical thinking, principles
 and ethics of sustainability, right? These larger kinds of questions that one might discover in humanities and the social sciences as well. Not just the STEM classes, although those are essential, right, in terms of technical green jobs, all of that. But really, the broader kinds of things around problem solving.
 You know, those types of broader things. What does a sustainable future look like? That question, what the future we want or the world we want. Finland is at, they're doing a huge program now called the Finland we want. So I'm inviting you to also say, what's the Portland we want? Yeah.
 When I hear the word sustainable, I think about environmental stuff. And because the biggest environmental issue you can think of is climate disruption. When I think of educating for sustainable development, I would think about doing things like telling people it's not enough to eat locally grown food because it can still be carbon intensive. You should eat lots of lentils and less beef.
 So that's the kind of thing I think of when I think of education for sustainable development. But that's not everybody's definition of sustainability, so I'm still a little fuzzy on what you think of as sustainability and what particular kinds of education are relevant to it. It varies according to the region or whatever. For instance, in the Middle East, one of the huge problems is unemployed youth.
 so it's how do we better prepare people for the workforce in other situations in Europe what is rising now terribly is racism and exclusion with the number of illegal immigrants who are
 forced in there out of Africa. And in other cases, yes, it's environmental. But you never just do with one. You sort of look at what are the big issues in your region and how can education, public awareness and training address some of that. They won't address them in their entirety. Okay.
 You need policy, you need funding, you need legislation, you know, many different things. But you need to keep the general public on board and you need that kind of leadership with coming, especially from higher education.
 Kim, do you want to add to that? I do. So thank you, because you're also saying, what is the content? It's a really, it's actually a really problematic word. It's actually pretty dated, education for sustainable development. It came out of that 80s development movement. And Dr. Hopkins actually helped create education for sustainable development. I mean, he really helped create the RCEs, and he, thank you.
 even in the United States, you're going to hear more often education for sustainability or well-being, the words or resilience. The words are different now. We're always emphasizing this too. Social sustainability, economic sustainability, it's
 it's a problem that people think environment, because it really, what does a sustainable, you, I know you're all doing this work, so social and economic sustainability is always key in there. So those partners, we're actively working with those groups in Portland and the greater Portland region, not just the environmental groups, not just intertwined, you know, those kinds of networks. Does that answer your question? Yeah.
 I know there's more. It's complex. It's complex, and honestly, I don't even really like the word sustainability because we think about, you know, what is your goal? What is the future we want to sustain?
 just get by, you know? It's like, no, I think we'd like to thrive, right? I think it's really valuable that we can identify, like, what are these missions that you work so hard in defining? And then how, and again, this isn't education about, like, he and his stair steps up. It's not education about sustainability or sustainable development. It's not just learning about the health of the frogs and the scary issues we're facing right now with
 Climate change. It's education for sustainable development. How do we use this mechanism, this tool to help us all, right, achieve a future that at least we have a vision for, which doesn't guarantee we're going to get there, but goodness, this is a good way to try. Other thoughts? Commissioner Fritz, anything else you want to add to this?
 of the presentation here? This is very helpful, and it's wonderful to know that we're one of three out of 138 globally that Portland is a center for excellence and expertise, and to know that there's this mechanism for the partners to talk to each other. And I know you're presenting at Metro tomorrow. That grant will enable you to map those assets and connect us all. So I appreciated this conversation because sustainability is about the future.
 more than sustainability, it's thriving and it's looking at not just solar heating and recycling as sustainability concepts but equity and race and a number of the other challenges that you write that we talk about all the time. So it's good to know that we have international support for that. And if I could just reflect back on behalf of UNESCO and United Nations University, thank you for giving us this
 moment with you and I thank you for the work that has gone into the gypsum and what could happen in the future so thank you very much and on a tech and we will be meeting with Jackie Dink Felder and Michael Armstrong with Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and so some more of the kind of nuts and bolts kinds of questions they had asked for a meeting so we thank you Amanda or Commissioner Fritz for inviting us to City Council as well because I know
 You're very busy, so I'm glad we got to meet with you in addition to Michael and Jackie. Great. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thanks, Commissioner. I don't think we have to take a census with the presentation, but we could just thank them for their leadership and help. Thank you. Good to hear from you and good to hear that the work continues, so thank you. Okay. We will move on to our final item of the afternoon. Oh, sorry. Did you want to comment on this? Sure. Come on up. Come on up.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Laquita Lanferron. Today is a really good day for me with these topics that I'm listening to, so I dressed up today for you. Usually I don't dress up. But I didn't know that this presentation was actually going to be presented. But what I'm hearing and what I understand from sustainability is there was a project that I came up with. It was called Project E.
 seeds, sustainable environmental education development steps to agriculture, to what solar look like in the future as we talk about where we're going in our future and renewable energy and things like that. So we know that Portland is a very unique city, and also we have a lot of recent immigrants that live here in our communities, the Somalian community, the
 Hispanic community that in their country are used to farming, and there's older people that feel like maybe they can't get a job or anything like that or going back to school because they don't understand. But that's speaking their language, and that's also helping them continue to do what it was that they were doing when they didn't have an opportunity to look at school. So these training programs...
 would be very much helpful on a smaller level, I think, when it comes to community like New Columbia and the Hacienda area as we go forward when we're building and moving. And so I just wanted to say that I do understand a bit about the sustainability and also service learning programs in the school to get the youth involved because we're talking about their future,
 going forward, you know, and how we can have them to understand how important the environment is to them as we spoke about e-cigarettes and our health and these different type of topics. So I just wanted to, like, you know, mention that so that they can hear that I believe that this will be something good. I don't know much more in depth about it, but I will try to get with them and find out more how it can be talked about public awareness. And that's something that we don't
 have too much of to let someone know where their future looks like or their family. When it talks about language barriers and things that we're trying to break down. So thank you guys so much for that presentation. I thought it was very useful to our community here in Portland and being very
 As we're going with Mayor Hills, it's what it is that he's doing with Immigration 15 now and all of those things, racism and things like that. I think you guys are doing a great job, and so these things are very important. Thank you very much. Thanks very much. Yes? Oh, good. And the website is? But we'll put it on the record. Yes.
 Better tell me though. Oh, I will. In the document. It's www.pcc.edu slash about slash sustainability slash regional, that's a lot. dash center dash expertise. Wow, okay. We will make sure we put that on the
 On the written record as well as in the vocal record. Yeah, that's a lot. That's expertise, not extra peas. Thank you very much. Yes, do. Thanks. Thank you, Dr. Smith. Thanks a lot. I've been studying. All right. Let's move on to item 168, please.
 Expand Portland Parks and Recreation smoke and tobacco-free policy to all city parks, natural areas, recreation areas, and any other places where Portland Parks and Recreation park rules apply. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales. It is my honor to introduce this committee.
 ordinance today. Our parks help build community, they promote health and wellness, and they increase the livability of our city. And I believe that having a tobacco-free environment in parks would be a good thing for Portland. Tobacco-related diseases remain one of the leading causes of preventable death in Oregon,
 And this policy would support tobacco control efforts currently taking place across the United States, supporting people who are trying to quit and discouraging others from picking up a harmful habit, particularly children. Our parks are places where everybody should be welcome, and we already ban alcohol use in parks.
 expanding the tobacco ban would be consistent with a place for everybody to enjoy. Previous parks commissions, starting with Commissioner Saltzman, have banned smoking in some Portland parks, including Pioneer Courthouse Square, around playgrounds and picnic areas. Commissioner Fish expanded the ban to Director Park and the North Park blocks, which was under my jurisdiction. So we've got this mismatch of...
 of places where you're allowed to smoke in parks and places where you're not allowed to smoke. So if I was to state it quite succinctly, that the problems we are trying to solve are parks are supposed to be places that are healthy. Healthy parks, healthy Portland, healthy Portlanders. Having the inconsistent rules is a problem. And finally, the passage of the recreational marijuana means that if we allow smoking in parks...
 Marijuana smoking under the ballot measure passed last November is only to be allowed inside personal residences. You're not allowed to smoke marijuana in parks the way you currently are allowed to smoke cigarette products in parks.
 And so I don't want anybody to have to be guessing what people are smoking. And I think that this is a sensible policy which sets the rules very clearly. And that also answers the question of why now this ban, if adopted by the council, would go into effect at the same time that marijuana would become illegal for recreational use in Oregon.
 I'm very grateful to the Parks Board, who did the bulk of the work on looking into this policy, and you're going to be hearing from some of them later. First, we have Parks Director Mike Abate and Deputy Director Warren Jimenez, who are going to tell you more about the proposal. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and members of council. Mike Abate, Parks Director.
 First of all, I just want to tell you what our current policy is related to smoking. Current code prohibits smoking in all parks within 25 feet of children's play areas and in other prohibited areas. And it's completely prohibited in certain parks, such as Pioneer Square and Director Park. So what we're talking about is proposing some changes to that policy.
 This ordinance would amend the code to extend the smoking ban to all parks, natural areas, recreation facilities, and park maintenance facilities. It would extend the ban to all events on Portland parks and recreation properties with a provision for golf tournaments, an exception provision for golf tournaments. And it would expand the list of prohibited products.
 And if I might just add, it's that the Gulf Timbits could apply for a permit to be able to use tobacco products in the same way that other events can apply for an alcohol permit. That's correct. There is a provision that would allow designated smoking areas for employees who do not have access to non-Parks property as well.
 So in recognition of the fact that there are traditional ceremonies that involve tobacco, there's also an exception provision that would allow the use of tobacco in these instances. Now enforcement. While any violation of a city code is a misdemeanor which could lead to a citation, the primary method of enforcement for this policy will be education. Patrons who refuse to comply with a policy may be subject to a parks exclusion. But the purpose of this policy is not to ostracize people who smoke or use tobacco. Hmm.
 In addition to educating the public about the policy, raising awareness about smoking and tobacco cessation programs will be a big focus. And we'll do this with the help of Multnomah County and other agencies as well. So a little bit about the reasons. As the commissioner mentioned, our motto is Healthy Parks, Healthy Portland. And so this ordinance would align our practices with that focus.
 It also contributes to our commitment to providing healthy and safe environments for Portlanders and visitors, especially for children and youth, and you'll hear from some of them this morning, this afternoon. Smoke-free environments have been shown to motivate smokers to quit at higher rates than environments that allow smoking, and nearly nine of ten smokers begin before the age of 18. I was one of those, as a matter of fact, a smoker for five years.
 The reasons for expanding smoke-free parks, they get practical as well. Cigarettes have started fires at Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge, Springwater Corridor Trail, and Markham Nature Park. Our most common source of litter in our parks is cigarette butts, and they don't biodegrade quickly or easily. They're poisonous to animals and children, and they release toxins into our waterways. So why now? Well...
 Tobacco-related disease is still the leading cause of preventable death in Oregon. It costs Multnomah County $223 million each year in medical care. The City of Portland, if you choose to approve this ordinance, would join 64 other cities, counties, and jurisdictions across the state that have established smoke-free park policies. And over 1,000 municipalities nationwide, including Boston, Chicago, and Los Angeles.
 So as the Commissioner mentioned, the Portland Parks Board has researched smoke and tobacco-free parks and put forward recommendations. And in early January or mid-January, an email was sent out to approximately 44,000 subscribers to our Portland Parks email list. It included links to the draft ordinance, the FAQs. It asked for feedback by email.
 the end of the month. We received 341 comments on this. The vast majority of the comments were favorable about this ordinance. So I want to thank you, and I want to also highlight especially the work of Assistant Director Jimenez, Cynthia Castro, Senior Administrative Specialist, and our Parks Board, who has been a terrific partner in this effort. Thank you. How many acres of parks, natural areas? About 11,000, 11,500.
 How many of those acres are considered high pedestrian usage? High pedestrian usage like, I mean, Forest Park? High pedestrian density, let's say that. High pedestrian density. Near Courthouse Square. Yeah. There aren't that many that would be as dense as that of the 11,000 acres, maybe 25 acres, but I'm...
 just hazarding a guess at like the public plazas that hold big events. But in the summertime, you know, we turn many of our parks into big venues with movies and concerts and hundreds and sometimes thousands of people in place. And do you have the authority to make those events smoke-free? Yes, we do. Yes. So 11,000 acres is a lot of acres. And I guess, is there a plan B that looks at something less than a full...
 and says use existing authority to ban smoking in high population density parks.
 That's part of the reason that we're putting forward the policy is that the current sometimes on, sometimes not. Some parks are covered, some parks are not. Some parts of parks are covered has been confusing, and it's, in my opinion, simpler to have an overall ban. Besides which, as Director Abate pointed out, we've had fires in low-traffic areas because of discarded cigarettes. But what about enforcement? I mean, I guess –
 What strikes me most about this is it's unenforceable. And you can talk about, well, we're only going to educate people, but sooner or later you've got to start writing tickets. Sooner or later you're going to come to us and you're going to ask for more park rangers because people are getting into conflicts with one another, all sorts of things. So are you committing to us not to ask for any budgetary resources to increase park ranger staffing to enforce this now and forever? Yes. We are asking for more funding for park rangers, but not for this.
 What about enforceability? And I'm asking the Parks Director. Commissioner, I'll tell you that the single greatest force for enforcement is peer pressure. And making it clear to the public that smoking is not allowed sets a very clear standard and a very clear bar. We rely on...
 the goodwill of the vast majority of our park users. And once this gets publicized and we spend the time educating folks, I've got great confidence that this is one of those things that self-enforcement will take care of much of the problem. And, Commissioner, I would also say that it's true when you look at best practices and look at the other jurisdictions that typically it is about education and that social pressure that helps with this issue.
 Other questions for staff? Yes. Director Abate, I wanted to raise some questions and concerns that I have told Commissioner Fritz about earlier. I mean, I thoroughly agree with the goal of reducing smoking and making parks more pleasant for people who don't like being around cigarette smoke. I've had the experience myself of having to move around from place to place in a park to avoid smoke. But I am...
 Worried a bit about some potential unintended consequences. Laura Hansen in my office was at the University of Oregon when they adopted a no-smoking policy on university grounds. What they found was that smokers would congregate in the right-of-way immediately adjoining university property, like for those of you who know the U of O campus, on a median strip on Agate Street that was outside student housing and around the Duck Store on 13th Avenue.
 So it created unfortunate environments for people in those places. And perhaps partly because I'm a transportation commissioner, I worry about displacing smokers to crowds of smokers in the right-of-way around parks. Another concern I have is that...
 People who smoke are unhealthy enough already, and I'm a little worried about the prospect that they would just completely avoid parks because they can't smoke there. And I'd like to see them getting some exercise, even if they are ruining their health by smoking. And I realize that there would be practical problems with this, but –
 Ideally, what I'd like to see, at least in larger parks where you could really segregate people, is to have designated smoking areas and say, it's illegal to smoke, except here you can. And that way, the people that don't want to be around smoke can avoid them. And Commissioner Ritz has already told me that that's wildly impractical, but I wish that it weren't, and I just want your thoughts on that.
 Well, Commissioner, a couple points. I think we have 220 parks and natural areas, and identifying specific locations where you could smoke really, in my estimation, actually makes it much, much more complicated.
 because then you have areas that then you have to patrol that specific area, and you still have to tell folks that what they need to do is move to a particular site. There would probably be some capital costs. How do you identify that? Do you have to create fencing, or how do you do that? In a huge variety of different kinds of parks and places. Okay.
 I also think that, Commissioner, to your first point, I think it is true that, and we share, we want people to enjoy our parks, and we want everyone to come and enjoy time spent outdoors. If you are a smoker, we are not asking you to stop smoking. We are asking you for the time that you're spending in that park to,
 Don't smoke while you're there. Most visits to parks are not a three- or four-hour visit. They're an hour or so. And I believe that this is part of a bigger system where, really, our entire system is trying to promote a healthy, active lifestyle. And so that would be my response.
 I'm making this up, but can you imagine having a system where smoking is banned in parks, but if a critical mass of smokers in the area of a park came forward with a petition saying, we want to use the park and we'll abide by the rules, but we'd like you to carve out a place for us to smoke, I would imagine that might not happen all that often, and it would at least give people the option of carving out for themselves a place to smoke. Does that sound wildly impractical? No.
 Well, if it were a permitted event, and we do a lot of permits with, for example, as the Commissioner mentioned, we do not allow alcohol, but we create a permitted provision where you can, under certain circumstances, have alcohol. If that's what the Council wanted us to do, is to create something in a permitting system that allowed that, we could do that. This right now, the ordinance as it's currently written, would not allow that. Final question I have to ask. Why the semi-exception for golf events? Yes.
 It's for golf tournaments, and I think this is a big question for us as a park system, is we have five golf courses and we have a racetrack. And so there's been a lot of research and deliberation on what the impact of no smoking might do to those which receive no general fund. They're completely self-supporting. So golf tournaments are a big source of revenue, and so, as the commissioner mentioned,
 they could petition for a permit requirement that would allow smoking under certain conditions. That would probably be, the conditions would be things like not around the parking lot, not around the clubhouse, out on the holes perhaps.
 but one of the things we don't want to do is to create a situation that a recreation opportunity that's self-funded, completely self-funded, doesn't go under because we lose 20% of our tournaments. But we've also talked to many other golf systems in the country, and after an initial adjustment period, that's why we're only putting it to tournaments, not for normal play, we found that the golf systems haven't suffered over time.
 The initial recommendation from the Parks Board was to phase in a complete ban on golf courses. In discussions with the Golf Advisory Committee, we decided on this compromise to allow tournaments to apply for a permit if they wanted to do so. Okay.
 Yeah, and I would also add is in addition to the golf being an enterprise fund, it also works in a competitive market. That was certainly one of the reasons behind making the distinction in that there are other golf courses that do allow smoking. I'm not sure if I followed you on sort of the festival scenario. Let's say, I'm just thinking this through,
 given the conversation. So let's say President Obama is successful in normalizing relations with Cuba and somebody wants to put on a Cuban cigar and Portland beer festival. Would that not be allowable? Would we have to make a specific exception? I believe you'd have to make an exception. By ordinance? Yeah, currently as the ordinance exists, they wouldn't allow it.
 more likely a Cuban rum in Portland Beer Festival, but I digress. But I'm serious. I mean, I just want to understand how that would work. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. So our next panel, Julie Bigelon from the Portland Parks Board, Tricia Tillman from Multnomah County Health Department, and they'll be followed by some students. So I'll call the next. That's the first two-person panel. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hello. Thank you.
 Honorable Mayor and City Council Members, we really appreciate the... You're naming the record, Julie. Sorry. Oh, yeah. That was the next sentence, but it's Julie Bigland. I thank you for the opportunity to testify on this important issue today on behalf of the Parks Board. And yes, I am Julie Bigland, and I am a past board member, or a current board member and a past board chair.
 Our Parks Board is a 15-person group appointed by you, the City Council, to advise Portland Parks and Recreation on policy. We proudly represent the diversity of Portland, both in geography and in a wide range of racial, ethnic, and social economic backgrounds. At our December meeting, the Portland Parks Board unanimously recommended that the City of Portland expand its existing park smoking policies.
 I want to extend the Parks Board appreciation to Commissioner Amanda Fritz for her enthusiasm and her eagerness to get this on the docket. Along with several other members, I have served on a Parks Board committee for the past two years, and we've researched this idea of transitioning all of our parks, natural areas, and recreation areas to be smoke-free.
 We have researched communities around Oregon and around the country who've already implemented smoke-free policies. We often pride ourselves on Portland's leadership in many significant policy areas that make this city a better place to live. On the issue of smoking in parks, we need to catch up to 64 other cities and counties around Oregon who are ahead of us in this effort,
 All state of Oregon parks, all metro parks, and communities as small as Reedsport and as big as Hurlsboro have gone smoke-free. Around the country, as already mentioned, New York, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, and San Francisco, they've all done the same. Looking at this issue, our committee learned that currently, and to, as Amanda said, Director Park...
 Pioneer Courthouse Square and the portions south of park blocks that fall on Portland State University property are smoke-free. Further, smoking is prohibited within 25 feet of any play area structure, picnic table, or children play area. Yet, it is currently legal to smoke at crowded park events or while hiking along well-used trails. The Parks Board recommends that all parks and recreation be smoke-free.
 This policy would eliminate the guesswork regarding the rules for the park you are in. Is it a smoke-free park? Do you need to measure the number of feet you are from a play structure or play area? All would know that in Portland Park or natural areas, there is no smoking. This move is consistent, as Director Abate said, with Portland Parks and Recreation's mission, which is Healthy Parks, Healthy Portland.
 It would reduce exposure of Portland residents and visitors, especially children and youth, to smoking and tobacco used to protect their health and discourage them from starting the habit that is difficult to quit. Often people are at a park with dozens if not hundreds of other visitors at events, on a trail or near a playground for secondhand smoke. A well-documented health hazard is an issue.
 Finally, another benefit of this proposal is to protect Portland parks and natural areas from potential risk of fires and the damage caused by littering of cigarette butts and other tobacco-related wastes.
 In Portland, littered cigarette butts have been the causes of fires of multiple sites, including, as mentioned earlier, Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge, Markham Nature Park, and Springwater Corridor Trail. Additionally, people may not realize that cigarette butts do not biodegrade, and they leach toxic chemicals into our waterways.
 the Portland Parks Board urges you to vote yes next week to expand the Portland smoke-free policy and establish that all city parks, recreation areas, and natural areas will be smoke-free. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, and commissioners. My name is Tricia Tillman. I've been working in public health for over 20 years. I am a former member of the Parks Board and am here today as the Public Health Director for Multnomah County Health Department. The Health Department supports the Portland Parks recommendations to expand its current tobacco policy for all city parks and natural areas.
 While only 15% of Multnomah County residents smoke, tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable death and disease in Oregon, which includes cancer, stroke, heart and lung diseases. In Multnomah County alone, almost 1,200 people die yearly from tobacco, and approximately 23,000 people suffer from a serious tobacco-related illness.
 the health inequities associated with tobacco use are staggering with close to 30 percent of african-american adults and over 40 percent of american indian alaska native adults in walt noma county identifying as current smokers these same communities shoulder a disproportionately large burden of tobacco related illnesses the health department has been working to reduce the burden of tobacco use and prevent youth from smoking
 One strategy with demonstrated success is expanding smoke-free environments. Some examples which have been mentioned include the Oregon Indoor Clean Air Act, Metro's regional smoke-free policy, which includes the zoo, regional parks, golf courses, and natural areas, and the Portland Timbers' assurance that their fans and athletes enjoy a smoke-free Providence Park.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends these policies to ensure that smoking is not the norm in our society. And this is especially important for our children, those who become ill from even the slightest exposure to tobacco smoke, and individuals who have struggled to quit and stay quit.
 Multnomah County Health Department is pleased to see all tobacco products called out in the policy, including electronic vaping devices and smokeless products. Tobacco program staff have been working with the Parks Bureau to support the development of this policy and are available to assist at your request with implementation. Thank you.
 I'm confident that residents and visitors will benefit from this policy, including my own teenagers, who are part of the demographic targeted by the industry to become new users, and my mother, who quit smoking about 30 years ago but has been battling lung cancer for the past five years. I appreciate your leadership with this very important issue, as well as the invitation to speak here today. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Thank you both. Thank you.
 Thank you. And our last panel, students from the Southwest Charter School, Colter Decker and Henry Oskanlang Miller, and students from Madison High School, Lindsay Ramirez and Winnie Lau from Rebels Without a Cause. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Hi, I'm Colter Decker. I'm an eighth grader at Southwest Charter School and live in Southeast Portland. I'm Henry Oskanlang Miller.
 an eighth grader at Southwest Charter School. I live in Northeast Portland. As a class, we voted and chose secondhand smoke in public parks as our project for product citizen from a pool of community issues. We chose this for our project because it is an important and costly health issue.
 People can't choose whether or not they're affected, but they're exposed to smoke if they're in a public park with smokers. We have received letters of support from the American Cancer Society, the American Heart and Stroke Association, and the American Lung Association. We also started an online petition and would like to share with you some of the many comments in support of our issue.
 Barbara Anderson from Portland commented, I spend a lot of time in our city parks. At times, the smoke pollution is so high I have to leave. Please ban smoking from our public places. Jan Molinaro commented, my husband and I moved to Portland for a healthy lifestyle and a clean city experience. Let's help our children have that experience also.
 And Catherine Miller, secondhand smoke kills. I may have had to endure it as a child, but as an adult, I have the choice. Keep this poison away from me. Niles Lehman says, this is an absolutely critical thing to do for Portland if we want to consider or call ourselves a livable and progressive city. There are many more insightful comments, and I encourage you to read them when we give you a copy of the petition.
 Seeing people smoking desensitizes smoking and makes it seem more socially acceptable, leading to young people becoming addicted. We spent months researching the dangers of secondhand smoke to encourage you, the City Council, to ban smoking in public parks. It is important to us that smoking is banned in public parks because we want to be able to go to parks without having to worry about the dangers of secondhand smoke.
 Portland is a leader in promoting healthy living, and banning smoking in public parks is the next step in securing a safe and healthy environment for the citizens of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to your whole class who did a presentation for me about a year ago and was part of the input just for us moving forward on this. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome.
 Hi. Hello, my name is Lindsay Ramirez, and I'm a junior at Madison High School, and I'm a rebel. The Rebels for a Cause is a student-led group made up of students from across the Tri-County area. Our mission is to influence their education and inspire their example to promote a tobacco-free world. One of the things that we do is we talk to middle school and high school students and explain to them the misconceptions they may have about tobacco. We also hold events around our schools and the neighborhood to bring awareness to our community about the dangers of tobacco use.
 We are here speaking to you about why the ordinance should be passed because as high school students and as rebels, your decision will impact our future. Allowing smoking affects me because right next to Madison is Glenhaven Park. It's a nice park with tennis court, athletic fields, and a skate park, but unfortunately it gives Madison a bad reputation because it's a place where adults and students like to go smoke. Having the park so close to the school gives students a place to smoke that's off school grounds.
 Having the park, that's not the only problem there. At Madison, the park is often used by sports teams to practice and to hold sporting events, and allowing people to smoke causes a disturbance. I remember playing tennis my freshman year and smelling the tobacco from the cigarettes. It was disgusting, and it was one of the reasons I didn't play the following year.
 And allowing people to smoke in the park not only endangers those in the park, but also the infant and toddlers at Madison's daycare program for teen parents. The children are regularly taken outside to play. Unfortunately, since the park is very close, they inhale a lot of fumes from cigarettes, and cigarette butts end up right in front of the little play area. I believe that passing this ordinance would make the park much safer and be better for the overall community.
 Not only would it make the area better, but it would also benefit the rebels. We use our voices because we want our experience regarding this issue to be heard, an issue in which many think we aren't affected by. By passing this ordinance, it will not only strengthen the message that the rebels are trying to spread, but it will also make our voices louder and stronger. Thank you for the opportunity to be here and share with you today. Thank you. Welcome.
 my name is winnie and i'm a madison rebel i came from a family of smokers including my father who began smoking as a teenager and still smokes today growing up i saw firsthand what smoking can do to you i have a little sister who currently attends harrison park middle school and will eventually go to madison like madison which is next to glen haven her school is next to harrison park
 As a 12-year-old, my sister is extremely impressionable. Seeing all the older students smoking may encourage her to smoke as well. She might even start to think that smoking is acceptable and cool. If Portland Parks banned the use of tobacco products, this will set an example for children, discouraging them and letting them know that there are consequences to smoking. This is why I joined Rebels. I wanted to ensure a safer environment for children like my sister and prevent them from going down the same path as my father. To go with our testimony, we brought an example of what Glenhaven Park looks like.
 Believe it or not, this is the amount of cigarette butts that we found within 30 minutes. This amount of litter might surprise you, but it definitely does not surprise me. This is what I see every single time when I step outside of my school, and it is not acceptable.
 Kickbutt's Day is the national day of activism that empowers youth to stand out, speak up, and seize control against the big tobacco. We would like to invite all of you guys to join us on Wednesday, March 18th at Madison for Kickbutt's Day from 12 30 to 1 pm. Thank you for allowing us to share our experiences and speak our minds.
 So tell me about the name Rebels with a Cause. Madison Senators, right? So again, the Rebels with a Cause is a program that's with health schools. So if you're a part of a health program, like the health sciences program,
 you, and you go to Madison or another, the two other schools, is just Schellingberg and Beaverton, you can join the club. And so it helps us work. It helps us like set up these events and just trying to help people that we know, like our friends or people that are going to be coming to high school, just get a view of like why smoking isn't something they should, they should start or because it is again, dangerous for them. And
 it's not helpful for anyone around you. I mean, secondhand smoke is also just as dangerous as smoking yourself. So it kind of benefits you and the people around you. Thank you for your work. And could you just hold that canister up? How many people did it take to collect all of those cigarette butts? It was the freshman class of health. Wow. Thank you for bringing that. That's very graphic. Thank you.
 illustration of what the immensity of the problem is. Thanks very much. Thanks for coming.
 Okay, any more invited testimony, Commissioner? Okay, then we'll open it up for public testimony from the sign-up sheet. So, again, if you're here to testify on this item, welcome. We practice democracy in this room, so if you agree with someone, you can do as you've seen folks do, which is give them a thumbs-up or a hand wave, but we like to let our fellow citizens have their say. So no matter what point of view, we want to be heard. We typically give people three minutes. You need to only give your address unless you're a lobbyist. Okay.
 and I'm sorry? You said only your address. Only your name, not your address. Sorry. We don't care about your address. If you're a lobbyist, actually, we need to know that and who you're representing because that's what the city code requires that you disclose. If you're a citizen, you need to give us only your name. So welcome, and please let's take testimony from the sheet. We have five people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Lee Hill, Peter Garcia, and Joe Walsh.
 i wondered why you were back in this room lee good to see you it's been a while uh lee hill southwest portland a long time member of the golf committee and also i uh i now work at one of the golf courses part-time i'm marshall so i have a vested interest in this i think i'm going to be one of the people expected to uh to enforce this and i'm non-smoker and i'm um in agreement with this i think it's um it's expected i i saw it coming
 My only concern, and again, this is more reflective of Redtail, I think, than the other courses, is we do have very little in the way of tournaments out there. I'm not disagreeing with Director Abate, but I don't think tournaments are as big a boon to our golf course income as he might think. They really don't mean that much.
 At Redtail, my concern is that we have a very large percentage of Asian, particularly Korean, golfers. And for whatever cultural reasons, they are smokers. And I've done kind of an informal poll, and they're pretty indignant about this, so...
 I just hope there's follow-through. Now, I will also tell you I've done an informal poll of some of the people who run the golf courses, and they really don't seem to have any real intention of enforcing this. I know it doesn't go into effect until, what, July 1? Is that it? Right. Yeah. Well, I just hope that we're prepared to see numbers drop, because I think that's going to be one of the initial –
 Results of this I think some of the golfers especially at Redtail are going to find other places to play But but I understand now another thing that kind of confuses me Commissioner Fritz we've already banned alcohol in the golf courses No, we haven't we have alcohol on all the golf courses. We have it in the restaurants and
 We have beer, we have wine, and we have distilled spirits. And not only do we have them, we actually deliver them to the golfers while they're playing via beverage carts. So I'm not saying it's a hypocrisy, but I know we want to save the world from the ills of tobacco. But I've witnessed, as a marshal on the golf course, I don't really have a tough time with people smoking. But I've had a real tough time with people who are drunk golfers.
 And we're part of the reason they get drunk, because we served them alcohol out there. I didn't know that. That should be the next policy change. Well, come back next week. So, yeah. And there's one other thing. It's a specific incident. I think you're aware of it. In August of 2013, the Oregon State University Rugby Club had a tournament at Heron Lakes, and they got inebriated. And we helped them get inebriated.
 And the woman who worked the beverage cart was sexually assaulted. It was a very serious matter. And I hope we come up with a better policy in the future than the one we had to address that, because the perpetrator was never brought to justice. The police and the criminal justice system were never involved. And now Kemper Sports Management, which manages that course, that's our agent at that golf course, is paying that woman a considerable sum of money.
 It was handled very poorly. And after that, it was our golf director's decision to give a no-bid contract to that same management group for the new Colwood course, even though they were a named defendant in a lawsuit. I hope we can come up with a policy that's better than that in the future for handling sexual assault. And that's directly responsible because of alcohol.
 I know I segued into that, but if you're concerned about tobacco, you should really be concerned about alcohol also. Question for you, Lee. Not being a golfer, don't know this, but private courses, do they typically allow smoking or prohibit it? Are they all over the map on that subject? They do, but remember with private courses, there's usually a much greater consensus.
 to agree to the rules. And you have smoking on private courses, but it's done very discreetly. The other thing that's tough about this is cigars. I did a tournament for the Kaiser doctors years ago at Pumpkin Ridge, and they were all smoking cigars. You know, it's just, it seems to be
 a Thing you do in the celebratory golf tournament or whatnot? That's gonna be tough also because a lot of people like to have a cigar when they play golf and they don't view that as a Terrible health risk, although you know, it is a health risk, too Okay. All right. Thank you very much very much. Appreciate your volunteer service. I think you're next sir. Welcome. Good afternoon mayor hails and Portland commissioners. It's an honor to be here. My name is Peter Garcia and
 I was born December 27, 1959 at St. Vincent Hospital in Portland. I graduated in 1978 from Park Rose High School. I'm 55 years old. I've lived here and worked my entire life. I've enjoyed, appreciated, played, worked, volunteered in our beautiful city of Portland Parks my entire life. If someone asked me how well I knew the parks, I guess I would say I'm an expert on the parks. I smoked cigars for 35 years for pleasure.
 I do not intend to quit. I enjoy a good cigar. I am healthy, very healthy. I am not a criminal. I do not litter. I respect the concern of others. In my 35 years of smoking cigars, I cannot remember even one time someone asking me to put it out or please move away. I have been told many times how nice it smells and have been thanked for asking people around me if it offends them if I light up one of my cigars."
 A great pleasure of mine is smoking my cigar, sitting at a Portland park, enjoying the beautiful day, whether it is spring, summer, fall, or winter. It doesn't matter. It is a favorite pastime of mine, and I've thoroughly enjoyed it for years and years, and I plan on continuing this wonderful joy in my life for many more years to come. It would be sad and awful if this suddenly was not available to me anymore.
 I have, I am here before you five, excuse me, four leaders of my city to express my disapproval of the proposed cigar smoking ban at my parks. Here are a couple reasons I believe that we should vote against it. First of all, it's not right, it's not fair, it's mean, it's not Portland, it's cruel, it's wrong, and it's discrimination.
 It would be a nightmare for park rangers. How would they enforce it? They would constantly be confronting smokers, constantly. They would have confrontations all day long. It would be a nightmare for them. And plus the parks go forever and ever. They can never cover it all. Unfortunately, our government has kicked cigar and cigarette smokers out of bars, apartments, parks, and many, many other places. Where do we go next?
 And it's very unfair to the poorest population. A friend of mine, Mr. Ted Johnson, worked 35 years, hard work in Multnomah County. He retired. He ended up living in a subsidized living housing project on Northwest Park Avenue down here. And one of his few enjoyments, he's banned from smoking in his own apartment.
 One of his few enjoyments in his lonely life is to sit at the park bench in the North Park and enjoy an afternoon sunshine with a cheap cigar and some coffee.
 Mr. Johnson is not a criminal. He doesn't drive. His mobility is limited. He minds his own business. He's worked hard and paid taxes over decades in Portland. He has very few friends. He is a kind, older Portland gentleman. He is not a criminal. Must I stop now? Try to wrap up, but we'll give you some more time. Okay.
 Please, you leaders of this wonderful city, please do not make him a criminal, because if he passes, this lonely old man will be a criminal. And there are hundreds of Mr. Ted Johnson's in Portland. Some of them, all they have is a day in the park to light up a cigarette and enjoy their life.
 Lonely old people that don't have much enjoyment left in their life except the smoke, and they are not going to quit. They are not going to quit anytime now and anytime soon. I do not witness cigarette or cigar smoke interfering with park users. I'm in our parks all the time. We already have restrictions on smoking in parks. It works. We're responsible. We listen to it. We understand it. There are signs.
 Please don't take away what Portlanders have been doing for over 150 years. We've lost way too much freedom of choice in my adult life. Please, Mayor Hales, commissioners, please do not make enjoying a fine cigar outdoors in a lovely city park a crime. It hurts no one. I'm a hardworking Portland citizen. I've lived here 55 years. I love Portland. I love cigars. I am not a criminal. Please do not make me one. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Walsh.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Seven years ago, I lit up my last cigarette. I'm on oxygen not because of smoking, but because I have asbestosis from the Navy and from the shipyards. One of the problems that we have here is we support the concept of what you're trying to do.
 but we oppose what we consider draconian ways you're going about it. First of all, we agree with Commissioner Salzman that it is unforceable. You cannot do that. You have too many parks. You don't have enough park ranges. Unless we're going to have a flood of people that will now be running around
 writing out tickets, and I know you're saying, okay, we're going to do education. You're making it a misdemeanor. Now let me explain what a misdemeanor is for your viewers. And you have a lawyer out there, if I'm wrong, please correct me. You can spend a year in jail on a misdemeanor. You can go before a judge, and that judge can put you in jail for a year on a misdemeanor. So it's no minor stuff.
 Exclusion means exclusion for what? All the parks? So if somebody gets busted for smoking a cigarette, they're either going to get a huge fine or go before a judge and be excluded or the park ranger is going to decide. There's nothing in the paperwork that says any of this.
 You also say in the paperwork it's not going to cost anything because you're going to do it within the system. Let me tell you something about mootness, because I'm getting to be an expert on this. If you exclude somebody from the parks, they do have a right to appeal. And in the park regulations, it says you cannot just say no.
 The case is moot. It will go on in a hearing also with witnesses, and the city will be represented, and the guy will be represented or the woman, whoever gets the ticket or the exclusion. It's a very complicated process, and I know it personally. So what you're doing is...
 Zealotism, that's what you're doing. And I say this directly to you, Commissioner Fritz, because I know you want to do the right thing. This is being a zealot. And as far as those cigarettes that you saw today, I was standing by a TriMet station today on the way here, and one of the things that I noticed was on the tracks, there are huge amounts of cigarettes. It's a $200 fine if you get caught.
 smoking on a TriMet station. But there are hundreds of cigarettes. So don't let that fool you. This is not going to stop people from smoking in the parks. You're going to have to figure out enforcement, and that is going to be a nightmare. Thank you. Thank you. Next, folks, please. The last two who signed up are Steve Entwistle Sr. and David Loftus. Okay. And anyone else who hasn't signed up, you're welcome. Okay.
 Good afternoon. My name is Stephen Entwistle, Sr. I'm founder of the Healing Man Sanctuary. I'm representing individuals for justice, 100 million friends, and I'm also a whistleblower for the less fortunate. Okay, and a 55-year resident of Portland. I was born here. I've been going up to that park, up in these parks, and I've been doing this for a long time.
 since about 1962. I am not a tobacco fan. In fact, I guess you would call me a tobacco-free smoker. But this isn't about tobacco as much as it is about the rights of the individual being taken away and targeted. All hostilities towards the less fortunate are
 Confrontations from zero tolerance policies such as these will increase negative contacts with park goers and add to security demand, which will also cost a lot of money. But this should not be about building up a police state in our parks. We have the safest parks in the nation, if not in the world.
 and to say that we need to add a whole bunch of security and make them dangerous because we got guys chasing around smokers, the Rangers chasing around all day and having confrontations with them and seeing if they're inclusions and seeing if they got this and that on them. I got a question for you. Let's say somebody's up there and it's in the middle of wintertime and he's got his hand by his mouth
 and he blows out some condensation, and the park ranger thinks he's smoking. Okay, that gives him an excuse to go and search this guy down. Now, that's a point you probably haven't heard about. Also, there's some folks up there that are Vietnam veterans that like to go up there and smoke joints once in a while, like especially a week before the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Now you're going to criminalize them. That's not right. I know some of these folks.
 Another thing is in Europe, the difference between the Rangers in Europe and the Rangers here, you know what they are? The Rangers in Europe, they wear really bright outfits so that everybody can see where they're at and see them coming from a long ways in case they need them. The Rangers here, we have camouflage. One more point. We should make our Rangers wear fluorescent pink so that we can see them coming from a long ways. That way there won't be any confrontation. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is David Loftus.
 I've been a 24-year resident of Portland. I was born in Eugene, came of age in Coos Bay. I'm a freelance wordsmith, actor, model. I also work part-time as a customer service rep for the Portland Streetcar, and I guide Portland walking tours, part of which takes its route through the South Park block. So I see the city while I work in several jobs as an ambassador of Portland, and I see the city as visitors to the city often see it.
 And I'm speaking in support of this measure because, well, I see it as almost a tactical thing because it's tough to catch people littering. And having lived to block off the South Park blocks for 10 years, I've lived in Museum Place for 10 years as of July.
 I see that just although the — I tangled the Oregonian editorialist last year. I submitted a letter to the editor in support of this measure and the Oregonian printed as a guest editorial with a rebuttal, so I guess I got them where they live. He said everybody litters, and from my observation, that's not the case. Most of us grew up learning not to litter,
 And from my observation, the people who litter in the parks tend to be from out of town. They tend to be visitors. They tend to be homeless and vagrants and folks who are doing other things in the park. The people who drop cigarette butts come from all walks of life. I see my neighbors who live in the buildings along the park blocks.
 grinding them out and leaving them on the street. I see business people. I see all kinds of people. For some reason, smokers seem to think that they are exempt from littering laws. And it's tough to catch people littering, but it's not hard to catch them smoking. And I see this measure as partly a
 local law enforcement able to budge the drug dealers from Schmansky Park and the first couple of blocks of the South Parks, and they're having more and more difficulty with street people who are camping on the South Park blocks or hang out on for a long time. I've been doing battle directly with skateboarders who leap on the Peace Chant sculpture. All of these people, at least some of them, smoke.
 And it's tough to catch them doing a lot of the other things they do, whether it's doing a drug deal or littering or jumping on the sculpture, even though there are posted signs saying no skateboarding in the park box. Now, previous spokespeople have talked about a police state and needing more enforcement and coming down hard on people. We know that there is wiggle room, that folks will get a lot of leeway,
 during the education period and even during the enforcement period. But this gives you another tool that I'm hoping will mean we'll get more policing of the park blocks to go after people who are up to much worse things than smoking. Thank you.
 And gradually, I hope that the rest of the smokers will stop dumping butts on the block instead of taking those extra few steps to a garbage can because there's one on every block. But I see piles of butts next to the benches, on the walkways, within easy reach. And most of the smokers I met don't seem to understand or know about portable ashtrays. They haven't investigated them, but you can buy them at any richest cigar store.
 So I'm very much in favor of this ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Anyone else like to speak? Then this will be a couple discussions before we move on. Warren, could you come back? Mr. Abate? You could just address the question of parks exclusions. If somebody is excluded, are they excluded from one park or from all parks?
 Thank you. At the director's request, I'll handle this one. My name is Harry Auerbach. I'm from the city attorney's office. First thing about the rangers. The direct answer to your question, Commissioner, is under our code, if a person commits a violation of the law in a park, that person is subject to exclusion only from that park. Our rangers are not armed. They don't carry handcuffs. They don't search people. And they don't arrest them or issue criminal citations.
 None of that's going to change under this ordinance. Technically, any violation of the city code is an unclassified misdemeanor. The maximum penalty is six months and a small fine. In reality, it's very rare for anybody to get any actual jail time for violating any city code provision, although for some of the more serious ones, I believe they get some.
 Do you know if we've ever issued a misdemeanor citation for smoking in the current smoke-free zones? As far as I know, we have not. I'm not aware of any time in which that has been done. Most – it is – my understanding –
 is that the plan that the Bureau and its rangers have for this program pretty much mirrors what the folks at Pioneer Courthouse Square have been doing ever since we've made it first by rule and later by code unlawful to smoke in that park, which is approaching people and educating them and gaining voluntary compliance.
 Much as we try to do with all of our code provisions, we rely on the public to voluntarily comply with them because we don't have enough police officers to enforce every provision of our law everywhere throughout the city, and we don't have enough rangers to enforce every provision of the code that you've got on the books now. We do the best we can with what we've got and rely on education and voluntary compliance for successful implementation of your programs. Thank you. Anything else that either of you would like to add?
 I don't think so, Commissioner. I just remind my colleagues that when we did the off-leash dog area, not the off-leash dogs appropriation for the rangers to be able to issue citations and fines, we did that by separate ordinance. We have no intention of coming to council with any kind of suggestion that we're going to empower rangers to issue tickets or written warnings, those kinds of things. Okay.
 Commissioner, that reminds me of another question I had, which is, have you considered the option of simply requiring that all smokers be on leash? We would then have to have off-leash areas, and that's problematic, too. Other questions for staff before we conclude? So this is a first reading. It will be back for council discussion and a vote next week. And if I just want to close by thanking my staff and everybody who's been involved in this discussion. I think it's been a very...
 productive and constructive one. I was a nurse at OHSU when OHSU went smoke-free first with inside and then campus-wide, and we had a lot of these same discussions about how people would manage. In fact, it's turned out very well. And as Commissioner Novick and I were discussing with relation to the University of Oregon campus rules, Autzen Stadium is entirely smoke-free and it does not seem to have stopped people going to duck football games.
 So there's many other events and sporting events within our city. PGE Park was mentioned, Providence Park, where people are gathered and manage to not smoke for hours at a time. And I don't see this as a draconian measure at all. I see it as something that would promote healthy parks and healthy behaviors for the children and adults who are in our parks. So thank you for your consideration. Thank you.
 Thank you. So this moves to second reading, and we are recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m. Okay. Interesting.