All right, good morning, everyone. Good morning, Carla. This is the February 13th, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. For those of you who have forgotten, tomorrow is Valentine's Day. That may or may not be relevant to you, but I don't want people to forget. Carla, please call the roll. Yes. Fritz? Fish. Here. Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Wheeler. Here. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass.
 Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. So we'll pull it and just do the substitute. Perfect. Good. Good. All right. Great. First up is communications. Carla, could you please call the first individual? Item 114, request of Robert Patterson to address council regarding homelessness. Good morning. How are you? Excellent. Thank you. All right.
 Homeless people should be a protected class, as we do not enjoy the full rights of U.S. citizenship.
 One aspect in which this is alarmingly evident is the right to representation. My name is Robert Patterson. I'm the director of Everyone Counts, a Portland-based advocacy organization committed to equity in the 2020 census. One of our objectives is to count accurately every homeless person in the Portland metropolitan area on Census Day, April 1, 2020.
 As we gear up towards 2020, I think it's important to look back at 2010. I want to thank Commissioner Fish for his outstanding leadership as co-chair of the local 2010 Complete Count Committee. And I also want to apologize for telling the Oregonian that you look like Donald Rumsfeld's cool little brother.
 But seriously, seriously, thank you for your leadership. I hope to sit down with you soon for a debriefing of sorts as we look at the successes of that committee and as we look for opportunities for improvement. Now, we know that the Census Bureau, in an effort to save money, is planning for 2020 to be the first digital census.
 This increased reliance on automation, especially when coupled with a reduced local presence brought about by bureau plans to close half of its regional offices, is extremely problematic. Now, more than ever, cities need to be able to count on federal consistency. In the words of Congressman Jimmy Panetta from California, "...communities currently suffering economic anxiety cannot afford to lose federal resourcing due to a lack of census accuracy."
 The homeless do not have the same access to broadband internet as others, and this divide may leave hundreds of thousands uncounted nationally unless it's thoughtfully addressed.
 Our friends in L.A. have an interesting solution. They'll be deploying Census Action Kiosks, which will provide broadband Internet access to hard-to-count populations. Grant money exists for a similar program here, and I believe that the kiosks could then be repurposed after Census Day to be a lifeline for the homeless as an early warning system for emergency communications and as a portal to vital social services.
 I've recently spoken with Susan Beshore, Census Bureau Partnership Specialist for Portland, and she enthusiastically endorses the throwing of census parties as a way to bring many hard-to-count individuals together in one or multiple locations so that they may be counted. These parties, as I see it, could become social service fairs at which homeless individuals will connect with each other and important resources in a fun, safe, and pro-social manner.
 Finally, Everyone Counts has begun reaching out to local leaders, shelters, transitional housing providers, churches, soup kitchens, needle exchanges, street organizations, neighborhood associations, and ad hoc camping communities as we work to identify and prepare to count every homeless person in the region.
 We're working hard on a formal proposal, and next week I'll be traveling to Salem, where I hope to meet with Census Project Manager Aldous Lano and other representatives from the Governor's Office. We're lucky here in Portland to be home to Portland State University's Population Research Center, and Director Jason Jurjewicz and Analyst Charles Reinerson have been a great help in elucidating to me the complicated field of population studies. Thank you. I believe... Thank you.
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Your time was up, but I just wanted to say what a worthy goal that you are involved in. And I want you all to know that I think it was maybe 2000, I guess I've been around longer than I thought, that I also worked with then-Commissioner Serena Cruz to make sure that all people would be counted.
 And so whatever my office can do to assist you and be in a part of that effort, I know that the Office of Civic Life, if you have not spoken to them, also have a plan to work statewide on gathering information for the census. So I just want to appreciate the fact that I totally share your perspective. Thank you. Every person must be counted.
 We have a head start to be able to do it right, so thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Mr. Patterson, thank you. Once again, you've given us some really eloquent communication methods to be thinking about. Commissioner Udeli can't be here this morning. As Commissioner Hardesty mentioned, she is leading this effort on behalf of the...
 of the city. So if you could please make sure to email your comments to both Commissioner Hardesty, I mean Commissioner Udailey and the Office of Civic Life, we'd really appreciate it. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. Yeah, I want to throw my...
 A lot is in here as well. This is a very well thought out letter, and the strategy is an excellent one, and I agree. The work that's being done in L.A. with the action kiosks I think is fantastic, and I like your idea of bringing people together and, frankly, having some fun while connecting them with services. It's a really good community building exercise, and I appreciate you bringing this forward today. We have less than 14 months before census day. Time is of the essence. Let's not miss this. There is a sense of urgency. You're right. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Thank you. Next individual. Item 115, request of Mary Bowers to address counsel regarding affordable housing guidelines. She is not able to make it. All right. Very good. Next individual, please. Item 116, request of injured and pissed off to address counsel regarding wanted honest attorney. Good morning. Good morning. My name's injured and pissed off, and I was thinking that this is the fourth time that
 I've put in a request and spoke about wanted honest attorney. Apparently there aren't any in McNoem County when it comes to suing the city or the county about dog attacks. My service animal had been attacked seven times in less than six years. Apparently Portland is pet friendly, but it isn't service animal friendly.
 I've talked to other people with service animals and guide dogs, and they go, well, yeah, my dog had been attacked, and one woman had told me that her previous one, she was in a wheelchair, had been attacked five different times, but not by the same dog, and apparently it hadn't been hurt very much, she said. But she did have training trouble with the dog afterwards. Yes.
 And with the seven dog attacks that had happened to my service animal in less than six years, the city, it's surprising what they can get away with. They can even, with a valid court restraining order that I had against the woman, the city attorney's office, when I showed up to go to court, simply dismissed the case saying that she really didn't mean it. And I sat...
 flabbergasted after six dog attacks, the county attorney could dismiss a valid restraining order. That's kind of like the Oregon Health Heart Transplant Program, finding out why they don't have an Oregon Heart Transplant Program. If you read the McNoma
 County board meeting records of September the 13th and read to my segment. I explain it very briefly. Anybody can watch and listen to it that isn't Helen Keller, and they can find out why there isn't any Oregon heart transplant program. And the cover-up that the city's done about my seven dog attacks, dismissing the...
 The restraining order allowing seven dog attacks in less than six years, just unbelievable, and having to a blind person. It's stupidity. I'm going to have to ask you to please not disparage people with disabilities in your comments any further. Please. Disparage? That isn't disparaging. That's fact. Your time has almost expired. You have four seconds. Yes.
 Well, I'll give up the time. Next individual, please. Item 117, request of Karen Moore to address council regarding accessibility for persons with intellectual and developmental disabilities in the Portland area. Good morning. Good morning. I currently work as a direct support professional with Albertina Kerr's Portland Art and Learning Studio. We work with adults who have intellectual and developmental disabilities.
 And currently we've been ordered by the state and federal government to be out in our community more, which is great. I'm all for that, and I think that we should be out in the community more and participating more. Our problem is that accessibility in the community is sometimes lacking. A few weeks ago I was out with a client who was in a motorized wheelchair.
 who went off the sidewalk and into Burnside traffic, and I had to walk for several blocks before I could find a handicap-accessible ramp to get them back up onto the sidewalk. When we did get back up onto the sidewalk, some of the pavement was so destroyed and so warped that I had to put the chair into neutral and maneuver it myself.
 Some of the curbs, some of the ramps on the curbs are so steep that, again, when we were coming back from our destination, my client again fell over into the street and I had to right their chair again. Even this morning, not 20 minutes ago, I was trying to assist one of my clients in the restroom and we could not bring a commode with us. That was in this building.
 And I was also asked, while assisting another client who happens to identify as a different gender than myself, when we were going to be finished in the bathroom. That was downstairs this morning. And unfortunately, these are issues that we continue to run into in the community, which makes accessing our community very difficult. And it also puts an extra hardship on clients who already feel stigma against them, who already feel as if they're being pointed out.
 or even mocked sometimes when we're out and about. And I wish I could give you an easy answer and say that I have a great solution to this, but it's really just making sure that buildings are truly ADA accessible.
 that some of the issues that you and I don't even think about, I didn't think about it until I started working this job five years ago, that we are putting those at the forefront of our minds when we do construct new buildings around town or when we see community members who maybe get around differently than us and maybe think differently than us. And I'm really hoping that maybe this council can give me some suggestions
 for how to do my job better, and to how to serve my clients better in the community. Well, Ms. Moore, can I just respond to one part of what you're saying? So, first of all, thank you for being here today, and thank you for raising the issue of accessibility generally and accessibility.
 We need to make sure that all of our public places are accessible, which you've identified in terms of curb cuts and other things. We have a lot more work to do. Yesterday I had lunch with our current group of interns that the city is working with through a program called Project Search. Yes, I know about that. Project Search Project.
 individuals with intellectual and physical disabilities in employment. Citi has made a commitment to be a model employer and to hire more employees with intellectual disabilities. We've started that process. We've hired a number of people who came through the internship program. I'm told that in Oregon there are two cities that are sort of in the forefront of this. It's Salem. Mm-hmm.
 which should be applauded and the city of Portland is trying to become a model employer. I have learned many things like you've testified to this morning about the barriers that still exist. We want to be a model employer that reflects the great diversity of our community. If you'd like to know more about our current programs and how we might be able to partner with Albertina Kerr, please check in with my office. And
 I think you're absolutely right that this is an issue we need to put more attention on. And I think it starts at the city with actually hiring people and giving them the same opportunities as able-bodied people, for example, to do work and to have public service careers. So thank you for taking time to join us today. Thank you. And if I might just add, again, Commissioner Daly would...
 love to address this. She's now in charge of the Bureau of Transportation. Last year we got to a settlement with a group who sued us about the curb cuts and we also have approved the plan to improve Burnside in particular. We are aware of the deficits and are working as quickly as we can. Dorothy Elmore, who's in charge of security is sitting over here and if you could have a chat with her about your experience with the restroom because we certainly want to be welcoming. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next individual please.
 Item 118, request of Michael O'Callaghan to address council regarding suites. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you very much, Michael O'Callaghan. As you know, I've talked with you for probably about eight, ten years now about the unhoused
 And Mayor Wheeler, as you know, we're in litigation, and you told the press that you would ignore the Boise decision, which was paralleled with mine, which I consider that to be kind of fascist, actually, to ignore a court decision.
 Something to look into your division of law is a thing called churn. I don't know if you're familiar with that. But look at my first case and see how much that's cost you. And look at my second case and see if we can't find some kind of common ground here. Now, the solutions are pretty clear for the unhoused. Small villages all over the city, 25 or smaller. Now, you swept Village of Hope.
 Remember them out by the airport? You swept them. They set up this really nice place, man. Nope. Cops came in, swept them out. Friday, in the middle of a snowstorm, you swept the people over at the Madeleines. Okay, I took photos of it, went to your office. They said, oh no, we're not doing sweeps. I said, here, you want to see the picture? No, we don't. How can you not see? How can you not see?
 that people are dying on the streets to a week, and you keep up these sweeps that have no authority of law? My goodness, where's your compassion? Okay, and I'm going to lay this on all of you, okay, because each one of you sit in your respective positions, and not my job, not my job, not my job, okay? He is not going to change, okay? It's up to you to pass a law to stop these sweeps.
 They have no authority of law, and they're killing people. They killed my neighbor. The sweep in 2016 died the next day on the bike trail. You can't see this. Okay? And you can't see the solutions. You do not see. Do you understand? Do you understand?
 This is fascinating. And Amanda, I want to thank you for carrying water for Right to Dream. You paid a political price for that, and I appreciate that. Others here haven't done anything. And Joanne, you're new, and I appreciate your new energy here. It needs some. Maybe the females here can have a little more compassion and stop these sweeps and stop killing people.
 But the best thing to do is to create these small villages just like Right to Dream, of which we need 200 of them in this city. The count, when I took my count, there was an undercount of a factor of five. Okay? So whatever the homeless count was two years ago, you multiply that times five. Okay? This is a sick process. Thank you. And you wonder why people protest? Because they are not being heard.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Mr. Callan, I appreciate your kudos. I just needed to know that, yes, I did work to move Right to Dream 2 for four years. It was Mayor Wheeler and his staff, Burke Nelson and Serafie Allen in particular, who finally got it done. Thank you. Thank you.
 For the record, just because I don't want people in the public to be confused, during the winter weather emergency, contrary to what you just heard, there were no camp cleanups. No camps were moved. In fact, we opened all of the emergency shelters. We opened additional shelter beds.
 We did a significant outreach effort to let everybody know, and I stated publicly, that nobody would be turned away. Nobody was turned away. We asked city employees to volunteer their time and their energy to help get people to the shelters. We put a call out to the public. I myself volunteered on Saturday night to help transport people to the shelters. So while there
 There are strong statements made here, and people have every right to make those strong statements. And I think it helps at least further the debate and the conversation, which I see ultimately as a positive. Sometimes what we hear is not always completely factually correct. First time certain item, please. Mayor, let's do the consent agenda first. I'm sorry. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you.
 Which items have been pulled from the consent agenda, Carla? We have 122, 124, 125, 126, and 127. Very good. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item number 119, please. Venture Portland Annual Report to Council.
 Thank you, Mayor. As the council liaison to Venture Portland, I'm proud to welcome a number of guests this morning, including Heather Hale, Executive Director of Venture Portland, Matthew Mesetic, President of Venture Portland's board and owner of Red Castle Games in Southeast Foster. And I had a chance to visit with Matthew the other day, and I usually buy a Christmas puzzle at his store every year. And this year, I bought a puzzle that we actually could not master. So we were –
 Despite all the efforts of my family, this puzzle that had a picture of a scenic view of London. Can I have it? I'd be happy to. It's the hardest puzzle I've ever encountered. If you can do this, you're going to go up in my esteem.
 We're also joined by Jody Francis, the Catalytic Investment Initiative Manager, Josh Nishikawa, the Vice President of the Gateway Area Business Association, and Liz Smith, Venture Portland Delegate and Board Member of the St. John's Boosters Business Association. Liz, it was great to join you and the boosters at the tree lighting ceremony and that wonderful event that you helped to host. She is also the owner of Busy Lizzy Social Media Marketing.
 Venture Portland serves, colleagues, our 50 neighborhood business districts, which represent over 19,000 individual businesses and provide nearly 270,000 jobs throughout our neighborhoods. The average small business in our city employs three or fewer people. That's small. And when we shop local, we are reminded that 70 cents of every dollar stays in our local community.
 Venture Portland provides great opportunities to our community, including grant programs, trainings, and technical assistance to our many and diverse business districts. One of the most impactful programs, in my opinion, is the Catalytic Investment Initiative, which this council has funded, which is designed to bring increased capacity and resources to business districts in North and in East Portland.
 Venture Portland continues to make a huge difference in traditionally underserved business districts. I look forward to continuing to support this program as well as other programs in the future. And with that, I'm pleased to turn the program over to Executive Director Heather Hale. Heather, welcome. Thank you.
 I guess I'm going to go first. All right. Thank you. Thank you for that glowing introduction, Commissioner Fish. You stole a couple of my talking points, but I'm sure everyone will appreciate me talking a little less today. So thank you all for having us today. We're happy to be here. My name is Matthew Mesetic. I own Red Castle Games on Southeast Foster. We also sell very challenging puzzles. Yes.
 Thank you.
 So Red Castle Games, I'll just give a quick plug. We had a great year last year. We grew about 18%, and a lot of that was through programming that we've implemented on Foster through the association. We have what's called a Foster Tasting Tour that is a pub crawl on one part, but also an opportunity for businesses to introduce their wares and services to new clients as well. And we had a tremendous response of new customers. Okay.
 We also introduced Foster Winter Fest, a pay-it-forward style system where you'd make a purchase at one business, you'd get a ticket, and it would incentivize you to go to further businesses. This was a huge component of our success during the holiday season, and I think it's very illustrative of the work that the Catholic Investment Initiative has done to help small businesses in the city grow.
 As you mentioned, there's 19,200 small businesses spread throughout 50 districts, and that works out to just under 400 businesses a district. So having that support system is really critical to our success so that we can continue to do great local programming as well as do a lot of the programming such as street fairs or events.
 the Jade Night Market we've had involvement in in the past, and just help kickstart these great community events that we've come to love in Portland. And it's come to be part of our culture here and our amazing uniqueness as a city and our amazing uniqueness as individual business districts. We're committed to the success of each individual neighborhood as well as the city as a whole. In Foster, one of the ways we worked with this is being –
 welcoming to the new shelter that's coming in on Foster Road in the heart of our district.
 rather than do as so many do and kick up their heels and just say no. We had a seat at the Foster Steering Committee. We had seats for other neighboring businesses. And we're determined to make this the most successful shelter in the city and become a model that can be emulated throughout the city. And I do want to credit Mayor Wheeler's office for being very responsive, and in particular, Sarah Fee Allen. I know I've mentioned her before, but she's been a phenomenal asset in the process and been very responsive and supportive.
 I hope to, now that the new year is here, continue to connect with her and continue to work on issues around the shelter.
 I think one of the great things also with this shelter is the development of a community investment fund. It's something where community members that are housed, unhoused, businesses in the area, we can create a plan to really proactively address what some perceived or other issues that may arise from these new people in our community. We put together a plan to have individuals
 programming in public places, try to get additional lighting among other amenities, as well as create an environment where we can make sure that the housed, the unhoused, and those that are in shelter have opportunities to communicate, to get to know each other, because ultimately public safety comes from knowing your neighbors, no matter who they are. And so we want to make sure we encourage that type of behavior and really welcome it into our community.
 But I'm really here to talk about Venture Portland. You know, at Venture Portland, we've had some great success this year. It's been our busiest year ever, as it seems to be every year at this point. We continue to grow our programming. We continue to offer more trainings, more customer service. That's my industry. Technical assistance, as well as just having more and more volunteer hours, both on our board as well as in all the business associations we serve. Yeah.
 New programs like the not-so-new-at-this-point Catholic Investment Initiative have gone a long way to start to address some of the historic discrepancies in city investment and business districts, and I thank you for that program.
 We're the only entity that's working at this small, low district level to make sure that we have these unique opportunities in all of our unique neighborhoods. And it's also, I think, really critical to acknowledge that what's right for Foster is not right for Hawthorne or not right for St. John's. It's been really amazing to have programming that's both tailored to our individual needs, yet having that...
 cohort that we can talk about issues that we have in our district or ideas for better events or improvement and having that networking capability has been phenomenal for especially Foster and I hope other districts as well. We are the support system for small business in the city of Portland and for business districts. Big business, they've got a support system, but we are the small business support system and we support all these small businesses.
 Venture Portland has had a 22-year partnership now with the city, and we've invested $1.6 million in business districts that have also come back as a $5 million match. So for every dollar we invest, we're getting the private sector to invest an additional $3 or so. And I think...
 You know, it shows that business, particularly small business in Portland, is a little different. That for most of us, it's not just about business. We're members of this community. What's good for neighbors is good for business. What's good for everyone in this city is good for business. And so we want to grow that partnership and strengthen it with you, council. And we want to use our collective efforts to proactively address the issues that are facing our city.
 it's really I think been a humbling experience working with Venture Portland seeing how much of an impact we can all have as individuals but then when we collectively work together the real problems that we can solve and I think you're going to see some great numbers and hear some great stories from my colleagues today we have our newest employee Jody with Venture Portland I'm sure she's excited to talk
 And now I'm going to turn it over to Heather to get into some of the nitty-gritty. Thank you so much. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you, Matthew. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. It's great to be with you this morning. My name is Heather Hale, and I'm the executive director of Venture Portland.
 As Matthew said, 2018 was a big year for Venture Portland and the neighborhood business districts we supported. The following brief overview provides a snapshot of our work over the last 12 months. After eight years of sustained double-digit growth, Venture Portland once again expanded access to our capacity-building programs, which are ably managed by Jacob Falkenberg and Evelyn Ferrara, who are sitting in the audience.
 We increased participation in our training and technical assistance program with almost 400 business district leaders attending one of 33 trainings that covered everything from the legal roles and responsibilities of nonprofit officers to creating a new kind of enhanced services district to mapping assets in diverse and rapidly changing neighborhoods.
 And we addressed 593 district-specific requests for individualized assistance from business districts citywide. This in-depth, personalized support helped districts successfully navigate major leadership transitions and manage significant business mix, built form, and demographic changes.
 Over the last year, Venture Portland provided 2,665 hours of training and technical assistance to business district leaders from emerging and established districts citywide.
 To put our exponential growth over the last several years in context, in just the first six months of this fiscal year, we've already exceeded the total number of training and technical assistance hours we provided in all of 2014 and 2015.
 We also significantly expanded access to our grants, awarding nearly $120,000 to fund 33 projects in business districts, leveraging just under $300,000, a 2.5 to 1 match, making these some of the most efficient dollars the city spends. Part of our grantmaking in 2018 included launching new funding streams to better meet the needs of neighborhood business districts at every stage of their life cycle.
 Hiring professional staffing is the single most catalytic thing an all-volunteer business district can do. Our new Staffing Kickstarter grant helps six districts invest in professional staffing, four for the first time. Districts hired five organizers, generating roughly $80,000 in new payroll, an eight-to-one match.
 The Staffing Kickstarter grant is a one-time grant to help districts make the leap from all volunteer operations to professional staffing. And I'm thrilled to report that as we enter 2019, 100% of those grant recipients will retain these new jobs in 2019. We also partnered with Travel Portland to create new destination investment grants that help districts invest in significant physical improvements that benefit customers and visitors.
 Portland's new tourism master plan identifies neighborhood business districts as significant tourism assets, and these grants directly contribute to Portland's international appeal.
 I want to give a specific shout-out to the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Bureau of Transportation. Both bureaus stepped up to assist Venture Portland and business districts during the application period for these grants by providing rapid response planning and permit assistance. PBOT sent staff to Venture Portland to meet with business district leaders in person and answer specific permit and right-of-way questions.
 Finally, two-thirds of all of our grant funding this last year went to underserved business districts in East and North Portland. The overwhelming majority of Portland businesses are neighborhood-based, which means neighborhood business districts truly power Portland's economy. All year, but especially during the holidays, Venture Portland ensured cash registers rang citywide.
 In addition to helping launch or expand 17 district events between Halloween and New Year's, we promoted, and I attended, 30 different retail promotions over 21 days, including Little Boxes, which incentivized 15,000 store visits and more than 6,000 purchases, a 13% increase over last year on Black Friday and Small Business Saturday.
 and Multnomah Village's Golden Ticket program, which incentivized shopping in neighborhood businesses and has generated $6 million in holiday retail sales over the last six years. These free, family-friendly celebrations featured Santa Claus, Santa Paws, and even Hanukkah Harry, plus festive lights, holiday treats, shopping discounts to help Portlanders stretch their holiday dollars.
 And with 70% of every dollar spent in a local business staying in Portland's economy, business districts made the season merry for everyone.
 In 2018, we deepened our relationship with the city, partnering with Planning and Sustainability, particularly Tyler Bump and his team, to design and implement a neighborhood business district demographics database. This innovative tool, available to the public, aggregates more than 40 data sources to provide neighborhood businesses and business districts critical economic and demographic information.
 We can all now easily find the number of businesses and jobs in a given neighborhood business district, business sectors that are growing or shrinking, average wages and commercial lease rates, and housing starts. The database also has individual and household demographics, including racial and ethnic background, age, and average household income in a district.
 Using this information, we're able to help neighborhood business districts better understand their community, serve their customers, and assess their membership and leadership to ensure they are reflective of the district they serve. Understanding and using this database has been a key component of our three-part diversity, equity, and inclusion training series this year.
 It also underpins the Catalytic Investment Initiative's diversity benchmarks and most recently helped Central Eastside designate specific board categories for its enhanced services district. We continued to help business districts connect with City Council and its bureaus, supporting significant public infrastructure investments including the Great New Park and Gateway, streetscapes, and other safety improvements.
 Venture Portland maintained its age-friendly business and sustainability at work designations, helped BES and PBOT mitigate the impact on business districts of large construction projects, and supported the Office of Community and Civic Life's name change. Venture Portland.
 continues to applaud the council's unanimous decision to ensure business and neighborhood associations now receive the same city notifications regarding land use and construction. This corrected a longstanding systemic inequity and remains very positively received citywide.
 Speaking of notifications, while land use and zoning are frequently hot-button issues, neighborhood business district leaders have repeatedly shown that when provided information about proposed changes in their communities, they will rise to the challenge and work with you to find solutions to overcome some of our biggest obstacles. In particular, I want to note the collaborative and innovative examples recently set by Central Eastside, Foster, Kenton, and Lloyd.
 When given the opportunity to have a meaningful discussion with city leaders about the need to provide shelter or services for our most vulnerable citizens, all four districts not only supported placing shelters in their districts, but raised significant private funds to ensure their success.
 In partnership with Elders in Action, we produced Portland's inaugural Age-Friendly Business Awards right here in City Hall. Our awards ceremony, which recognized 11 neighborhood businesses, brought together nearly 100 age-friendly supporters and business owners.
 These awards, presented to diverse businesses and organizations, including Shop Adorn, the Multnomah County Elections Department, New Seasons, Portland Nursery, and Unitas Community Credit Union, celebrated organizations that employ and serve people of all ages well. As the first and only U.S. city, and one of just nine cities across the world, invited to be a founding member of the World Health Organization's Global Network of Age-Friendly Cities—
 Portland has long been an international age-friendly leader. I'm proud to report that across the country, interest in adopting our exciting model and successful strategies for engaging businesses, large and small, in age-friendly activities is continuing to cement our status as a city. We're planning year two of the awards, and I look forward to your continued support of this unique program.
 Speaking of unique programs, Venture Portland strongly supported my People's Market in 2018, including providing significant promotion of the Lloyd Center pop-up. We also provided personal introductions connecting participating entrepreneurs of color with their local neighborhood business district. Last, but certainly not least, I want to recognize Venture Portland's dedicated volunteers, many of whom are here with us today.
 Our board, made up of one representative from each business district, contributed a whopping 1,255 volunteer hours. These volunteer hours, equal to .61 FTE or giving me an additional 24-hour-a-week employee a year, were on top of the hours they already spend running their business and volunteering in their business district. Our success would not be possible without this incredible commitment.
 Last year, we transitioned our innovative East and North Portland pilot project into the ongoing Catalytic Investment Initiative. By providing stable funding for this proven program, City Council's ongoing investment helped participating business districts generate significant success. I'm happy to introduce to you Venture Portland's new Catalytic Investment Initiative Manager, Jody Francis. Thank you, Heather. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. It's nice to be here.
 As Heather said, my name is Jody Francis, and I manage Venture Portland's Catalytic Investment Initiative. This catalytic effort addressing disparity and gentrification in eight targeted districts has three short-term goals to increase membership, volunteers, and revenue. I am thrilled to report that last year we once again radically exceeded all of our goals.
 After two years of increase, we once again added significant new members. Currently, almost one-third of all business district members in East and North Portland are new. We also significantly increased volunteerism across districts, diversifying business districts, all volunteer board leadership, so it is more in line with district demographics and bringing new voices and perspectives to the table.
 And finally, we helped districts generate $145,000 in new revenue to support neighborhood businesses. And that's not all. We also made significant progress on our long-term goals to create a business support network that crosses district boundaries, creates stronger ties between businesses and residents, and improved district identity and positive public perception of East and North Portland.
 We helped districts launch more than two dozen events designed to connect residents with businesses and make cash registers ring in economically lagging parts of Portland. Improved participation in East and North Portland with 62 positive media stories and increased district capacity to help the city invest more than $100 million in public infrastructure projects. So how have we done it?
 We hired professional staff, behind me to my right, Dane Fredericks, Cody Galloway, Amy Hamden, Kelvin Hoff, Jeff Linott, and placed them directly in business districts. We provided seed funding to help districts experiment with new programs to better serve their diverse businesses.
 And we provided innovative and personalized assistance to districts, including helping districts identify 49 geographic nodes or commercial clusters across eight districts and two city quadrants. Analyzing almost 10,000 diversity points, including business type, size, location, and longevity, plus business owner gender, ethnicity, and race to help districts set diversity benchmarks.
 Helping staff visit more than 3,000 businesses and using their feedback, adding 168 business benefits to better serve the business mix in these rapidly evolving districts.
 analyzing diversity and skill sets of 54 district volunteers and almost 1,000 data points, including business type, size, location, longevity in individual gender, race, ethnicity, leadership experience, seniority in districts, and on board. But wait, there's more. Thank you.
 After the devastating cancellation of this event in 2017, 82nd Avenue once again kicked off the Rose Festival by hosting its annual parade. And the district revitalized its website, adding meet your neighbor profiles.
 of the district's diverse businesses. In October, we helped 82nd Avenue expand their signature event Around the World in 82 Dishes. This 10-day restaurant hop incentivized Portlanders to sample international cuisine at two dozen businesses, generating more than 700 purchases and 5,000 in new revenue.
 Reflecting the diversity of their district, 70% of the participating restaurants are owned by people of color. Initiative funding provided material translation and dedicated staffing to successfully address cultural and language barriers with the district's diverse businesses. Foster launched an innovative partnership with PBOT last summer to proactively promote district business in advance of significant month-long construction for Foster's long-awaited streetscape.
 After expanding their annual tasting tour featuring 43 participating businesses, they kicked off Foster Faves, a nine-week Instagram campaign incentivizing customers to visit district businesses during construction. And in October, they hosted a new district-wide Halloween event providing PBOT's Safe Ride Home program.
 at all participating bars. This public-private partnership truly set the standard for proactive business support before and during major infrastructure projects, and I strongly encourage PBOT to work with Venture Portland to continue in the future. Foster made sure the holidays were merry and bright by launching Foster Forward, a unique shopping incentive program that encouraged Portlanders to do their holiday shopping locally.
 They produced a video explaining the program and capped it off with Winterfest, a series of family-friendly holiday activities hosted by foster businesses, followed by a first-time lighting of carts on foster with more than 20,000 twinkling lights.
 It is my pleasure to introduce Jason Niskawa, Vice President of the Gateway Area Business Association. Jason. Thank you, Jody. Good morning, Ted Wheeler and the commissioners. As Jody said, my name is Jason Niskawa, and I am the Vice President of the Gateway Area Business Association. I'm also a CPA and principal at Irvin & Company CPAs, and I lead the brewery group.
 Last spring, we were thrilled to join Commissioner Fritz in opening the Gateway Discovery Park in the heart of our business district. Our district, which long suffered from systemic disinvestment, is now filled with palpable new energy as our diverse community finally has a place to gather together.
 The park also provides long-needed venue for public events. In 2018, we partnered with the Parks Bureau to launch two new signature events that utilized and promoted the park and its amenities.
 Our first event, Cruising Gateway, All Wheels Welcome, gave a nod to the historic cruising that occurred along the Halsey-Weidler Corridor, but focused on our future as a regional transportation hub with bike, electric car, scooter, and skateboard demos, as well as information about our new park, Gateway Green.
 When the weather turned, we hosted Celebrating Gateway, an international winter festival in the park, highlighting our community's diverse cultures and unique winter traditions at a family-friendly event that promoted positive programming after dark.
 Gateway is one of Portland's most diverse neighborhood business districts. With more than three dozen languages spoken in David Douglas schools, I'm proud that our board leadership accurately reflects our community's diversity. To showcase our diversity, we used funding from Venture Portland's Catalytic Investment Initiative to hire a local photographer and invest in professional photos of Gateway businesses and their owners.
 These high quality unique photos tell the story of our district, feature prominently on our new website, and provide a critical professional asset which is out of reach for most of our businesses.
 Finally, last fall we convened with a new Gateway Leadership Council, bringing together leaders from three neighborhood associations, four community groups, and our business association to reset our relationship with Prosper Portland and productively identify new opportunities and emerging assets related to the $35 million in public investment coming to Gateway in the next 12 months. Thank you.
 Our ability to play this important leadership role in our district strengthened our businesses and served our community as a direct result of our participation in the Catalytic Investment Initiative. Thank you for your continued support in the Investment Gateway and in East Portland. And isn't Gateway the oldest business district?
 I think it may be. I believe so. It's the largest, but also the oldest. You've got two different districts at the table here who both claim to be the oldest. It's probably a good thing they're separated by the table. It's one of the oldest. Yes. Yes. So it's really impressive that your advocacy over many, many decades has resulted in this place, which
 the chair of your business association when we did the opening of Gateway Discovery Park said it was the first time 106th in Halsey has been favorably compared with Paris. Absolutely. And I think that's absolutely true. We should also acknowledge that Commissioner Fritz has a long-standing relationship with the Gateway Area Business Association and I'm now old enough to remember that she was named GABA Person of the Year and then she put that in her voters pamphlet and won convincingly so I think there's a lesson there.
 Thank you, Jason. It's good to have you here with us. In 2018, Kenton launched a new district map featuring their iconic Paul Bunyan statue. And after winning Restore Oregon's coveted Tomorrow Award for Paul's community-funded $80,000 renovation, they launched Deck the Paul, a holiday celebration featuring district-wide lighting.
 Kenton expanded its annual garage sale in participation with the Kenton Neighborhood Association and continued its long support of the Kenton Women's Village by investing in new heaters for the residents. Finally, 2019 will be an even bigger year for Kenton, as they celebrate Paul's 60th anniversary at their 10th annual street fair in May. Thank you.
 which happens to be the first street fair of the season. And we hope that you will join us as it promises to be a great party.
 In partnership with the Water and Parks Boroughs, Midway expanded its second annual Midway Thriving event at Powell Butte in June and continued to support the district's celebration of diversity at the Midway Festival of Nations. They also continued to update their website, which features microsites for Midway businesses and plays a critical role in reducing Midway's disproportionately large digital divide.
 and they hosted Commissioner Fish, Fritz, and Vega Peterson at their ongoing monthly district lunch. When Venture Portland created the initiative, we knew that for the catalytic investment of this magnitude to succeed long-term, it would require a three- to five-year effort per district. The program's ultimate goal was to invest heavily in districts until the programmatic and financial capacity increased
 were self-sustaining. Once that happened, they would graduate from the initiative, and we would bring on another district in need. Following Montevilla's successful program graduation, St. John's is the newest Catalytic Investment Initiative participant. It is my pleasure to introduce Liz Smith, chair of the Banners Committee and member of the St. John's Boosters Business Association. Liz? Thank you.
 Thank you, Jody. Yeah. I brought props, too. Hold my prop. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. As Jody said, I'm Liz Smith, and I am a member of the St. John's Boosters Business Association Board, formed in 1926. I also chair the St. John's Banner Committee, represent the boosters on Venture Portland's board, and own Busy Lizzy Social Media Marketing, a small business consultancy.
 Like all of Portland, St. John's is changing. With hundreds of new apartments, residents, employees, and commuters in our district, we wanted to make sure our identity didn't get lost in transition.
 Working with Venture Portland, we secured grant funding to hang 20 beautiful banners last spring. Our unique banners were designed by a well-known St. John's artist, Al Sharif, and reference our district's unique assets, including the river, parks, and historic bridge. And if you can see, there's a little bicycle on here, too. We added that for the future greenway. Thank you.
 We included our website on the banners, and after they went up, traffic to our website increased 30% and has continued to grow steadily over the last 10 months. After the banners launched, we repurposed the design to create more than 100 welcome baskets filled with coupons and logoed items from St. John's businesses. Baskets were distributed to new residents in three of St. John's new apartment buildings, and I'm thrilled to announce we will hang another additional 20 banners in our district this spring.
 St. John's is extremely thankful for the opportunity to join Venture Portland's Catalytic Investment Initiative. With Venture Portland's help, over the last seven months, we significantly expanded two of our signature events, producing family-friendly holiday festivities, including Safe Trick-or-Treating and Portland's First Tree Lighting.
 That attracted more than 3,000 attendees. I'd like to give special thanks to Commissioner Fish and his team and the staff at BDS and PBOT for their quick amendments to construction permits impacting our plaza. These critical changes allowed our tree lighting to occur and ensured the St. John's farmers market could continue its ongoing operations. Thank you for investing in St. John's and businesses through Venture Portland. Thank you, Liz.
 As you may have noticed, the Williams District is undergoing massive change. With 10 new high-rise buildings, more than 1,000 new apartments, and 100,000 square feet of retail space, the district has been under construction for the last four solid years and will likely remain that way for the next two.
 To remind the people that Williams isn't just a difficult construction site, we used Catalytic Investment Initiative funding to expand Walk Williams, a monthly event featuring late business hours, discounts, deals, and district-wide entertainment. Williams also launched a Halloween event this year to provide safe trick-or-treating options for district kids and expand their map, which once again highlighted the historic Black Williams project markers.
 Last but not least, Williams hosted their second annual Williams Gives campaign, partnering with Boise Elliott School, Ethos, Friends of the Children, SEI, and the Vancouver Avenue First Baptist Church to ensure the holiday was merry and bright for those in need. Their generosity was matched by fellow business districts citywide. Local businesses donate to local charities at more than twice the rate of national chains.
 In fact, in 2018, Portland's nonprofit Neighborhood Business Associations donated more than $100,000 to other local charities citywide, while neighborhood businesses collectively contributed more than a million dollars to help keep Portland a wonderful place to live, work, and play for all. Thank you, Jodi.
 Our ongoing public-private partnership truly drives Portland's economy. Last year, Portland's neighborhood businesses contributed more than $100 million in taxes to fund essential city services like first responders and parks.
 And now, it's once again your turn, as we lead into Valentine's Day, to show a little love to neighborhood businesses by continuing to invest in the businesses and business districts that make Portland, Portland. As you design the FY19-20 budget, we ask you to continue the ongoing funding that enables us to support business districts citywide and provide deep and targeted assistance to those in historically underserved East and North Portland.
 Your investment in Venture Portland and the city's neighborhood businesses provide critical stability for the professional staff and district volunteers working to strengthen our economy and ensure our shared prosperity. It's a pleasure and a privilege to work with all of you and your bureaus. Together, we are growing business and connecting neighborhoods. Thank you for your support.
 Thank you. Mayor Wheeler. Commissioner Fish. That is Venture Portland's annual report. Before a motion is made to accept the report and comments from council, I want to just acknowledge that we received a letter, each of us received a letter from Pastor Matt Hennessey of Vancouver Avenue First Baptist Church.
 who wrote to offer his strong support for the work of Venture Portland. And we know that he's not just the senior pastor at Vancouver Avenue First Baptist Church, but he's also chair of the board of ecumenical ministries. So we thank Pastor Hennessey for putting a letter in. And I also want to acknowledge that while Heather didn't put this in her presentation,
 One thing that we've learned in the last couple of years is every time we have these big snowstorms, and as people know, the last week we've been buffeted by daily snowstorms that have been heralded by KGW and the city. Well, maybe not quite the storms we expected, but still what we learned in past years is our messaging was a little off. And we used to tell people during storms, you know, stay home, be safe.
 Now what we encourage people to do is stay local. In other words, don't plan any big trips. Don't get in your car and go, but it doesn't prevent you from walking to your neighborhood business. And frankly, it's during big snowstorms that our local businesses need our help the most. And so, for example, my daughter and I went out and ate at a local restaurant Saturday night. Apparently I wasn't the only person who went to my local grocery store. Sorry.
 There wasn't much left when I got there. So we encourage people during inclement weather to think about supporting a local business because that's a tough time for them, and that could include going to a restaurant or buying something local or whatever. But I wanted to highlight that because our messaging was off a couple years ago, and thanks to Venture Portland, I think we're now more unified in encouraging people to –
 to shop local while they are also dealing with these storms. With that, I would make a motion to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fritz.
 Thank you very, very much for the report and for all your work. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I noticed how many of the photographs you have prominently featured. So it's really impressive that your health challenges have not slowed you down and that you continue to be such a champion for businesses, small businesses all over Portland. And if there's anybody visiting from outside of Portland, I bet they're really jealous as we're watching this. And all this with no sales tax.
 So thank you for the work that you do. It really is important, and it does make Portland, Portland. I'm looking forward to having a try at that puzzle from Red Castle. Fish? I want to thank Heather, Matthew, Jody, Jason, and Liz for joining us today. I want to thank all of our 50 neighborhood business districts for stepping up and for being such a vital part of our local economy.
 You know, all the data reminds us that we invest local. It helps our local economy. And it is tempting, I think, in this new world to do our shopping online. But I will remind the listeners that companies like Amazon don't pay local taxes. They don't support Little League. They don't give back to the local communities. Our local businesses do.
 And they do it consistently. And furthermore, I thought it was very powerful when Matthew reminded us that during a very divisive debate about a shelter in Foster...
 And, frankly, these debates are inherently divisive. It's just the nature of them, and there's usually a lot of pushback and some anxiety initially, and then the tide turns. To have a local business district at the table talking about the importance of being welcoming to all is very powerful, and we thank you for that leadership.
 So I'm proud of our catalytic investment initiative and the fact that the council has provided long-term funding. It is clearly paying off. We're grateful to all of our small businesses and, frankly, want to grow our small businesses, help them add payroll and additional employees. Heather, it's an excellent report, as always, and, once again, I'm very proud to support your work. Hi. Hardesty? Thank you. I greatly appreciate it. You turned it off. Oh, I turned it off? Yeah.
 now you're muted it keeps going on enough sorry you should not know sorry okay uh thank you so much for your report um i would love to be able to review information in advance of the city council meeting so maybe next time i could get the report before you present i vote aye
 Well, I enjoyed this presentation last year. I enjoyed it even more this year. I appreciate the fact that you keep data and you keep metrics and you measure your outcomes in a way that the council can actually see and appreciate when budget time does roll around.
 I also want to acknowledge, as my colleagues have, the importance of small business in terms of creating shared economic prosperity for our community. It is a very high priority for me. It addresses a lot of the other issues that we spend a lot of time talking about here as well.
 If we can connect people to employment, if we can connect people to wealth-building opportunities, if we can engage in trying to generate wealth for our community and for our neighborhoods, that is ultimately healthy for families, and it is healthy for the community itself.
 And it goes without saying, as Heather mentioned right up front, this is a small business town. That doesn't mean we don't have large companies here. That doesn't mean we don't like large companies here. It just means, given the structure of our local economy, we have to acknowledge and support small businesses. And this is one of the many ways that this council chooses to support small business enterprise in this community.
 So thank you for your excellent work, and I look forward to next year being even better. I vote aye, the report's accepted. Thank you all for being here today. Next item, Carla, let's go to time certain item 120.
 amend civil rights code to add non-religion such as atheism, agnosticism and non-belief to the definition of religion. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'm very happy to bring forward this ordinance. Ever since I've been on the council over 10 years now, I've held two half hours every week for what we call constituent spots where anybody can come in and talk to me about anything.
 And sometimes my response is, well, that's really interesting. Thank you for telling me. And sometimes it's, that's really interesting, and it would take my entire staff 20 years to get that done, but I appreciate knowing about this. Sometimes it's, well, actually, that's another council member's responsibility, so I'll put you in touch with them. And sometimes it's like, wow, I am very interested in this. Let me see if I can do something about it. A couple of previous questions,
 were when we did the conflict-free minerals resolution about using minerals in computers that are not...
 in a horrendous way in Africa. And another one was the behavioral therapy for children experiencing autism, which eventually became a state law as well as a local one. And this is another one that came to me as a constituent, bringing it to my attention. And I had never thought about the challenge. And I thought, well, this sounds really interesting and interesting.
 Please go talk to the Human Rights Commission about it to see if they also share your concern. So that happened, and my staff worked with community members, and here we are today. We are asking council to support amendments to our Civil Rights Code presented in Exhibit A. The most substantive change is the inclusion of non-religion such as atheism, agnosticism, or lack of belief in God or gods in the protected class of religion.
 While existing Oregon courts have recognized this, state law does not expressly prohibit discrimination based on non-religion. This leaves many of our community members vulnerable. This ordinance has been shepherded by my office and the city attorney's office in partnership with community advocates, some of whom are joining us today. Cynthia Castro, my policy advisor, and Kimberly McCullough, the policy director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Oregon, will explain more. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Cynthia Castro. I'm a policy advisor for Commissioner Fritz. Prejudice towards the nonreligious, especially atheists, has been well chronicled in numerous independent studies conducted over the years. For example, a Gallup poll administered during the 2012 election season found that only 54% of Americans would vote for a well-qualified atheist president, ranking them below other candidate categories like Muslims and gays.
 In a separate survey, about half of American respondents considered atheists a threat to them. Another study reported American beliefs that atheists should be denied the opportunity to teach in public schools or the right to hold a rally. Non-believers also face discrimination in the workplace when trying to volunteer, in securing housing, and other areas of life. In Oregon, no religious group comprises a greater share of residents than the religiously unaffiliated, which includes atheist, agnostics, and nothing in particular.
 Portland was once ranked the most non-religious major city in the country, followed by San Francisco and Seattle. Yet, our city's civil rights code and state law do not extend nonbelievers the same protections afforded to those who ascribe to different faiths. We appreciate Cheryl approaching Commissioner Fritz and Kimberly last year to propose addressing this issue.
 Our office worked with the City Attorney's Office, Cheryl, Kimberly, and the Human Rights Commission to draft the proposed code changes. We also consulted city equity managers in the Office of Equity and Human Rights. The most substantive change to the Civil Rights Code appears on page 2 of Exhibit A. It reads, In addition to any other definition provided by law, the term religion used herein expressly includes non-religion, such as atheism, agnosticism, and non-belief in God or gods as has been recognized by the courts. Thank you.
 Non-religion is included in the protections and statutes across the country that prohibit discrimination based on religion. If we were to create a separate protected class, it actually undermines the argument that non-religion is protected in all of the statutes that don't list non-religion separately.
 Discrimination based on religion is just that. Discrimination is motivated by views that relate to religion and religious views that include anti-religious views, views putting one religion above others, or views putting religion above non-belief. It doesn't mean that non-religion is a type of religion. Providing protections for non-religion aligns with our city's intent to remove discriminatory barriers to equal participation in employment, housing, and public accommodations in the City of Portland.
 As we were reviewing the Civil Rights Code, the City Attorney's Office found outdated Oregon Revised Statute citations. We are taking this opportunity to propose updating them. We are also interested in adding well-established exceptions that allow a church or religious institution some latitude in hiring decisions. ORS 659.0064 permits a church or other religious institution to hire based on religious preference when certain conditions are met.
 ORS 659A.0301 permits an employer to make hiring decisions based on protected status when they are based on bona fide occupational qualifications. City Equity Managers and Office of Equity and Human Rights staff also suggested revisions to language in Chapter 23 to be more inclusive, such as using gender-neutral pronouns.
 We recognize that other changes to Chapter 23 may be desired. To be clear, this project is not a comprehensive overhaul of the entire chapter. It addresses the issues that have been outlined. Now I'm going to turn it over to Kimberly. Thank you, Kimberly.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and members of the commission. My name is Kimberly McCullough. I'm here on behalf of the ACLU of Oregon. I'd like to start with some thank yous, first to Cheryl Colby and the Freedom from Religion Foundation for bringing this idea to us, to Commissioner Fritz and her staff, and in particular Cynthia Castro for helping hearing us and helping us with many rounds of edits.
 This was actually a bit of a complicated project, and I'm so glad that we had the collaboration, and also the city attorney, I think, provided a lot of really great information. I also want to thank the Human Rights Commission for hearing us, for asking really great questions. We had wonderful dialogue with them and appreciate their support.
 So to the ordinance, our organization has a long history of advocacy for religious freedom and separation of church and state. We believe that all people, regardless of what they believe or what they don't believe, deserve equal access to education, housing, employment, and public accommodations. We also believe that all people, regardless of what they believe or don't believe, deserve to live in our communities with protections from discrimination.
 And we have fought in the courts to ensure those protections. And we have also argued that our protections against discrimination based on religion do include protections for atheists, agnostics, and nonbelievers. And fortunately, most courts have agreed with us.
 But we do think that clarity in the law is crucial for the public to understand their rights and to understand that there are mechanisms for them to be able to advocate for themselves when they face discrimination. So we appreciate this ordinance so much and the way that it provides that clarity to the people of Oregon.
 Now, when we've had some discussions about this, the question has come up about, does this kind of discrimination happen? And in fact, yes, it does. And I think that Cynthia Castro explained to you some examples of that. We also actually had a fairly prominent case here in the state of Oregon that the ACLU of Oregon filed an amicus brief in, a friend of the court brief, that went up to the Oregon State Supreme Court.
 And in that case, what happened, there was an employer that owned a painting business. His employee was a painter. And as soon as the employee took the job, he faced what he felt was pretty intense religious discrimination based on the fact that he was non-religious. Now, his employer was an evangelical Christian and felt that he should be –
 to everyone, including his employees. He repeatedly, over and over and over again, told his employee that he needed to go to his church. He even went so far as to call him at home during his off hours to try to get him to go to his church. He started telling him that he was going to go to hell, that he was a sinner, that he could not do his job properly unless he was Christian and went to his church. He even reached out to this person's loved ones and his fiancée to tell them that
 The same things. And so this person, in the power dynamic they were, and as an employee, felt really uncomfortable and felt very harassed. They actually went to our Bureau of Labor and Industries, who decided to advocate for them. When this case went to the Supreme Court, our Supreme Court did say that our state-level protections that protect against discrimination based on religion do extend those protections to an atheist in a circumstance like this.
 And so, you know, that was basically what we argued in that case. I think that it's just very important that people understand that and that people of Portland do understand that. So that's why we just really love this clarity in the law.
 Our national organization and our other affiliates have been engaged in litigation similar to this many other places. And so there are other examples, but I won't go through them today. So we really appreciate the opportunity to speak to you today. Glad that this ordinance is here and hope that you will pass it. So thank you. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. It isn't something I would have thought about that people would be discriminated against, but I appreciate the story, Kimberly, and my condolences on your grandmother. I'm glad you're back and look forward to you this afternoon. Thank you. Thanks. At this time, I would like to invite Cheryl Colby, President of the Freedom from Religion Portland Chapter, as well as Dr. Crystal E. Crane and Michelle Wilson from the Human Rights Commission. Thank you.
 Welcome. Thank you for being here. Good morning. Good morning. I'm up, I think. My name is Cheryl Colby, president of the and founder of the Portland area chapter of Freedom from Religion Foundation, and I am a director on their national board as well. FFRF is a nonprofit organization of nonbelievers that works to protect the constitutional principle of separation of state and church and to educate the public on matters of nontheism.
 It has more than 31,000 members, and in Oregon there are over 1,000 members, including many who would live or work in Portland. I am like you in many respects. I value freedom and my family. I believe in compassion, public service, kindness, and consideration of all. I believe all communities should be welcoming to all people. I differ from many in that I simply lack a belief in a god or gods.
 What I don't believe in is that this one factor, being a non-believer, is justification for discrimination. The ordinance before you would protect all non-believers in the city of Portland. At present, neither the city nor the state expressly prohibits discrimination based on non-belief, leaving it open to the courts to interpret whether we are protected or not.
 Even though existing courts, Oregon courts, have thus far interpreted that non-belief is included, there are in fact courts across the country that have made the other decision, that have concluded that we are not protected. In the real world, opinions change, judges are replaced. This should not be left to the interpretation of the courts. I wish to be very clear, this is not a question about which is right or better, religion or non-religion. It is about protection against discrimination.
 We are not asking for any special privileges or rights. We are merely asking for the same protection against discrimination in housing, employment, and accommodations that are afforded to those in religion. Now, I own my own home, well, the bank does, and retired, and I'm fortunate to not need any accommodations. So why am I passionate about this?
 For me, this change is a validation that I am a human being of the same value to society as my fellow Portland community members. It says, my city values me and affirms that it is unacceptable for others to discriminate against me and others like me. Validation matters to me.
 What does it mean to others? It means that they would have the backing of the law. They will know their rights. Legally, they cannot be rejected for a job, fired, or treated any differently than other employees solely based on their nonbelief. Their rental application or request for accommodations can't be rejected simply because they are irreligious. Thank you.
 As a nonbeliever, I'm not alone. According to a 2015 study, Portland is the most religiously unaffiliated metro area in the nation. This will positively impact many people in Portland.
 This change is supported by Freedom from Religion Foundation, Humanists of Greater Portland, Secular Coalition for Oregon, Center for Inquiry for both Portland and Southeast Portland, and Protect Our Children. This action will show Portland is a leader. To the best of my knowledge, Portland would be the second city in the country to make this kind of change. In case you're wondering, the first city is Madison, Wisconsin, the home of FFRF, the national headquarters. Um...
 This change says that Portland chooses to make certain that non-believers receive the same protection from discrimination as those in any form of religion. This is very affirming for those of us who are atheist, agnostic, or any other form of non-belief. It is the right thing to do.
 I wish to express my deep appreciation to all who have been involved in this project. Kimberly from the ACLU for partnering with SFRF, Amanda Fritz for taking this issue up and being willing to, and your staff who have worked to help with this issue, and the excellent work done by the Human Rights Commission. It was a team effort. And I thank the City Council for taking time today to talk about this issue. Thanks for being here. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. Good morning.
 For the record, my name is Michelle Wilson, and I'm a human rights commissioner for the city of Portland, and I am joined by Dr. Crystal E. Crane, who is also a human rights commissioner. Thank you for affording us this opportunity to join the discussion. We'll share a little bit of the highlights of the Human Rights Commission's engagement with this issue and our recommendation to vote in favor of the non-belief ordinance.
 When Cheryl first provided public comment at the Human Rights Commission's February 8, 2018 meeting, she shared that as of 2015, Portland is the most religiously unaffiliated metro area in the nation, again with 42% self-identifying as such. This was according to the Public Religion Research Institute.
 As the founder and president of and on behalf of the Portland chapter of the Freedom from Religion Foundation, Cheryl asked the Human Rights Commission to support the organization's request to city council to change Portland's definition of religion to explicitly include nonbelief as a protected class.
 The Human Rights Commission took notice. We at once realized that her request had immediate and important implications for Portland. We understood that this was about individuals, but also families, neighborhoods, and in many ways a fundamental part of the city's identity. And again, for the record, my name is Dr. Crystal Lee Crane. Thank you. Our process was and is straightforward, yet as we all know, disrupting oppressive forces requires deliberate, meaningful, and often challenging efforts.
 We deliberately, as a full body, over a course of a few months in early 2018 and in conclusion with the calendar year, took up this issue and did our own research. Through due diligence and reaching out to our local, statewide, and even national networks, commissioners were able to get some of the questions answered that we had. Thank you.
 In particular, Commissioner Perry reached out to a former colleague in Maryland whose experience within local government, and particularly the protected class codes and statutes, provided us with a valuable insight, especially when framing our approach to policy language. Internally, most of the commissioners were immediately on board with a few hesitated, requesting more time to complete additional research and more information from the primary stakeholders like the Freedom From Religion Foundation.
 They initially believed that the city's current definition of religion and religious affiliation may already imply non-belief, but as I think we've heard today, that that may not always be the case. As a body, we reflected on the ways in which just about all of our current social institutions are framed by one belief system or another, and how this increases the vulnerability of people who have no religious affiliation to be excluded, shamed, and exploited.
 Our conversations were robust and included data-driven reports and first accounts of prejudice and discrimination that people who identify as having non-religious belief experience in the workplace, socially when accessing care, in their ability to secure housing, to access various public services, and in generally participating in our culture that is entrenched with religious beliefs and affiliation.
 There have also been little to no representation in government for people with non-religious beliefs. The Pew Research Center's 2017 survey found that Americans generally express more positive feelings toward various religious groups today than they did just a few years ago. And this doesn't continue to apply to folks in the Muslim belief or folks who identify as atheists.
 So we felt as a commission that we wanted to engage in self-reflection, research, and be able to come back and support the community in trying to find a resolution to this issue.
 Quickly, at least in government time, the Human Rights Commission resolved to support the Freedom from Religion Foundation. With one abstention and no commissioners opposing, on March 8, 2018, the motion passed to update the city's definition of religion to include atheism, agnosticism, and nonbelief in order to protect against discrimination.
 I, along with former Commissioner Malone, met with Commissioner Fritz to discuss the Freedom from Religion Foundation's request. We informed her that the Human Rights Commission did vote in favor of supporting the change to city code. Commissioner Fritz advised us that the next step would be to include her fellow council commissioners and Mayor Wheeler in the conversation, and we did. We are here today because the Freedom from Religion Foundation, especially Cheryl,
 called upon the Human Rights Commission to stand up for what is right. Our official recommendation to Council is to vote in favor of the non-belief ordinance, effectively changing Portland City Code Chapter 23.1. The brief but nonetheless real buy-in issue that we faced within the Commission illustrates that regardless of our expertise...
 and intentional commitment to protecting human rights, we too fall prey to value-based privilege. We simply don't know what we don't know.
 Our collective understanding required a bit of work and a willingness to hear from community members in open and validating ways. I mention this to illustrate an important point. We believe that this outcome is a beautiful example of government working as it should with and for communities we serve. Our collaboration with Cheryl and the Freedom from Religion Foundation, the American Civil Liberties Union of Oregon, especially Kimberly,
 Portland City Council members and their support staff, especially Commissioner Fritz and her policy advisor, Cynthia Castro, various community stakeholders, city attorneys and legal advisors, the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and even a representative from the state of Maryland, is illustrative of how impactful, diligent, and respectful cooperation can and should be.
 I also would like to conclude by saying that I feel like this process is emblematic of the way that the Human Rights Commission can be informative to the policies that the city puts forth. Our hope is that we are always aiming to be more inclusive, community-driven, and wanting to focus our changes in the city to not be based on one group's oppression, but how we can look at it from a perspective of collective liberation.
 So thank you for having us be a part of this process. Thank you. That concludes our presentation, ma'am. Very good. Thank you very much. Thank you all for being here. Public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have four people signed up. Very good. The first three are Maggie, Robert Agenhobba, maybe, sorry, and David Gray. Very good. Good morning. Hi. As a friend to the church community,
 of the triumphant agnostic whose motto is, we don't know and we don't care. I'm very happy to have this resolution to acknowledge non-belief as a legitimate value system in Portland by the Human Rights Commission. Having said that, I would like to say,
 that the Human Rights Commission and the city attorneys are dragging their feet on realizing that homeless people are a protected class. Maggie, this is not about that. Again, I ask you this every week, and I ask you very nicely. It is on topic. It pains me that the Human Rights Commission isn't recognizing homeless people as human beings before the law.
 It pains me. Do you support this ordinance or do you not support this ordinance? Yes, I support it. And I would support homelessness as a protected class as well. Yes. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Robert Augenbaugh. I'm the president of Protect Our Children. Do atheists and nonbelievers need protection from discrimination? Please consider this.
 One recent poll found that 50% of Americans would not vote for a qualified atheist for president. A 2006 study found that 48% of respondents would not want their child to marry an atheist. In both studies, percentages of disapproval of atheists were above those of Muslims, African Americans, and LGBTQ individuals. Many of the respondents associated atheism with immorality, including criminal behavior.
 The Boy Scouts, who finally allow gays, still don't allow atheists. A University of British Columbia study found that believers distrust atheists as much as they distrust rapists. The study also found that atheists have lower employment prospects. Atheism and lack of regular church attendance have been used by courts to deny custody to non-religious parents.
 the Constitution of seven U.S. states still bans atheists from holding public office. So discrimination against atheists and nonbelievers certainly exists. I think in Portland, we all agree that people should not be discriminated against based on their religious beliefs. And I think most of us agree that people should not be discriminated against based on nonreligion. I don't think we want to leave this decision up to individual judges.
 And I think we do want to make it clear to those involved in housing, employment, and public accommodation that discrimination against nonbelievers is unacceptable. The city code is not completely clear on this point, and that's why this simple change is needed. Thanks very much. Thank you. Good morning. My name is David Gray.
 I don't have a prepared written statement. This will be very, very brief. I came here mainly to support Cheryl, who's a friend, and I'm also a member of FFRS and a member of the Humanists of Greater Portland, the local chapter of the American Humanist Association. I just want to say something about attitudes of most of us secular people.
 None of us, as far as I know, have a goal of banishing religion or disparaging those who follow religions. Not going to happen. And I have come to realize, I do consider myself an atheist, but I have come to realize over the last five or six years that there is a very wide spectrum of people who follow a faith.
 And I learned those lessons from my participation in an organization called the Interfaith Council of Greater Portland. So obviously they are tolerant and accepting of different beliefs, or they wouldn't allow me to be in the Interfaith Council. It's a very good group of people. We have a Mormon lady, a Muslim lady, people who go to various Christian churches, and...
 I have learned that religious people can be very, very good, compassionate, kind, generous people. Yes, are there intolerant atheists? I have to admit, yes, there are intolerant atheists who do tend to disparage people of faith because how can they believe that stuff? But I think that's a very small minority of us secular people. Okay.
 religion is here to stay and so was secular thinking based on, in principle, based on rational thinking and science. That's all I had to say. I didn't use up my time, so I would like to say you can find... The next last person who signed up is Dustin Hocklin. Right there.
 Come on down. We'll wait for you. He's upstairs in the balcony. So, Carla, while we have a brief break here, I notice you have a new person working with you. Why don't you introduce her? Thank you. Yes, Mayor and Council. This is Keelan McClymont. She is the new Assistant Council Clerk. Welcome. Thank you.
 It's great to have you here. Thank you. Well, you're learning from the best. We'll see. So, Matt, this is a non-emergency ordinance. I'd like to make a brief statement at the end. Go ahead. Thank you. There he is. Thank you for being here. My name is Dustin Hoechlin. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. I don't have a whole lot to add that the very intelligent ladies before me are very well prepared. Thank you.
 I just want to go on record to say I support the non-belief ordinance. Just make sure I get it on the public record and say it out loud. Atheism and non-belief is just merely not the belief in a deity, just as simple as that for most people. I did want to note that there is another group, firebrand atheists, anti-theists.
 and atheist activists that are a little more outspoken than maybe a traditional just basic nonbeliever. I'd probably fall in that category. I do worry about participating in rallies or speaking my thoughts publicly for fear of losing my job or affecting my employment.
 So with that said, I would just want to say I really would like to see this ordinance passed so I can exercise my rights to freedom of speech and participate in rallies and things along those lines. Thank you all very much. I really do appreciate your time, and I hope we get this done. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Commissioner Fritz?
 Thank you. So we've asked for the vote to be delayed until February 27th. I'm going to be out of town next week and really appreciate Mayor Wheeler being willing to do that, even though he won't be here on the 27th. So do any of my colleagues want to make comments while our guests are here?
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I just want to appreciate your leadership, Commissioner Fritz, in bringing this ordinance forward. And I don't see any problem with supporting it at all. I mean, we want to be a place of choice for employment at the City of Portland. And we want to make sure that people know that whatever their belief system, they will not face discrimination. So I don't see any problem.
 I'll just add that I look forward to supporting this ordinance when it comes back. I also want to acknowledge that we had two members of the Human Rights Commission today that came and testified and shared with us the process they went through to engage this issue and their deliberations. And I hope that this becomes the norm and not the exception, that we hear directly from commissioners on these issues. I think it adds a lot to our debate and discussion. It has not always been the case.
 But those were superb presentations. And if we're going to have a commission that's charged with providing us guidance, we should hear from them from time to time on these important issues. So I appreciate that two commissioners took the time to share their perspective with us. Yeah, and I'd like to share that sentiment as well. And, Kimberly, since you're here and we're in agreement on this issue, I want to acknowledge that because I might not agree with you later this afternoon on a completely separate issue.
 But as I dug into this, I have come to the definite conclusion that the –
 This particular ordinance does not change any law or rights insofar as anything different that is already acknowledged by the courts here in the state of Oregon and has been acknowledged by the courts in the state of Oregon. But I am persuaded that our ordinances are not clear on the point.
 And to the degree that we support a particular right, to the degree that we support a particular law, I think it is incumbent upon us to be crystal clear about those rights when it comes to our ordinances. So I view this as a long-needed technical cleanup of our ordinance. And were I to be here on February 27th, I would support it for that reason.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, colleagues. This does my activist heart good. And this is, as was said, government responding to community members and partnering with community members. So thank you, Cheryl Colby, for bringing this talk to my attention and then to the Human Rights Commission's attention. Something that you said struck me in particular. This is not about who is right. It's about being welcoming. It's about being inclusive. It's about nobody worrying about discrimination. So whatever anybody's beliefs are,
 It's not about who's right, it's about being welcoming. Thank you, Kimberly McCullough from the ACLU, for being a wonderful resource for us as usual. Thank you, Commissioner Dr. Crane and Commissioner Wilson for testifying, the entire Human Rights Commission, including also the Office of Equity and Human Rights liaison, Tatiana Ali-Halday, Dr. Cronin.
 Markeisha Smith, who is here on her second day as being in charge of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Welcome, along with Dr. Kofi Dessou, who has been ably filling that role for the last year. Thanks to the City Attorney's Office, particularly Judy Prosper, Molly Gardner, Laurie Kraut, and Tracy Reeve. And I do also want to acknowledge my former staffer, Goldan Salazar, who worked with Claire Adamstick in my office, and now Cynthia Castro for...
 carrying the baton over the finishing line. I also want to acknowledge Philip Wolfe, who is here with us, and I particularly mentioned that there are other things in chapter 23 that need to be addressed, in particular the captioning ordinance,
 Mr. Wolfe, as a Commissioner on Disability, was instrumental in bringing to the Council's attention a few years ago and has made us aware of some changes needing there. So we're not done on Chapter 23, but this is certainly a very positive step forward, and thank you very much, everybody, for your work on it. Very good. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading on February 27, 2019. Thank you.
 That takes us to the regular agenda, second reading item number 129. Authorized cost-sharing intergovernmental agreement for levy-ready Columbia interim governance for $233,590 for fiscal year 19-20. Colleagues, this is a second reading of an ordinance. We have already heard a presentation and public testimony on this item. Is there any further discussion? No.
 Seeing none, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Wheeler? Portland's participation in the Levy Ready Columbia program puts us in partnership with other local, state, and federal government agencies, as well as businesses, environmental, and community organizations who are working together and are committed to reducing the flood risks along the Columbia River and planning for a safe and equitable future along the river.
 Our collective goal with our partners, to remind you, is to reduce the risk of flooding so we protect tens of thousands of jobs and residents, thousands of acres of farmland, and hundreds of acres of parks and natural areas. The intergovernmental agreement supports this important partnership to maintain, reinforce, and improve the Columbia River Levee for the benefit of our communities today and tomorrow. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 Next item, item 130. Amend contract with Brown and Caldwell, Inc. for professional engineering services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Waste Gas Burner Replacement Project number E10649 in the amount of $338,935. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant
 as you know, is investing in the infrastructure necessary to safely handle methane gas. With our poop-to-power initiative, the city will dramatically reduce our dependence on the flaring of excess methane gas, which will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions dramatically. The existing infrastructure necessary for flaring is outdated and must be upgraded. It is so outdated, in fact, that the flare must be manually lit by a BES employee, which raises significant safety concerns.
 BES engineer Aaron Lawler is here to explain more. Take it away. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. I'm Jim Brown, engineer supervisor with BES. And a little last-minute change with Paul Sudo being called away. Good. And I'm here to...
 with Aaron Lawler, who is the project manager for the Bureau of Environmental Services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Gas Burner Replacement Project. And I will turn it over to Aaron for a short presentation on the request today.
 Good morning. Thank you for your time today. My name is Aaron Lawler, BES engineer. I'm here today to talk about the Waste Gas Burner Project. What we have here is an overview of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, which is a CSO plant, combined sewer overflow plant, with a peak capacity of 450 million gallons a day of combined sewer and stormwater.
 Currently, Columbia Boulevard uses an anaerobic digester process to digest primary and waste-activated sludge producing biosolids and biogas. The plant produces approximately 1.5 million cubic feet per day of biogas.
 When possible, as Commissioner Fish mentioned, the biogas is beneficially used, poop to power, including fuel for boilers to provide process and building heat, cogeneration to produce electricity, and sold to neighboring industrial companies. A separate project is also underway to further increase the beneficial use by converting it into renewable compressed natural gas for vehicle fuel use.
 and injection into a pipeline. Just for clarification purposes, waste gas burners are also commonly referred to as flares. So you will probably hear me go back and forth between waste gas burners and flares. The initial presentation for this project was delivered on May 24th of 2017 to the council. It was to introduce the project to council and request for a PTE service agreement that's a professional technical excellence
 contract with Brown and Caldwell. That was approved, and during the pre-design phase, we have identified some additional scope and fee requirements to complete this project. So we're here today to ask for an amendment to the original PTE contract to be able to meet our project objectives. Sorry, I got a little bit lost there. So...
 It's all a mistake. Sorry, I'm sorry. Where am I? Right there. There we go. So the waste gas burners are over 36 years old, as Commissioner Fish mentioned. They are significantly deteriorating, showing severe wear and corrosion and creating structural and seismic issues as well as safety issues for wastewater plant staff.
 So this project is intended to replace those flares and install new flares located at a new location and upgrade them to increase safety, capacity, reliability, and meet all applicable codes and requirements.
 The installation of the new waste gas burners will meet manufacturer installation and necessary code requirements. The new flares installed will have the capacity to flare all of the biogas produced at Columbia Boulevard, assuming all beneficial uses for biogas are offline, which is of course the worst case scenario. In the future we hope that these will be used very rarely, only when our systems are down for maintenance and repairs.
 although this is a code requirement to have the capacity to flare all produced biogas at Columbia Boulevard, so we will be meeting our permit and code requirements through this project. The flares at Columbia Boulevard provide destruction of methane gas prior to discharge to the atmosphere. This is reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
 Flares are only used in biogases produced at Columbia Boulevard and not beneficially used. And as I mentioned, this is a permit requirement to have this capacity on site. This photo here shows the location of the new flares. We're currently looking at three flares located near Digester 9 and 10, which puts it much closer to where we actually produce the gas.
 So the current budget and estimated total project cost is $3.5 million almost. This is the entire project cost. This includes design, the consultant portion, the in-house portion, as well as the construction of the final installation. The current construction contract estimate is $1.7 million, and the proposed schedule is shown on this slide here. We hope to have construction completed at,
 the end of 2020. Commissioner Huttis, he has a question. Excuse me, Aaron. Could you go back to the slide? Yes. So your confidence in this estimate is low. Correct. So 1.7 million is a high number. Right.
 So what does that mean when you say your confidence is low, that that would be the estimated cost? Yes, so low cost estimate is tied directly to different classifications of cost estimating during project management and engineering. So during the pre-design phase, we have a lower cost estimate as there's more unknowns associated with the project.
 As we move through the phases of design, pre-design, design, advertisement, and finally get the construction bid, we adjust the cost estimate on a regular basis and update the confidence level. So this current one is a plus 50, minus 30% range, so in terms of the overall cost estimate. So I didn't understand the last thing you just said.
 But let me ask you this, once you have more confidence, are you going to be coming back to the city council and presenting that information to us? Yes. In a later slide I will touch on that. But yes, we plan to come to council before issuing a contract for the construction of this project. Let me also add to our newest colleague, the estimating of confidence level is heavily prescribed in our contracting processes.
 And when we're doing initial scoping, it is typically in these large projects you'll see low confidence. And that's because you don't know what you don't know.
 And there are going to be roadblocks that emerge, or we're going to discover something in the soil, or there's going to be something in the code or whatever. So bureaus are encouraged to be conservative in their estimating. What you would not want is them to come in and say high confidence level when they don't know what actually they're going to be facing.
 And this way, when there is an adjustment in price or an adjustment in scope, it isn't a shock to the system, and we're being transparent. But you'll see the low go to medium and then go to high over the course of various items that come back to council, including when we do actual work and additional contracting in the future. But it is not unusual at this stage to have a low confidence and, again,
 It is – you'll see this in Water Bureau projects, in BES projects, in large-scale parks projects at the earliest stage when basically you don't know what you don't know. Okay.
 And just to kind of add some clarity, the reason we are here today, again, in front of council is because we ran into some things that we didn't know when we initially scoped the project. So as the project scope and budget has increased, there's a threshold that requires us to come back to council and ask permission for the amendment. Thank you. I was just a little nervous when you're asking for more money and you have low confidence in where you're headed.
 Understood. So the current BES five-year capital program has the budget for the completion of this project, including this updated overall project cost. And, yes, as I mentioned, this cost estimate is based off of a pre-designed tech memo with the class four estimate, which is the plus 50% minus 30% range in the overall project cost estimate.
 So this is a breakdown of the overall cost estimate. So the estimated project cost is everything to completion. The PTE support contract, that is what we are here in front of council today for, is an amendment to the original contract. So it brings the total PTE support contract to $632,874 by the end of the project.
 The project was initially advertised on a quality-based select, and four proposals were received. Brown and Caldwell were selected based off of their qualifications and in accordance with the city code 5.68. The initial negotiated fee was $293,939 for the original contract.
 Of that, the DMWESB subcontracts participation was at 31.3% above the aspirational 20% goal set by the city, which equates to $92,002 of DMWESB contracts.
 The amendment is associated with relocating the flares instead of replacing them in their current location. It also has additional gas modeling to support the poop-to-power projects that we are creating. And then we identified some additional complexities in design.
 Amendment 1, scope and fee, was then developed with Brown and Caldwell, and the total amendment is $338,935. That's the amendment we are requesting. Of that, there are optional tasks. That's, again, to help cover some of the unknowns that we're not quite sure there. So those require written approval by the owner's representative before they can use those funds.
 We made sure to include DMWESB participation at the same level as the original contract. So after the amendment, we still have 31.28% participation of DMWESB. This brings the updated contract not to exceed amount to $632,874. Okay.
 This is just an overall summary letting you know that the request today is about 10% of the overall project cost, and the overall project budget is listed there as well to demonstrate that. So that concludes my presentation, and I am requesting the authorization of an execution of a PTE amendment with Brown and Caldwell with a contract not to exceed limit of $338,935. That concludes our presentation, Mayor.
 Very good. Any further discussion while we have this panel? Public testimony, Carla? Yes, we have one person signed up. Maggie? Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. I think Maggie's waving. Okay, very good. This goes to a second reading. This is a first reading of an on-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, item number 131. Amend contract with Infor Public Sector, Inc.,
 To increase the value of the contract by $2,011 for annual software support to cover additional licenses. Mayor and colleagues, this matter is incorrectly labeled. This is actually a Bureau of Environmental Services item. And with your consent, I'd like this pulled back to my office. No objection. Next item, item 132.
 Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary property rights necessary for construction of the Northeast Columbia, Cully Boulevard, and Alderwood Road intersection improvements project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority.
 Colleagues, Commissioner Udaly, of course, could not be here this morning. I've been asked to move this to February 20th. It was noted publicly on the Tuesday memo. Next item, 133. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain temporary and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Springwater Connector Project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority.
 Same story, different ordinance. We're also requested to move this to February 20th. That was also noted on the Tuesday memo. Which gets us to the consent agenda, item number 122.
 Item 122, grant a temporary revocable permit to new singular wireless PCS LLC for wireless communication services in the city. Colleagues, this ordinance is the result of Resolution No. 37405.
 which the City Council previously... Commissioner Fish. I'm sorry. My guess is that this item is going to take some time. There's some public interest in this. I think we're going to be setting aside some time. We have...
 If I could just seek the indulgence of my colleagues, we have another item that was pulled, 127, for which we've tied up all morning, the city's forester. And I just wonder if we could take 127 out of sequence, adopt the substitute, and that's all the work we have to do today. Without objection. Actually, this...
 But staff has been waiting all morning as well. My matter will take 10 seconds. Let's take care of 127, and then we can at least excuse them. She's going to be sticking around for a while. Read 127, please. 127, establish an interim compensation rate for the revised tree inspector classification and create a new represented classification of tree inspector senior and establish an interim compensation rate for this classification. Okay.
 So, folks, I've handed out the ordinance with the revision. This gives us a little extra time to work out the details. This is a very straightforward matter. It has broad support, and I'm seeking to offer this as a substitute. Is that an amendment? I only have it as an amendment, and I don't have what it is. I'm sorry, you don't have the paperwork? Nope. It just changes the timeline. Okay.
 for working out a classification issue with labor. This is just an amendment. It's not a substitute. It's an amendment. It's just an amendment. Yes. It's an amendment. It's non-controversial, and I move the amendment. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Yeah, clarifying question. Does that mean then that in the directions that the money, that all the directions are implemented or not implemented? They're going to be...
 Coming back with a different set of numbers in November? The Commissioner, I'm Nicole Wienia-Eide from the Bureau of Human Resources. And all the amendment does is change the effective date of the classifications, of the new classification and the compensation change. And why is that? To give us more time to implement the changes. What implementation is necessary? Okay.
 I can speak to that, Commissioner. Jen Cairo, City Forester. The types of changes we're making are things like updating standard operating procedures, trainings, manuals that we have to update in order to switch roles for some staff. So I have a question. Are you – what do you – I'm just – it's a long time until November. Okay.
 It will probably take place before then, but it will take place no later than November. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. So will the employees that are impacted by this receive, will their pay be impacted over the six months it's going to take us to do the other stuff that you're going to do?
 My understanding is their new duties will not be given to them until it is effective, at which case their pay will also be changed. So then the effective date in the directions needs to be changed as well because it says effective February 13th. Right. Do you see where that is? Yes. So just as legal counsel, I just want to note it occurs in all three of the directives. So I would like clarification as to whether all three directives need to have the new date as well.
 I think there's – okay, so maybe I misspoke, and this was on consent, and we didn't hear from any council office of any concerns. The transition of switching out one group of employees for another is going to take a little longer for us to affect. The other terms and conditions have been agreed to. The transition is going to take longer, and that's why we're seeking the additional flexibility to work out those details.
 And this has been discussed with our labor partners, and this reflects the realities of doing a big lift in terms of having one group of employees take over the work of another group of employees, and we want to get it right. So maybe a friendly amendment, Commissioner, that in each of the three directives A, B, and C, change effective February 13, 2011 to no later than November 1, 2019. Thank you.
 I think we can, yes, we'll accept that as a friendly amendment. Thank you. Very good. Any further discussion on the amendment? Call the roll on the amendment, please. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. Let's go to a second reading. Is there any...
 Is there any testimony? That's correct. Is there any testimony, though, on this item? It's a pulled item. I don't have any sign-up sheet. Anybody want to testify on this? Yeah, this one I don't. Seeing none. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended. Thank you. Back to item number 122.
 which is still an open item. This ordinance is the result of Resolution No. 37405, which the City Council previously adopted on December 19, 2018, which outlined a partnership agreement between AT&T and Portland to provide common interests in accelerating broadband deployment in Portland.
 The City Council resolution authorized and directed the Office for Community Technology to negotiate a franchise agreement and execute a temporary revocable permit based on the franchise within 60 days of Resolution 37405 being adopted. That deadline is February 17, 2019.
 AT&T and staff have been working hard to meet the deadlines outlined in the December resolution, and this ordinance accomplishes the first target.
 Jennifer Lee from the Office of Community Technology is here to answer any further questions. Thank you for your patience. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jennifer Lee, and I'm from the Office for Community Technology. I'm the program manager there responsible for negotiating and administering franchise agreements on behalf of the city. As the Mayor has noted, Resolution 37405 outlined a series of milestones for the partnership agreement with AT&T.
 I'd like to briefly go over those milestones right now. First, City Council directed OCT to negotiate and execute a temporary revocable permit with AT&T for small wireless facilities in the right-of-way within 60 days of the adopted resolution. Sixty days, as you've noted, from December 19th is the Sunday, February 17th.
 As outlined in the partnership agreement, AT&T has agreed to pay a higher rate than what the FCC has deemed presumptively reasonable, and those terms are also in the TRP. Second, City Council directed OCT to negotiate and execute the franchise agreement based on the temporary revocable permit by June 30, 2019. Third, City Council directed PVOT, Portland Bureau of Transportation, to negotiate and execute a master lease agreement by February 17. Fourth,
 Fourth, AT&T will prepay five years of franchise fees for small sales to the general fund and other permitting fees in two installments. The first installment will be $625,000 and is anticipated to be April 14th, 2019. The second prepayment will be September 30th, 2019. Fifth, AT&T will be donating $200,000 towards a local nonprofit who does work on digital equity issues.
 This donation to the nonprofit is anticipated by the end of 2019, if not sooner. So in less than 60 days, the City and AT&T have negotiated a franchise agreement for a 10-year term, which will supersede and replace AT&T's current grant of authority. AT&T has had a franchise agreement with the City since 2004. The new franchise that the City has negotiated with AT&T is intended to replace the previous agreement last negotiated in 2012.
 However, because of the time required to complete the formal franchising process required by the city charter and the timelines created by Resolution 37405, we ask city council to grant AT&T a temporary revocable permit, which is under substantially similar terms to the new franchise agreement.
 The ordinance before you would grant a temporary revocable permit to allow AT&T access to the right-of-way for wireless communication services. This temporary revocable permit will be for a limited duration of up to one year. The temporary revocable permit will allow AT&T to proceed while the city works through the formal franchising process required by the city charter, which includes public notice.
 The new franchise agreement will then come before City Council for consideration once the formal franchising process has been completed, a process which we usually estimate can take up to four to six months. Staff anticipates that the first reading on the franchise will be in April or May 2019. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Commissioner Fritz, first, please. Are we allowed to not have 5G? Yes.
 We are not. The FCC has issued a number of orders recently, most recently in, I think, August of 2018, and then there was a second in September of 2018. The August 2018 order basically prohibited local governments from issuing a moratoria or effective moratoria on wireless installments. So basically we can't say no.
 And we appealed that, so we testified against that, didn't we? We did. We did. The city council had an emergency session in October to authorize the city attorney's office to file a lawsuit or join in a lawsuit, you know,
 protesting the overreach of the FCC, and that litigation is currently underway. It's been transferred to the Ninth Circuit very recently, and it's been combined with a number of other cases involving the small cell order, which was issued by the FCC in September 2018. So those are proceeding in the Ninth Circuit Court right now. And this council is not allowed to consider potential health impacts. Is that still the case? Yes, that's still the case.
 Local governments are preempted from taking into consideration in wireless siting decisions potential effects, environmental effects, or health effects of RF emissions.
 I think it was in 2009 that we had a resolution from the council. There was a resolution in 2009. Excuse me. There was a resolution in 2009. City Council also adopted a resolution in 2012 saying the same thing, urging the FCC to update its health studies on RF emissions. There's currently also an open docket at the FCC that we've
 also urged the FCC to act on, and they have not. Because they haven't even done the studies on 5G, have they? I don't believe that the FCC does the studies themselves. They think they have scientists that take a look at what studies are out there, but I'm not certain on that. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, and thank you, Commissioner Fritz. You asked a lot of the questions that I had. So when do you anticipate the court case being heard? Okay.
 I don't know. I think the transfer to the Ninth Circuit Court was slowed down by the government shutdown, and I'm not sure what is going to be happening next. Commissioner Hardesty, I'm not the attorney on that. We can find an answer and get back to you on that. I wouldn't say it's imminent. Yeah.
 Yeah, I know the parties, all the local governments asked the courts for a stay, and that was denied. And we also asked, I think we also asked the FCC to stay their order, too, but it was effective January 14th, I think, of this year. I don't know.
 In January of this last year. And so does that mean that all local governments are being forced into a partnership with AT&T under another name? Is that an accurate statement? I wouldn't say that. I think in Portland we've chosen to...
 negotiate with AT&T and find common interests in their deployment of their wireless technology and what the city's priorities are, such as digital equity, closing the digital divide, ensuring that we have fair compensation for use of the right-of-way. Other cities may be taking different tasks, but partnership agreements are things that other cities, such as Boston, San Jose, Lincoln, Nebraska, have all taken. Okay.
 And as your office, this is intriguing. I just heard about this when it showed up on the agenda, so I appreciate my colleagues giving me an opportunity to learn more about this. Did you in your negotiations actually talk about the measly amount of community money, $200,000, to address the digital divide?
 When we're talking a multi-billion dollar organization, that's a drop in the bucket and that won't really help address the digital divide at all.
 Those terms were discussed before our office started negotiations with AT&T on the franchise itself. So the December resolution had outlined all the terms, including the $200,000. So I personally wasn't a party to those. So somebody else negotiated that deal before you were assigned? Right. I was part of the direction from city council. You know, we decided these things.
 do these, the first of which is the TRP. So that's my role in this. And just to put on the record, does this have anything to do with creating an opportunity for the community to have Internet, to have a community-owned Internet service for the community, like either government-owned or, you know, set up like Multnomah County is investigating?
 Do we have an opportunity to do that through this process? Could I just comment on that? Multnomah County has a partner in that research, and that is us. We allocated $25,000 to that research report, and it's my understanding that we're looking at, what, a year, year-and-a-half long process? Probably.
 So does that mean that any time we would be able to get out of this deal and do a better deal that would actually be better for the community? Well, I don't think that municipal broadband and AT&T services are mutually exclusive. I think you can have them both. The issue that we're facing, I think, as cities is that the FCC has issued these orders recently.
 basically telling cities we must approve these permits within a certain time frame, and we can't slow that time frame down in order to wait for the results of the municipal broadband study. Our office looks forward to the results of the study, but it's –
 I think it's a separate issue from what AT&T is doing. But just to clarify, we're not saying that only AT&T can have 5G in Portland. In fact, we're not allowed to say only they are. They're just the first ones who've come in offering to put any money on the table, which the other companies are not offering to do anything at this point.
 I also want to clarify that the League of Oregon Cities is partnering with the League of California Cities and I think with Washington and other states because everybody throughout the state is really concerned about this, particularly independents in Monmouth who have their own municipal system and are really just outraged that this might compete with it or just that they have to go through all this infrastructure improvement for a private company.
 So I think we all agree this is an abhorrent process. Portland is actually a national leader on this subject. I was recently at the U.S. Conference of Mayors and...
 My main presentation was on this issue and the city's leadership with regard to the lawsuit, the request for the change of direction from the FCC. And there's no question this has broad support, big cities, small cities. At the end of the day, it's really a property rights question. And whether we have the authority to regulate...
 our right of way, and charge reasonable fees for that right of way, or whether the federal government can preempt us. But it is my view that that issue, which we don't call the shots for the courts, we don't schedule for the courts, it's certainly a priority. But I see that as being somewhat different and removed from this question here before us today.
 And if I may, Commissioner Hardesty, AT&T, the agreement for AT&T is the first one to come before us, so to speak, because AT&T has agreed to a higher rate than what the FCC has deemed reasonable. So the FCC in their September small cell order said that cities –
 It's presumptively reasonable that cities could charge no more than $270 per poll, and that's cumulative of all recurring fees, so lease fees, franchise fees. AT&T in this agreement has agreed to franchise fees for $1,250 per poll. So it's significantly higher than what the FCC has deemed reasonable. And why do you think they would want to pay us more than they're required to?
 Well, it's not that they're required to. It's what they're presumptively deemed reasonable. We have to prove that if we were challenged that our costs were whatever we say they are. But I think AT&T, you know, honestly is looking at the opportunity to build, and they want to serve their customers faster, and this is their way of getting in the market sooner. The other carriers have not.
 approached us about the fees yet. And will we be creating an inequitable system if the big boys can come in and pay $12.50 per poll and other folks come in and they can't? Does that create an inequitable opportunity here in the city of Portland? Well, under federal law, we're required to
 offer the same rates to everyone. So as AT&T is the first to come to an agreement, we're going to offer $1,250 to everybody else. So we're required to not be discriminatory and to offer everybody the same rates who are doing similar services. Thank you very much. Really appreciate your responses.
 Very good. Any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have 14 people signed up. Colleagues, I have a problem. I am due at the Clean and Safe Luncheon to thank the people who have been participating in that. I have an excused absence five minutes ago, and we have one, two, three, four more items left.
 Well, the problem is these are all emergency ordinances. It requires at least four members of the council to be present. Do the emergency two have a right to be heard? Well, would you like to do the emergency ordinances before you leave? They're all emergency ordinances. Assist two. All right. Well, let's just go for it. Let's go ahead. And if somebody on my staff could please let the folks know. I'm sorry. I will not be able to do that. Thank you. The first three, please come on up, are Michael Hanna –
 Michaela Bedard and Martin Dahl. Oh, Paul. It's a P, sorry. Martin. Okay, Michaela's gone. Let's go with Robin Gottlieb. Robin here? Yes, she is. Okay, thank you. Greetings, Michael. You want to start us off? Greetings. It's good to see you. Can you do it in two? Yes. Great. We'll take two minutes. Thank you.
 Great. Hello, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Thank you for giving us the time to be heard on this issue. I'm not sure which office removed this from the consent. Put your name in the record. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm Michael Hanna, proud resident of Multnomah County. I'm not sure which office removed this from the consent agenda, but I thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for moving the consent agenda so we could speak on this.
 We are at a crossroads, and there are two paths forward for our community's connectivity digital infrastructure. Corporate ownership and control, or community ownership and control. It's very simple. For over a year, through the Municipal Broadband PDX campaign, many, many of us have lobbied the city of Portland to adopt, advocate for municipal broadband, which is publicly owned, not-for-profit fiber optic network.
 An internet utility for every resident and business operated by Oregonians for Oregonians. More than 200 cities and towns in the United States already have a publicly owned fiber optic internet utility not for profit.
 The City of Portland staff have spent countless hours, according to the lobbying reports, working with AT&T and Verizon over the last year. And we just heard that it's a sovereignty issue, it's a property issue, yet that's correct. Mill Valley has put in an emergency ordinance to delay 5G.
 So I've used technology my entire life. I love technology, but technology is a tool to improve our lives. Negotiating with AT&T in this manner is being a tool for the corporations.
 They mentioned the $200K for digital inclusion. That is less than what AT&T extracts from our local economy every day. So just to put that in context. Also, AT&T gave a $600,000 bribe to Trump's mob lawyer, Michael Cohen, to further push 5G.
 So I have three requests from my elected officials today. Please don't be a corporate tool. Stand up against this corporate power grab and deny this attempt to declare an emergency, because it is obviously not an emergency. Guaranteeing AT&T's profit is not an emergency. And then please pull this to a full vote for the public. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hi. Can you hear me? This is my first time testifying. Hello, everyone. My name is Robin Gottlieb, and I'm from the Stop 5G campaign and the Digital Commonwealth Alliance. I'm here today to ask you, Portland City Council, to decline to vote on 5G as an emergency ordinance. Thank you.
 When the public comes to you with their plan for a publicly owned municipal broadband internet, one that includes subsidies for costs for low-income families and will generate revenue, we have to fight tooth and nail for it at the city. But when telecom corporations come in with their plan to increase their monopolies by taking over the internet sector, the city welcomes them in with open arms over 100 times.
 This is with no caps on the prices they can charge, no equity mandate, and no input from the public. All of this that I mentioned gives the perception that on this issue, the city cares more about the voices of corporate interests than they do about the voices of the public. But I really hope that's not the case, which is why I'm here today.
 The 5G effort was hidden from the public and added to the consent agenda as emergency ordinance. If it weren't for Commissioner Hardesty, we wouldn't be here today to give our testimony before it's too late. The city is on track to allow 5G, which is a new potentially dangerous technology, into our city, and I urge you strongly to reconsider that.
 Instead, I am requesting you to just say no to 5G and support a three-year moratorium on the issue. Portlanders have made clear what internet they want from the city, and it's not 5G, it's municipal broadband.
 Thank you again, Commissioner Hardesty, for removing this from the consent agenda so we could have our voices heard. And thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for listening to the people and securing funding for the municipal broadband study. Thank you all for letting me speak today. Thank you. Just so you know, thank you. I appreciate Commissioner Hardesty pulling this as well, but any member of the public can pull something from the consent agenda. You just let the...
 that, Councillor Clerk. Thank you very much. That's good to know. And I do also just want to clarify, and I'm glad that people are here and they want to testify. I
 But to say that this was hidden from the public or that the public did not get a chance to testify is not accurate. We had a full hearing on this subject in December, and we had lots of presentation and lots of public testimony. This is on the consent agenda because it's coming back, staff having completed the work that they were authorized to do during that hearing, after that testimony, after a vote of the full council, just for clarification.
 Good afternoon. Yeah, I'm Martin Paul, P-A-L-L. I'm a professional who's worked in this area. I've published eight papers on it and discovered the main mechanism of non-thermal effects. I would like to have three minutes, please. Let's start with two and see where you get. We have a lot of people and a lot of issues, and we have a full afternoon. Yeah, I wish that the propagandists from AT&T were limited to three minutes, or two minutes for that matter. Okay.
 I discovered six years ago the mechanism by which, the major mechanism by which EMFs produce non-thermal health effects. And those effects are produced at levels of exposure that are approximately 7.2 million times lower than our current safety guidelines allow.
 There are other in addition effects considerations. Specifically, pulsed EMFs, EMFs that pulse up and down, are in most cases much more biologically active and therefore much more dangerous than our non-pulsed EMFs. Every single wireless communication device communicates via pulsation and the pulsation effects are ignored universally by the industry and by the FCC.
 5G is designed to be extremely highly pulsed. That is one of four reasons why 5G will be much more dangerous than the exposures that we already have. There are many severe and even existential threats to us based on the exposures that we already have. Cancer has been discussed a lot, but it is number four or five on my list.
 The most important things, I believe, are the neurological and neuropsychiatric effects, which are already very far along in our societies, and the reproductive effects, which are also very far along in our societies. Both of those develop cumulatively with time, and they become more and more severe with increasing mortality.
 time of exposures to the point where they become basically, you know, they will, you know, we will have, and let me say we're already seeing this now, a crash in our collective brain function.
 And that will destroy us. We will have a crash in our reproductive function. We're already seeing that now in three East Asian countries, and the other technologically advanced countries will probably follow in short order. Make one more good point. Make one more good point. Okay. What should we do?
 First of all, I think Portland should join the FCC lawsuit that the California League of Cities. We're leading it. You're already in there. We're leading it more to the point. Okay, good. Secondly, I think that if we're forced to put in 5G with AT&T, there should be an understanding that the city of Portland will study the health impacts.
 Of those EMFs, and if they are shown to be substantial, the City of Portland should shut down the whole system. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony, all three of you. Next three are Scott France, Phillip Wolfe, and Kay O'Neill. Good afternoon. Would you like to go ahead and start, sir? Good afternoon. Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Willis City Commissioners.
 My name is Scott France. I'm a 23-year resident of southeast Portland. I'm here to ask you that you, the leaders of a city that brands itself as an environmentally progressive city, consider the potential damage to living systems in this region that 5G could bring, the implementation that 5G could bring.
 Over 230 scientists from more than 40 countries have expressed serious concerns regarding the ubiquitous exposure to EMFs, electric magnetic fields, generated by electric and wireless devices already before the additional 5G rollout. They refer to, quote, numerous recent scientific publications that have shown that EMFs affect living organisms at levels well below most international guidelines.
 The effects include increased cancer risk, cellular stress, increase in harmful free radicals, genetic disorders, structural and functional changes of the reproductive system, learning and memory deficits, neurological disorders, and the impacts on general well-being in humans. Damage goes well beyond the human race as there is growing evidence of effects to both plants and animals, and I can supply your offices with those studies.
 After the scientists' appeal was written in 2015, additional research has convincingly confirmed serious health risks from fields from wireless technologies. The National Toxicology Program study showed a significant increase in the incidence of brain and heart cancer in animals exposed to EMFs. And a European Union-funded review body looked at 100 studies on how EMF
 Radiation may affect the environment. It concluded that this radiation poses a risk to bird and insect orientation and plant health.
 So I'm here to ask you that you decline a vote on 5G as an emergency ordinance. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. I'm Kay O'Neill, and I'm here to talk about the surveillance and privacy risks of 5G. AT&T tracks and sells personal data from our phones. They want to expand the dragnet to include our home browsing history. In other words, 5G is a way for telecoms, not just AT&T, to better access our data so they can sell it.
 Motherboard recently investigated a plethora of phone geolocation companies with little oversight by telecom industries ranging from car salesmen, property managers, bail bondsmen, and bounty hunters. Compounding that already highly questionable business practice, this spying capability is also being resold online.
 to others on the black market who are not licensed by the company to use it, seemingly without their knowledge. This investigation shows not only how widely American sensitive location data has been sold through the overlooked and questionable data broker market and its black market, but also how the ease of access dramatically increased the risk of abuse.
 Motherboard, and I'm happy to provide the full investigation that was just completed a month ago, found that an individual company made more than 18,000 data location requests through a data broker. Carriers like AT&T assured customers location tracking abuses are isolated incidents.
 Now it appears that hundreds of people could track our phones, and they were doing it for years before anyone in the wireless companies took action. Senator Ron Wyden said in an email statement after he was presented with Motherboard's findings, that's more than an oversight. That's flagrant, willful disregard for the safety and security of Americans. I encourage the mayor and all commissioners to say no to AT&T's alleged emergency measures
 to request for a fast-track contract. Please read the mountain of evidence owning broadband as a public utility would provide. Chattanooga, Tennessee makes hundreds of millions off of their broadband revenue. We could have the same commonwealth here in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm not sure what he's asking me to do. Do you want us to take your phone? Take your phone. That's dangerous, Philip. Thank you.
 Do you want me to answer it? Answer the call. Hello? Yes. Very good. Thank you. Can I hang up? So Philip was signing into his computer, and it was talking on his phone. Is that what was happening? Okay. Sorry. I don't know what I'm doing. It's very impressive. Thank you. It's a good technology. Thank you. There's like a translator. Yeah, we should have put it for the speaker.
 Sorry, I screwed up the demo. I apologize. He shouldn't have given me the technology. That was his mistake. Okay. Okay, I get that. Thank you. I get that. You don't have to worry about your spelling. Thank you. The next three are Julia DeGraw, Leah Gibbs, and Stephen King. Leah had to leave. Okay. Then we'll go with Andrew Markell.
 Good afternoon. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon. My name is Julia DeGraw, and I live in the neighborhood of Montevilla. And I wear a lot of different hats, but I would like to be speaking on behalf of the Portland Metro People's Coalition today. And I'll keep it short, but process matters. And I do understand that there was apparently –
 a meeting where people could give public testimony. I don't think anyone's arguing that there wasn't that opportunity.
 But this is a very big issue. And I think having additional opportunity for groups and individuals to share their input would have been a very good idea. And I think additionally, your actions aren't really matching your messaging when you look at the fact that you had seven months to enthusiastically support municipal broadband by joining the host of all the communities and cities in Multnomah County, including Multnomah County,
 to move forward with the municipal broadband feasibility study. It took seven months to get $25,000, which was almost half what Gresham put in with a much smaller population. And he did it really at the last minute. And I think I would like to echo a little bit of what Robin Gottlieb said, which is that that really indicates...
 to me and to the public, it looks like your priorities are with AT&T rather than with really robustly exploring a publicly owned Internet that addresses these equity issues that, frankly, AT&T is unable to address. A corporate Internet system does not address equity issues. They're talking about $250. One of the estimates is $250 a month for this service.
 That's not a working class price. People can afford to pay for internet. And these are industries that extract up to a million dollars a day out of Multnomah County alone. That's what AT&T, Sprint, Verizon, and T-Mobile extract a day from our region. We could have a robust market.
 publicly owned internet, and I would like to see a lot more enthusiasm coming from the city on that and seeing a lot more slowing down of this process. This actually accelerates it by giving them this contract. So anyway, I urge also that you do not vote on this as an emergency and that you have a more public process moving forward. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Leah Gibbs had to leave, but she emailed me her testimony to read. Could I get your name for the record? Oh, yes. I'm Robin Gottlieb reading for Leah Gibbs. Thank you.
 Good morning Council Members and Mayor Wheeler. My name is Leah Gibbs and I'm a member of the Portland Metro People's Coalition and I'm here to voice my strong opposition to the emergency ordinance for 5G.
 You've already heard strong testimony regarding the concerns with privacy, equity, and safety around the issue of 5G. I share all those concerns. I did want to mention how nice it was to see earlier how the council is supporting local businesses and that there was a discussion about how keeping business local improves our community. Fortunately, we have the option of a locally and democratically owned Internet service, municipal broadband, and I and the coalition strongly support that option.
 I would like to talk briefly about what this decision means to the children in our communities. I'm a mother of two young kids who attend a Portland public school. Our children do not have lobbyists, they do not make campaign contributions, but the implications of our decisions on their lives must be considered. I'm a veterinarian. I believe in science. And when I was first told about the health concerns of wireless radiation, I thought it was laughable.
 However, in my mission to prove myself correct, I found that those with the biggest concerns are those that we should listen to most, and I changed my mind. Those with concerns include the American Association of Pediatrics, MIT scientists, and a host of other credible and respected medical and scientific experts.
 There is strong scientific work published to suggest that the concerns about 5G may be outsized in children with a developing neurological system and thinner skulls that allow for greater absorption of environmental radiation. Increased research by non-industry funded scientists is needed prior to proceeding with implementation of a technology that cannot be avoided if brought to an urban area. 5G creates an unavoidable electric cloud around our neighborhoods.
 There's no reason to rush into a contract with out-of-state corporate interests. We have emergencies in this city. The state of public education, the treatment of our houseless population, the opioid crisis, those are emergencies. Giving a contract to AT&T is not an emergency, and I urge you to vote against this emergency ordinance. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for having me, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Andrew Markell. I've been a resident of Portland since 1990.
 And I just want to sum up everything that I've heard today. I came with a prepared testimony, but with two minutes. And it seems quite obvious to me, as someone that has worked in Portland and has known Portland to be a city that values freedom and democracy and equity and has a global reputation for this, to be listening to the concerns of the community. There are very strong community concerns around surveillance, around equity issues, and around health.
 There is no unequivocal evidence on either side. So it seems to me that the onus of proof must fall with the corporation. And the corporations have a long history in the last five years or more of demonstrating that they are very callous with our privacy, very callous with our data, very callous with our rights as citizens, and that their game plan is always to obfuscate the issue, much like they did with cigarettes, and
 and to create a cloud of uncertainty, and to label those that have questions to be insane, conspiracy theorists. And meanwhile, the poorest and most disadvantaged in the community are always the ones that suffer the most.
 So there are options on the table. And what I'm hearing everyone say today is we want the time to consider those options. Mill Valley is taking the time to consider those options. Governor Brown of California has made it possible for every city in California to consider those options. It seems incumbent upon us as a state and as a city with this proud global reputation of equity and justice and fairness and privacy to follow suit.
 It is completely baffling to my mind why we would rush into something like this with a pending case in the Ninth Circuit, why we would follow Donald Trump's lead in demanding that all cities adopt this. I mean, Portland should be at the furthest reach of Donald Trump's demands upon the citizens. So it is incumbent upon all of us to take time to reflect on
 and to really study this issue and to hear all sides. That is my request. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three, please. Our Stephen King, Mark Culler, and Andrew Solvelec. Good afternoon. Hi, how are you doing? My name is Stephen King. I'm a resident of North Portland. And I guess I'm going to put away my prepared remarks to maybe bring up two things. First of all,
 We've talked a lot about municipal broadband and the value of that, and I don't know if the connection between 5G and municipal broadband has been made entirely clear.
 But all of the money that AT&T will make or Sprint or whoever, all of the companies coming in, is made at the very end between the connection between the tower or the wire and the consumer. So the consumers are the people who bear all of the expense, the people who are paying all the money. So as you do municipal broadband, if you have to compete with the 5G for electricity,
 Consumers, it cuts significantly down on the potential revenue and the potential savings for people within Portland to the point where municipal broadband may not be even doable. So we don't know that answer yet. We haven't done the study. But this could actually kill municipal broadband. And we need to understand that. We need to stop that. And we need to look at it before we put this through. That's number one.
 And an additional part of that is that the cost of this 5G is going to run way excess what most people in this community can pay, or many people in this community can pay, especially disadvantaged communities. So by doing this, by taking this step, you're pretty much putting the stake in the –
 in the coffin on municipally-owned broadband. The second piece is the FCC made us do it is not an excuse, and we really need to direct this. I mean, Trump and their minions have done all sorts of ridiculously stupid things, and we've stood up, and we are standing up. We've got a lawsuit. Why are we doing a contract before the lawsuit is complete? There's an HR 530 in front of the House of Representatives right now
 to overturn the FCC. Let that play out. Don't rush to this. There's absolutely no reason to rush to this. AT&T is the world's largest telecom company in the world. They have $160 billion worth.
 worth of revenue. They have half a trillion dollars worth of assets. They do not need this gift from us. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Mark Kohler. I'm also, like some of the previous speakers, a member of the Portland Metro People's Coalition. We are an organization of over 20 different citizen groups who you are very well aware of the broad reach of support that municipal broadband has across the metro area.
 And I just wanted to speak – I know I've already talked about – I'm sorry that Professor Paul didn't have a longer time to speak to you about the health risks involved in not only our community but around the world from this technology that's being ignored, quite honestly, by not just the Trump administration because people talk about that. But the lawsuit –
 Regardless of the results of the lawsuit, I think it's imperative upon this group and this city to stand up against a decision that is clearly in the best interest of corporations against the health and welfare of our citizens. I know it's a challenge for you folks to stand up when the federal organizations, quote, and I heard it earlier in this discussion, demanding that we accept a technology that we do not want.
 That is our right as citizens to stand up when a policy or a law is against the best interests of our people. And I think we as citizens and members of this community would expect all of you to stand up for us against the organization that is pushing this technology on us when we clearly have an alternative that is both safe,
 reliable and provides us the resources that come from that technology. So I just, I'm just speaking as a member of this community to ask you all to stand up when the time comes
 You know, you are all elected officials. You respond, I hope, to us as individual citizens who demand that you do the right things, regardless of how it appears from a federal standpoint in terms of requirements. So I just ask you all to remember that this is what the people are demanding and that you stand up for all of us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Andrew Solik. Sir, could you pull the mic a little closer so we can hear you?
 My name is Andrew Solick, and I'm really nobody special. I don't represent a group or a cause or anything so much as I'm a concerned citizen. I'm a homeowner across the river here in the Buckman neighborhood and have been for 30 years, living in Portland since 73. My concern here is the pace at which things are accelerating along this line. I realize to some extent, based on what I heard this morning, your hands are tied because of this federal lawsuit.
 But really, I don't see why this is such an emergency. I know that there's a push by these corporations to make America's cities smart. And I'm just wondering why we have to depend on technology to be smart about stuff. I think the smart thing for us to do is to take more time. I didn't realize there was one meeting already where testimony was given about this subject. But it appears to me the scope of this is so large.
 that it demands more time, it demands more publicity, it demands more community involvement. And I would like to urge this council to take whatever steps they feel would enable the public to be more informed, to completely vet this operation and distribute this information to the public in the way of public forums so that everyone becomes involved because if it's passed, it's going to affect everyone here.
 And I would just hope that you vote against this as an emergency measure. And by doing so, vote for transparency, due process, and putting the health and safety of the citizens of Portland ahead of short-term corporate profit. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three. The last person who signed up is Maggie. Good afternoon. I just want to say how much I love...
 each and every person who came up to testify on this issue today. It matters so much to every individual who needs defense against crime.
 electronic invasion of corporations, of foreign entities, of Big Brother, of the danger of EMS. Everyone who showed up today cares about the general citizens, the little people. Thank you.
 Does that complete our testimony? That's all signed up, yes. Very good. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. I move that we remove the emergency clause from item 122. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz to remove the emergency clause. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye.
 Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The emergency clause is removed. The ordinance is amended. Commissioner Fritz. Could I ask a question of staff, please, Ms. Lee? Please. Is there a reason that we have to go into this before the lawsuit is figured out? Are we required to allow 5G whenever anybody wants to have it? I...
 I'm not sure if I understand your question. I'm not quite sure what the FCC, how broad the directive is. I know that it sets a floor or a suggested maximum for the amount of money that we can charge, and as we heard, it's a lot more. Does it say that we have to allow 5G facilities to be built in any particular time frame? I think not in so many words, but the...
 And hopefully I'm answering your question. The August 2018 FCC order preempted cities from imposing a moratorium. So if we have the applications, we have to accept them and review them or deny them within a certain time frame. But we don't have to do this now.
 Because this is a temporary permit, which we're saying is before we get to the final agreement. Are we allowed to wait and allow that franchising to move forward? Oh, I think I see what you're saying. Okay.
 What we're trying to do today with the ordinance is to follow the direction that we were given in the December 2018 resolution, which one of the milestones specifically was to issue and negotiate and execute a temporary revocable permit with AT&T by February 17th. Okay. Okay.
 It's – currently, AT&T already has a franchise, and it's in effect. So this just looks at sort of the current FCC standards around small cell rates and takes that into context. So we're kind of –
 We're adapting the franchise to fit current federal law. Okay. So obviously by our vote today to take the emergency clause off, we're not going to be done by February 17th. So the council is hereby saying you don't necessarily need to rush into things. I'm troubled on page 15 of 23 of the franchise agreement. There's added a section M that refers to the challenge of the city. Mm-hmm.
 I would prefer to see it say if it turns out our challenge is upheld, that this entire contract is null and void. Because when you said that, I had not fully understood that this sets the rate for all of the other subsequent agreements. And so if it turns out that the FCC's regulation is tossed out or overturned by the Congress, as we just heard, we...
 might want to charge more than $1,200 per poll. Yes, that's true. I think what the city would like to do today with this ordinance is to set the rate at what we think is at least slightly more proper than $270. So by approving the franchise at the $1,250 rate,
 you know, we're affirmatively saying to all the other carriers that this is the way for the city. So if we delay, then I think there may be a question about, you know, is 1250 appropriate? Should it be lower? Well, from my perspective, or should it be higher if it turns out that the FCC rules? I mean, we are required and under oath to follow the laws of the
 United States of America and the state of Oregon and the city of Portland. So we unfortunately have to do what the FCC says. On the other hand, if there are
 I'm interested in the interim before this comes back in what could we do that could push the limits. We know from the 2009 resolution, which I just looked this up, and when it originally passed, it passed 3-0, but two members were not here, and we brought it back for reconsideration so that Commissioner Fish and one of our other colleagues could vote, so it would be a 5-0 because it was precedent-setting in 2009.
 And yet we've asked every year it's been on the city's legislative agendas to try to get them to look at health impacts. And they're basically doing what the tobacco companies did in not reading the information and not looking into the problems. On the other hand, it's the law that we're not allowed to consider health impacts. So I think I would certainly like in the interim before this comes back to look at, yes, obviously,
 We want to get more money than $200 per poll. On the other hand, this is a matter of principle, which we're currently litigating, and other ways to make sure that we don't set that precedent in the event that the litigation is successful. Commissioner, could you yield for a moment?
 By taking the emergency clause off, what we have given ourselves is the additional flexibility to have further briefings from the Office of Community Technology. Also, if any member of the council wishes to bring an amendment, it could be brought next week if the council so chooses. And so I think what we've done is...
 given the community a little more time to weigh in, given each member of council a chance to talk to the Office of Community Technology. It would come back for a vote next week, but that's just a placeholder.
 What that says is that it comes back and then the council decides how it wants to proceed. So I know that just speaking for myself, there's a couple of issues that have been raised I'd like to talk to the Office of Community Technology about and just get my questions answered. Mayor, I appreciate some of the points that you made clarifying the record. I think it's a healthy process for us to take a little more time. It will come back next week, but that's a control date. That just means that that's when the matter comes back and the council can decide how to proceed.
 It doesn't actually necessarily have to come back next week, as we just did earlier. We can send it. I mean, I think this is a really important issue that I personally would like to be involved in making the decision, having been in charge of the former Office of Cable Communications and Franchise Management. I think that this issue really exemplifies why the council decided to pull the Office for Community Technology out of the Office of Management and Finance and have it be a standalone bureau again, because it is something that is of great community concern and concern.
 Commissioner Hardesty was the president of the forerunner of Open Signal, Portland Community Media. So it's obviously something that both of us have been working on for a very long time and would really like to join with our community partners to see where we could push some of the direction to be more in the way we would like it to go. Thank you for your work, Jennifer.
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I would also like to hear from legal counsel, like what options the city of Portland has, especially since we're in the middle of a lawsuit. And I'd like to know if there's any precedent of us moving in one direction while we're in the middle of a lawsuit rather than waiting for the lawsuit to be completed. And we will make sure you get that briefing in the interim.
 Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended, and I presume we need to pick a date. The next date that I believe the entire council is available is the 13th of March, if I remember correctly. That's correct. Why don't we take that as a placeholder unless anybody has a different idea. Really appreciate that. Good idea. Okay, very good. So let's do that. And thank you to all the community members who came today. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Michael, it's good seeing you again. Good to see you, Mayor. Yeah, you bet. Commissioner Hardesty, I have a question for you. I read somewhere you're leading a rally at 1 o'clock. Are we about to lose you because we have three emergency items, and I just want to make sure we manage our time. I will be here through these, and actually I think these will be answered very quickly. They won't take the time. Can we deal with them together? We have to do 124 separately, but we can read 25 and 26 together.
 So that'll speed things up a bit. 124, please. Poll from consent.
 pay property damage and bodily injury claims of Jacqueline Van Arkel in the sum of $22,555, resulting from a motor vehicle collision involving the Portland Police Bureau. Good afternoon. Thank you for your patience. You learned a little bit about 5G? I did. I don't know if I had heard of it before. Very good. Commissioner Hardesty had some follow-up questions on this item. Oh, sure. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Thank you so much for being here. And my questions are really brief. My question was, I noticed that there were three accident claims that we are voting on today. And I just wanted to know if there's a...
 If there's a trend that we should be concerned about, because all three of these accidents were with Portland Police Bureau vehicles, and so I just wanted to make sure it was on the records. That just caught my attention that there was three at one time, therefore small claim amounts, but...
 I wanted to hear that on the record. Thank you. Right. And, you know, I don't know that there's really a trend or an uptick in them. We could, you know, possibly run some sort of report and get that to you to let you know where, if we're getting more accidents. I mean, we're on the road all the time every day, so we do have a lot of accidents, not just police but other bureaus too. But we'd be happy to try and get that data for you if you like. I don't have it available right now today. Okay.
 I think a follow-up, if I can just speak to this point. We deal with a lot of property damage and bodily injury claims on consent, and they're not exclusive to the police bureau. We have infrastructure bureaus that have trucks and cars and things. Okay.
 And these things are normally negotiated with individuals through their attorneys, then go through our risk management. And so the dollars are usually not in question. My suggestion is we approve them, but that the commissioner get a briefing on trends and also what steps are, frankly, I think we all want to know, what steps are we taking to prevent these from happening? Are there any policy issues which are raised by virtue of having these claims on a regular basis? Right.
 And we can absolutely look into that and get that information to you. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. In addition, though, I would like to know whether or not in any of these accidents there was any discipline involved.
 Discipline is something that's handled directly with the police department. Risk management doesn't get involved in that part of the claim. We're just, you know, our job is to make the person whole again. But...
 That's up to the Bureau. Thank you. I appreciate your response to that. Yes, your risk management. But for me, I would love to have a rounder conversation about, like, how do we close the loop? I mean, accidents happen, and certainly with wet payments and ice and all the good stuff that we encounter, accidents do happen. But when I start seeing a trend, then I want to know that the Bureau is at least having conversations with people
 their employees to find out why that is and to do any corrective action that needs to take place. So thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. And Mayor, I'm happy to support these today. But those questions, I just wanted to make sure were on the record and that additional information would be coming to my office. Yes. Very good. Public testimony on item 124. I don't have sign-up sheets for any of these. Call the roll. Thank you.
 Fritz? So the city's adopted Vision Zero, which says that all crashes are avoidable and that we also put into place a required follow-up with city employees who are involved in crashes.
 I'm very concerned that the number of, we do get them on a fairly frequent basis and that this may be due to distracted driving since they have the mobile display units in their patrol vehicles. I think we should be looking into voice-guided vehicles
 directions coming from the computers or even looking at pairing up offices so that they don't have to concentrate on, so that one could be concentrating on drivers and the others can be concentrating on avoiding crashes.
 Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please read items 125 and 126 together. 125, pay bodily injury claim of Jose Moreno Cruz in the sum of $18,125.00.
 resulting from a vehicle collision involving the Portland Police Bureau. 126, pay bodily injury claim of Sanjay Kumar in the sum of $12,716, resulting from a vehicle collision involving the Portland Police Bureau. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. My same statements apply. So if you were here, I just want to know whether we're facing a trend, and if so, what are we doing in reference to this trend?
 So my name is Becky Chow from Risk Management. And as Karen said, we don't have that trend information prepared this morning, but we can provide that to you. Thank you very much. And I would further like you to track individual employees. I don't know if we – do we now have a flagging mechanism so that if somebody's in more than one crash, that's –
 a cause for looking into their driving habits? It's my understanding that the police bureau has one system and other bureaus all are together in a different system. And that's, again, not something that I work on, but... It might be something to look at through risk management and Bureau of Human Resources and other places in LMF because...
 I've been in charge of bureaus where it turns out that because the incidents were spread further apart, it wasn't flagged that a particular employee had had a number, and I am concerned about that. So just something else, Ms. Chow, for your very busy schedule to be thinking about. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Any testimony on 125 or 126?
 Mary doesn't look interested. Please call the roll on 125. Fritz. The last person here. Thank you, Mary. Aye. Bish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 126. Call the roll. Fritz. I sit corrected. Another person here. Thank you for staying. Aye. Bish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And with that, we are adjourned until 2 p.m. Commissioner Hardesty, I have a question.
 Good afternoon, everyone. It is Wednesday, February 13th. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Yes. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Wheeler? Here.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up.
 If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Very good, thank you. Before we read the item, I just want to give us a little bit of context. In December, I asked for a work session to discuss the city's participation in the Joint Terrorism Task Force. This is an issue that Commissioner Hardesty raised as an issue during her campaign. This is also an issue that's come before the Portland City Council on prior occasions.
 In collaboration with Commissioner Hardesty's office, we hosted a work session yesterday that was comprised of two separate panels. The first panel included community advocates and experts in support of the city's withdrawal from the Joint Terrorism Task Force. The second panel included representatives from the Portland Police Bureau, the FBI, and the United States Attorney's Office.
 I'd again like to thank all of our panelists for taking the time to share their knowledge with us yesterday and contributing to a robust discussion about civil rights and public safety and what we need from our federal partners in order to make this relationship sustainable. Today, we have before us Commissioner Hardesty's resolution to remove PPB participation from the Joint Terrorism Task Force, otherwise known as the JTTF.
 Commissioner Fish and I have also submitted an ordinance containing the city federal MOU, Memorandum of Understanding, with the terms of the city's participation in the Joint Terrorism Task Force in the event that the council wishes to stay an active member in the JTTF.
 In summary, what's being presented today for you to testify on are effectively three options, whether to withdraw from the JTTF, whether to stay in the JTTF, or whether to find ways to improve the city's involvement in the JTTF. And we would welcome your active engagement on any of those options.
 You will notice this is not a combined hearing. In other words, we are not going to read both the resolution and the ordinance at the same time, but it would be great if folks testifying today could consider these options as they weigh in. So with this, I'll give Commissioner Hardesty an opening statement. I'll then give Commissioner Fish a brief few minutes for remarks. After that...
 We will jump right in to the presentations. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, colleagues. And thank you, the general public, for being here today. This is an issue that's near and dear to many people's heart. It really gets to the fundamental question in our democracy.
 How safe are community members from the overreach of their local and federal law enforcement officers and do we as a community feel safer being part of the Joint Tourism Task Force or do we believe community safety lies in some other mechanism?
 I appreciate folks being here today and lots of people wanting to testify. And I'm going to ask once again if people would really be respectful of the body, because I want to make sure we get to a vote today. I do not want any interruptions to prevent us from actually having that vote. I want us on the public record, and I want us to walk out of this room by 5 o'clock being clear about
 where we stand as it relates to the joint tourism task force so thank you all i really appreciate you being here and i look forward to what will be a very lively discussion here today thank you thank you commissioner fish uh mayor wheeler uh commissioner hardesty and colleagues um i just want to reiterate my understanding of what we're doing here procedurally so
 The issue that we will be discussing this afternoon is a resolution that Commissioner Hardesty has brought forth, and that resolution will be voted on today, regardless of where we are in the testifying, because we're going to lose a quorum. There will be an opportunity for a vote, and I appreciate that. If the vote is in favor of the resolution, then that has the effect of a withdrawal within, I think, 60 days from the JTTF.
 If the vote is against the resolution, then there is an ordinance which has been filed, which the council will take up in due course, which memorializes the current memorandum of understanding. I have a number of amendments which I intend to offer. They are not germane to the resolution because the resolution is a thumbs-up or thumbs-down on current participation.
 But if the council votes down the resolution for any reason, then I have amendments that I will offer based on the feedback that we've received from the community in terms of how to strengthen the relationship, and specifically some of the outstanding testimony we got yesterday during what I thought was one of the most thoughtful and well-constructed work sessions we've had.
 But I will not be offering those amendments at this time, Mayor, because my amendments which deal with requiring observance with state law to be memorialized in the Memorandum of Understanding
 more robust annual reports, having the police chief obtain necessary security clearance and other issues, those are not germane to this resolution. It is only if this resolution is voted down that I will seek to amend the ordinance, which is before counsel, and will do it in the ordinary course. And I appreciate the collaborative way the counsel has structured this hearing.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Carla, could you read item 134, please? Yes. Authorized withdrawal of Portland Police Bureau officers from the Federal Joint Terrorism Task Force and established protocols for cooperating with the FBI on terrorism investigations on a case-by-case basis.
 Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Excuse me, Mayor. As you know, Kimberly from the ACLU was unable to testify yesterday, and we've invited her to come and give invited testimony. We also have two people who are headed to the airport who did testify yesterday, but I would appreciate your indulgence to allow them to also testify using whatever the normal two or three minutes that you're going to give to people when Kimberly has completed. Thank you.
 High turn. Yeah, very good. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. And then my understanding is that there's going to be a couple of presentations from the mayor's staff with equal time to talk about the report and show the mayor's chief outlaws video. Is that what's going to happen? No.
 So that was the plan this morning, but it is my understanding that council offices changed that. Michelle, could you give me clarification on that, please? Please state your name for the record. Where are the council offices on that request? Okay.
 Michelle Planbeck, Legislative Director to Mayor Wheeler. At this time on this resolution, Commissioner Hardesty has some invited testimony. Once the resolution has been considered by council, then we take up the ordinance. And at that time, we would have time for invited testimony and presentations. Thank you.
 So we're not – my understanding was we were going to have a little bit of equal time as a predicate for this hearing just to set the stage. Is that no longer the proposal? That was no longer the plan, but if counsel wishes, of course. Tracy Reeve is here as – Well, let me just be clear on the record. I want to get to testimony as quickly as possible. Yes. But I do think if we're extending the courtesy of having three people testify in favor, it does seem to me –
 normal course of how we do hearings, that if there's a couple people that want to set the stage in the context for another view, we ought to make time for that. I would support that. So I'd recommend we tee up the testimony from Chief Outlaw. And I would also recommend we have AC Resch present to give an overview of the 2019 JTTF report. Great. They're both here. And I'm assuming it's going to be within the same 10 minutes that we're giving for the other invited testimony. Is that correct, Mayor?
 Is that how long your testimony is going to take? Yes, the 10 minutes that we've given. Kimberly, we did not want to extend this. This is really for the public to talk. Yeah, and that's my concern as well because, really, folks, we have to call the question at about 4.30, and I want to give as much time for public testimony as possible. So if you could orchestrate that. Yep.
 They will collectively have 10 minutes. My recollection is the chief's presentation is about six of that 10. My recommendation would be to move forward first with the testimony from the folks from out of town and Kimberly McCullough. Very good. Go for it. Thank you. Thank you. And so if we could have Kimberly from the ACLU come up, please. And also, yes, please, our other guests who have to get to the airport. Thank you. And please introduce yourself for the record. Thank you.
 Kimberly, feel free to start. Great. Thank you. I was going to say Mayor Wheeler, but he's over there. Mayor Wheeler, members of the commission. My name is Kimberly McCullough. I'm here on behalf of the ACLU of Oregon. And I am here once again on behalf of our organization asking you to withdraw the city of Portland from its membership in the JTTF.
 You have heard from the ACLU and from myself on this issue many times. So rather than repeating my prior testimony, I want to focus in on exactly what we're asking you to do. First of all, we're asking you to listen as elected officials to the many community groups that are asking you to hear their concerns about the city's police officers working for an entity that we do not trust. Second, we are asking you to engage in a moral and ethical quandary.
 Mike German, who's sitting next to me here and who you heard from yesterday, is actually a very good example of someone who is faced with a complicated decision of whether or not to continue a deep relationship with an entity that regularly engages in civil rights violations. Mr. German was motivated to join the FBI out of a desire to protect and serve, much like I believe that our local police chief and members of the Portland Police Bureau are motivated by a desire to keep us safe.
 But in all things that we do, we have to ask ourselves the question of whether or not the tools that we use to keep ourselves safe are in fact causing different types of harm. And if we are causing harm in the name of keeping ourselves safe, I would hope that, like Mr. German, we would change our ways. It is this type of introspection and action that the ACLU here in Oregon and across the country wishes that the FBI and ICE would engage in.
 But their track record, unfortunately, does not reflect a commitment to protecting us from violations of our civil rights, and instead demonstrates repeated targeting of religious groups and political activists by the FBI and horrific practices of family separation in our immigrant communities by ICE.
 To be clear, the FBI and ICE have a demonstrated history right up until the present day of dragnet surveillance and profiling. I want to lift up just a few examples. Recently in California, the FBI investigated civil rights groups as a terrorism threat and viewed the KKK as victims. Thank you.
 Not long ago, the FBI also targeted Black Lives Matter by sending out notices to law enforcement across the country about black identity extremists being a domestic terrorist threat. A domestic terrorist terrorism briefing the FBI gave to law enforcement agencies in 2017 warned them of the threat of pro-abortion extremists, which there is no evidence exists. In fact, the opposite does.
 And recent admissions here that if the JTTF lacks evidence of prosecutable criminal activity for a JTTF suspect, that they have an admission that they have engaged in immigration enforcement against those individuals. So like Mike German, this city faces a moral quandary. Do we sacrifice our rights in the name of safety? Yes.
 Or do we instead commit ourselves to the values of this city and the state of Oregon, which have been memorialized many times in our state and local sanctuary laws, our anti-profiling laws, and our very unique laws that prohibit collection of information about people based on their religious and social views?
 To be clear, we are not asking that the city sit idly by if there is a true threat to our communities. Before the JTTF existed and during the time that the city was not a member of the JTTF, and while the city collaborated with the JTTF on a case-by-case basis, nothing prohibited the FBI and the City of Portland from sharing information about actual threats to our communities. And nothing will prohibit that type of information sharing if we pass this ordinance.
 What will be prohibited is two of our local officers working directly for an entity that does not respect or follow local and state laws that protect our communities from targeting and civil rights violations. It has been suggested that all of this can be addressed by reporting and security clearances. And although we do appreciate the attempt to build in sideboards, we are unconvinced that this will address our concerns.
 For a number of years, our past collaborations with the JTTF, of our past collaboration with the JTTF, annual reports were promised to this body and to the public, but even calling them reports is somewhat misleading. What we got was threadbare and totally insufficient. We simply do not trust that anything will be different this time around. Trust is crucial here. We've been asked why we don't trust the FBI, and we've been told,
 that past examples of rights violations here in Portland should not bother us. We've been told that current and past examples of rights violations from different jurisdictions interacting with these same federal agencies also shouldn't bother us.
 We've been told trust us despite those things. And we've been told that unless we can lift up the veil of secrecy that currently covers the JTTF here in Portland and point to violations of rights happening this very minute, that we should just have faith that everything is okay. Thank you.
 But we don't have trust, and it's for very good reason. And it will continue to be this way until the FBI, ICE, and those in high positions of power in our federal government engage in the type of introspection and moral quandary we're asking you to engage in today. Thank you.
 We are asking you to listen to us, to listen to representatives of community groups that advocate for civil rights and civil liberties, groups that advocate for immigrant communities, religious minorities, political activists, people of color, and all people who have been targeted unfairly by the FBI and ICE. Please hear us.
 Please understand, yes, we want to be safe, but safety to our communities is not just safety from terrorist threats. It is also safety from the violation of our rights and the targeting of our communities by the FBI and ICE. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty, could I ask you a question? I know that at least two of your panelists have planes to catch, and we thank you for being here. Kimberly, are you sticking around for the remaining? Because I might have some follow-up there. Yeah, absolutely. Great. Thank you. Appreciate that.
 Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, thank you again for inviting me both yesterday and again today. My name is Mike German. I'm with the Brennan Center, but I'm testifying in favor of the withdrawal from the Joint Terrorism Task Force in my personal capacity. I appreciate the leadership that the city council has shown on this issue nationally and that I've been able to participate in it.
 I don't have much to add to what we discussed yesterday, but I do want to address one issue which I think is a bit misleading because it seems like we're presented with a question of whether
 to stay in the Joint Terrorism Task Force and that that will somehow improve our security or withdraw and that will somehow risk our security. When you have to keep in mind that local law enforcement was in the Joint Terrorism Task Force in Boston before the Boston Marathon bombing. They were in the Joint Terrorism Task Force in Pittsburgh before the synagogue shooting.
 The Department of Defense was in the Joint Terrorism Task Force before the Fort Hood shooting. These were all instances and more where what happened has more to do with the flood of information coming in through these unregulated systems that don't use a reasonable standard.
 And so in Boston, for example, the FBI was warned that Tamerlan Tsarnaev presented a threat and did a 90-day assessment. It turned out that that was one assessment of 1,000 assessments they had done that year.
 So they're doing so much work that the important details were lost. And the Boston police chief later testified that he was unaware of the warning that the FBI had received and would have done things differently had he known that information. So I wish I could promise you complete secrecy. Obviously, I can't do that, but neither can the Joint Terrorism Task Force do that by saying that if you stay in, you will be 100 percent safe.
 So this is really about making reasonable decisions to make sure that we're protecting all our interests, as Kimberly suggested. So thank you again for inviting me. Thank you.
 ZAHRA BILOU, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, thank you again for convening this conversation and for considering this important vote. My name is Zahra Bilou. I am the executive director of the San Francisco Bay Area Office of CARE, the Council on American Islamic Relations. We are the nation's largest American Muslim civil rights organization. A number of years ago, we looked at Portland as we were doing work in San Francisco after facing years and years of abuse,
 by FBI agents targeting members of the Muslim community, showing up at their mosques, their homes, and their workplaces, sometimes targeting minors at schools to ask them questions about religion and politics, things that we hold dear as protected by the First Amendment, and so often doing it with the cooperation and support of San Francisco police officers. We looked at that time to Portland to say, this city is safe.
 It protects its community's civil rights, and it's doing so in a way that provides leadership for the rest of us.
 And after a number of years of navigating promises from the FBI and the JTTF officers that they would report, that they would provide transparency, that they would follow local law, we were left with no choice but to withdraw from the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Because as has been noted, the reports weren't even reports. They were laughable at best if they were on time, if they were produced, if they had any information that we could use.
 I appreciate the optimism that we might get better reports in Portland, but you led the way once before. I ask you to lead the way again. Yesterday, I sat here and heard on the record representatives of the U.S. Attorney's Office saying that they disregard Oregon state law, that they are not obligated to follow it. I heard the special agent in charge of the FBI say on the record that he did not know that there was a reporting requirement.
 Why would anything change? We look to you for leadership then. We look to you for leadership again. I urge you, on behalf of CARE, the Council on American Islamic Relations, on behalf of so many minority communities over and over again targeted by what is a federal agency giving us security theater and manufacturing terrorist threats, to move forward to withdraw from the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Thank you. Thank you.
 That concludes my invited testimony. Very good. So with that, then, we have Chief Outlaw's video. Is that correct? It's teed up, ready to go, Mustafa. And then we'll have AC Resh. Carla, how much time was the first panel? Sorry, I stopped the clock. They were just over 10 minutes, almost. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. I am Chief Danielle Outlaw.
 Thank you to Mayor Wheeler and the city commissioners for allowing me to provide remarks via video today. As you watch this, I will be in Washington, D.C., at the Major Cities Chiefs Conference talking to other chiefs and sheriffs from all over the country and Canada about the challenges they face and the creative strategies they are implementing in their communities. Specifically, I will be introducing the topic of white nationalism, crowd management, and the increase in violence and public disruption in demonstrations.
 Effective partnerships between law enforcement agencies to reduce or prevent criminal activity is a key component of contemporary policing. Our partnership with the FBI and the Joint Terrorism Task Force is one of those relationships that keeps our community safe. As Chief of Police, I fully support our continued participation in the JTTF.
 I believe that removing Portland police officers from the JTTF is a disservice to our community and not in the best interest of our city's public safety. We need to remain a fully committed partner in the JTTF. Countering violent extremism in all forms requires partnerships and cooperation across jurisdictional lines.
 If a majority of the city council votes to leave the JTTF, the Portland Police Bureau will still work to investigate reports of terrorism activity and violent extremism reported to the Portland Police. However, we may be walled off from the day-to-day information from other agencies that is vital to protecting our community. The Portland Police Bureau remains the largest law enforcement agency in the state of Oregon.
 We have resources, personnel, and expertise that may prove invaluable in the investigation and prosecution of individuals or organizations intent on causing our community harm. We want to be on the front end of these investigations. This can allow us to reach out with our Behavioral Health Unit, our Family Services Division, our Youth Services Division, or other connections and services we have to resolve an issue before a plan to commit an act of mass violence becomes a reality.
 Portland Police Bureau members are out every day in our community. We know our city, and we have developed positive relationships with many people who can help guide us and influence the investigative processes of our federal law enforcement partners.
 Questions continue to be raised about privacy rights and public safety as law enforcement conducts investigations with federal agencies. While I understand those concerns, there are strong legal and policy oversight measures in place to ensure we can continue our participation in the JTTF without compromising our laws or policies.
 As law enforcement officers and as a community, we need to be vigilant about these issues, but we also need to be vigilant about real threats and the fact that there are people intent on harming our community. I appreciate this opportunity to provide testimony today. While I am available by phone during this session, it is my wish that if you have questions, you can hear directly from the subject matter experts and the people that are actually doing the work.
 Thank you for providing a respectful process in which all stakeholders and the community can voice their opinions. Very good. And we have AC Assistant Chief Jamie Resch is here as well. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. Thank you for having me back again. This is on today. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Jamie Resch, Assistant Chief of Investigations for the Portland Police Bureau.
 I hope you had time to review the report that was given yesterday. I believe it clarifies a couple of the points, and I would like to add a little bit more. Clearance was mentioned several times yesterday in regards to the mayor. What I want to be clear to everyone is that if there is an instance... Excuse me. Are the captions playing? We're back. Sorry. Go ahead. Okay. Okay.
 Clearance was mentioned several times yesterday in regards to the mayor. What I want to be clear is if there is ever an instance in which the mayor needs information, there is a process in place to provide a nondisclosure agreement, and the information can and will be provided.
 Training was questioned yesterday. The City Attorney's Office has provided the required annual JTTF training for the officers. It began in 2015 and has continued, not only by the legal update training provided in the required annual in-service all officers attend, but also when the City Attorney meets annually with CIU officers to provide legal update and training specifically to the JTT officers and answer any questions.
 Most importantly, ICE was mentioned yesterday, and I want it to be clear that there are two branches of ICE. The ERO, which is the Enforcement and Removal Operations, which enforces immigration laws and is not a member of the JTTF. And HSI, the Homeland Security Investigations, which is a member of the JTTF and is responsible for the enforcement of laws that threaten national security.
 Again, the enforcement and removal operations of ICE are not a member of the JTTF, and I think it is important to distinguish this. This report breaks down the number and types of cases handled by the PPB officers and, again, illustrates the oversight, ORS, and directives that the officers are required to follow.
 If this report does not provide the information that you are looking for, the Portland Police Bureau, and I can confidently speak for my FBI and U.S. attorney partners, would be happy to meet with you to discuss what it is you are looking for and what you would like the report to look like.
 Lastly, as I sat in the workgroup yesterday, I heard a universal theme from all of the presenters on each side, the mayor and each commissioner. That universal theme was that we all want what's best for our community and what is best for Portland. In fact, many yesterday highlighted either being born and raised in Portland or having spent the majority of their lives here. Both sides acknowledged that there have been failures in past investigations and the desire for safety.
 Portland has never shied away from being different, from standing alone, or being the first. What I offer for you is a Portland Police Bureau and partners who are willing to co-create a JTTF that this council is comfortable with and does feel as the safest option for the city of Portland. I do not believe Portland should walk away, but rather, again, be the first and lead the nation in how this work should be done correctly. Thank you.
 Very good. And are you sticking around? Yes. Okay, very good. Then people might have questions for you later as well. Okay. Thank you. All right, so there we have it. With that, Carla, how many people do we have signed up? We have 36. 36. Let's do this. Let's try and get it in two minutes. Let's be as quick as possible. And that will give us plenty of time as a council to consider what you've said and deliberate. Please call the first three people. Do you want to say one?
 Oh, yeah, and if there are people with small children, and I heard at least one little child here, and if there are people with special needs or disabilities, please let Carla know, and we'll move you up to the front of the list. Thank you. We'll go with Mr. Walsh, and then we'll also take Brandon Mayfield and Casey Jama. And then after them, they'll – and I'll be calling the next three, because I believe we have people in the overflow rooms. Yes, we do. Okay, thanks.
 So after this first panel, then it will be Millie Hobash, Jim Kennedy, and Rabbi Ariel Stone. And you said 36, Carla, is that correct? Okay. Great. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I would ask a little patience. I'm losing my voice. Some people are celebrating that. Not us.
 There are a number of people who could not be here today because of the timing or because of their personal experiences. Eileen sends a message to get out of the JTTF, and she writes, Please use my name. I am a 62-year-old stage 4 cancer patient.
 Patient living in a nursing home, previously houseless. She wanted me to say she is against this. Dr. Catherine Kindle. Excuse me, Mr. Walsh. She's against what? Pardon?
 I'm sorry, you said that she wanted you to share that she was against this. I want to know what the this is. She was against us being in the JTTF. Thank you. The way you have this arranged, there's going to be a lot of confusion on who is saying what. So we are against being in the JTTF. We want you out.
 These are people that have contacted me that couldn't be here, that wanted their names at least written in the record, and I'll probably not do a great job. Some of them I don't know, so I'm only going to use their first names. Ruth, I see many potential abuses with the JTTTF, but no advantages. Please get out. Amy. Amy.
 Thank you for your passion, Joe. Please tell them, get out of JTTF. Kathy, please use my name, and thank you for doing this. Kirk, you can use my name, and please tell them to get out. Individuals for Justice is an organization that's been around for a while. It's very informal, and we take positions on things, and we want you out now.
 Please, there's no going back from this. If you stay in the JTTDF, we will remember. There's no going back. No apologies. Thank you for your patience. And I promised Patty that I would behave myself today. That should be good news for all of you. Thank you. Next three, please. Casey, you want to come up with Millie? Casey, Millie, and Brandon? Okay.
 And folks, just a reminder, thumbs up if you like what you're hearing, thumbs down if you don't. We just find the applause slows the process. Now we want as many people to be able to testify as possible. And after them will be Jim Kennedy, Rabbi Ariel Stone, and Dr. Leroy Haynes, Jr. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, member of the City Commission, and my name is Casey Chama. I am the Executive Director of United Oregon, and thank you so much for inviting me yesterday to speak with you.
 I won't take a lot of time. I just want to highlight a couple of points. I've been in this city for 20 years. I'm a very proud Portlander. I love this city, and I love this community. I think this issue for me comes down to one thing, and one thing that I said yesterday, which is, if we stay in the JTTF, we're sending a message for our Muslim community and people who are activists in the community. That is, your civil liberties does not
 It's expendable. It doesn't matter. If we pull out, we're sending that we're an inclusive city. We want to make sure that we want to protect our community from trauma and the situation is war machine. That is the real core value for Portlanders that I think we ask you to uphold today. I think all of us, including all of you here, we want what's the best for Portland. And I know you care, even if we disagree where we stand on this issue.
 I want all of us to remember that we're in this together. We're a community. Our community and Muslim community particularly wants to be safe, and we want to be part of this community. No one wants to put a jeopardy in our safety. With that said, I want to also introduce to you Millie Kobach, who is a member of the leadership program that the city of Portland funds, and she's going to tell her story today. So, Millie, please. Thank you.
 Hello, thank you for your audience. As was noted, my name is Millie Hobash and I am a participant in Unite Oregon's pilot program. I am the daughter of a Yemeni immigrant who moved to Portland in 1991, and I am also a first-hand witness to the effects of the JTTF. My family's home was raided when I was 10 years old after several years of very heavy surveillance.
 My father was detained on charges that he was not allowed to know for the first portion of the trial. He was kept away from our family for a year and a half. The charges were found to be false. My parents' attorneys were told by the prosecuting attorney that the charges had been invented wholly to strike fear into the community and weaken bonds between individual members of the community. Okay.
 The judge ultimately dismissed the charges with prejudice, meaning that they were unsubstantiated and cannot be brought up again. However, by that time, the raid had already destroyed my family. My father was left chronically underemployed and unable to find skilled labor. My mother is permanently traumatized. I left school at age 10 and did not return again until I completed my high school diploma at PCC many years later.
 My young siblings were left fatherless during this time, and family and friends completely distanced themselves from us out of fear, isolating us. My family is hardly the only one. Other families in our community had their homes raided multiple times, family members detained, were forced to leave Oregon, or were offered money and safety in exchange for providing false testimony. This story has played out many, many times within my community to many people that I know. It's...
 It has sowed a complete distrust between the Muslim community and the city of Portland. And so with that, I urge that you guys vote against remaining in the JTTF. Thank you for your courage in coming today. I appreciate that. Good afternoon.
 Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, for this opportunity to be with you again on this distinguished panel to bring up this important issue, whether or not to get out of the JTTF. This is my third go around, and I want to thank everyone here who supports getting out of the JTTF. And as you can see, we have a very large contingent, so much so that every time in the past it's even risen to the rafters, as you can see.
 First of all, the function of the city police, federal investigators, and ICE are not the same. They investigate federal crimes, and ICE, their job is to enforce immigration laws to detect and deport illegal aliens.
 The JTTF engages in surveillance and electronic monitoring without probable cause, and the use of informants in interviews and in sting operations that entrap people, and as you've heard from the testimony, affect people's lives in very long-lasting, meaningful ways.
 The local police don't do this. This is a violation of our Fourth Amendment protections and the Oregon Constitution and state laws, which includes our sanctuary laws. This prevents any law enforcement official to collect or keep... I'm sorry, it states no law enforcement agency or subdivision shall use personnel for detecting or apprehending immigrants whose only violation are federal immigration laws. Thank you.
 FBI reported just two months ago when asked if the JTTF participated in immigration-related arrests said, we will use immigration violations as appropriate to disrupt subjects who pose a threat to our communities. They said we take terrorism subjects off the street using every tool we have. And in meeting with the mayor's office just recently, it was reported that
 When they were asked how many arrests are made, they said 200 arrests are made under the JTTF, 25 of which were immigration-related, 25 arrests immigration-related. It wasn't clear if that was national or local, but it just shows where their priorities lie. So in closing, I just want to say that
 You can't say you're prepared to take a stand to protect our city and state immigrants and ethnic and religious minorities and at the same time offer city and state resources to federal programs like the JTTF that targets them and works with ICE. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please. Our Jim Kennedy, Rabbi Ariel Stone, and Dr. Leroy Haynes, Jr.,
 and they'll be followed by Amanda Aguilar-Shank, Eric Villa, and Simab Hosseini. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jim Kennedy. I'm here on behalf of the Portland JACL. Appreciate the opportunity to talk to you today about our concerns about the Joint Terrorism Task Force participation.
 There's been a lot of information shared recently examining all the safeguards and efforts put into place by the GTTF participants and overseers to ensure local officers are not violating state law and that Oregonian civil rights are not impacted. The efforts are commendable, and I believe the people in place are righteous. But ultimately, the oversight process amounts to self-regulation that occurs in secret.
 At Portland JECL, we understand that civil rights become secondary when people are afraid. Most of us feel comfortable that our civil rights are safe, but everybody fears physical harm. Policies that make us safer are always better until our civil rights are impacted. The incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II was considered prudent policy that kept us safer.
 And yes, that was a long time ago, and it was a great abuse. However, it was revealed to be bad policy through the history of time. And just recently, Chief Justice Roberts wrote that Korematsu v. U.S., which essentially says that safety takes precedent over civil rights during times of military necessity, was gravely wrong the day it was decided and has been overruled in the court of history.
 We are not trying to equate mass incarceration with the JTTF, but our history tells us that well-meaning enforcement agencies that protect us from physical harm are also the ones that can infringe on our civil liberties. Trust but verification is the minimum requirement. And if we cannot transform the JTTF,
 And to operate in a transparent fashion, then we should stop cooperating. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Welcome. To our distinguished Mayor Ted Willer and illustrious commissioners of the Portland City Council, I'm the Reverend Dr. Leroy Haynes, Jr., chairperson of the Abana Minister Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform.
 I come before the city council as a longtime civil rights leader who marched with Dr. Martin Luther King and served as a member of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, SNCC. I have seen and experienced how law enforcement agencies like the FBI
 The Sheriff Department and local police have abused and misused their authority to stop the progress to expand the democratic process, to include blacks, communities of color, other oppressed groups under the banner of law and order and American patriotism.
 The foot soldiers of the civil rights movement and post-civil rights movement have seen how these various groups have been used to block civil rights, to block voting rights, to block basic constitutional rights of citizens of our country. The vicious attack by J. Edgar Hoover, whose spirit continued to be in the FBI,
 and the FBI to destroy completely the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King and other black leaders, as well as the civil rights movement, shall never be forgotten. The abuse of civil rights and constitutional rights by the FBI COINTELPROGRAM should never be forgotten.
 History has taught us very clearly that when law enforcement become politicized, as was the case with the FBI and other agencies, the constitutional rights of citizens and non-citizens will be violated. And although there are individuals within the FBI and other agencies with great character and integrity and commitment, the constitutional rights...
 They are no match to the politicalization of what we see today and witnessing with our own eyes the corruption that is taking place. This is why AMAC opposes the city joining the Joint Terrorist Task Force. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler, members of the City Council.
 My name is Rabbi Ariel Stone. I speak as a leader of the Portland Interfaith Clergy Resistance and as a rabbi representing Portland Jews who oppose our sanctuary city's participation with the FBI in the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Our reasoning is deeply rooted in prophetic ethics in which Judaism and Christianity share our sense of social justice.
 Out of the ethical imperative to treat the homeless wanderer and the refugee equally with the homeborn, we reject the federal government's persecution of those immigrants who are our neighbors living in our midst.
 Out of the ethical imperative that justice requires truth, we reject the assertion that the Joint Task Force work can only be done in secrecy from you, or that Portland police should have discretion to engage in deception in the course of their work.
 And out of the ethical imperative to treat others as we ourselves wish to be treated, we believe and support those who among us testify to their persecution. We stand with those who are targeted and whose right to due process and to be considered innocent until proven guilty has been violated. Jewish legal tradition warns against putting a stumbling block before the blind.
 Allowing the FBI to function in Portland in secrecy when we know that their standards for respecting the human rights of our residents differ harmfully from Portland's own puts a stumbling block before you in your duty to serve those whom you represent and before the Portland police in their duty to protect and serve.
 Not every FBI action is wrong, but our city's cumulative experience with the task force does not meet the social ethics that our city's residents have repeatedly affirmed.
 In order to minimize the risk to civil and human rights violations against the people of Portland, we need transparency. We expect full participation and oversight from those who represent us. Ending our participation in the task force does not mean that we expect Portland to no longer cooperate with the FBI when circumstances warrant. It does make an important assertion that you are committed to protecting all those who share our home.
 We cannot seek our society's safety at the expense of the most vulnerable among us. The Joint Terrorism Task Force is a source of terror for our innocent Portland neighbors, and we object to aiding and abetting its unethical and unholy activity. Thank you so much. So just a quick reminder before Carla. I'm being somewhat lax on the time here, but I want to be very, very clear here.
 If you hold yourself to two minutes, that increases the likelihood that other people at the end of the list will actually get to give testimony. The next three are Amanda Aguilar-Shank, Eric Villa, and Simab Hussaini. And they'll be followed by Joel Bienen, Pastor Ed Mundane, and Jai Singh. Good afternoon.
 Hi, my name is Eric Vega. I am representing the Portland Immigrant Rights Coalition and Immigrant Rights Organization. The record of this federal administration is unclean and flies a false flag. It makes claims of we're just going to go after the bad guys. But in fact, and I think if you reflect upon this, you can see that the Trump administration is anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim.
 And this perspective seeps into everything. It taints claims to neutrality. It taints claims to fairness. It taints claims to justice.
 We have an immigrant rights hotline and we are in communication with people across the country and what we hear over and over and over again is people, families, who are concerned about their children, who are concerned about their jobs, who are concerned about cooperation between local law enforcement and federal agencies.
 They don't go to the store. They don't go to the doctor. They don't take their kids to school because they live in fear. And this is the result of this administration. They say, those immigrants that we talk to, that we do not want to be collateral damage. And we say that because it flows from our experience in the world. We believe that this administration's record is clear.
 It can't be trusted, and you should send a clear message. When the Muslim ban was being put forward, people in Portland and all around the country went to the airports and they protested.
 When the children were being separated from their families, people everywhere in the country got together and they protested. They bent the curve and the direction of this administration. You have a voice. You have a choice. Please withdraw. Good afternoon. Hi.
 City Commissioners, thank you for having me here today. That was a very powerful testimony just from Eric Vega. And I'm here to – my name is Amanda Aguilar-Schenk. I represent Freedom to Thrive, formerly known as Enlace. I'm also a mother and a second-generation immigrant living here in Portland, California.
 I'm here to urge you to vote to withdraw from the Joint Terrorism Task Force for a lot of the reasons that have been brought today. We know the Trump administration has been actively hostile towards sanctuary states, municipalities. We know they've doubled down on apprehension of Portland residents who are immigrants, servicemen.
 surveillance of black communities. We know the FBI has a history in Portland of targeting youth, people of color, particularly Muslims, black community, immigrants. And I think the only...
 It's enough evidence for me to hear the story of Millie, who just sat in this chair a moment ago. It's enough to hear the story of Mohammed Mohammed back in 2010. I know that, you know, I've heard these stories, you all have heard these stories, of young people, our most marginalized, people who need the most support to thrive in this community, who are being actively terrorized, criminalized, and...
 by the JTTF and by the city's participation in the JTTF. I also wanted to let you know that my last couple of seconds, I was in the overflow room across the hall. It's completely full. It's 100% full. It's standing room only.
 I asked in there if anybody supported staying in the JTTF and nobody does. Everybody, every person to the person in that room supports getting out. And so I urge you to follow the lead of San Francisco, many municipalities that will follow and withdraw from the JTTF. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commission. Good afternoon.
 Yeah, thanks for having us all here today. And when I say all, I hope that it's a bunch of people that you guys will be able to hear and understand that we're here. We're here in force. It's all of us. And as she just mentioned, it's support to withdraw from JTTF. I sit with our community as my blessed job allows me to.
 As a community member with Unite Oregon and community organizer, my name is Seemab Hussaini. You guys heard from my executive director, Casey Jama, yesterday and today. I sit with our affected community members. I sat with you all yesterday in our work session. I've listened to the reasons to remain in JTTF. We heard from our U.S. state attorney, Billy Williams, loathe to acknowledge our 30 years of sanctuary status as a state.
 So I'm here to tell you that in my position, who do I trust? My position is a smaller representation of yours. I sit in the community and I listen to them, and I advocate for my community. But we're here today. We've come with our communities. We would bring all of them, but you don't have enough overflow for us. That's right. So please vote with open honesty after listening to us again today. No amendments necessary.
 ordinances can fix what's wrong. There's no walling off, as I repeatedly hear. Separate powers allow for meaningful exchange. Vote to withdraw the Joint Terrorism Task Force from Portland Police Bureau. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Appreciate it. Next three, please, Carla. Are Joel Bienen, Pastor Ed Mundane, and Jai Singh, and they'll be followed by Debbie Iona, Harvey Thorstad, and Maxine Cookson.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Go ahead and start. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. My name is Joel Bainan. I'm the Donald J. McLaughlin Professor of History Emeritus at Stanford University, and I'm speaking on behalf of Jewish Voice for Peace, one of 47 community organizations urging the city council to withdraw from the Joint Terrorism Task Force and cancel its memorandum of agreement with the FBI.
 The FBI and ICE are the biggest players in the JTTF. They regularly engage in profiling and surveillance that is prohibited under Oregon law. The FBI has a long history of targeting and profiling political dissidents and others based on race, ethnicity, nationality, and religion.
 Its counterintelligence program, COINTELPRO, which operated from 1956 to 1971, targeted Martin Luther King Jr. and other African American leaders of the civil rights and black freedom struggles, anti-Vietnam War organizers, feminists, and American Indian movement.
 These practices continue today and have particularly affected Arabs and Muslims and other immigrants. The FBI's actions in this respect are entirely consistent with the policies of President Trump, who has made clear his intention to continue targeting people based on their religion and country of origin. Participation in the JTTF violates Portland's status as a sanctuary city.
 ICE participates in the JTTF, meaning that Portland cooperates with ICE. Portland cannot remain a sanctuary city in good faith if it maintains formal ties with ICE. A Portland FBI spokesperson openly admitted that the JTTF uses ICE data in its investigations to deport people on the basis of suspicion alone rather than probable cause.
 This violates the city's pledge not to cooperate with ICE, as well as violating Oregon law, which prohibits law enforcement agencies from collecting or maintaining information about the political, religious, or social views or activities of any individual or group, unless such information directly relates to an investigation of a criminal activity.
 Some Jewish organizations have argued that participating in the JTTF will enhance the security of Portland's Jewish community. Recent experience shows that this is unlikely. Sir, I'm going to have to ask you to wrap it up. In recent years, by far the biggest threats to the security of American Jews have come from white nationalist organizations and individuals who have been unleashed by the election of President Trump.
 Neither in Charlottesville, Virginia, nor in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, did the city's participation in the JTTF prevent attacks on the Jewish community. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, dear Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Jay Singh. I'm a field organizer with the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, APANO. Thank you.
 The FBI doesn't have prohibitions on surveillance, and we also know that they regularly target members of our community based on religious or political activities and perceived immigration status. The communities that I work with as a field organizer for the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, APANO, includes the South Asian immigrant community as well as those that practice the Sikh faith.
 There has been increased targeting and discrimination of our communities, as we have seen with the detention of over 70 South Asian Punjabi sick individuals in Oregon's only medium-security prison in Sheridan, Oregon, this past year, because of the federal government's zero-tolerance policy.
 The JTTF is an extension of Trump's deportation force. On behalf of APANO, we urge Portland to stay true to its values and protect our rights by withdrawing from the JTTF. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm E.D. Maldonay, president of the NAACP, to our mayor and to our president, Udeli, and to our esteemed commission. Martin Luther King made it very clear in this speech
 quote became adage, injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. Whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly. The NAACP has had a long history of dealing with the unscrupulous practices of the FBI and other agencies fashioned to keep surveillance on what is thought to be a threat to our great nation America and its citizens. The ability of the PBB to help facilitate civil and human rights became a threat to
 when we see a continued partnership with the Joint Terrorist Task Force as it relates to PPB. Recently, our city watched in horror as we assisted in the furtherance of bigotry as the PBB intervened in an illegal eviction of a paying guest at a local hotel. When it is ambiguous at best as to the role that the PBB plays with the JTTF, it becomes a bit problematic.
 It concerns me when our police commissioner and police chief are only informed about what work the JTTF officers are involved in if those officers of the FBI decide and what is on a needs-to-know basis. The Joint Terrorism Task Force, when we look at our state's sanctuary law,
 which prohibits local and state law enforcement agencies from expending its resources from enforcing federal immigration laws. The ability to exercise civil and human rights becomes a threat when we see the continued partnership with the PBB. I am continually at awe that our time and resources are not better spent dealing with white nationalists,
 and a barrage of other white-ring extremist groups. And thank you very much. Thank you. Next three are Debbie Iona, Harvey Thorstad, and Maxine Fuchsen, and they'll be followed by A.J. Mendoza, Sandy Polishek, and Olivia Catby-Smith. Did we lose a shoe? Anybody see a shoe? Did she lose a shoe? She must have had tired boots down there. Oh, no, the whole thing.
 Sorry, you got upstaged by a very cute kid. Good afternoon. That's irresistible, I understand. Mayor, commissioners, I'm Debbie Iona, representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. Over its 99-year history, the League has developed a set of fundamental principles upon which we act. Two of those principles relate to the city's participation in the FBI's JTTF.
 The League promotes an open governmental system that is representative, accountable, and responsive, and that protects individual liberties established by the Constitution. Furthermore, it promotes political responsibility through informed and active participation in government. The League first testified on this issue in 2001 and again urges Council to withdraw from the JTTF.
 We value the protections afforded by Oregon law to individuals engaging in political and other non-criminal First Amendment activities. Portland residents have no guarantee that our local officers assigned to the JTTF are honoring those protections due to FBI restrictions on access to information.
 A December 2018 Guardian article underscores the community's concern about FBI actions. The article revealed that the FBI created files on climate change activists in the Midwest. These files are part of a larger effort to assess the work of 350.org.
 The League believes that our democracy is strengthened and sustained by active participation in government. That involvement is threatened when individuals feel they have to look over their shoulders because they fear they are targets of government surveillance and file keeping. We urge you to withdraw and instead work together on legitimate law enforcement investigations on a case-by-case basis. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for looking into this JTTF issue. I'm Harvey Thorsted. I represent Veterans for Peace. We strongly advocate withdrawing from the JTTF. We're composed of about over 100 chapters, international, including a few chapters in Ireland, Britain, Canada,
 Okinawa, Mexico, Japan. We've been opposed to the JTTF move since its inception. It's part of the federal policy of the war on terror. And internationally, we've seen the war on terror in Iraq, a good part of cities in rubble, thanks to our great efforts. Libya, again, a country in chaos, cities in rubble.
 happening in Syria, somewhat in Afghanistan, and now to some extent looking at Venezuela. The JTTF is basically a secret organization. It separates, it makes the cohesion between the police force and the community, it's divisive. It brings them apart rather than closer together.
 Even in some of our own groups, like our own chapters and our peace movement, somebody comes up with an odd thought. Well, gee, are you a JTTF spy trying to lead us into something to discredit us or something like that? The JTTF is divisive. I strongly oppose getting out of it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and city council members. My name is Maxine Fuchson, and I speak as a nurse practitioner representing Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. Our organization urges you to withdraw from the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Oregon PSR is an organization of health professionals and public health advocates concerned about threats to human health from war and social inequities.
 From our perspective, our city's involvement in the JTTF is of grave concern as we see no evidence that the collaboration protects either the community's safety or its health.
 The American Public Health Association issued a statement last year declaring that police violence is a public health issue that disproportionately impacts communities of color, people with disabilities and mental illnesses, people living in poverty, people experiencing homelessness, immigrant communities, and LGBTQ communities. In short, how we police our communities has a direct impact on the public's health.
 So considering both effectiveness and equity, we dig ourselves in even deeper in our relationship with the JTTF. There is repeated evidence that the FBI and ICE disproportionately target communities based on national origin, race, religion, political beliefs, and sexual and gender preference. Thank you.
 The health connections are real and direct. This is not some distant correlation. The Century Foundation found direct negative impacts as a result of fear that comes from surveillance, targeting, and profiling. The heaviest impact is felt on communities already at a health disadvantage.
 Fear, of course, correlates with stress and is a potent trigger of trauma and chronic disease. It's known that when communities live in fear and distrust, they are also under-accessing the needed health, educational, and social services. As advocates for community health and safety, Oregon PSR believes that policing should be based on fairness, community involvement, cultural competency, and restorative practices. Please leave the GTTF.
 Next three, please, Carla. We're going to go with Fendi Germany, and then we'll go with A.J. Mendoza, Sandy Polachuk, and they'll be followed by Olivia Catby-Smith, Emery Mort, and Malcolm Shattuck. Would you like to go ahead and start? Yes. You've got your hands full. Hello. I'm Fendi Germany. Good afternoon. I'm not going to take up too much of your time. I do just want to acknowledge that I believe that the JTTF –
 Regardless of how the language is written, I think we should get to a point in America where we see that racism and discrimination exist, right? And regardless of how this is written, we know that people of color are going to be discriminated against and targeted at a much more higher rate. It was nice to see that the police officers came up here and talked about their training and the things that they're receiving, but we also know that their training is not always effective, and they continue to receive training because...
 They're not always following through. So we ask you to withdraw, please. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Afternoon, Mayor, Council. My name is AJ Mendoza. I am an organizer at Portland Jobs with Justice. We are a coalition of over 100 unions, faith communities, student organizations. We take action around workers' rights and economic justice. We urge...
 the city's withdrawal from the JTTF. And I think there's an outflow for me from the labor movement at its best, and that is when we understand that an injury to one is an injury to all. And thinking about what to say last night, the enormity of this situation, and not wanting to repeat what's been said, I was reminded of something one of my good mentors taught me
 which is good leaders need to be ready to make decisions, but great leaders will always reserve the right to grow in their understanding and make a different choice. So I think there was some obfuscation or some obscuring of things that should be made plain. This creates a situation where communities of color, where members of our community who are Muslim
 are going to be experiencing discrimination. We've heard it. It makes my stomach, like the pit of my stomach fall out to hear how seriously someone's life was affected by this. And that alone, if that can happen even once, then we have no business being a part of this. And we can change that. If sanctuary means anything, it has to mean that this cannot continue. Yeah, I read the op-ed.
 And I think I draw a different conclusion about who's a part of my community that I need to protect and whose safety concerns me. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. I just want to say I know how nervous you are, and you did an incredible job. Thank you so much for being here. I love you, AJ. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak today.
 I'm Sandy Palaszczuk, speaking as a representative of 350 PDX, which has partnered with the city repeatedly on resolutions and initiatives to move the city closer to its climate goals, such as the fossil fuel infrastructure ban and divestment from fossil fuels. Our previous mayor hosted a meeting of local government and environmental leaders with 350.org co-founder Bill McKibben. Does this sound like a terrorist organization? Of course not.
 350 PDX works the full range of climate solutions, from collaboration with you to rousing the public to raise their voices to stop dangerous initiatives such as the Jordan Cove project. Does this sound like terrorism? Of course not. Occasionally, we put our kayaks in the river to try to protect the Arctic from oil drilling.
 or our bodies on railroad tracks to stop dangerous trains, oil trains. We never hurt anyone or damage property. We don't run away if authorities come to arrest us. Does that sound like terrorism? Of course not. Yet we know, courtesy of The Guardian, that the FBI is watching 350.org and the network we are a part of.
 Their interest in peaceful groups like ours takes resources away from the genuinely dangerous. Surveillance of this type creates a chilling effect, reminiscent of the McCarthy era, when people were afraid to sign a petition or attend a meeting. We especially want immigrants, refugees, the Muslim community, and people of color to feel safe enough to exercise their rights as part of our movement and community as well.
 Whether or not the city is in a formal partnership with the FBI, the Portland Police Department can and will cooperate and work with them in appropriate emergencies. But the city does not need and should not be a partner to the secretive and unlawful work of the FBI against groups such as 350 PDX. We urge you to withdraw by passing the resolution.
 And I have stapled a copy of the Guardian article to my remarks that I will give you. Thank you. Thank you, Sandy. Next three are Olivia Catby-Smith, Emery Mort, and Malcolm Chaddock. And they'll be followed by Dan Handelman, Mark Kramer, and Ned Roche. This side. Sure. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Olivia Catby-Smith. I am with the Portland chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America. I'm also a member of the Arab community here in Portland. I'm probably not going to say anything you haven't already heard, but I think the fact that you are hearing the same thing over and over again from so many different community members and organizations is a testament to what the people of Portland are asking you to do.
 Last Friday, the City Council unanimously rejected racism and white supremacy. To put these values into practice, we need to recognize and reject the racism in federal immigration enforcement by DHS and ICE. President Trump has been clear in his bigotry against Muslims and immigrants, and DHS internment camps overflow with children from Latin America. Even if you try to wall off Portland from ICE, policies of the JTTF are set in Washington, D.C., not in Portland.
 The only way Portland can prevent ICE abuses is to refuse to participate in the JTTF. The FBI tells us that this task force makes our city safer. We want to know safer for whom. It doesn't make it safer for Muslims, immigrants, people of color, and activists who are disproportionately targeted and surveilled by this task force. I'd also like to know why we're so eager to take the word of an abusive agency like the FBI who have sided with the KKK as victims versus civil rights organizations over the word of community members who you claim to represent.
 I just want to reiterate that by voting to stay in this task force, you will be siding with the FBI over community members like Millie. And after hearing her testimony, I don't know how you can stomach that.
 Some officials say we should stay in the JTTF as long as there is no evidence of wrongdoing, but that is an impossible burden to put on our communities. JTTF units nationally have engaged in entrapment, surveillance of activists, investigations motivated by bigotry, and have protected white nationalists from prosecution. But if such abuses happen locally, people may not come forward because of fears of deportation, and communities are made compliant by fear. There is more than enough evidence that the JTTF is a good place to be.
 the JTDF elsewhere has engaged in this wrongdoing. But by saying you need more evidence specific to Portland, you are signaling that you would rather sit on your hands and wait for something else bad to happen to our vulnerable communities rather than take proactive steps to prevent something like that from occurring based on evidence and testimony you've already been presented with. We call on our city council to protect our city from JTDF abuses now, not when it's already too late, and we promise to replace anyone who votes to stay in this task force with people who actually fight in solidarity with us. Good afternoon.
 Hello, Commissioners. My name is Emery Mort with Portland's Resistance, and we strongly urge accepting Commissioner Hardesty's resolution for withdrawal from the Federal Joint Terrorism Task Force. Today, we want to speak specifically in solidarity with activists, organizers, and all those who stand apart, people who are frequent targets of FBI JTTF counterterrorism efforts. We invite you to consider the following pattern.
 Native peoples lead the fight against pipelines in Standing Rock and across the country. They call themselves water protectors. To the FBI, they're potential eco-terrorists. Black Americans unite in the streets to demand justice and dignity. They call themselves, perhaps, Black Lives Matter. To federal agents, they're black identity extremists. Thank you.
 Our neighbors here go to the border or to our local secret prisons, standing up to protect immigrants, refugees, children. They might call themselves Occupy ICE. Federal and local agents beg to be allowed to unleash the full force of the law on these heroes. Socialists, communists, anarchists say we all have the right to health care, houses, streets without armed militias. They stand strong as proud anti-fascists.
 Our chief of police goes on right-wing hate radio to discuss whether these heroes, too, are terrorists who just need their butts kicked by our heavily militarized police. And as we all know, this is just a start to a long list of persecuted activists, organizers, and people who stand apart. In exchange for this coordinated reactionary force, what do we get in return?
 Do we get safeguards, protections for whistleblowers, a society free from daily mass shootings and terrorizing events, warnings to maybe stop doing wars to create more terrorism? No, we get the opposite. And we hear from leaders a folksy Portland wisdom. Work across departments. Well, we'd sure like it if your offices took a break from meeting with the FBI. Okay.
 We need to stay in because Portland needs a seat at the table. I see a table and I see 50 different groups in these seats voicing our sincere concerns and our vision. And speaking of vision, we hear in op-eds a progressive vision that cities from Oakland to New York will stay united in the JTTF. My time is up here, but I think it's safe to say that our vision is about 180 degrees different from that. And despite the opposition, we here believe that together we will win. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Malcolm Chaddock, and I'm here on behalf of Individuals for Justice. I have the dubious distinction of having had membership in two groups which have been declared to be enemies of the state by the FBI, Peace Fresno and Veterans for Peace, which was on the terrorism watch list for some time.
 In 2003, I came here to Portland, and within 48 hours, I was in these chambers testifying to what happened to my very first peace group, Peace Fresno, and that we had had an infiltrator in our midst contrary to California Constitution.
 Now, I know that's not a local phenomenon, but it is indicative of the repeated practice of the FBI and those that it works with. And since that time, we've been having this debate every so often. And the same...
 set of circumstances seem to obtain rooms full of people saying we need to get out or stay out depending upon the circumstance and here we are again the theme has been beaten and beaten to death the FBI can't be trusted to play by any sort of rules but its own and the people of this city don't want anything to do with them
 So I think that maybe this time it's time to actually get out. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please, Carla. Next three are Dan Hendelman, Mark Kramer, and Ned Roche, and they'll be followed by Nathalie Parabasimi, Jacob, and Alex Wise. I think you're first. Please. Am I waiting for Mayor Wheeler to call my name? No, go ahead. All right, well. Please state your name. Thank you.
 Welcome, and please state your name for the record. I'm currently acting president of the council. Thank you, President Udalli. President Udalli and absent Mayor Wheeler and members of council, my name is Dan Handelman, representing Peace and Justice Works and our project group, Portland Cop Watch. We observed yesterday's work session, read Commissioner Fish's op-ed, and looked at the counter legislation being proposed for today's hearing. Our group still believes the best course of action is to stay out of the JTTF.
 Other task forces involving important police do not have the same documented history of involving the FBI inappropriately focusing on people of color, immigrants, and others in violation of Oregon's anti-spying statute. The proposed amendments to the current agreement with the FBI do not fix the problem of deputizing PPB officers, which is not needed for investigations, including the Molotov cocktail threat against Mayor Wheeler. Agreeing to wall off PPB from immigration issues will not guarantee compliance with the Oregon Sanctuary Law. The FBI runs the task force.
 Portland cannot override their actions. FBI Special Agent in Charge stated repeatedly, including in his Oregonian op-ed, he can't guarantee the task force won't utilize immigration charges and such actions are used when there are no other options to disrupt crime or violence.
 If Portland officers participate in an investigation on the front end and the FBI turns the alleged suspect over to another agency for deportation for lack of prosecutable criminal activity, the PPB has participated in the immigration aspect of the JTTF. The end result is the same as if the PPB did the investigation themselves. Requiring the chief to seek secret security clearance doesn't change anything. City policy already asks the chief to get top secret clearance.
 The issue is the Bureau's civilian commissioner does not have access to the same information. That's why Mayor Potter, former police chief, withdrew from the JTTF. The FBI claims Mayor Wheeler's one-day non-disclosure agreements are functionally the same as top-secret clearance. We doubt that's true since he can't sit in with his officers for a debriefing without another waiver. Nobody in authority has been talking about changing...
 Our nation's reliance on using violence to enforce state policy, which leads to so-called terrorism. While attempting to address problems of being in the JTTF, any tweaks to the current status quo do not protect civil liberties. Support the resolution to withdraw from the JTTF. And I do want to point out that the letter that you were handed by Kimberly from the ACLU does have 50 signatures on it of different organizations, most of whom are here today. Thank you.
 Welcome. Please state your name for the record. Members of the Council, my name is Mark Kramer. I've been a member of the National Lawyers Guild since 1981. The Guild has been supporting and protecting civil liberties and police accountability in Portland and beyond since that time and before. Along with other concerned citizens, we advocated to have Portland withdraw from JTTF in 2012, only to see us return in 2015.
 I have some personal experience with surveillance overreach. More than 30 years ago, I had the dubious honor of being included in the PPP Red Squad files. In litigation which led to the dismantling of the Red Squad, the Bureau admitted to using paid agents, volunteer informers, and other techniques to monitor dissenters and agreed that even reasonable suspicion of something as trivial as trespass triggers their response. Thank you.
 I was included in the Red Squad not for terrorist or subversive activities, but for representing individuals protesting against apartheid and U.S.-supported repression in Central America. So that informs our analysis today.
 We have three specific problems, or many specific problems, with the JTTF. One is that the lack of classification. The mayor does not have classification. We don't believe that the de facto classification that's been applied for will suffice. It is essential that the mayor and the commissioner of police, and also, we advance, the director of IPR have a role and be given security clearance before Portland continues in the JTTF.
 The existing Memorandum of Understanding provides that each JTF member will be subject to the personal rules and regulations of the PPB. However, without the Mayor and IPR and the Commissioner getting the security clearance, there is no way to enforce that.
 By participating in the JTTF, the PPB will lose autonomy in investigations. So if there is a JTTF investigation, the police, our Bureau, may not do collateral investigations, may not do independent investigations. It is limited to the JTTF agenda. For those and other reasons, we urge you to support Commissioner Hardesty's proposal to remove Portland from the JTTF. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And perfect timing.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Ned Roche, and I speak as a member of the Jewish community active nationally with Jews, Muslims, and allies in the network against racism and Islamophobia. We know two things about the JTTF. One is that participation in it does not guarantee safety. The most deadly anti-Semitic attack in American history recently took place in Pittsburgh while that city was actively engaged with the JTTF.
 The second thing we know is that collaborating with the FBI and ICE through the JTTF means embracing intrusive surveillance, frightening levels of Islamophobia, and the targeting of immigrants, people of color, and activists. We want our city council to be part of imagining the future we collectively dare to create.
 In thinking about what community and safety might look like, we need revolutionary vision and radical imagination, because it's our imagination, not partnerships with ICE and the FBI, that tells us what's possible. Security is important because it gives us a sense of what we're fighting against. But imagination and community are key because they tell us what we're fighting for.
 The elusive search for security for some must not come at the expense of freedom for others.
 To build our future, we need solidarity among all who call Portland home. We need the people who are in targeted communities as it is they who enrich our lives, and they desperately need us to think, act, and vote inclusively. We urge you to affirm the dignity of all who live in our community and withdraw from the JTTF. Thank you.
 Thank you. And Dan, I apologize for getting up. I do have the testimony on my laptop, so I heard it. I apologize for that. Next three, please. Our Nathalie Paravasimi, Jacob, and Alex Wise, and they'll be followed by Teresa Rayford, Lightning Super Humanity, and Edith Gillis. Good afternoon. Would you like to start, please? Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Natalie Paravicini. I'm a doctor and I serve the migrant community, but I'm also the state co-chair of the Pacific Green Party. And I'm here to urge you to vote to withdraw immediately from the JTTF. For one thing, we pay enough taxes to the federal government for them to afford...
 enough resources locally. We do not need to invest our own local resources to any further action with an organization that has an abysmal track record that lasts to this date. My English is not that good today. It's fine. It's fine. And...
 What really makes us secure is a police force or a security force that works with our community, that is part of our community, that's not antagonizing our community. And any association with ICE is totally contrary to public safety and to the public well-being. And I speak from a doctor because...
 When our migrant people don't go to the clinic because they're afraid, then we have more epidemics and more public health issues. So as a...
 I didn't prepare any statements, but we're very strong in the Green Party that we want Portland to leave the Joint Task Force immediately. And we're very determined that if that doesn't happen, we will take note and we will elect more people on the city council to make that a reality. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Alex Wise. I'm representing People Organizing for Philippine Solidarity, which is a showing up for racial justice action group and a member of the International Coalition for Human Rights in the Philippines. We're asking that the city withdraw from this task force and would like to share our experience with the U.S. government torturing a guest of ours. In the Philippines under Duterte, there's always a fresh outrage. Yesterday, he arrested a journalist and time person of the year. This is part of a crackdown on all opposition happening with the complicity of the U.S. government.
 In April 2018, we invited speakers from the Philippines for a Stop the Killings national speaking tour against the tens of thousands of extrajudicial killings. We invited Jerome Abba, a young leader of a Moro indigenous Muslim community organization which works for peace. His homeland is in the poorest part of the country, experiencing a multi-sided civil war in martial law. He had a brand new 10-year U.S. entry visa, speaking invitations from groups like us and the United Methodist Church.
 Abba was stopped at the San Francisco airport and refused entry by Customs and Border Protection, a member of the Joint Terrorism Task Force. For over 20 hours, he was then treated like you see a terrorist interrogation on television, being forced to strip naked in front of an industrial fan blowing cold air, forced to sign a blank confession, offered only a ham sandwich to eat in restricted water.
 He was repeatedly accused of being a terrorist and a communist, asked about his personal political beliefs and who he knows. They played psychological games, leaving him alone with a grenade on the table in front of him. He was told he had no human rights and was denied access to a lawyer and any communication at all for hours. At the airport and around the country, we protested for him, and thankfully he was not disappeared to a black site. He was put on a plane and deported back to the Philippines.
 And the San Francisco City Government, which I believe is not a member of the Joint Terrorism Task Force, passed a resolution asking for an independent investigation. We want you to follow their example, stand up for civil and human rights against the federal government, and leave the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioners, thank you for letting us speak before you today. My name is Jacob Barreros. I'm the founder of Direct Action Alliance, co-founder of Occupy Ice PDX, founder of 5th District Progressive out in Clackamas County, and I currently work with FemStrike Back and Power Portland, among other groups, locally. What we do is we stand up for our neighbors because our government isn't doing it well enough right now.
 I'm also a member of Portland Committee for Human Rights in the Philippines. My family is from Cotabato in Mindanao, which is now currently under martial law. And I've seen far too severe a price being paid by people in my own family for when the government is allowed to run rampant and run amok without any accountability. We know for a fact right now that the Portland police does not have any accountability. We know for a fact that our federal agencies, law enforcement agencies, have no accountability for when they break the law.
 What recourse does the community have? We don't have any recourse currently. So what is to stop them from breaking the law? What is to stop them from not acknowledging any of the agreements that you make?
 What do we know for a fact? We know a few things for a fact. For a fact, we know that the bombing in Boston occurred despite being part of the JTTF. We know for a fact that the shooting at the Pittsburgh Synagogue occurred despite being a member of the JTTF. We know that here in Portland, Millie's family was abused, was treated in the most harsh, disgusting way. I was upstairs and I just, I had to go outside and smoke a cigarette. It was enraging. One victim is too much. One victim is too much.
 We can't have more. We know for a fact that this does not make us safer. We know for a fact that it hurts our community. It is up to you guys to make a difference. Not all of us can make a difference. We are one people. That's why we have to band together and become groups. But you up there, you speak with the full power of the city of Portland. And we are demanding that you withdraw from this unjust task force. Stand up for us. Inspire our youth. Inspire my kids. Inspire your kids. Do the right thing. Please.
 Thank you. Next three, please. The next three are Teresa Rayford, Lightning Superhumanity, and Edith Gillis. And they'll be followed by John, Brian King, and Ned Roche. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 teresa you want to start of course um so for the record my name is teressa rayford i am a native oregonian and the founder of don't shoot portland and um we don't have to assume anything the last time those brought forth to the council as a community organizer i organized in my community i educated community i spent my own time and energy to the detriment of even my health
 to organize community around this issue to educate them on their involvement and what that could mean for our city. Out of the 30 people that showed up in 2015 to give their testimony, the people from the black community, including the children, I can say that all of them have been arrested today.
 And many of those arrests occurred in 2015 following all of our testimonies. Throughout the year, following the testimony, after you guys voted to participate, when we asked you to withdraw, when we gave you valid reasons to withdraw, when different organizations came here with experience and data to tell you to withdraw, people like myself were humiliated, we were discredited, we were arrested,
 and we were emotionally traumatized. It's terrorism, it's clear terrorism. And if you don't understand why black people in Portland protest or black people in America protest today, you don't have to go any further than to look downstairs in the display case that's on display right now for Black History Month.
 guns, money, the drugs that were brought into our community, the participation with community partners and agencies, the continued participation in community policing against our bodies, the removal of our children, the mass incarceration. These audits don't lie.
 We might want to say that the city and the JTTF has nothing to do with our education system, but when we have officers in there and they have access to resources within the city's coffers and bureaus that can actually give them an opportunity to investigate and interrogate,
 without us even having the opportunity to participate, and when those same agencies have the opportunity to have us waive our FERPA rights so that we don't have the benefit of privacy, then that's a problem. And for all the communities that are speaking out today, people in this country, the ones that wrote the language that created the oppression, the capitalism, the patriarchy system that binds us and ties us to this type of interrupted behavior,
 This type of trauma, you understand that you did it for us. Thank you for including us, but you need to withdraw. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superhumanity. One of the best things I think you did, Mayor, was bringing in Police Chief Outlaw. I'm going to stand alongside her on this decision. I'm going to request that she does have security clearance. I'd also like to have every one of you.
 to apply and to try to get security clearance. I want to understand what her position will be on the reports that will be supplied and furnished to the public. I want to have a clear understanding on her position on why this will be beneficial to stay with JTTF. And I'm going to go by what she says based upon her training.
 based upon her experience, and I will rely upon her to protect the interests of the people in this city. Now, my position, again, plain and simple, is that 18 U.S.C. 871, threats against president and successors to the presidency...
 Domestic terrorism. Well, you know what? When you're dealing against the FBI, you want people also within the FBI who have a clear understanding about a lot of the people in this city. You need to have somebody in there. You need to have somebody you can trust. I trust Police Chief Outlaw. I trust her with the people of this city. And I will go along with her decision on this at the end of the day.
 And she understands by her stepping out like that, all the people in this city will be watching her very close on this. And they do want improvements made to it. They do want different things and adjustments made to it. And I think she's going to get the job done on this. And I want her to have the right.
 She can withdraw immediately at any time, and the FBI needs to understand this right up front. If she decides to do that, we are out. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Edith Gillis, and I've given the clerk for you the lyrics that the Portland Raging Granny sang this morning or this afternoon. Thank you.
 The Portland Region Grannies are opposed to the Joint Terrorism Task Force. I am here now as an individual. I have been wearing these clothes in mourning for decades for people who have been murdered by the Portland police through no excuse. My children have been traumatized for 12 1⁄2 years after many police...
 tried to murder me when I tried to stop one cop from unlawfully murdering a peacekeeper who was law-abiding and peaceful. My elderly neighbor, Azzy, was taken to the hospital last night because she was so overwhelmed that three of her family members had been murdered by the Portland police. She's just not able just to get up, get out. She has bed sores, has to have surgery, may die from it. Larry Nicholas is having his birthday tomorrow on Valentine's Day.
 For five and a half months, he has been in ICE custody, taken to coma because he was unlawfully jailed because of having mental illness from years of trauma and abuse in the Philippines. Over 6,000 Filipinos are forced to leave, and over 27,000 have been murdered that we know of just recently. Being the JTTF did not protect my neighbor...
 who's just found out last night that another family member was murdered or died in custody last night. We don't know the details yet. They keep lying to us.
 Being the JTF did not stop the deaths, disabilities, and terrorism of racism. Being the JTF didn't protect me and my fellow medic. One upstairs who MLK weekend was afraid that the Joy Gibson goons were trying to, were stalking, were going to abuse us, probably beat me to death. They didn't stop Joy Gibson from assaulting me or assaulting a sweet, innocent little boy standing on the sidewalk.
 Get out of the JTF now. Thank you. Next three, please, Carla. Next three are John, just the name is John only, and then Brian King and Mark Goodson. And then the last three who signed up will be Maggie, Marty Slapikas, and Eric D. Fletcher. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Brian King. I'm a resident of Portland. Thank you.
 The issue of the day is community safety. Historically, when Portland City Council considers safety, it is prioritizing the safety of white property owners. In light of last Friday's resolution against white supremacy, we should be considering the racism in the JTTIF agencies when considering our partnerships. In 2012, a white man named Christopher Barker, a leader of the Klan faction called the Loyal White Knights, assisted in a plot to attack mosques with a radiation weapon.
 The FBI intercepted and stopped this plot, to its credit, but notably no JTTF unit was involved. The FBI intervened in the prosecution of Mr. Barker, got him parole, and made him a paid informant under the direction of the Greensboro, North Carolina JTTF.
 During his years under the care of the JTTF, Mr. Barker was charged with multiple counts of assault, including assaults on his wife. He was charged with arson, theft, possession of war weapons, associating with violent extremists in violation of parole, and attempted murder against another Klansman. In 2016...
 The state attempted to prosecute Mr. Barker for attempted murder. The JTTF petitioned to have the terms of his parole retroactively lifted so that he would not be charged with those parole violations. In 2017, Mr. Barker made bond on the attempted murder charges and was released after only three months in prison. Assault, weapons charges, and attempted murder are the results of the Greensboro JTTF's work for public safety when a white man was charged with terrorism.
 We've been told to only consider the behavior of our local JTTF, so it's important to note that the initial intervention for Mr. Barker came from the national FBI attorney in Washington, D.C. These agencies don't respect Portland laws. They don't respect Oregon laws, as we've heard yesterday. They work on their own agenda. What happens when a Muslim person of color is accused of terrorism?
 The East Bay Express, a California weekly paper, investigated FBI charges against five terrorism suspects. In each of these cases, the suspects were young Muslim men who were vulnerable due to mental illness, precarious employment, or family estrangements. They ended up being entrapped and set up for decades in prison. The racism is clear. If you're a white man, you're free and on the FBI's payroll. If you're a Muslim immigrant, you're set up for decades in prison. To combat racism in the JTTF, we must withdraw. Thank you.
 My name's John. I'm here to talk about a few things. One, I want to reiterate the concern that was brought up
 yesterday about the FBI labeling the protest in California as a KKK rally where leftists were targeted afterwards and surveilled pointing out that the KKK were not present and the traditionalist workers parties and the Golden State skinheads were present which the concern here is that it shows that they obviously
 don't know anything about white nationalist and neo-Nazi groups, that they're confusing those two, though they have similar ideologies or two, three totally different organizations. So I wanted to point that out because one of the arguments is that we need these people to protect certain communities from these white nationalist and neo-Nazi organizations.
 I also want to point out that I've had many very bad interactions with law enforcement. And though I will show them respect for the most part, I don't trust any of them. And this has changed drastically in the last couple years because of my experiences with them personally.
 One of the first ones was in May Day 2017, the one that was deemed a riot here. And I witnessed and experienced use of force on myself and also another individual that was...
 punched and tackled to the ground by the Portland Police Bureau. Later found out that this person was not even a part of the protest, was just a random citizen that was walking through the city of Portland. Another being Occupy Iceworth on three different occasions, Department of Homeland Security, attacked protesters and then lied about it. And then most recently was my experience with working with people on the border
 humanitarian efforts. And about half of the people, about seven people that I interact with down there, were stopped by Border Patrol on the way back through, interrogated, some for up to nine hours, having cell phones taken, birth certificates, personal information taken. So my point to this is that these are all law enforcement agencies. Some of them are federal, and the FBI is not exempt
 to abuse. I believe this is something that runs rampant in law enforcement and is a cultural issue within those agencies, and policies aren't going to change that. Thank you, both. Last three who signed up are Maggie, Marty Slopikas, and Eric D. Fletcher. Good afternoon. Age before beauty. Sir, would you like to go ahead, please? Thank you. My name is Marty Slopikas.
 I wish I could say I represented a whole bunch of people. I don't. I'm here on my own, and I have several comments. One is, a definition of terrorism is the use of violence against civilians to promote a cause so unpopular that it cannot succeed without an element of intimidation. That involves terrorism, international, domestic terrorism, and the current threat. Back in months before the year 2000, many months before 9-11,
 The United States Commission on National Security issued a report co-chaired by former Senators Redmond and Hart outlining threats and recommendations as to what must be done to counteract the threats to the United States. The commission report listed six threat areas, right, the biological, cyber, nuclear, chemical, radiological, and enhanced conventional, also listed with seven strategic functions.
 deterrence, prevention, preemption, crisis management, consequence management, attribution, and retaliation. Four levels of involvement were listed, and they are federal, state, local, and private. Each level of government involvement might need to satisfy 42 distinct missionaries. Most, if not all, of the missionaries require gathering current and accurate information.
 When I was entering Portland for the first time, crossing I-5 Interstate Bridge late Sunday night in November 13, 1988, I was unaware that Oregon had passed a state law in 1987, ORS 181-850. It was caused by an incident in 1977. A lawsuit resulted in the Oregon revised statute that created Oregon sanctuary law.
 To make my testimony more shorter and hopefully meet with it timely, by pulling out of the Federal Joint Government Task Force, limiting cooperation between an agency with vast more information gathering assets than Portland, and see the attachment warrant I put in there. Sixty-three areas of gathering information from around the world,
 come into the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Our city decreases the safety that state and city citizens believe they are offering to those who seek a sanctuary from their former countries. Now, I've got concerns, and I'll just list them. If the city of Portland is no longer to participate in its share of national security, does the city have the resources to protect its citizen from the threats listed in the commission's report?
 Will the city of Portland no longer share its information with the federal government? Sir, I'll need you to wrap it up. Okay. All right.
 City leaders desire Portland's participation in a global economy. Like it or not, Portland is on a global two-way street. Participating in a global economy should clearly alert city leaders to take notice of the obvious threat of global international terrorism to our local citizens, institutions, and economy. The city of Portland shares a part in the national fight against terrorism to protect our civil rights and existence. I do not suggest pulling out of the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Thank you for being here.
 Good afternoon. Hi. As some of you may know, I'm the granddaughter of an Armenian immigrant. And back in the day, it was McCarthyism. And when your mother comes home from school and she has to say, Dad, everybody keeps asking me what I am. You're American. That's what you are.
 instilling fear into people. I mean, we've had foreign-born people from all over the world serve in our military. We have a grand tradition of migration and integration of culture. You know, I grew up,
 around three military bases because war drives migration and Korean, Japanese, German, Vietnamese, Cambodian, you know, all these people, you know, I ate my way through the kimchi and the sushi and the German stolen and...
 global warming, it's all going to drive migration. We have to stop being so paranoid. You know what creates violence and lack of safety is marginalization creates lack of safety.
 And that's what we need to focus on. We need to focus on integrating everyone into the community and saying you're valued and you're valuable and your input matters. That's what makes a safer community. So I would like everyone's input to matter. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. That's all who signed up.
 All right, very good. So, Commissioners, would you like to invite some of our expert testimony back up to ask questions? Did you not get a chance to testify, Philip? He didn't sign up. Okay, come on. Fine. Yes. And the list is closed. This is it. It's fine.
 Did you get skipped? Yeah, come on. If you were on the list, come on. All right. Yeah. We'll let Philip. He's testifying right now. My name is Mark Goodson. No, we're in set. Philip's testifying. Go ahead. Go ahead. Yeah, sorry. Thank you. My eyes were up. My eyes were up. I thought Philip was dead. I'm not ready to die. I don't understand what to say. So, yeah.
 Thank you. Thanks. Good afternoon. Hey, good afternoon. Thanks for providing our community with a voice to speak on this. I think largely we see distrust in the federal government, and I think that's duly noted. And it feels good to be part of a community that is politically aware and progressive and progressive.
 I thank everybody who has stepped up and spoke today to address the withdrawal from this. So I guess when you think about the way that terrorism has been the name tag for convincing the populations of the U.S. to go to war –
 during the Iraq war, how the media uses that kind of terminology and fear tactic. It's interesting to really analyze what the task force is aligned to do, and we see that there's obviously a lot of bad policy coming from that group, as seen through different accounts that we've heard today.
 So going back to the healthy amount of distrust that we have for the government, the federal government, I do thank you for being here in this council and, again, providing space. But I think it's concerning, and I think that we do need –
 to understand, like, if we withdraw from this agreement, like, who's to say that they're not going to continue doing the same thing that they've been doing? So what is our... How are we going to police them, policing the people after we withdraw, if we withdraw? You see what I'm saying? When can we have a meaningful place for safe dissent?
 And, you know, I feel like we need to be progressive in this and take this seriously. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Philip. Very good. Colleagues, what's your pleasure? Mayor, to your point, I believe that out of 38 speakers, we had one person testify in favor of us staying. So I don't know that there's a need for us. It was at least twice that many. It was at least twice that many. Okay. Really?
 My bad. I must have been at the restroom when the other one spoke. But having said that, I don't see a need to repeat testimony we heard yesterday. So if my colleagues are ready, I'm ready to call for the vote. I would actually like to ask some questions. And I've heard the testimony and I appreciate it. But I still have some questions that I'd like to clarify. I just want to correct the record on one point. We have received a lot of testimony.
 written testimony and e-mails, and we've heard from a lot of people who actually support the JTTF who are not here today. The record includes e-mails, letters, and testimony, and I don't want to diminish anyone's voice just because they couldn't be here.
 Before you move on, Mayor, if I may. Certainly. I noticed in the ordinance that it's called out that it would be binding city policy. I believe we need to add that to the resolution to add a further be it resolved that this resolution is binding city policy. I would second that. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz. We have a second.
 From Commissioner Hardesty on the point of making the resolution binding city policy, which would be parallel language to what was in the ordinance. Any discussion? Legal counsel, are there any issues we should be aware of? None, Mayor. Very good. Call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. This puts the resolution and the ordinance on equal footing in terms of binding city policy, and I think that's fair. Aye. Ms. Smith.
 Hardesty. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. I support the amendment. Aye. The amendment passes. So to the main motion, I have a number of questions, unless anybody, I typically let my colleagues go first. I'm not sure who I'm asking these questions of, so maybe I'll ask them. And maybe, Kimberly, I know you're still here. Perhaps you would like to have a shot at these questions.
 AC Resch is here. Perhaps she would like to have a shot at these. But there are questions that have been looming. Some of them have been raised by testimony today. And I start with the assumption that Casey Jama got it right when he started us off, and he said we're all here for the same reason. We all want what's in the best interest of the community. We may just fundamentally disagree about the best strategy to get there. So my question is this. Okay.
 If we choose to withdraw from the Joint Terrorism Task Force, the task force doesn't go away. The task force continues to operate without us. Doesn't that mean we're missing the opportunity to assist with priorities, with policies, and bringing our city's value to the table? And if that's true, how does that possibly help protect or serve our community?
 Mayor Whaler and members of the commission, I think my answer will come back to what I was talking about earlier, which is trust. And while we have a greater degree of trust with our local law enforcement, we don't trust the FBI and the JTTF and ICE. And so the idea that...
 Our officers working for the JTTF is somehow going to transform a massively long history of rights violations by the FBI and by various JTTFs around the country. It's dubious to us. And that doesn't mean that I don't trust that our local law enforcement would do the best that they can to advocate. I take them at their word.
 But I think that this is an issue where we just have a lack of trust. And again, I think as we've pointed out before, that if something rises to the level where an investigation can happen under Oregon law, right, where we're not proceeding before we have reasonable suspicion and probable cause, as the FBI often does,
 If there are actual threats and there's actual evidence that something is going on and there is a need to collaborate, we're not saying that that collaboration should not happen in those instances. Could I ask a follow-up to that? Sure. Because that was also raised by a number of the people who testified eloquently earlier. In fact, somebody had said –
 sharing information when, quote, actual threats are upon us, unquote. Somebody else said when circumstances warrant. But if we have withdrawn from the terrorism task force, aren't we putting the burden on the FBI to let us know when there is, quote, an actual threat, unquote, and aren't we letting them decide what circumstances warrant?
 qualify as circumstances that warrant our participation. I don't know if I follow you there, Mayor Wheeler. The idea that we somehow have to be inside and seeing all the same information that the FBI sees in order to –
 decide what we're walling ourselves off from or not walling ourselves off from compared to the idea that if the FBI actually sees a credible threat and they come to us and ask us to engage and our law enforcement follows our own law enforcement policies, I'm just – I'm not following you. Okay. Well, I may have misunderstood your testimony because I thought I heard you say –
 we could enter into an arrangement where there is sharing information when an actual threat has been identified. Sure. I mean, before we had the JTTF, if there was a threat to the city of Portland and the FBI knew about it, they could certainly come to the city of Portland and tell the city of Portland and local law enforcement about that threat. That existed before the JTTF. That exists now. It exists independent. There are places that don't have a JTTF.
 And I'm sure that if the FBI knew that there was some credible threat to a city that is not in a JTTF, they're not going to just not communicate with them. So you do trust the FBI? In this case, you're trusting that the FBI will let us know if there is a credible threat. Is that right or not right? So let me get you here. So what you're saying is that by having members of inside JTTF,
 In the JTTF. At the beginning as Chief Outlaw suggested in her testimony. That they're then going to have access to all the information that the FBI has, and so therefore, yeah, I'm sorry. I just don't, I just don't, I'm just not following your logic. Let me let these folks have a shot at that, and maybe I'll try again.
 So in answer to your question, Mayor, that is exactly one of the points that I made yesterday, is that allowing the officers to be engaged from the very beginning does allow Portland to have an influence on what we determine is an actual credible threat to our city. If we do not have that, we are relying on the FBI to contact us when they feel that threat is necessary and when they feel it's necessary to bring us into the conversation.
 We are also not allowed at the very beginning to apply any of our resources when maybe we determined that it wasn't a threat, but there is another way to go about this problem. We mentioned our behavioral health unit. We mentioned our youth services. We mentioned the councils that we have access to and the community members who support us.
 It is a detriment when we are not there at the beginning. We are not allowed to put any type of Portland lens in looking at these cases. The FBI brings those to us.
 Do you believe – Can I ask just one quick question? Because I've never worked for the FBI, but Mike German has, and he is still here. And he is the expert on why these intricacies, like the things that you're asking, I understand, but I'm unable to articulate it in the same way that I think Mike could. And if I could have him come back up and answer your question, that would be really helpful. Yeah, he's still here. Absolutely. Sorry. And I didn't mean to be disrespectful, Mike. I thought you caught a flight. Okay.
 Thank you. And I would have, but Alaska Airlines decided they wanted me to stay here a couple more hours. That's destiny. You know that, right? Yes. Thank you. Did you hear my question? I did. And I think I appreciate you jumping in, but I think it's a misunderstanding of how a task force works.
 The reason you bring all these different people together is because everybody else has a different aspect of the work that they're doing that has different talents that they bring and also things they can't do. So the idea of bringing them together is to take advantage of all that. So in your suggestion –
 It's just as likely that it's the Portland police that is bringing information to the FBI in the task force that is alerting them to a potential problem. But not if we're not in it. Oh, no, absolutely. The Portland police can call the Joint Terrorism Task Force and say, hey, we think we have a problem here. And that wouldn't be changed by the withdrawal.
 I talked about yesterday the triage, right? The FBI has moved to a formula where they open up the spigots on intelligence collection, see something, say something. Every tip and lead is coming in, and every tip and lead gets followed. And that just burns up so much resources on low-level things that you're not seeing what are the real threats. So –
 the way the Portland police interact with the community, they will more likely be the ones who know about things that are going on. And where the FBI has something that rises to the level of reasonable suspicion, that's when they open a full investigation and that's when they can engage with the local police. That's helpful and I appreciate that perspective. Let me ask you a question about transparency because transparency came up. A number of people mentioned it. They said that
 The nature of the task force is such that in dealing with intelligence, they're not as forthcoming as a lot of people in the community would like. Does the task force become more or less transparent by our withdrawal? To us, it becomes less transparent. How? They are not required to tell us anything unless there is that threat. So what they're doing is not going to be told to us. But unless there's a... It's like you're too abducted about someplace.
 So there was some testimony I really enjoyed earlier by somebody who I like very much, and I won't call her out, but we almost always disagree. But I always appreciate her testimony, and I always appreciate her passion and her leadership in the community. And I've concluded that no matter what issue we are discussing, it's about engagement versus withdrawal.
 And you can think of some cases where it makes sense to actively engage, and I tipped my hand a little bit. I said I think it's important for us to engage so we can establish priorities, we can establish policies, and we can bring our values to that table. I think that's personally, I think that's really important. I know a lot of people here don't agree, and that's fine. There are other policies where people say withdrawal –
 is more important. But this isn't an unusual issue. This isn't stock divestiture or something trivial. We are talking about situations where the public safety and well-being hangs in the balance. How does withdrawal provide the stronger commitment to safety and well-being? And I heard a lot of great values espoused, but...
 While values are incredibly important, values in and of themselves don't protect the public. So how does that withdrawal versus engagement move the interests of the public with regard to safety or well-being? So I would argue that that table should be at the Portland Police Department, not at the FBI. Let the FBI come to the table under the rules that the Portland Police have, and they can do that engagement using –
 standards that the citizens of Oregon and Portland have agreed will govern their law enforcement activities. But isn't that what we could do through Commissioner Fish's recommendation of let's put the sideboards on us, let us decide what that partnership looks like and how we want to manage that policy, rather than ceding it completely to the FBI, which is what we'd be doing if we withdraw? Well, I would argue that...
 The way you are going to get the FBI to cooperate and raise their standards is by refusing to join their task force and work under their standards. Do you have evidence of that, that that strategy would actually work?
 I – that's why I come here so often and give you so much credit for being a leader on this topic and actually creating this conversation. But it's still a brand-new conversation, and they've started it in San Francisco, and they're starting it in Oakland. And I think you – I –
 credit you for having had the courage to test this system. And, you know, there is no guarantee of safety. But we cannot turn over our control to a secret institution that isn't responsive to our questions and concerns.
 We serve with the FBI on more than just the Joint Terrorism Task Force. They work very, very closely with PPB on child exploitation issues.
 on sex trafficking and unfortunately our community, you're probably aware of this, being on the I-5 corridor is unfortunately a significant byway for sex trafficking, including international sex trafficking. There's been no proposal that we withdraw from those relationships. Is this a fundamentally different relationship in your opinion? Yeah.
 It is, in my opinion, certainly, because you have the history of the use of this term terrorism to justify targeting people for political reasons, targeting communities that don't necessarily have the majority protecting them. So this is different, number one. But number two, no, I would ask you, after you withdraw from the Joint Terrorism Task Force, to start looking at the other ones and see how they operate as well.
 Commissioner Fish. I think my colleagues, I have a sense that my colleagues, our colleagues have lengthy statements to read. I think since we have the benefit of getting you out of here by five and having statements, I think the sooner we move the statements the better. All right, very good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Call the roll. Fritz.
 Thank you. Everybody who came today, everybody who sent in comments or called my office, this is an important question on which reasonable people can and do disagree. And it's so important that I'm going to read my speech because I don't want to miss any of it or to misstate anything. And I do appreciate that for the most part, comments have been constructive and focused on issues rather than directed at people and suggesting conflicting values. We all want to be safe. The question before us is what will make us safe?
 I support this resolution for four main reasons. Oregon law does not allow surveillance without reasonable suspicion a crime has been committed. FBI directives allow that surveillance. Participating in the JTTF gives Portland police officers access to information they should not know.
 Surveillance without reasonable cause is illegal in Oregon, regardless of who is being investigated. I am unconvinced that the JTTS focus has switched from perceived international terrorism to local threats, and I am more concerned for the rights of local people.
 When we participated on a limited basis, the council was supposed to receive annual reports on activities of our officers. Those reports were ludicrous in the absence of meaningful information. We already tried the let's do it with sideboards, let's make them better, let's participate and make sure that we get them to give us information. It did not work. Since we have been full participants, we have been given no information at all until yesterday afternoon.
 There is no evidence that participation has made Portlanders safer. And my fourth point is that the current president has made clear his animosity towards Muslims, immigrants, and people of color. I found it hard to trust the FBI, even under President Obama. It's impossible now. The FBI states, "...we only use immigration violations when there are no other options to disrupt crimes of violence."
 Although I can't guarantee the task force won't utilise immigration charges, I can guarantee we will only utilise those charges when necessary. That is not at all reassuring.
 The FBI's website defines domestic terrorism as perpetrated by individuals and or groups inspired by or associated with primarily U.S.-based movements that espouse extremist ideologies of a political, religious, social, racial, or environmental nature. Who decides what is extremist when it comes to political, religious, social, racial, or environmental issues?
 The FBI this past December first identified the so-called Proud Boys as an extremist group, and then they announced that they are not. How do we know even who is considered appropriate to being investigated? Thank you.
 The FBI's website further states, the FBI-led Joint Terrorism Task Force across the country are essential to the nation's success in combating terrorism. These JTTFs bring federal, state, and local agencies together on one team, allowing members to leverage each one another's skills, authorities, and accesses to prevent and disrupt terrorist attacks across the country. Let me read that again.
 JTTFs bring federal, state and local agencies together on one team, allowing members to leverage each other's skills, authorities and accesses. Members leverage one another's authorities and accesses. That means that Portland's JTTF members have access to information they would not otherwise know and under Oregon law they should not know, even though they didn't collect that information themselves.
 It means Portland police officers participating in the JTTF have discussions about information collected by other members in ways that Portland police officers are not allowed to collect information. I can believe just about that Portland police participating in the JTTF don't engage in surveillance without evidence that a person has committed a crime. In fact, I do believe that because they have said so under the truthfulness oath.
 However, they are involved in discussions about information gathered by FBI staff who operate under the suspicion that a person may commit a crime, and who are then specifically allowed to investigate people based on suspicion or association. There is no way to participate and wall off our officers from that information.
 In 2011, I voted to participate in the JTTF in a limited way. I thought Portland police officers would be a good addition to the group and promote adherence to our values. And I was promised the people of Portland would get more information on its work.
 I appreciate the testimony from the U.S. Attorney and FBI leadership, stating that the participation of our officers has been helpful. The second part of the bargain didn't happen. The annual reports were ridiculously superficial, and we heard in the work session yesterday that this is the norm in other jurisdictions too.
 Good transparent communication is just not what the FBI does. Our own police are put in the position of not communicating everything, even to elected officials, because it ostensibly jeopardizes our security. I'm concerned about the FBI's targeting communities of color, particularly black activists, under the pretense of protecting national security.
 The word security is an easy concept to stand behind because then you can justify just about anything. Surveillance, tracking citizens, profiling them, collecting data on them, keeping that data forever as an indictment of criminal intent whether there was or was not, and arresting people for no other crime than for being poor or simply peacefully expressing their dissatisfaction with government policies.
 We have been told that the JTF should now be considered the Joint Threat Task Force and that it is now concentrating on hate crimes, including those threatened and perpetrated by white supremacists. As one of our human rights commissioners commented, white supremacists have constitutional rights too. Surveillance that is illegal in Oregon is illegal no matter who is targeted. If we don't all have rights, none of us has rights.
 It is also hard to believe that investigation of white supremacists is a true priority for the JTTF, as white supremacists appear to premeditate and commit violent acts across state lines virtually unchecked. We heard yesterday that hundreds of hate crimes were reported nationwide, and fewer than 40 were investigated, leading to arrest and conviction.
 While it is assumed that all parties to these investigations are operating in the best interest of the communities and residents of the United States, there are numerous examples nationally of stings, setups, surveillance, profiling, arrests for civil protest, manipulation and intimidation of and by the media, and arrests for simply researching and disseminating information about public safety. That makes this often a messy affair and one where public trust continues to be eroded.
 In Portland, what we need most of all is for everyone in the community to be able to trust everyone in the Portland Police Bureau. Trust is not earned by saying, you can trust me.
 If there was a perfect world in which people had what they need, when there wasn't such a massive difference between those who believe they have the right to lord their wealth over the 99%, when gun proliferation and use is not so prevalent for the accumulation of wealth and the proliferation of fear, then we probably wouldn't be in this situation where we as human beings often cannot communicate with each other about our collective needs and we must turn against our neighbours to fight each other.
 The meaning of the word fight is indicative of our problem. It means to struggle, to keep in check, to control, to stifle, to confront, to combat, to quarrel with, to argue with, all of which keeps us further and further from peaceful, constructive solutions, and each side digs in.
 Many politicians are fond of saying they will fight for things. I have worked hard to avoid using that word in any of my campaigns and throughout my time in office. If we are fighting, we have already lost at least part of our humanity, compassion, and willingness to hear the other person out, even if we vehemently disagree with every word and action they make. We must work for peace and to reduce fear for every person in our community.
 The City of Boston's participation in the JTTF did not prevent the Boston Marathon bombing, despite the fact that the FBI had interviewed the suspect two years before, but did not share that information with local law enforcement, according to the Boston Globe. The City of Portland's participation in the JTTF did not prevent the Max murders.
 The Portland Human Rights Commission stated prior to the hearing in 2015, federal guidelines governing FBI operations expanded to grant greater permissions and flexibility to the FBI for surveillance and investigation activities.
 The new guidelines have loosened previous restrictions, allowing greater agency discretion and permitting intrusions that erode civil liberties in the interest of protecting national security. The absence of oversight, accountability and transparency inherently with a JTTF collaboration will exasperate long-standing tensions stemming from racial profiling, use of force and negative perceptions about Portland's police.
 That has proven an accurate prediction. I was reluctant to participate even under our President Obama. The President-Occupant of the White House has been very clear that he is obsessed with perceived threats from Muslims, Latinx people and immigrants. And yet we're supposed to trust the JCCF more today than in 2015. Some of this speech was drafted by my Chief of Staff, Tom Bisseau, in 2015. And it's really sad that the remarks are remarkably true again today.
 With the passage of the MOU in 2015, we officially entered the world where information is purposefully hidden from public view, and the City of Portland agreed to be complicit with that deception. We have no idea what our officers have spent their time doing over the past four years. We're assured that they've kept all laws, and that's it. Several weeks ago, I asked for a detailed report with specific information on this past year's outcomes. I had to ask for it again yesterday. Thank you.
 Instead, we were given vague anecdotal stories of a couple of cases where our officers connecting suspects to mental health services. The report was emailed to council yesterday afternoon.
 I appreciate that it does contain a few specific numbers, including that approximately 300 threats were received in Oregon last year, and four resulted in law enforcement action in Portland. I was reminded of this when Mr. German was talking about the massive numbers of investigations in relation to the few actual threats. The remainder of yesterday's report is either vague or discusses cases and actions outside Oregon.
 This city has been focusing on performance metrics and annual dashboards measuring effectiveness since the city budget office was formed in 2013. If any of my bureaus had staff participating in a program for four years, and at the end of that time the staff couldn't point to many specific accomplishments, I would ask the director of that bureau to stop participating in the program.
 I'm not the police commissioner, however, thanks to Commissioner Hardesty, I am able to participate in this hugely important policy decision. I have not heard compelling reasons why I should treat the police bureau differently from the other bureaus I've administered. I believe that gaining public trust starts here at home. There are a lot of violent atrocities being perpetrated throughout the country, and it's understandable that some people are frightened.
 When the Irish Republican Army was terrorizing England with bombs and attacks in pubs and hotels when I was a teenager, we pulled together, we united as communities, we worked for greater trust. The biggest threat we have here in Portland is a lack of trust in our police. People in Portland are far more likely to be the target of a vehicle theft, a burglary or an assault than a victim of terrorism. They're increasingly more likely to be a victim of hate crimes and we need to address that in different ways.
 We need all of our officers on the streets of Portland helping Portlanders who have suffered crimes. Very grateful to Commissioner Hardesty for her leadership, for Commissioner Udeli for her extraordinary commitment throughout this important process and especially today. Thank you to the ACLU, the FBI and the U.S. Attorney for their time and diligence in giving me information. And thanks to my entire staff for engaging in this conversation, particularly Cynthia Castro, who has led the policy work, and Tim Crail, my Chief of Staff.
 Finally, thank you to community advocates, especially to Casey Jarmer, the Executive Director of Unite Oregon. On the evening of the Holiday Tree Lighting Bomb Threat by Mohammed Mohammed, it was Casey Jarmer who Mayor Adams and I turned to in order to help all of our diverse communities feel safe, welcome and valued as together we worked through the trauma of that event in our community. And it was traumatic for everybody.
 Over the years, Casey Jarmer has earned his position as a trusted advisor to me and to the council. So, Casey, this vote is for you and for all the vulnerable communities that you represent. Aye. Fish. Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I want to begin by thanking the Mayor and Commissioner Hardesty for structuring two days of high-level briefings and debate. Thank you.
 It has been substantive and informative, but also, in my view, and unfortunately rushed. I, too, have a formal statement I want to read. But before I do, I want to say to my many friends in this room, I've read your letters and e-mails. I have met with many of you. And I have heard loud and clear the concerns and values that you have shared with us today. Thank you.
 I've been proud to stand with you in opposing white nationalism, protecting our sanctuary city status, and challenging President Trump's Muslim travel ban in court. While I continue to believe that the relationship between the city and the Joint Terrorist Task Force can be strengthened, I also share many of your concerns. Now to my prepared statement. This is the third time that I voted for Portland to be part of the JTTF.
 Each time we've debated this question, I've concluded that Portland is safer when we have relationships with federal law enforcement. And we are in good company. Progressive cities like Oakland, New York, Seattle, and Los Angeles have made the same judgment. Now, nobody disputes that Portland faces serious threats of terrorism, both domestic and international. My confidential briefings from federal law enforcement have reinforced this sobering reality.
 The question is, can we balance safety and security on the one hand with protecting civil liberties on the other? I believe our experience since we rejoined the JTTF in 2015 proves that we can. The two Portland police officers assigned to the task force, known as Matt and Brian, are required to follow state law, city code, and bureau policy directives.
 The mayor, chief outlaw, the U.S. attorney, and our city attorney, the FBI, and the two officers have all conformed that they do. Let's take a moment to review some of the criticisms of our current relationship, and I take them seriously. First, of course, is President Trump. I think we can all acknowledge that his election has certainly changed things for the worse.
 But when I asked the two officers during our work session yesterday if anything changed between the Portland JTTF under the Obama administration and that under the Trump administration, they both emphatically and unequivocally said no. Next, the FBI's history of civil liberties, abuses dating back to the days of J. Edgar Hoover. History is history, and that's why in any relationship we –
 Mayor? Folks, please let the council finish its comments and its deliberation. History is history, and that's why in any relationship we must trust but verify. Yesterday's work session, annual briefings, and updates to our memorandum of understanding are all opportunities to do that. Next, the FBI has not been transparent in its annual reporting.
 I wholeheartedly agree, and that's why I am prepared to propose an amendment to not only require more robust reports, but also to put the requirement into our memorandum of understanding with the FBI. Next, our participation violates Oregon sanctuary law.
 When asked, Mayor Wheeler, Chief Outlaw, the U.S. Attorney, the FBI, and the two Portland police officers assigned to the JTTF all confirmed that in spite of differences between federal and state law, our officers are exclusively bound by state law and they follow it. Next, our participation undermines trust in the Portland police and causes concerns in marginalized communities.
 I acknowledge that we have a lot of work to do to strengthen the public's trust in the Portland police, and I take very seriously the concerns raised by community members who feel targeted. I also take seriously the concerns of organizations like the Jewish Federation and others who support our participation and feel targeted by acts of terrorism. Finally, our participation somehow corrupts our values. This is one of the claims that I guess I don't understand.
 The FBI, as has been noted, will do this work whether or not we continue participating in the JTTF. I'd rather have our values at the table than to have the FBI continue without local supervision. Why would we walk away and forfeit our opportunity for ongoing information and oversight of their work? I reject the binary choice that is being presented to counsel today that we must be all in or all out. I believe there's a third way.
 strengthening our agreement through a series of amendments I have prepared to be officially codified in the Memorandum of Understanding. Council had a work session on Tuesday, and Portlanders have just begun to engage this big question. In my view, there's no reason to rush to judgment. Many respected community voices, including Muse Olo,
 The Jewish Federation, the Citizens Crime Commission, anti-hate leaders like Randy Blazak, local jurisdictions like Hillsborough and Gresham, and the Oregon State Police under the leadership of Governor Kate Brown and the major chiefs of police association have expressed their support for Portland remaining in the JTTF. Their voices deserve the same consideration as those of critics. Mayor and Commissioner Hardesty, again, I want to thank you for facilitating this process to date.
 This has been a good debate, and I regret that we're being forced to decide this question without adequate time to engage the whole community. Few issues that come before the council are as fundamental or as important as this. We have two options before us, the path set forth in this resolution or the path of setting a national standard for this work. The choice is ours.
 I want to close by thanking my Chief of Staff, Sonia Schmansky, and my whole team for the work that they have done in meeting with community members and helping me reach my conclusion in this and on the resolution. Respectfully, I vote no. Hardesty? I want to thank my colleagues for participating over the last couple of days and what's been, for me, very revealing information.
 I reject the notion that this vote is somehow rushed. Since the day that we rejoined the Joint Tourism Task Force in 2015, 50 organizations have been working nonstop to make sure that Portlanders felt safe and secure in their local community. So regardless of what the Oregonians said about rushing this vote, this is not a new issue for communities. Thank you.
 I also want to thank Jewish Voices for Peace, who has been really on the front line with us for many, many years, advocating that we have a right to feel safe in our local community. One of the things I learned by listening to Mr. Williams from the Department of Justice and Mr. Cannon from the FBI is their disregard for state law as it relates to our sanctuary status.
 I listened for over an hour to them talking about how they respect and they work with the law that Oregon has, but yet when questioned directly if they supported the sanctuary law, it became very clear that they did not.
 So if we have the people in charge of this task force having total disregard for our sanctuary status, how could we ever in good faith believe that two Portland police officers who are not in charge of the task force, who are not making decisions for the task force, who are merely there as part of a big law enforcement presence,
 would have the wherewithal to fight back against that federal intrusion on our rights. I have heard from the FBI and the Department of Justice that now they are focused on white supremacists and white nationalist groups in our community.
 Yet all of us have seen video pictures of police officers protecting white nationalists and attacking community members who showed up to say, hate is not acceptable in our community.
 Here, this body just last week passed a resolution that said we stand firmly against hate and white supremacy, and we will ensure that no city resources are used to support white supremacy and white nationalist activities. I cannot have faith and confidence that we are not
 working in violation of the resolution that we all so proudly supported if we continue to stay in the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Just recently when the FBI was asked, the FBI took on the defense of the Ku Klux Klan at a rally that they weren't even at,
 implying that BAM, an organization that works for the empowerment of African American people, were in fact the terrorists and they needed to open an investigation on them. This is a slippery slope when you cannot trust people who are sworn to protect and serve and they are charged with protecting your civil liberties. This, by no way is this vote rushed.
 For a whole year, I talked about this on the campaign trail. I talked about it in every community. I talked about it at every house party that I went to. And everywhere I went, people were concerned about whether or not their data was being collected and used in a way that is against Oregon state law. We are here today because I am about keeping promises.
 When I said that I would bring this up at the earliest point possible, that is why we're here today. And so I reject anybody's notion that somehow this has been a rushed activity. We had standing room only at Unite Oregon last month when we had a community meeting about this very topic.
 We have not rushed this. This is a very thoughtful process, and this is a thoughtful process that centers all members of our community. When we talk about one Portland, a Portland where everyone is respected, we cannot in good conscience continue our engagement with the Joint Tourism Task Force. I am proud to vote yes for this resolution, and I thank you again for being here.
 You, Daly. You, Daly. So before I begin my formal remarks, I want to say that I do wish that we had an opportunity as a body to reach greater consensus among ourselves and with the police chief, as was the case in San Francisco.
 I believe we all want the same thing. We want to keep our community safe and protect vulnerable community members. We want our officers to abide by state and local laws and policies. We want to direct resources towards actual threats to public safety and national security. However, the testimony we heard today has gone a long way towards easing my concerns and regrets.
 I also want to make it clear that none of my remarks or vote today are meant to impugn the character of any of the individuals involved with Portland's JTTF. They're not on trial here today. But even good people can make bad decisions, especially within a flawed system that is biased against immigrants, ethnic and religious minorities, communities of color, and political dissenters.
 I do not trust this. However, I don't trust the system that JTTF functions within. I do not trust the administration who oversees it. And even if there was justification for previous involvement, we must scrutinize this agreement given the current reality. Do you feel safer today than you did five years ago? I don't. I don't either.
 Immigrants and refugees, African Americans, other communities of color, ethnic and religious minorities, political dissenters, LGBTQI community, basically anyone who's not part of the dominant culture, which when you add us all up is the majority of us.
 Why? Because they've seen hateful speech, actions, and crimes rise since November 2016, because members of white supremacists and other right-wing extremist groups are responsible for the vast majority of extremist-related fatalities over the past decade, yet they don't appear to be the focus of the FBI or the JTTF.
 and because we have seen law enforcement violate our civil rights, engage in racial profiling, persecution of immigrants, and using principled acts of civil disobedience to justify investigations.
 I shared this story yesterday in the work session, and I'm going to briefly share it here today just to illustrate the point. In the early 90s, I was connected to a group of activists who were found to be illegally surveilled by the Portland Police Bureau. This...
 Activity was brought to light by a lawsuit against the city, which resulted in a settlement and changes to our policy. So this is just to say that these are not wingnut conspiracies that we're hearing from left-wing activists. This really happens, and it's happened in recent history, and it continues to happen today. Okay.
 Today's conversation is about how we balance our responsibility to maintain public safety while protecting Portlanders' civil rights.
 These questions force us to examine our very definition of safety and to question whose safety we are considering. Our country's legacy of white supremacy has always skewed our perception and definition of who is dangerous and who should be subject to surveillance. We need to acknowledge that the othering of African Americans, immigrants, Muslims, Muslims,
 other ethnic and religious minorities, the LGBTQ community, is baked into our culture and that this othering is reinforced by law enforcement. This is not a critique of the people in law enforcement, who are often good people with good intentions, but it does point to a systemic issue. This is best evidenced by the JTTF's unwillingness to clearly identify white supremacy as the most significant domestic terrorism threat of our time.
 For example, I was troubled to read quotes from a recent JTTF investigation in California, Sacramento, California, in which agents wrote, quote, the KKK consisted of members that some perceived to be supportive of a white supremacist agenda. Thank you.
 According to the Anti-Defamation League Center on Extremism, 100% of extremist deaths in 2018 were from alt-right and white supremacist perpetrators. Unless the JTTF can unequivocally denounce white supremacy and commit to dedicating significant and targeted support to address this epidemic, it's hard for me to believe that this partnership significantly increases public safety.
 I've also been deeply considering how our democracy is founded on the principles of due process and how this principle continues to be denied to marginalized communities. Using immigration violations to bypass the criminal court system is a violation of the spirit of our due process protections. Additionally, I continue to be wary of supporting a partnership with any agency that works with ICE. Thank you.
 ICE is a rogue agency whose mission appears to be the violation of basic human and constitutional rights of our immigrant communities. I'm not convinced that there are adequate protections to ensure Portland Police Bureau officers will be walled off from this component of the JTTF's activities. And without meaningful civilian oversight, I'm not confident that we could ever confirm this.
 Finally, I'm troubled by the FBI's historic and current surveillance of activist communities and the Portland Police Bureau's role in supporting this.
 In closing, I'll repeat the question I asked yesterday. How do we justify the risk of civil and human rights violations by our continued involvement in the JTTF? If the justification is that this is necessary in order to promote safety, then how can we explain the lack of investment in addressing white supremacy and continued cooperation with ICE?
 Sometimes we have to make decisions within a flawed system that satisfy no one. I can think of one recent example in particular. And sometimes we get to challenge and change the system.
 And this is one of those times. I continue to believe that we are safest when communities are connected to each other and their government. Both the perception and actual activities of the JTTF undermine this trust and therefore cannot make us safe. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you to everyone who came to testify today. This was a really excellent council session.
 Thank you for reassuring me and reaffirming our collective commitment to justice. This work will never be done, but today we take another step in the direction of the greater good. I vote aye. So again, to underscore a core point here.
 All of the Portland City Council is here today because we want to keep Portlanders safe. I start with that basic assumption that we're all here for that reason. Obviously, we may disagree about how, but we can make sure and agree that this is about making sure that all members of the community are, in fact, protected.
 Over the last two days, we've heard from legal experts. We've heard from local and federal jurisdictions. We've heard from advocacy organizations. We've heard from chief outlaw. And now we've heard from many members in our community as well. Let's be honest. This is probably one of the least surprising outcomes in terms of votes that the city council has taken during my tenure here.
 But I also want to make it very clear, I respect my colleagues' opinion on this matter. Nobody has a monopoly on the truth. For my own part, I've been consistent in asserting that I would support the city's withdrawal from the JTTF if given a compelling reason.
 After considering the weight of the testimony offered at the work session, and much of it underscored by this hearing, and in light of the information the FBI and PPP have provided in various briefings, I personally do not believe that the case to withdraw from the JTTF has been adequately made. I hope my comments are taken in the spirit of honest, yet respectful disagreement with my colleagues.
 While I do believe the majority of my colleagues are very well-meaning on this issue and that their values are sincere, I still believe it's a mistake for us to withdraw the city of Portland from the Joint Terrorism Task Force. To be clear, many valid questions have been asked of our federal partners regarding compliance with Oregon's sanctuary law, investigation of white supremacists, and the standards of surveillance.
 Valid questions have been raised around the FBI's history with respect to civil rights. The FBI and PPB have been willing to answer all of these questions. They've offered briefings to the commissioners. They voluntarily participated in yesterday's work session.
 I also want to say this. While I not only don't believe that the case has been made for withdrawal, but I also don't believe that the case has been made against consideration of amendments to our arrangement with the FBI. What was proposed today, I believe, is a false choice.
 We either are in or we are out. And I think collectively we missed an opportunity to actually lead the way for the rest of the nation in making JTTFs once and for all more accountable to the communities in which they serve. I want to be clear about a few things from a factual perspective. First of all, we are not voting on whether the JTTF should exist or not.
 The JTTF will continue to exist in our community, whether we're part of it or not. What we're voting on is whether or not we will be engaged and whether we will be informed.
 or whether we will be disengaged and potentially not informed. The work of the JTTF continues either way. If we withdraw, it is my opinion that we lose our ability to bring our own Portland values to the table to help establish its priorities and policies.
 In short, we're ceding these opportunities by walking away rather than remaining aggressively engaged. Excuse me, may I thank the captioning? Is the captioning gone? They may have taken a, be switching out captioners. Can you let me know when it's back, please? Sorry, Philip. Well done, Ted. Maybe you'll just get up in a cycle. This is the intermission. I feel like the french fries are about to dance.
 Sorry, folks. We want to make sure the closed captioning system is operating. Do we run into trouble when we get past five? She wasn't sure. I think they may be on now. Captioners, are you there? Is it working? We've got a little bit. Sort of? No.
 They're not getting what I'm saying now, so I think we're still not on yet. I'm sorry? I think they're having trouble actually because it's coming on and then it wasn't. I think they're good now. Good? Yeah. All right. Let's take it from where we were. So just a few more facts, and I'm going to speed this up. Number one, it was made very clear subsequent to yesterday's work session that JTT officers are not, under any circumstances, involved in immigration enforcement. I want to make that clear.
 It's also been made clear by the two officers who testified yesterday, and they understood very clearly they were under the truthfulness directive, that they have never, during their tenure as members of the Joint Terrorism Task Force, violated or been asked to violate Oregon state law, nor do they find it difficult, according to their testimony, to comply with Oregon state law.
 This conversation to me has been about more than just policy. What I've heard repeatedly from people is that this is really about a fundamental lack of trust in the public safety system. That trust needs to be earned, absolutely. And I want you to know I fundamentally agree with that. That does not mean, however, that we should lean into hyperbole or throw the proverbial baby out with the bathwater.
 We benefit as a community by having our law enforcement partners actively communicating with each other and working together so long as there are real accountability measures in place. There are some. There's local oversight. There's congressional oversight. There's executive oversight between the Attorney General and the FBI. And, of course, judicial oversight. But...
 If we believe that the Joint Terrorism Task Force is not accountable enough, then it's our job to be stewards of this partnership and make it better over time. It is not to respond by doing away with it entirely because of what could be taking place as opposed to what is actually taking place.
 I was elected on a platform that included strengthening our police bureau and making it more relevant and more reflective in the needs in our community and more accountable to the public that it serves. The same holds true for the Joint Terrorism Task Force. I believe that reform comes from engagement and hard work, not from walking away and hoping that others do the work for us.
 Yesterday, Commissioner Fish asked if anyone on either panel disagreed that our community faces real threats, including potential school shootings, mass shootings like what happened at the Clackamas Town Center, potential acts of terrorism, or other threats. Nobody disagreed. So if working alongside our intelligence and law enforcement partners is no longer the plan, what is the plan?
 If we're not going to be there to evaluate intelligence of potential threats to students in our schools, what's the alternative? Out of all the expert testimony, one of the things that really stood out to me, and others referenced this, was the video from Bob Hornstein of the Jewish Federation. He said, and I'm paraphrasing,
 He said that what we've seen in the United States is a rise of white supremacist groups. They're more visible and they're more emboldened in the current environment. He's constantly thinking about security, he said, constantly thinking about upgrading the security at the Jewish Federation synagogues and other agencies.
 When the mass shootings happened at the synagogue in Pittsburgh in October, he immediately called his JTTF liaison here in Portland, who took the time to call Central Precinct to make sure that there were extra patrols available at the synagogues. This is just one example of the kind of security that that collaboration with the JTTF can provide locally.
 Last week, the Portland City Council passed a resolution condemning white supremacists and alt-right hate groups in the city of Portland. It's my opinion that now we are pulling out of a tool that could potentially help us address this increasingly dangerous issue. In fact, our JTTF officers confirmed yesterday morning that their investigative work reflects a rise in violent white supremacist activities.
 If this is truly a primary concern of the city of Portland, why would we interrupt a communications line to the FBI and splinter our public safety resources? Why now? We're not just talking about white supremacist and white national groups. We're also talking about lone actors.
 So while much attention has been given to white supremacist and white nationalist groups, and some were referenced, I believe, today, I ask this city council to also consider the danger of individual actors and the trauma that they have inflicted on communities all across this country. If we're not working with our partners to gather intelligence and investigate these issues, then what is our plan? Who is working on it?
 But partnerships like the JTTF can give resolutions like the one we passed last week more teeth, but we have to provide the impetus. We have to be assertive and lead that effort. It's important to protect the safety and the civil rights of everyone in this community. The JTTF is another tool for being able to do so if we manage it properly.
 I understand that there are legitimate concerns about the history of the FBI. The value of information and our ability to shape the JTTF policies, priorities, and values, in my opinion, outweighs immediate concerns. And we should be taking all of these issues seriously for what we are confronting today and what we expect to confront in the future.
 We're here today with real challenges, and we need the tools to keep the people here safe. Ending this partnership, I believe, gives us fewer tools in a much more complex and much more dangerous world. A number of people gave examples of where the JTTF failed.
 It's true. There is no such thing as a fail-safe system. But yesterday we also received a list of cases where the JTTF was successful working with local law enforcement on thwarting shootings, bombings, and school violence, amongst other examples. I absolutely believe that the JTTF is highly imperfect. It could do much better.
 I was prepared to support the amendments that were offered by Commissioner Fish. As the police commissioner, I cannot support a policy that appears to favor politics or ideology over the safety and well-being of Portlanders. While values are extremely important, values alone cannot protect the safety of the community.
 As police commissioner, my priority remains the safety and the well-being of the community, period. We've heard testimony that if we pull out, it will persuade the FBI to reform their system. Are we willing to risk the safety of this community on that potential outcome?
 The Chief and I will say this. I'll speak for the Chief since we're in agreement on this. I know that we have not won this vote. We will withdraw from the Joint Terrorism Task Force. And I want to make a commitment to all of you in this room, including those of you who disagree with what I just said vehemently. We're going to rise to the occasion.
 We will make do with the limited tools we have to ensure the safety of this community. And we will rise to the occasion in terms of ensuring accountability and transparency to the degree that we're able to do that from the sidelines of the Joint Terrorism Task Force. And I hope my colleagues are serious.
 that this council will invest in the partnership, the tools, the training, and the resources needed to address very real threats to this community. I want to thank everyone, especially my colleagues. This is an example, I think, where we had a significant disagreement of opinion. We heard all the sides. We asked a lot of questions.
 Personally, I'll say I have learned a lot. I appreciated the diversity of viewpoints that we heard. And on the whole, I'm very grateful for the experience we've had. I want to thank all of you. I want to thank the staffs. I want to thank Nicole Grant for my team who spent countless hours working on this. So with that, I vote no. The resolution is adopted 3-2. Carter. Applause
 I'm over.