Do you guys ever going to release the board? Meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning and welcome everyone. I think Commissioner Fish is here as well. Good morning.
 We have some folks signed up for public communications. We'll take those first and then some time certain items after that, followed by our regular council calendar. If you're here to speak on a council item, please let our clerk know and she will make sure you get called. We typically allow three minutes for public testimony on council decisions, and it doesn't look like we're going to have any trouble sticking to that standard today. If you're here and want to speak, you just need to give us your name. No need for an address or any other information, just your name.
 And we always maintain the rules of decorum in this chamber. So if you agree with someone and want to show your support, give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you disagree, a polite hand gesture to the negative is okay. But we ask that we not make applause or demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view in this room so everyone can be heard. We make exceptions for visiting dignitaries and schoolchildren. And if you're one of those, you'll probably get a round of applause.
 So welcome, everyone, and let's proceed, please. Before we do, let's take a quick look at the consent calendar and see if there are any items to be removed. There are only two on the consent agenda. Nothing to be removed? Okay. Let's take item 143, please. Request of Anne McLaughlin to address counsel regarding National Court Reporter and Captioning Week. Good morning.
 Mayor Hales and commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Anne McLaughlin, and I'm a Portland native and resident. I'm here today in recognition of National Court Reporting and Captioning Week. I'm also a person with hearing loss and an active member of the local chapter of the Hearing Loss Association of America, which is a self-help support and advocacy group.
 I'm very aware of the importance of captioning as an accommodation that helps us participate more fully in our communities. Having captions displayed, as you do here every week, is an excellent practice that I hope will soon become commonplace. I'm thankful that captioning is provided on nearly all television programs and many movies, and that more movie theaters are offering their patrons ways to watch movies with captions.
 Thank you all for your unanimous approval of the ordinance requiring captioning on televisions in public places in Portland always be turned on. And that became effective two months ago. I particularly want to recognize Commissioner Fritz for her efforts in introducing the ordinance, working with the community and with the other members of the council to ensure its passage.
 I encourage everyone to visit the website captionsonnow to learn about that new ordinance and to help encourage local establishments to comply with the ordinance and turn on the captions.
 We appreciate all the local captioners for providing this great service to our community, and I want to thank you for the opportunity to speak today. Thank you. Thanks for your advocacy. Thank you. I'll just mention that at one of my favorite family dinner places, the captions were not on, and it was a sporting event, and I was not able to follow it without ignoring my companions. So I asked for them to be turned on.
 And I experienced what people with hearing difficulties must experience because they couldn't find the remote, they couldn't figure out how to do it, and they said they would do it. But that was one of the reasons that we just said turn captions on and leave them on. Thank you. You're welcome. Thanks very much. Okay, item 144. Request of Terry Munt to address counsel regarding National Court Reporter and Captioning Week. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Terry Munt, and I have been a court reporter since 1975. Excuse me. And I am here to celebrate National Court Reporting and Captioning Week. And I do want to thank you for being a leader in having your meetings captioned, as you can see right up here, and encouraging the other cities in Oregon to do the same. We really appreciate that.
 Also, the court reporters in the courts, as you probably know, we don't have reporters in our state courts anymore. But we are encouraging attorneys who have important cases, especially aggravated murder cases, they do hire reporters to go in and report those cases. So that's an issue that's important to us. Thank you again for your time. Thank you.
 Good morning. Hey, Mayor Halas on council. My name is Tevin Green. I'm finishing my last couple months at Sumner College for court reporting. I just wanted to say a little bit about my path and the excitement to go on.
 Within the next five years, we're expected to lose nearly 5,000 quarter porters. I mean, in terms of losing. Retire. Retire. Exactly. Losing. Not losing. Just retiring a little bit. I'm really excited to start my own career in it and really see all the options I have. It's been really cool because I enjoyed high school. It was fun, but I didn't really have any...
 plans to go outwards and really see anything and really do my four-year thing. It wasn't really my vibe, so I was trying to figure out what I wanted to do. And court reporting has provided a really cool way for me to use my hands and really find a new craft. I'm really crafty. I like working with my hands, and it's a good way to make a good amount of money and also be a part of something bigger than myself and
 find a way to work with other people but not necessarily be a lawyer, be an attorney, or be a judge. I mean, I love all the legal world, but wasn't really trying to be an attorney necessarily. So court reporting has given me the chance to be close to it, but not too close in a way that I can still enjoy it and get to know a lot of people and make a living for myself at the same time. And...
 It's really exciting to see the growth of it because it's becoming more and more modern. A lot of my friends seem to think that it's a chisel and a stove and it's just really archaic. And it's like, no, it's very modern now. We're inventing new ways to do it and it's progressing well. And I'm taking it upon myself to kind of help push it as well because it's something that I can see myself doing. And I would love to further it to the best of my ability because I am really enjoying it.
 Thank you for your time. It's great to hear from you. It's great to hear this advocacy for and people refreshing the idea of making the public process, whether it's the judicial process or the legislative process, accessible for everybody. So thank you. It's an exciting career. So if you know someone looking for a career change, encourage them to look into court reporting and captioning because there are jobs. What kind of pay scale does it?
 It's really hard to say. You know, captioners are paid by the hour and by the jobs, the shows that they caption. Court reporters out in the field doing depositions are paid by the hour and then paid by their transcripts. It's pretty much, you know, as hard as you want to work, that's how much money you can make. But the work is out there. And what kind of education do you need in order to get it? What qualifications? High school diploma? And how long?
 high school diploma and then the in oregon we have one school sumner college which is um where tevin attends and i'm i'm actually teaching there teaching court reporting now um and it takes at least two years it's it's an intensive course um it's a lot of it is computers because it does all computerized now so you're learning to write to 225 words a minute plus computers some legal terminology medical terminology um all the things that might come up
 I'm increasing your vocabulary. That's great. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you. Mr. Ray, I just want to say that as a former trial lawyer who is, of course, heavily dependent on the talent and dedication of court reporters, I appreciate your service as much, and I appreciate your willingness to enter this field. Thank you. Great. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. Thanks. All right. Item 145. We had Kevin. Sorry, he came up. 146.
 Request of Lightning Watchdog PDX to address council regarding proposed City of Portland purchase Wapato. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. As you know, Multnomah County hasn't been able to do anything with the Wapato property for the last 10 years. They've allowed it to sit empty. They've come up with various ideas. They've failed on every idea.
 i'm asking you mayor hales to look at purchasing wapato you've proven that you know how to open up shelters you've proven that you know how to provide transportation to get them to and from various locations you brought in very good management tpi to manage these facilities you have the ability to create a surplus budget make an offer on wapato to purchase wapato for the largest shelter transitional shelter in the history of portland monoma county
 Take it under your control in the city of Portland, do an IGA also with Multnomah County and Metro, and begin to operate this. Bring in Portland Business Alliance, neighborhood associations, various other people to figure out how to get this open and to begin running this on a pilot project to see how we can go. Again, Multnomah County has failed for the last 10 years. They have very big projects out there, the new Multnomah County Courthouse,
 They have to bring all the bridges up to seismic standards. They also need to build the new Multnomah County Health Department. They have too much on the plate. Purchase the property and have a sustainable, permanent shelter facility, Wapato. Make an offer. It's up for sale and transfer it to the city of Portland. Thank you. Now pertaining to the legacy project, Centennial Mills in the United States Post Office Project.
 I understand you're trying to come up with $88 million to purchase the post office project. I understand that Centennial Mills has been put on the shelf. In my opinion, the reason why it's been put on the shelf is because you are looking at, not necessarily you personally, to purchase the post office project. My recommendation to you is this. We have a great developer that tried to step up on Centennial Mills. We have had...
 Speakers in here stating that it would be interesting to have a single developer step in on this project up front. In my opinion, Jordan Schnitzer is the developer to come in at 50% on the U.S. Post Office, $44 million to bring to the table. That will still allow additional money to be focused at Centennial Mills of $38 million on public subsidies.
 Allow him the chance to step in also and take a control position alongside the city, which I think he's earned that right, and allow him to choose certain lots near PNCA if he wants to develop those out in the future to expand that whole campus there.
 And I think he's the perfect developer to bring in and at least have the discussion with him. Let him say yes or no. Can you come to the table with $44 million and work alongside the city to do both legacy projects? Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, item 147. Request of Trina Sutton to address council regarding sweeps and cleanups. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning.
 She said, my name is Trina Sutton. I'm not here to talk about my backyard today. I am here to talk about on behalf of a group of homeless campers that are camped along the Spring Water Trail over in southeast Portland. I'm having a bit of trouble. I just had a tooth pulled and it's swollen pretty bad. I'm having trouble talking, so please forgive me. We
 We have an issue behind Cartlandia. I've been able to move most of the people to another area that's been quasi-sanctioned by the city during this state of emergency.
 They have requested that the city be very active in removing the people that are causing the trouble, the ones that are making the garbage. They're also the ones making the trouble. That's kind of surprising coming from me, but my folks do not like them any more than anybody else does.
 We would not object at all to having them removed if they can't clean up and behave themselves. We would very much like to ask for a dumpster and at least a couple port-a-potties right there along so they can live like human beings for even temporary site.
 This has been requested by police and by other people that know that these folks really do need a little bit of help. Those who do not comply and clean up their mess, they need to go. We don't want them there.
 I would really appreciate if the council and you, Mr. Mayor, would address this and help me and others help the people that really do need the help, that really want to go into a better life. I appreciate it very much, your time. Thank you. Thanks. Thanks for being here this morning. If you haven't already done so, if you're here in the building, could you stop upstairs and talk to Bob Keita?
 In my office? I can do that, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you all very much. We'll move on to consent calendar. Unless there's anything to be removed, we'll take a roll call vote on the consent calendar as printed. Ritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Item 148. You just have to read it because it's being rescheduled.
 Amend intergovernmental agreement with Metro for development of a preferred alternative package, locally preferred alternative, and draft environmental impact statement for the Southwest Corridor Plan. And if there's no objection, I'll reschedule that to March 2nd, as requested. Commissioner, is that right? Thank you. Okay. And 149. No, we can't do it yet. We'll go to regular calendar. Item 153.
 153, authorize a competitive solicitation for the provision of treatment readiness services, transitional housing, and follow-up retention support services to chemically dependent homeless adult chronic arrestees.
 Thank you very much. Come on up, Commander and Emily. And this is a good news story about stretching dollars a little farther to get more good results. So we appreciate that. Hope that the stretching doesn't cause the injury, but welcome. That's a better story than what I have. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for having us here.
 The Portland Police Bureau is proud of our service coordination team and all that it has accomplished since the program began in 2006. The mission of the service coordination team is to focus on people living on the street whose behavior is primarily driven by alcohol and or drug addiction and are persistently the cause of police calls for service. Currently, PPP contracts with Central City Concern to provide housing and access to mental health and addictions treatment.
 Just in 2015, we had 204 individuals come through our program, and since its inception, we have successfully graduated over 130 people. In 2014, Portland State University conducted a capstone study, and they found that our cost benefit is for every dollar we spend, we're saving $10.
 And they also found that there's a 91% recidivism reduction amongst program graduates and they follow them up to a year after they graduate from the program. As you know, our annual cost is 1.7 million and this year our current contract expires at the end of the fiscal year and it's time again to ask for your approval to continue the good work of the service coordination team.
 Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Anything you want to add this morning, Emily? Not, no, I'm just open to any questions that you guys might have. Tell us your name and what you do. Emily Rochon, R-O-C-H-O-N. I'm the Service Coordination Team Program Manager.
 So the basic situation here is that we're going out for competitive solicitation, but we also have this good news about taking some unused startup funds in the program and using it to add eight more beds in the system. And I wanted to make sure the council understood how that was accomplished, because that's particularly good news. Thank you. I misunderstood that. Yes. How much money was that? $100,000. That was unused. That was used.
 because we transferred over to Central City, the whole program going to Central City Concern, it took a few months for them to get the program up and running. And so instead of not using that money, they've come to us and asked if we could authorize $100,000 to help upgrade the area in which the service coordination team houses people and gives the services to,
 Part of that floor was being used for office space and some other things, and they're going to turn it into the whole floor where it's able to give service, which will increase our capacity by at least eight beds. What does that mean for the ongoing contract, and does that presuppose that it's going to stay with Central City Concern? Well, either way, they would –
 want to continue giving that service to someone. As we know, beds are at a premium in our county in order to house people and to give services. So, of course, they will be moving forward with their proposal when it comes time, but it's not presupposing. It's just part of their overall upgrade of their ability to serve the community. Okay.
 It's still going to be a competitive solicitation, even though we just awarded less than a year ago this contract to Central City Concern, and they're performing well, which is why we're able to deliver more beds for the same dollar. So I just want to make sure people do better.
 And what kind of outreach has been done to the previous provider to help them be competitive in the new solicitation? We have not contacted anybody about the solicitation until we get approval from you all. I would hope that there would be truly an open solicitation and encouraging lots of different providers to see how much value that they can give to us and to the program because obviously I'm a big supporter of it. Absolutely. I agree. We think that's important as well.
 We want an open and fair and transparent process. So one of the concerns that I have, and thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for raising that, is that the way you've structured this solicitation, the applicant must be able to offer all the services that you're seeking, and that actually limits the number of people who could compete.
 Why have you chosen that path versus breaking up the various components and giving people whose expertise and skills are in either service delivery, housing, or some other part a chance to compete on their home field? Great question. What we have discovered is that any barrier, any extra challenge that is present
 put in front of someone who's already struggling with their addictions and mental health can create an impediment and have them no longer participate. The easier we can make it for folks to be in the same building, get up from where they're living, get services in that same area without having to take a bus ride back and forth, the more likely they are to stay in the program and it keeps our
 recidivism rates at a better- MR. Well, that presupposes, Commander, that a provider wouldn't be willing to co-locate. See, I think the problem is, that I see in this solicitation is, it is structured so there's really only one party that's going to compete for it. And that technically complies with our public contracting laws, but it doesn't give us the ability to measure their performance and their proposal against other options.
 And whether we choose to require co-location or not, for example, in the Housing Bureau, we have all kinds of different providers that provide services to homeless people throughout a continuum. We don't have one provider that manages shelters, does transitional housing, does other things. What we do is we coordinate it. And so it sounds to me like you've made an initial judgment.
 that this has to be coordinated by one entity under one roof. But the net effect of that is I don't think you're going to have a competitive solicitation because you've essentially cleared the field, and anyone looking at this is going to say that the incumbent that is providing all these services has the inside track anyway. So why would someone, why would some other entity compete for this?
 I actually, in the initial request for proposal, you know, we were kind of looking at that, and we were actually asking that question as well. And you can build into the request for proposal process
 Either, you know, at least having housing in one location, you know, that is part of it. You know, right now we have low barrier housing in one location, the alcohol and drug free housing in all one location. Instead of being spread out, that's the transitional housing piece. We see that model is very, very important because it's really about their next door neighbor. It's, you know, not just the services that are getting provided, but it's...
 going along the path with the same folks throughout the process. So that location piece we think is really important. But we can build into the request for proposal the part where you can highlight that if you can't provide the access to treatment services, at least highlight that
 that you have a history and a relationship with another entity that you can kind of collaborate with in the request for proposal. Well, I'm a little mystified by these questions. Maybe I misunderstand the situation, but it's normal in...
 for for-profit entities when responding to a public solicitation to form teams in order to propose, right? Having worked in that world for 10 years and been on all kinds of different constellations of engineering and planning firms that teamed up to respond to a public solicitation.
 I don't believe that there's anything in this solicitation that would prevent a group of nonprofits from forming a team and proposing, right? It doesn't have to be a single entity that responds. It could be nonprofit A with nonprofit B and C as subcontractors, right? Right.
 I think there are lots of ways people could slice and dice the package of services that we're asking for proposals for. So I think that's a fair point, Mayor. So let me tell you the two questions I'm going to ask when you come back with a contract. The first question I'm going to ask is, how many proposals did you get in response to this? That will help us understand whether the community of people bidding on this felt that this was structured in a way that invited them to put together those teams. And the second thing is,
 This is a related question. Have you done a formal assessment and performance review of central city concern under the existing contract?
 oh i mean with quarterly reports and um it is it's written into the current grant the um exact performance measures outcomes and they report on a quarterly basis so have you done a performance evaluation have you evaluated i'm a huge fan of central city concern but do we have a
 an evaluation of their performance yes yes on a quarterly basis we do that they they've been meeting the the requirements that was outlined in the would you like for emily to share that with council hey please folks
 there has been in the past, as you know, a question about what are the goalposts and what are our expectations. So I'm heartened to hear that there are clear expectations, quarterly reports, and monitoring of that because that's been an issue, as you know, in the past. My only concern here is we're saying a competitive solicitation, and our job is we're referees. We're not here to advocate for any particular outcome. If what you're saying is this is structured so that
 anyone in the community could put together a team and they could propose even off-site services or on-site services, that would be responsive to the application. Then I think what we should wait to see is who responds. And if no one responds, we can at least then raise the question about whether the criteria we established today
 was a barrier to people competing fairly for this contract. Well, and it sounds like from this discussion that members of the council want to make sure that we do do a good job of outreach to potential proposers, rather as individual organizations or as teams. Well, and there's a history of this project that even predates you, so I'm especially sensitive in making sure that we treat everyone fairly and there's a level playing field. Hey, hey, please, please don't interrupt.
 And that taking nothing away from the deep respect I have for Central City Concern and the provision of services, but this is coming to us as a competitive solicitation. So I just want to make sure that this is designed to solicit the best ideas in the community or whether what we've done is just –
 Essentially, we're going to be rolling over the existing contract because they're the only ones that have the ability to respond to this. I would like some additional information about the $100,000. When the contract was...
 to us to say that Central City's concern was going to take over, there was a promise that all of the current clients were going to be taken care of and there would be a seamless transition. So I'm wondering where this $100,000 came from and then concerned about putting it into a facility rather than into the services. Yes, I understand that that will provide more beds, but the service coordination team works because of providers and because of the relationship that they have. So if you could give me some
 After we've sent this out for solicitation, I would like some more information about how did that transition go? Were people taken care of and had continuing care from providers? And why do we have this $100,000 surplus? And I actually question whether we should put that $100,000 into facilities or use it for other services, for staff. What's your response to that? Would you like to respond now or later? If you can now, that would be great.
 So when the new contract this fiscal year, there's actually a portion of the program that we went from 54 beds to actually 60 beds. Right, with the new beds, right? With the new beds. And so the development and implementation of that program, because it was truly –
 a whole separate program. Everything with the service coordination team, all the 54 beds, the traditional service coordination team, everything was very similar. Again, the development of the new program, it just took a little bit longer. With 24-hour staffing,
 rooms. We wanted to make sure that they were in the same location at the Golden West. So they had to do a lot of work to kind of get them open. So that's where that $100,000 came from. It was just that we thought... Sorry, I'm just starting. We should move to public testimony. Yeah, we'll take public testimony in a minute. If you have something to say about this, you'll be given a chance, but please don't interrupt who's up here speaking, and we'll make sure that you're not interrupted either. Thank you.
 So again, the services with the 54 beds, that was not interrupted. It was the money that was for the six beds. I'd like some more information on that because it does seem a little bit like shuffling the money around when what we approved before was an expansion to provide services to those extra bed people.
 So what's the pleasure of the council? We'll take public testimony, but would you like to hold this over or would you like to proceed with follow-up? I'm open to either scenario. I defer to my colleagues. We're authorizing a competitive solicitation. The question for me at this stage is, is this structured so that people can fairly compete for this contract? Commander Westbrook has said it does.
 and that people can respond to it either as a one-stop provider or as a consortium of services. And it's designed to be flexible and we'll consider the most qualified, low-cost option. And Commissioner Fritz has asked that you do outreach to make sure that people know about it and have a chance to compete, at least at this point,
 That largely satisfies my concerns, although I guess I will just tell you, I'll be very disappointed if you come back and there's only one applicant, because that will be ultimately the test of whether this is a competitive solicitation in my mind. I concur, Mayor. You've heard our concerns. There's nothing in the ordinance about the redirection of the $100,000, so I think that should be separate. Yeah, that's not before us. No, but...
 it was authorized for a specific use, there's a question about whether it should be used for facilities rather than services. Male Speaker 1 Okay. Can I ask a question? Male Speaker 1 Please. Female Speaker 1 Kind of a comment and question, particularly for you Commissioner Fish. Male Speaker 1 Sure. Female Speaker 1 We have learned, and certainly Emily, who's worked in the business for a number of years, that having things in one location does help increase the effectiveness of the treatment.
 And I'm absolutely for people putting together a product that says, you know, we can subcontract here and here and here's our goal. But our goal really is that we want to have a holistic approach to somebody where they don't have to get on a bus and go back and forth. So what we would be looking for, and we can make this clear when we're letting people know what is the –
 what we're looking for in the RFP is to have that holistic. I mean, that would be, it doesn't have to be an absolute, if you can't do this, that you're out. But a preference, I'd like to have the preference be that we, the holistic approach, either through, you know, you take care of making sure all,
 I'll get you there, and, you know, not just put you on a bus and have it be up to you to get there. Commander, I have great respect for you, and I hear what you're saying, and I don't disagree with the logic of what you're saying. I would simply point out that that's currently not the policy of the city's housing bureau.
 So we don't require that everything be under one roof. And, in fact, we have different providers that have uniquely strong skill sets that are not necessarily – we have people that do great work on services. We have people that do great work on transitional housing, housing placement. They're not necessarily the same entity. And –
 And if you're structuring this that it actually explicitly says you get extra points if it's all one-stop shopping, I think you have to be clear in your solicitation because you can't have that as a guiding value and then not be clear in your solicitation that that's a preference. Because then, as the mayor points out, if you're putting together a team, you know that there's a preference for having co-location of teams. And that, it seems to me, is fair if you believe that's an important value. Thank you.
 And that was part of the question. I want to make sure that we're meeting your expectations too. I just wanted to put it out there that that's our belief, is that the better service is offered when it's located. I understand how the Housing Bureau has different contracts with different providers and they don't all have something under one roof. But it depends on what the service is that they're providing and the intensity of the service. What we're doing here is...
 providing a service to some of the most difficult people to provide service to in the city traditionally, which is why it was, as you know, this program was under the Police Bureau because we couldn't get people to give services to this group of folks without us contracting specifically with them to make sure that they did so that we could,
 Because they're very hard to serve, so we're just trying to use our own experience here of knowing what works. But we also are committed to the transparency and being fair. And it's not my place to second-guess your judgment about what's the best treatment, about what's the best –
 way to configure the services. But, again, we're referees, so we just want to make sure that if we're doing a competitive solicitation and saying we're going to solicit the best and most competitive ideas out there, that we're very clear about what we're looking for. And if someone needs – Mayor, we can't compete. Yeah, come on. One more time. Okay.
 This is not okay. I've told you a couple of times that you cannot interrupt. If you interrupt again, I'm going to ask you to be excluded from the council chambers. You will be given an opportunity to speak, but please don't interrupt again. Do you understand? Thank you. I hope so.
 So that's, I mean, yes, you can, through transparency and being clear, but if someone, if a consortium of our distinguished nonprofits want to come together and say that they can compete for this, I think they need to know that you want co-location of services, but you're not going to be taking points off if they don't provide all those services themselves directly. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Other questions for Commander or Ms. Rochon? Okay.
 thank you both um i'm gonna make sure that i guess i want to ask to take public testimony i want to ask that you follow up um and along with deanna weston mitchell from my office with council members to make sure that that they are briefed on how you're proceeding because obviously there's strong interest here yes absolutely thank you
 thank you very much thank you for your time okay take testimony please the three people who know folks we're not going to take interruptions here but we will take testimony we're going to call on you or anyone else that signed up to speak folks we're not going to do this we're not going to have heckling and people talking through other people so if you want to speak let our clerk know and you'll get a chance to come up and speak the three who signed up are david keith davis charles johnson and malcolm chadak come on up please good morning good morning
 Thanks. Before we begin, Mr. Davis, you've been warned. You do not get to interrupt other speakers, whether they're the folks that you're sitting with here, whether they're city staff, or whether they're members of the city council. If you interrupt these proceedings, you will be asked to leave, and if you don't leave, you will be removed from the council chambers. You get to speak, and everyone else does too, but you don't get to take over. That's the deal. Sir, go ahead, please.
 Whoever would like to start. Yeah, sorry. I'm a little distracted at the moment. It is distracting. Sorry. Yes. My name is Malcolm Chaddock, and I am appearing for myself, no other organization. I appreciate the efforts that the city is making to attempt to expand facilities for people who are in need. I came in this morning to try and learn on a very steep curve because this was the first I'd heard about it.
 One of the things that I've heard this morning that really raised my eyebrow though was the thing that the Commissioner Fritz was asking about with the $100,000 extra that appeared. It implies to me that whatever process you engage in may require some kind of closer monitoring because the sudden appearance of money that should have already been spent for services is a little disturbing. Why did that not happen?
 Delivering these kinds of services, as the commander said, to this population is probably the hardest work there is. I've been on the receiving end of it years ago, and I know what that environment is like. Please bear in mind while looking for the lowest dollar, Commissioner Fish, cheap is often what you get when you pay cheap.
 People need to have the proper services. It's not really so much about who does the best job at bidding the job down. It's got to be quality. Those kind of holes in treatment can actually, if there are holes left in treatment, it can actually damage the individual worse than they are when they get there. Broken promises kill people all the time. So please make sure that whatever structure you do institute,
 is designed and geared towards the successful treatment of the individual and not the bottom line. Thank you. Do you believe from your experience that the service coordination team model is a sound model? I think that the more organizations you add working together, as you well know, the more complex things get. If you're going to do that, you need to have really, really strong coordinations.
 teams working together at all times rather than in separate little enclaves and then coming together. Treatment models for success must be holistic indeed.
 Many problems arise when a group or agency is influenced too much by the need to dispense drugs to take care of problems rather than work on talk therapies and other modes. And other organizations are too concentrated on the religious angle and not really reaching into the people that are there, but rather trying to change them.
 from without. And the kind of change that you're talking about is a process that you can only facilitate for somebody. It's not something you can impose upon them. Let me be clear, if I could. One of the things that I hope to see here is different nonpartners partnering to offer the services. The cost would become an issue if someone bid on this and said, we're going to create a housing wing, we're going to staff up, we're going to spend money, and we're going to build a government.
 I don't want to cheat on quality, and frankly, Amanda and I and Dan have supported this program from the inception, particularly when it was unpopular. So we have a track record, and we're mostly interested in quality services. When there's a solicitation, it is our opportunity to find out how innovative the community is in responding.
 If you structure a solicitation so only one person bids, we are denied the chance to see if there's something innovative, not just cost, but innovative. And please understand, that's my only concern, not getting the low cost. I'm not looking for the McDonald's of providers here. And the kinds of organizations we're talking about are all organizations with superb track records of dealing with vulnerable communities. I would just like to make sure we get innovation. And that's what our solicitations are often successful at.
 thank you for that yeah thank you thanks very much okay who's next mr davis go ahead no thank you so i had a few issues here um one of the first things i'd like to bring up is this holistic approach to treatment i totally agree with a holistic
 treatment approach. And one way you guys could actually really benefit drug addicts in this town is to send them to Mexico or Canada for Ibogaine treatment.
 Have you guys ever looked into that ibogaine treatment? It actually cures almost every addiction from cocaine to heroin to methamphetamine to all kinds of stuff. So you could actually ship people to Canada where they could have ibogaine treatment and they might actually break the cycle of addiction instead of getting...
 continuing to be on methadone or other programs or continually relapse. What Ibogaine does is it actually chemically resets your brain to a pre-addictive state. And it's legal all over Europe. It's legal internationally.
 in Mexico, almost everywhere where big pharma doesn't control everything. And, you know, that's one of the big problems in this country is big business and big pharma and everything else is what's controlling it, including all this central city concern. While they do do some good work, they do a lot of bad stuff too. And we're talking about barricades amongst the homeless. I mean...
 They have people sweeping people every day, the most vulnerable people, moving them from one spot to the next. That's a huge barrier when service providers and outreach workers are actually trying to go out and talk to these people. They have to go chase them around all over town. And another thing, you know, Commander Westbrook,
 She's also on the board of directors at JOIN. They're one of the only city agencies that actually get notified of homeless sweeps that are going on. And they're supposed to go out and do outreach, which they rarely do. And one thing about JOIN, too, is you can't just go to JOIN. They need to come and participate.
 see you on the streets. You can't just walk in to join and access their services. They have to contact you on the streets and they don't do very much outreach at all. So I'm wondering, you know, why are they not doing a very good job at outreach and why are they the only city agency
 And, you know, and then Central City Concern are this big agency that are actively involved in sweeping people. And so there's a lot of contradictory policies going on that are, you know, shooting. Right.
 One policy is shooting the other one in the foot. And these agencies are actually, you know, you talk about collaboration. I agree they need to collaborate because, you know, I was actually homeless and I fell back to the streets through going through Join.
 But then I got suggested to go to Cascadia by not my caseworker, but by someone else. Ask you to wrap up. And, yep. And basically what happened was I went to Cascadia, and I was instantly basically approved for housing, where if I would have tried to go through joint again, it would have taken me another two years or more to get off the streets. Thank you. Thanks very much. Appreciate that. There's a lot of barricades here. Go ahead.
 Morning, Council Members. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and obviously this is a complex situation. I think there should be some clarification also for the general community. We have a situation where it appears that the police use their discretionary powers to say, hey, I could throw you into the criminal justice system unless you take this service coordination team contract, or
 Are we dealing with a situation where people have already been convicted? And this complements the source. I know a little bit about the situation where people have been convicted because your police spend a lot of time arresting Teresa Rayford, Jonah Majore, protesters. We then go and we sit in the courtroom and we see people told, oh, back in the days when weed was illegal, your joint is going to cost you eight hours of community service. Or, oh, if you go through diversion program, no community service.
 So while we're sitting right here, close to 100 people are working out their anxiety in the day service room at TPI. How many more at JOIN? How many more at the Cascade walk-in center? If these people really need shelter, what should I do? Should I print out some flyers, five pages of free flyers, and tell them,
 The only way you're going to get help in less than two years is if you start carrying around open containers, pissing on the sidewalk, puking, and leaving your beer cans around so that Ms. Westbrook will send her special service coordination team to accelerate your becoming a sheltered person. If the service coordination team works, why are so many people suffering on the Springwater Corridor? Oh, it's not a policing area. It's not part of the Portland Business Alliance service coordination team partnership. So...
 To echo Mr. Fish's concern, there's not too much concern about the quality of service they're receiving, although it's hard to judge. There's only a little three-page PDF link to that. We've heard about 90% success, 10% recidivism. But we have a lot of buildings marked with U's. We don't really report on the amount of space that's available. Central City Concern is a huge landlord in this city. Right.
 They're empowered to be in a, as is being implied, a position of which easier for them to remain the only service provider. And I think that, as you mentioned in your remarks, Mr. Mayor, we want to make sure that we're fostering innovation. And when we find people who can build teams...
 that we work with partners that have already stepped up, like the Menashe family, and find some inside space where we can do these housing-first models, which are the only thing that works. So the Portland Business Alliance may not care that we rescue 50 people if there's still a high number of disturbing, kind of out-of-control people making things uncomfortable for citizens as we go around our business. So I hope that in addition to this $100,000 project,
 this will be done in a way that shakes some things up and we can uh not just add six beds but find a way to double the capacity it's good investment thank you thank you thank you very much okay there are others on this side person c olinsky i think she left okay come on up yes my name is lightning i represent lightning watchdog pdx one of the concerns i always have throughout this city is that
 When we have people that have serious drug addictions currently out on the sidewalks and the doorways, in my opinion, the outreach needs to be taken to its highest level for these individuals. And the reason being is that if somebody has a serious drug addiction and then they're thrown out on the sidewalks and they're not put into transitional housing, this is a safety issue at its highest level.
 And when we look through the records of how many homeless people have died when we're averaging a number of, say, 50 to 100 a year, and we start looking at the data that it trickles down to people with addictions, we have to understand the trauma that they're facing when they're out on the streets and society has pushed them away out of their homes, their apartments. Friends have stepped at a distance because law enforcement might say, hey,
 That's guilt by association. If you're near that person, if you're a friend with that person, we're looking at you also, and we want to know what you're doing. And if it comes down to it, if they're still in your neighborhood, we'll come in and remove you out of your neighborhood. And I've been facing that position where law enforcement has looked at me and said, if you don't work with us, we'll bring every government agency down upon you, we'll shut your business down, we'll run you off your property,
 We'll go to every relative around you, have the IRS audit them, and we will run you out of your neighborhood. And normally what they do is they end up coming in and they label your property a nuisance. So you have an ONI or something coming in there with some type of authority to tell you to get out of the neighborhood, and you say, look.
 If they have a drug addiction, they're still my friend and I want to take care of them. I want them to still live here. Can't they still live here? No. You get them out of your property or we'll shut you down. There has to be an understanding that between law enforcement and property owners, that if a property owner says, hey,
 They're going through treatment. I still want to rent to them. I still want them in my neighborhood. They should have a right to stay in that neighborhood. And that's where the landlords need to step up a little bit more on this because we're talking about limited amount of space and beds.
 And to try to help these people and assist them and not take them, push them to the side, and think that they're not your responsibility in the community to try to do the best you can for them with their drug addiction and get the proper treatment. So again, I question a lot of law enforcement, what their intent is.
 And I want to see more community involvement to understand they're part of the community, take care of them, get them off the sidewalks, and reduce suicides to people with serious drug addictions. Thank you. Thank you very much. Ms. Alinsky, you were called. Do you want to speak on this item? Sure.
 let me repeat what i said earlier before you before you start before you start excuse me i want to say that it's ridiculous it costs 85 a night to house people in these transitional contractors that have been working with the city since forever who's who's responsible for that
 It is a cycle that keeps going. They're making money off of homelessness. It's part of the capitalist system of Portland, and it's not working. $85 a night. I need $50 a month to pay Section 8. That's supposed to be charging us 30% of our income.
 Now they're charging us 50%, as well as CCC, TPI, 50% of our income. You can't live off of that. Once you pay 50% of your income to rent, you can't live off of that. That's all I need, $50 a month. But there's no support for people who are already housed. It's great to put people in shelters. We need to put them in housing. That'll be better for the city in the long run.
 Better for community involvement. And that's all I want to say on this regard is I've been watching you and I've been interested in the emergency involvement of housing by the city. But CAT, now when you open Street Roots, they have this Rose City resource for everybody who wants to find housing.
 help in the city, you only have four agencies now. Four. After many years of this, I used to work with Street Roots. Four agencies that pretend to help you, but they don't answer their phone. They're not interested in helping you individually. They're trying to work on
 State legislation, which is a great thing in and of itself. But meanwhile the rest of us can't even pay our electricity bills I have $150 a month electricity bill. I have a slumlord. I have Mold throughout my building. I've been homeless for a year now This is when I first came here in 2006 and I was calling Amanda Fritz Amanda fish because I thought she was the Bureau of Housing
 After all of this, I finally found a place to live, but it takes me two hours to get here to testify on behalf of many people who would like to just have $50 a month to pay for a roof over their housing. And while I applaud you for finally in your lame duck session for getting emergency housing for the people on the streets, we're talking 20,000 children that have been killed.
 identified as homeless in our communities I teach at one of those schools thank you there are many more people on the house on the streets and we need to house them the people that are already housed need only a little bit of per month and that'll be much cheaper for the city to keep the housing and put in rent control when I told that head of the home forward that we need rent control I said you may be out of a job
 but at least you'd be out of a job in a city with rent control thank you thanks very much thank you for calling upon me again mayor all right anyone else on this item then this council go ahead and want to go ahead and take action okay then let's take a vote please on the ordinance
 Well, this was a very good discussion. Obviously, we all care very much about the program. I think Mr. Chadwick made an excellent point about it's not just low bid, it's the effectiveness of treatment services. So I hope that that's included in this evaluation of the solicitations. And I concur with Commissioner Fish that we hope that there are several and that they are all competing to see how good a job they can do. And I will then follow up with you, Mayor, about the additional money and how that should be used. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 spokesman hi novik i do hope that whoever wins will demonstrate that they're able to get medicaid reimbursement for services for which medicaid reimbursement is legally feasible aye yeah thank you for this discussion i'll make sure that the police bureau and ms roshan and deanna weston-mitchell from my office follow up with you thank you aye
 Okay, it is 10.30. Yes, it is. Let's move, please, to item 149. Ratify a letter of agreement between the city on behalf of Portland Parks and Recreation and Laborers Local 483, Laborers International Union of North America, that places the city in full compliance with Arbitrator David Steitler's May 1, 2015 agreement
 opinion and award concerning the April 2013 grievance filed under the Recreation Collective Bargaining Agreement. Do you have any comments before we begin? I actually have a lot of comments, and I'd just like to frame this because this is a very satisfying, important moment in the City of Portland. This agreement is the result of an arbitrariness decision that required the City to cease and desist from assigning bargaining unit work to non-members.
 I've just recently learned that the practice of using part-time workers in parks to staff our beloved programs started after Measure 5, when Portland Parks employees worked together to continue to provide wonderful services in our community, and that was at the cost of workers being paid less and less and becoming more and more part-time. In last year's budget process, we considered...
 and then required city contract workers such as custodians, security, and parking attendants to receive $15 an hour. And I raised the question of our so-called casual parks employees who work for the city of Portland and yet get barely more than minimum wage with very few benefits except for paid sick time.
 So, and I said I would come back in this budget cycle with a proposal to increase wages for all of the low-wage employees in parks. Meanwhile, the arbitrariness decision came out on May 1st of 2015, and we had an urgent requirement under the law to at least bring workers who are definitely doing bargaining unit work into the union. So, in July, the council adopted phase one of compliance, knowing that there was much more work to be done.
 With the original deadline of December 1st to complete Phase 2, Park staff and labor and the city attorney's office and human relations worked long and hard to try to reach an agreement. When it was clear that progress was being made but the deadline could not be achieved, all parties agreed to extend the deadline. And now we have an agreement that all parties agree complies with the arbitration award.
 Phase 1 and Phase 2 add approximately 130 members to the union, laborers 483, more than doubling the membership of this bargaining unit. We have also agreed on a path that could expand the number significantly with a new classification. The key to the agreement is a complex task matrix which will dictate what work can be done by union members and what work can be done by casual or seasonal employees. This is all good news.
 The elephant in the room is that to maintain current levels of service to Portlanders, parks will need an additional $4.2 million in ongoing resources, and this is included in the park's budget request. Coincidentally, that's almost exactly the amount of ongoing resources in the latest economic forecast of $4.4 million of additional ongoing resources. And we know that we have other urgent needs within the city budget. So it's going to be a very challenging budget session.
 Funding these positions is a huge priority in our city budget for me this year. Any reduction in the request will have significant impacts on the level of service because Parks does not have a choice about complying with the agreement. I consider this agreement one of the most significant achievements of my service on the City Council and thank you for your support, colleagues, and particularly for your partnership, Mayor.
 thank you very much good morning who'd like to start john good morning jonathan uto uto from human resources the commissioner did such a good job introducing the ordinance i'll just be available for questions okay erica good morning yeah good morning thank you i'm erica askin from local 483.
 I'm happy to be before you today in support of this historic agreement that will curb contingent employment and improve the lives of city workers by fairly paying them. We all should be proud of this major accomplishment. There are so many people who made this day happen on the side of labor. It's impossible to name them all, but they know who they are, and they should feel rightly proud in their struggle for justice for workers. Deserving of special recognition today is our member and staff bargaining team, Tom Collette,
 Will Zeigler, Jenny Burt, Leanne Griffin, Tim Haberman, Marina Morrow, Mary Mobley, and Ted Bryan. There are times when we weren't sure if we were going to make it through, but we kept on pushing forward. And now our countless hours and commitment have made an impact. And we wouldn't be here without our community allies who teamed up with us at the table. Diana Paewu, Executive Director of Portland Jobs with Justice, and Justin Kurtzen, Director of Oregon 15 Now.
 Because of you all, hundreds more people are going to be added to your list of people you've supported in earning a living wage in Oregon and set the standard for wages in local employment. On management's side, Eileen Argentina, Josh Green, Nancy Roth, Brenda Carpenter, Margaret Evans, Craig Vanderbout, and Terry Davis. Those meetings, sketching out hundreds and hundreds of duties in our community centers—
 sun schools and rec areas, they got kind of tough at times. It was long and drawn out in terms of just going through all of the duties in the famous task matrix. They put in a ton of work, and they did this because they were committed to cooperating with labor. We appreciate all that management did to understand our perspectives and to share their perspectives with us.
 A special thanks goes out to Jeff Schaefer, who did a great job explaining a complex situation for Parks and Rec in a way that made sense. Last but not least, from our respective teams, the attorneys who originally litigated this case and then worked jointly to support meaningful and cooperative negotiations, built on a foundation of mutual respect and understanding. Barbara Diamond, our labor attorney, and Heidi Brown, City of Portland attorney.
 Thanks goes out to them for truly being proactive in our labor relations in order to get us to a real solution. The greatest hope that I have is that it stays that way in the City of Portland. City Council has worked alongside Local 483 on the issue of contingent labor for my tenure as business manager. Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz, Josh Alpert and Tim Crail, and all of your staff in your offices,
 You put forward amazing work, and you deserve special recognition. There are tireless advocacy on both sides, and it's because of you that we're achieving today's agreement. Without the advice of your staff and without your personal advice, your time, your constant effort, we would not be here today. And then finally, Local 483's Executive Board. Wesley. Wesley.
 Farrell Richards, Will Tucker, Cassie Diaz, and Ellen Eno, who set the direction for Local 483 to make this happen. By ensuring City of Portland Rec staff receive living wages, we're not only making the city a fair place to work, we're setting an example for all employers within our city and state. Our collective work in creating this agreement, work that was at times challenging, at times arduous, and at times even contentious,
 lights the way for fellow workers in both the private and public sector as they strive for fair pay, benefits, and recognition in the workplace. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Let's suspend the rules. This is a unusual moment. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Wesley Buchholz, B-U-C-H-H-O-L-Z. I work with Laborers Local 483, and I'm also an employee of Portland Parks and Recreation.
 For years, so-called casual staff working in our recreation centers have been doing the same work as their permanent counterparts for almost half the pay. These casual staff, many who have worked for the city for 9, 10, even 24 years, year after year after year, have had to make do with poverty wages in a city that now has the fastest rising rents in the nation.
 This has meant workers have had to forego important doctor's visits, apply for food stamps to put food on the table. It has meant that rec staff have left the very communities they serve in order to find housing for their families. It has meant empty cupboards, empty bank accounts, and a number of disturbing cases, bankruptcy and homelessness.
 This practice not only hurt rec staff, it hurt our communities. When high-quality staff have to choose between serving communities they love and health insurance, between taking care of seniors and impoverished youth and making their rent payments, we all lose. Today, because of a decade-long effort spearheaded by Recreation staff and Laborers 483, this practice is about to end.
 the City Council will have the opportunity to vote for a historic agreement that will provide fair wages, benefits and a voice in the workplace for City of Portland Rec staff. This plan is an important step forward. Under the leadership of Mayor Harrells and Commissioner Fritz, working collaboratively with Portland Parks and Recreation Management, we have collectively negotiated a fair agreement, an agreement that can create 130 living wage positions by this fall.
 130 living wage positions. We can clap for that. An agreement that respects the rights of these workers to come together and collect a bargain in the city. An agreement that for the first time ever draws clear lines preventing future workers from being paid less to do the exact same work of their permanent counterparts while keeping wage standards clear for current members.
 i want to commend the council for supporting this work for recognizing the value the rec staff provider communities and for looking inward to ensure the city is treating its workers fairly thank you thank you i also want to say that this agreement is not enough for if we truly want to stand behind city workers to stand for fairness to step away from decades of poverty wages city that the city employees endured council needs to fund the budget request presented in this agreement
 We all know that a problem the size of recreation staff have faced for years can't be solved in a few lines in an ordinance. Words can't erase poverty. It takes action. It takes paying our workers fairly. I want to be clear on this point. When the city council says we need to take action to stem the tide of rising rents, it begins in the city's own house with its own employees. When hundreds of city employees can't afford the rent, that is a housing problem. When city employees are forced to live at home with their parents –
 or find themselves commuting far away from the jobs they have, this is a housing problem. City employees, like any type of worker, deserve a wage that allows them to live in the city they serve. For those reasons, we are excited to see the passage of today's agreement and look forward to the city council making the right decision to fund this package in the coming months. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well said. Thank you all. Are there others that would like to speak on this item? Sign-up sheet.
 Four people signed up the first three please come on up our Jenny Burt will Ziegler and Farrell rich arts Parting the waters for you Good morning Good morning. My name is Jenny Burt I am a recreation coordinator at Mount Scott Community Center and on March 1st I will enter into my 17th year as a represented employee for Portland Parks and Recreation and
 I'm excited to be here today to support the recreation agreement. With each budget year, for a majority of my tenure with Parks, we have endured significant cuts to our budget, resulting in the loss of full-time benefited positions. At the same time, annual revenue expectations have notably increased, resulting in substantial growth in staff workloads. With fewer and fewer represented staff,
 To maintain these ever-growing expectations, it was inevitable that bargaining unit work trickled down to low-wage, so-called casual staff in order to maintain the programs and services that Portlanders value and deserve. This practice hurt represented staff by devaluing our work. It also took advantage of unrepresented staff who continue to face poverty wages. Today's agreement...
 sets clear lines for all recreation employees, preventing a slide into low-wage work, like the one we just experienced. It ensures all recreation staff will be paid properly and fairly for their work. It creates new full-time benefited positions, returning many of the jobs lost to budget cuts over the years. This important step forward ensures respect, fair wages, and helps alleviate staff facing staggering workloads.
 It's also good for the community we serve. When staff are fairly paid, parks can retain great talent and ensure the quality recreation opportunities Portlanders have come to count on and expect from our award-winning bureau. I want to end by giving credit to all the represented and unrepresented staff who over the years have continued to speak up and advocate for a better park system and workplace. I also want to thank PPNR management for
 for working with us to create this better system with today's agreement. To Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your encouragement and support of all recreation staff and for making today's agreement possible. I also want to thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for your time and consideration. I'm truly honored and blessed to be able to serve this community, the dedicated staff I work with every day, this great Bureau,
 and the city in which I was lucky enough to be born and raised. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Who'd like to be next? I'll go next. Hello. Wonderful to see you all again. My name is William Zeigler, and I'm a casual employee at Mount Scott Community Center in southeast Portland, a wonderful center with some of the best employees and patrons in the city. On December 2, 2015, I spoke to you on behalf of unrepresented recreation workers.
 On that day, I asked you to voluntarily recognize the wishes of rec staff who wanted to join together in a union. Today, I am happy to be here in support of an agreement that contains voluntary recognition. Voluntary recognition means my coworkers and I will have access to a fair democratic process that allows us to join a union and bargain for living wages and benefits.
 When I look at my co-workers, I see wonderful, talented, and intellectual people. People who care, who care for the city, who care for the people in it, and people who care about the work that they do. People like Aaron Hunt. Aaron Hunt is a crucial part of our community center. He helps keep our gymnastic and sports classes running, and he has a real knack for coaching children.
 He's worked for the community center for around 10 years, but still struggles to make just above minimum wage. Another one of our staples is Jake Silberman, who works many jobs, such as gym attendant, sports instructor, and teen room attendant. Jake makes several trips to the center in a day just to be able to pick up enough hours to afford his rent.
 People have stretched themselves paper thin to make sure that our patrons get the best they can, even if it means these employees run out of hours early in the year or that they have to work multiple jobs to get by. Today is a milestone for myself and other casual workers. Through this agreement, we see a way forward to living wages and opportunities for full-time work. So I want to leave by respectfully making one more request because it will make
 more than it will take more than an ordinance to provide the living wages rec staff deserve. So Mayor Hales, commissioners, can I count on you to fully fund this agreement in the upcoming budget? Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. My name is Farrell Richards. Mayor Hales, commissioners, I'm on the executive board of Laborers Local 483. I worked for 12 years for the city of Portland. I'm a member of the board of the city of Portland.
 I started off as a seasonal with Parks and Recreation and went on to work for 10 years for maintenance operations. Having worked as a seasonal, I know firsthand what that's like, having no benefits. They didn't have health care at the time and low wages. I remember, in fact, would return cans and bottles, just kind of have some walking around money and
 I remember sharply being at Fred Murrow one time and being shamed for bringing in more bottles than the daily allowance. So moments like that, I know that our casual workers have endured are painful moments. I know that when I went into a union-represented full-time job with better wages, benefits, and job protections, my life was greatly improved. And I know that the actions being taken by the council have the potential to positively impact the lives of these recreation workers for the better.
 You've heard from Will and the others what it's like, and it's a real struggle. They do important work for our communities, and they're members of those communities. So when recreation workers get a fair wage and their jobs are held in higher esteem and they're represented, then the city of Portland becomes more diverse.
 of an example to others as an employer. And I know it's difficult. Erica talked about the struggles we've gone through trying to get to where we're at now, but I do appreciate the city working with Laborers Local 483 to get to this point. I think it's important that we go through those struggles together, and I hope that we continue forward in an ever more positive manner to keep making the lives of working people better. So I appreciate your efforts in that. Thank you. Thank you all.
 The last two who signed up are Crystal Alinsky and Diana Pei Wu. Come on up. Do you want to go first? Go ahead, Crystal.
 Hi, my name is Diana Pabu. I'm the Executive Director of Portland Jobs with Justice. I also just want to extend my thanks to the Council and to all of the hard work at Laborers 483 for making this happen. I'm a user at East Portland Center, and so it's really nice to know as a resident of Portland, but also as a user,
 as representing the organization, the 110 organizations that are part of Portland Jobs with Justice, that this is a huge step for workers in the city, but also important for the rest of the metropolitan area. So thank you very much. Thank you. Hello, my name is Crystal Elinsky, and I would like to second that motion. I'm really impressed with these recommendations
 union groups. Basically, we have the unions that continue to fight. And it's been three years since I first came to the Parks and Recreation Bureau with Amanda Fritz, and I was concerned that they were hiring park rangers part-time at low wages. I experienced, I was surprised to experience a kind of a defensiveness and backlash that I
 Things were going well, but all along, these groups have stood their ground on wages. Unite Here was one of the first. And even though I questioned their work with the Lloyd Center, at the time it was the Lloyd Center Neighborhood Association,
 they were advocating that everybody should get paid a living wage. I remember Lightning PDX arguing that the commissioner should be paid $50 an hour. Well, at the time, I was arguing that everyone should be paid $50 an hour. I'd come back from Eastern Europe where people were, you know, in Portland, I argued that we should earn $15 an hour, and that was in 2001.
 A living wage here in Portland, according to the PSU study a few years ago, was $17 an hour. In order for us to support our city workers and to make a stance against the lukewarm work at the state legislation, and I'll point out the governor and Michael Denbrough, I've talked to him directly, I think we're working.
 We're too slow on a state level. Here in Portland, we can make a stance like we have with Mayor Hills with the environmental issues and with the DOJ investigating our police, as well as with the Bureau of Parks and Recreation investigating.
 We are making a stance that there is a way to get past this, and we don't have to stand for waiting until 2022 to give people a wage that will not even be a living wage. So let's stand here together today in solidarity with the city workers and make this the norm. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Good morning, city council members. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and it's great to have Jobs with Justice up here and some of the issues that Ms. Olinsky has raised because we're talking about a strong success here for parks and recreation workers. There's more than just pay involved and why they need a union.
 the Parks and Recreation Department has made good strides on using less toxic chemicals in parks to benefit both the employees and all the citizens that go there but when we talk about a living wage and quality work done by city employees what we really need to do is have
 the Portland Bureau of Environmental Quality. We need a whole new funded division because we know that in our parks, people are being poisoned by toxins from bullseye glass and from another polluter in the Northeast. We can't abdicate our safety to remote governments, whether they're in Salem or in Washington, D.C.,
 Local communities need to build strong, trustworthy local governments that provide results for Laborers Local 483, for all city employees, and protect our communities. So when we talk about unions doing well here, we also need to talk about the fact that the workers at Bullseye Glass needed a union that would look out for poisons in the air they were breathing and pumping out to other people in this city.
 So I hope that the whole union movement, together with the general human rights and the environmental movement, will work together to remember that living wage means quality, safe working conditions with adequate wage. The fact that these people have got a wage that still doesn't take them up to the level of precision cast parts isn't so bad because they're not poisoning the earth. Warren Buffett. So...
 This great hard, it shouldn't have had to be a hard-won victory, but Jobs with Justice is used to that, and so are the labor unions. But we need to look at this in the larger context of right now other workers need to see this as an example, organize, protect their health, and
 get a balanced package of fair wages and safe working conditions. I'm glad to live in a city where we're moving forward to do that for all of our employees. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Are there others? That's all who signed up. Okay. Anyone else? Any council questions? Then let's take a vote, please.
 this is a great day thank you so much everybody for both for being here and for all of your work over the past many months particularly proud of our park staff eileen argentina the manager of recreation who attended most of the sessions and will be responsible for implementing the agreement and knows so much about all of our park systems it's
 Almost scary. So thank you, Eileen. Terry Davis spent many hours developing the task matrix, working closely with Josh Green, who provided great expertise on what happens on the grounding recreation centers. Nancy Roth brought the aquatics expertise to the table. Margaret Evans and Craig Vanderbilt, who attended the negotiations regularly and added their expertise to the discussion.
 and Citywide Programs Manager Doug Brenner, who attended when needed, provided counsel and feedback throughout the process behind the scenes. He is greatly missed today at this celebration. Thank you to City Attorney Heidi Brown and HR Director Anna Canwitt. This is an amazing achievement for all of us. Human Resources Staff John Uto, Cheyenne Scott, and Brenda Carpenter.
 Erica Askin mentioned Tom Collette and other members of their bargaining team. I just want to add Sarah Kowalewski, who is a casual worker, so-called, at the Multnomah Arts Center and who isn't here today because she's working. She did speak at the Jobs with Justice Faith Labor Breakfast yesterday, and I was so proud that she was representing Parks and Laborers 483 at that event.
 Tim Crail, my chief of staff, attended most of the negotiation sessions and helped keep the process on track when difficulties arose. And the mayor and Josh Alfred both played strategic roles in getting to an agreement that works for both labor and the city. I'm sure there are others who played a role that I haven't mentioned.
 And thank you so much to everybody who's participated. Particular thanks to Erica Askin, who has done an amazing job in her years at Labor 483 and who is now moving to SEIU, Service Employees International. She will be missed and also appreciated in her new role. Thanks to Dr. Pei-Wu,
 for being here today and for your partnership and your support of all workers. This is a great example of government and workers working together, and I am very grateful to be part of it. Hi. Yes. I want to begin. I didn't actually know that news about Erica, but congratulations. I want to begin with what Erica Askin said when she came forward and she talked about collaboration. In my seven years,
 We have had plenty of contract ratification votes where there were no labor partners in the room. And I think it really speaks to the work that the mayor and Commissioner Fritz have done, that we have the leadership and members. And frankly, the comments that Erica Askin made, I don't remember a speech like that before at a moment like this.
 And I really appreciate the fact that our labor partner came forward and said this was done in a spirit of collaboration and then acknowledged all the people who participated, including the management people. And frankly, there's so little collaboration generally in politics that if the labor and management family in the public sector can't find middle ground, then we're really in trouble. So, Erica, I really appreciate your comments. They were extremely gracious, and you laid out the case well.
 And I want to thank you for that. Commissioner Fritz, in 20 years when we get together for a celebration of your life's work, I know what you're going to identify as the stuff you're most proud of. Earned sick leave for workers that set the stage for a statewide change. Building out parks on the east side so that east side families had access to safe places to play. Launching an office of equity.
 so that the city was actually serious about putting equity into everything we do i'm not going to go through the whole list because i don't want your head to get too big but i know as your friend that working to raise the standards of parks employees is as close to the core reason why you have this job as anything and so um i really deeply appreciate your leadership on this there are we are the mayor often likes to say that there are four
 former and current parks commissioners on this dais. But there was one parks commissioner who made the biggest stride in addressing this practice and making a big down payment. So, Commissioner Frisch, thank you. And finally, we're not a committee of the budget today, and we cannot make – there was an ask. It deserves a response. We can't make promises today. But here's the commitment I will make. During this budget process, I will work in good faith with the parks commissioner in charge.
 to find the resources to honor the agreement she has struck and and so to the cynics out there who say easy for you to say because you have two non-general fund fund bureaus i would say yeah but i used to have two general fund bureaus so i know i know the challenge and it it's not about my bureaus it's about what's best for the city so commissioner fritz i pledge to work with you
 in good faith to find as much of the resources we can to fund this historic agreement, which would not really have happened without your leadership and the mayor's full support. And to the employees that are here, just one last comment. You won the gold medal as the best managed park system in the country, meaning the work that the line workers do, the work of the line workers of this bureau, during the teeth of the recession.
 which meant you were recognized at a time when we were cutting budgets, we had inadequate staffing, and everyone was asked to do more. I hope you realize that that made that award twice as special because it was a reflection on the hard work and dedication of people doing great work under difficult circumstances. So, Erica, best of wishes to you as you head to SEIU. To our labor family, thank you for your work in making this day possible. And to Commissioner Fritz and the Mayor,
 I think you've done something important today, and I'm pleased to support your work. Aye. Councilman? Well, I also want to thank Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Hales and their staffs. We know how important staffs are to making deals happen, so this is a great deal. Special thanks to Local 483 for their willingness to be persistent, which...
 They don't really have to be prodded to do that. They are persistent, and I think it's evidenced by the agreement that's in front of us today. And I definitely also want to recognize, although they were all mentioned, but particularly our HR representatives, Jonathan Uto and Anna Canwitt and everybody else in her shop, who plays an important role in getting everybody to yes, which is where we are today. Pleased to support this agreement. Aye. No, thank you.
 I am pleased to support this agreement, and I'm not going to repeat everything my colleagues have said, but I do want to thank Eric in particular for thanking both my friend Barbara Diamond and Heidi Brown of the city attorney's office because the lawyers just never get enough credit, so I really appreciate you giving them credit. Thank you.
 I do want to just toss out a word of fiscal caution, and this does not in any way reduce my enthusiasm for this agreement because I would frankly rather be a city that treats its workers well and has fewer services than a city that doesn't treat its workers well and has more services. But as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, the cost of implementing this agreement is virtually identical to the new ongoing revenue we expect with the current budget forecast.
 And we are looking at other budget issues that affect our employees. Right now we've got 13 firefighters that are funded with one-time revenue, and that's not right, and we need to make sure that their jobs are permanent.
 In one of my own bureaus, the Bureau of Emergency Communications, we have a problem with people being way overworked or understaffed. People are being forced to do overtime time and time again. So I'm going to be asking for additional resources for BOEC. And right now, we don't have the resources to do all these things.
 So just to be clear that absent an improvement in the revenue forecast, we probably are going to have to cut services somewhere unless we can come up with additional revenue somehow. So I invite everybody who cares about providing adequate services and treating workers well to join us in trying to figure out if there's any reasonable way to get additional revenue. That said, I'm honored to support this agreement. Aye. Anybody else?
 Well, I want to second all the comments, both from my colleagues and from SEIU. And sorry, we've already reassigned you. And from Erica and the rest of Local 483. This is a great accomplishment. And it's also a great accomplishment not just that we've done it, but in how it was done.
 And I think that was well articulated here. Erica, you and your team not only negotiated honorably, but you understand the big picture. You understand the pressures that this council is under to do the right thing in lots of different ways with resources that aren't infinite.
 whether it's housing people who are living on the street, whether it's keeping people from losing their homes by eviction, whether it's dealing with gang-affected kids. There are lots of legitimate calls on us as community leaders and as budgeters to spend appropriately to make this a better place for people. That's the bottom line.
 And you understand that, and it's obvious in what you stated today and in how you've conducted yourselves through this negotiation that you understand the context of this work. And that's very helpful because having just spent yesterday, along with my colleague Commissioner Saltzman in Salem, seeing the warring special interests at work in that building,
 I think it's important to note that when an interest group, and a union is an interest group, conducts itself in this kind of honorable, big-picture way, that that's something to be recognized. So I want to recognize that. It's work well done.
 And then the work that's being done by your members is work well done as well. What happens in our community centers and in our park system is one of the best parts of Portland. And it's a way we take care of our people every day. You do it, we know. And any of us who ever has the chance, as I do occasionally, to walk into a community center or spend time in our parks and see the magic of the work that you do, it's priceless. Yes.
 And we want you to know that we feel that and that we believe that. So this is a good day, doing more of the right thing for more people, more to do. And with your help and with this kind of collaborative effort, I have great confidence that we'll do it well. Thank you. Aye. It's done. Thank you very much. Okay. It's not going to get any better than that this morning, but we'll move on. Let's move on to item 150, please. Okay.
 vacate a portion of North Lombard Street between North Richmond Avenue and North Charleston Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Novick, do you have some comments at the outset here before we return to this item? Actually, we have an amendment consistent with Council's direction at our last meeting to add, which we were informed by the City Attorney's Office doesn't require additional testimony because we'd agreed to the concept.
 So I'd actually like to put that amendment on the table. Steve, I'll second the amendment. I have just one question. When we had the hearing last week, actually in the mayor's absence, there were three parties to that amendment. The commissioner in charge, you, the applicant, and Commissioner Fritz. Have all three parties concurred in this amendment? That is my understanding. All right. So I second the amendment.
 The amendments before us, why don't you describe it, Commissioner Novick? The amendment before us would add a condition to Directive B-4. Prior to recording the street vacation, the applicant will execute a non-exclusive perpetual public use easement for the plaza areas in a format satisfactory to the Director of the Bureau of Transportation. The easement will contain language that requires City Council approval prior to any modification of or release of the public use easement.
 Okay. Thank you very much. I actually have a friendly amendment to that to add for the plaza areas identified in Land Use Review 15-213-895-DZM because it's the specific plaza areas that were approved in the design review, and that's the concern. I don't want to withdraw that and then come back with a smaller plaza. That sounds okay to me. Kurt, Lance, does that sound okay to you? Yeah, that should be okay. Okay. Ties it together. Thank you. Yes. Okay.
 And then I had a second concern about the St. John's sign, and I'm not seeing that as a condition of approval in that design review that I specified, nor particularly in the findings for that. So I'm wondering if we need a second amendment, not as a condition of approval, but as a now therefore, to add after A. Let's see.
 I was told it was B, but it's not B. Sorry. I don't know where it goes, but it would be a condition that says after the street vacation is complete, the Welcome to St. John sign will be replaced as part of the development in Plaza 2 with input from the community regarding the precise location.
 Commissioner, on page 1, finding 4, which currently recites the welcome to historic St. John's sign will be removed from the proposed vacation area and will be relocated at the time of the petitioner's development to a new public plaza that will be constructed within the public right-of-way to the immediate northeast of its current location. The relocation plan was included as part of the land use review and is part of the Bureau of Development Services. Does that not address your concern?
 It does. I did not see that, so thank you. Yeah, I think that's captured it, and we can also make sure council direction is clear on that. But the challenge to the immediate northeast, the concern that I heard from the community in public testimony was the specific location, and since it will be in the right-of-way, my understanding is PBOT has the sole jurisdiction as to exactly where it goes, and that wasn't necessarily specified in the land use review. Is that correct? Yes.
 Actually, the sign's specific location was identified in the site plan that went through the design review process because we took the right-of-way with the application through design review.
 So the legislative intent then, which I can state on the record, is that it will be in the location. Even though it's not specified as a condition of approval, it will be in that location. Yes. I didn't necessarily hear any concern from community members that that was the wrong location. Was there any testimony to that effect at the design review? I don't recall any testimony. I haven't heard any either. Okay. Okay.
 And then my final concern last week was about the colony sign, which is currently in the right-of-way. It's not permitted to be in the right-of-way. And my understanding is you're going to work with the property owner of the colony to move the sign onto her property, and if necessary that you would come back to council with some kind of a variance if it turns out that the sign is nonconforming so that that property owner is made whole. Is that correct? That's correct. With that, I'll show you something. Okay.
 I also want to add that at the suggestion of a constituent for St. John's, I wanted the council to join me in giving this directive to PBOT, which is as part of the permit process, please require the developer to keep the St. John's sign visible during construction and provide detour signage letting people know businesses are still open. That's council direction. It doesn't have to be actually in the ordinance. Other comments, questions, amendments? Anything further from our staff?
 Okay, then let's talk about police. Well, it was a very good public hearing last week with a lot of robust testimony. Clearly, this is an issue on which reasonable people can and do disagree. On balance, I, as I mentioned last week, wished that the street vacation had happened first because then we could have given some direction as to the orientation and the size and the location of the building. Since the applicant has the right to choose to do it either way, I would have preferred the corner that juts into the...
 existing right-of-way of the building that had not been there, but that's not one of the choices before me today, and it's certainly not reasonable to send the applicant back through the design review process with an amendment. I want to acknowledge both Kurt Kruger and Lance Lindahl for your work on this project and for working with the community and the applicant and the adjacent property owners. It's
 another good example of city staff working with the community and with your commissioner and the council to come up with something that Although it doesn't make everybody happy. I on balance think that it's the right thing to do. I Yeah, I want to echo what Commissioner Fritz said I thought we had a really terrific hearing last week and there was a lot of passion in the room but there was a lot of respect and and it was a very civil proceeding and what I heard was that
 Really, from a lot of people, particularly long-time residents, I heard a concern about the character of their community. And at a time when the city is going through big growing pains, that's a frequent conversation. How do we maintain the character? And I think we have to be sensitive to that while also fulfilling our obligation to prepare the city for the growth that we see coming. And so for me, there were two issues that tipped the balance in favor of supporting it.
 One was the safety issues that were carefully placed on the record, and I found very compelling some of the parents who talked about the challenges they had taking their children across that street past Ivy Island to get to their school a block away. And there actually was a lot of testimony about that intersection being unsafe. And I think that
 while it's appropriate for us to be thinking about east portland safety issues where we haven't invested enough i don't think we should disregard places like st john's that have a right to have safe safe streets safe walks to school so that was very compelling to me the other thing that was compelling was the work that was pulled out of the lombard plan and the idea that we envision doing development but in a rational way and here we have a chance to really actually
 create a more rational streetscape and an intersection which then can be controlled for the benefit of pedestrians and drivers. I thank Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Novick for working out the issues they had in a collaborative way. We set this thing over so they could do it, and I think they've done it in an exemplary way. I want to acknowledge the applicant because the applicant was testifying last time and had counsel here, and
 My recollection is on almost every issue that came up, the applicant indicated a willingness to go the extra mile to work with the community. So if we sort of project forward, I would say the best indicator of someone's behavior in the future is how they treated folks in the past. And over the last year, I think we have to acknowledge that he's gone the extra mile and engaged people in good faith. And I want to thank him. Thank you.
 Everyone's going to have a different opinion about the building, but to me it's a very attractive building, and I hope it sets a standard in that area for the kind of redevelopment to follow. And finally, I also want to acknowledge staff. These two gentlemen routinely come before us on stuff that's mind-bogglingly complicated. In fact, Kurt always has an immediate answer to some technical question. I think Commissioner Fritz is sometimes, I think, looking to test whether you really have read the fine print of the code today.
 but you always have an answer and you're always very clear about guiding us. And you make our job easier, both of you, through the professionalism that you exhibit every time you come before us. So thank you.
 Today, I'm pleased to vote aye. Colleagues, I need to interrupt to discuss a clarification as to what we're actually voting on. I was under the impression that because we had approved this amendment, the amendment in concept last week, we didn't need to have a separate vote in the amendment and we could proceed to a vote on the whole thing. But the city attorney seems to have other ideas. I asked the city attorney to elaborate. Oh. You didn't.
 as far as i know you didn't have the language you moved and you seconded i'm sorry that was my error yes i was going to certainly clarify once you did this this will need to be carried over to next week for a vote since it's a non-emergency ordinance you'll make the vote on the amendments today you don't need to take any testimony next week and since we won't have a full house next week i think it's still appropriate to make our comments today make our comments with the amendment if we choose because i don't think we're voting as if it's on the amendment yeah so we're
 We are voting on the amendment. Just to be clear, my comments are both supporting the amendment and in the off chance we don't have a full house of people coming next week for this event, I just want to put my comments on the record in advance and again thank everybody and vote aye. So we're voting on the amendment. Well, I'll also make my comments on the whole package. Well, I appreciate the hearing we had last week and I thought a lot of good issues were raised. I guess I'm
 You know, drawn to what I feel is happening in St. John's, and, you know, there's a lot of things happening in St. John's. One is that due to a lot of issues, housing affordability, other things, and just being a great neighborhood, it has become one of the most desirable places in the city to live. And when people are moving to your neighborhood, there's going to be associated changes that come with it.
 it, more businesses, more prosperous businesses to serve people who live in St. John's. And I think the other thing going for St. John's is it still maintains its quirkiness, its notions of independence, and I think we all see that every May when we all participate in the parade. What a great sense of camaraderie and neighborhood pride people who live in St. John's feel.
 But we do have a lot of converging forces coming to work here. And I think that this proposal, which will, in my opinion, make the Lombard intersection more safer, and with James John Elementary there, it's not a small issue to make that intersection more safe.
 I do think that there's been a tree mitigation plan that the Planning Sustainability Commission has required to be submitted to offset some of the loss of what sound like some great trees. I go by Ivy Island every year in the prairie, but I can't quite picture the trees, but I take on the testimony that they're there.
 uh so i think that uh this is a change that uh needs to occur and i think it's a change that is is is a positive change for the neighborhood and i think that uh with safer intersections uh what looks like attractive development public plazas uh this will help uh contribute to the sense of place uh that st john's already is and and will continue to aspire to be hi novick
 I really appreciate the hard work of Kurt and Lance and the rest of PBOT staff and the participation of the applicant. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your input. And I appreciate Commissioner Saltzman mentioning safety because that's the reason that we in PBOT are particularly excited about this proposal is we'll improve safety for pedestrians. Aye.
 May I just interrupt and clarify that I was also voting aye on the amendment, just in case that was not clear. And also, I love it when we have two votes, especially when I'm first up to vote, because then I remember something else I was planning to say. And that was in Hillsdale, where there was a big development just at the gateway to Hillsdale, the developer very graciously agreed to put up a big welcome to Hillsdale sign rather than a welcome to whatever the development is called. And that might be something to recuperate.
 request of the applicant in their signage for their building that they consider making it welcome to St. John's with a minor feature, because I think that that will buy them a lot of goodwill and be greatly appreciated by the community. So with that, I vote aye on the amendment as well as I'm going to vote aye on the other one next week.
 Well, again, my apologies for the procedural confusion, but I think we got through that. I wasn't here for the hearing. I had a chance to review the record and the tape, and I think it was a very good discussion. And I want to second the comments that have been made. You know, there's –
 There's an art to this, both what we do here in making public decisions and what people do in the private sector when they plan projects. And there's an architect's term that one of our local editorial writers likes to jeer at is if we made it up, which is placemaking. But we didn't. Architects know that word. So do planners. And some lawyers. And that's what we do here. We try to make change fit the place in a thoughtful way. There's going to be change.
 and we love the place st. John's and others that have their own character I think that's been well accomplished here and that the combination of what's happening to the public realm with this street vacation and the orientation of this project and what's happening on the private property is good placing and it really is important that we keep figuring out how to do that because there's going to be a lot of change in Portland there's a lot of change right now and
 This is an excellent example of how it gets done. Well, so thank you. Well done. Hi Okay, and we will take action next week with probably much less discussion on on the amended proposal Okay, let's move on please to the remaining regular agenda items starting with 154
 Authorize a contract with Nevu Nan Associates for design and construction administration services for the Ventura Park play area improvements and lieu installation for a total not to exceed amount of $120,000. Commissioner Fritz. Mary. Mary. Mary.
 Could we do the next one, please, Mayor? Sure. 155. Let's take 155, and when Marianne gets back, we'll take 154. 155. Authorized contract with Place Studio LLC for master planning for the Washington Park Master Plan Update Project at a not-to-exceed amount of $368,800. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. I'm introducing Emily Roth, who will present on behalf of Portland Parks and Recreation. Hi. Thank you for welcoming me to council. As you know, Washington Park is one of our oldest parks in our system. It was originally called City Park. We have a plan that was completed in 1988 for the park. And since then, many things have changed. For instance, when we did the plan, the world...
 OMSI was at Washington Park, and now the Children's Museum has moved in. Max has gone in. Many, many changes have happened to the park. And we want to take this opportunity to update the park, rebrand it, and take into consideration all those changes that have happened. So to do this, PP&R went through a competitive RFP process to select the consultant team for the update of the master plan.
 We received five proposals and then interviewed three teams. Every team that proposed would have done an excellent job. The interview committee selected Place Studios LLC as the winning proposer to update the plan. 78% of the Place team are minority women and or emerging small businesses. They are located in downtown Portland and have experienced working in Washington Park and throughout the world.
 We have budgeted for a robust public involvement process that will enable us to interface with various users of the park and communities outside the local neighborhoods. PPNR is looking forward to working with Place and their team to create a new master plan for one of our oldest and most visited park in our system. Questions? Comments? Could you refresh my memory? It says this is to be paid out of Washington Park.
 parking revenues? That is correct. Are those revenues pulled off from the parks? Yes.
 Other general fund? Yes. These are all revenues that are generated from the parking that has now been put into Washington Park. We're getting a revenue of about $2 million a year now, and that money is being used to either do park improvements and as part of the TMA, which is now called Explore Washington Park, one of our commitments was to update the management plan for that park. And so over the last two years,
 $400,000 has been set aside for this planning effort. So when we created the whole transportation management plan and area, we consciously dedicated parking revenues to go towards, as you said, park improvements and other things. That is correct. All of it is spent in Washington Park. I remember us actually making a pretty clear commitment that the money would stay in Washington Park and would be used for,
 that benefited the whole system, so the transportation, the planning, et cetera. I have a question about the master plan. In light of the schedule that we've been reading about for capital construction at Lincoln High School at some point,
 Have we had discussions with the district about some kind of interim field use in Washington Park? Not that I know of, but I'll make a note and get back to you. I think we have actually at an executive level. Okay, thank you. And there's some challenges with that.
 But I'd be happy to follow up with you, Commissioner Fish. So I think the biggest challenge that I'm aware of is that we might have a high school that doesn't have a place to play. So it's an issue I care a lot about. And if there are options for interim field, an interim field, I'd like to know about them and how we might be able to facilitate that. Or if there's an alternative parks facility that could be made available to the high school during the construction, but it...
 it's an issue we've heard a lot of we've heard from a number of people on it and and i i know the parks bureau cares deeply about fields but i'd like to have a follow-up on that to know what our options are happy to follow up with you okay other questions family thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item no one signed up okay then uh let's take a vote please i do i have to add one little thing to that ordinance
 I got a little note from the Treasury Office just before I came down here that we have to add that they can also receive their check through ACH. So just a little technical difficulty that wasn't caught, which means we automatically pay them. We do not have to issue them a check. So payment can be done by ACH.
 A-C-H. That has to be added to the ordinance? Where would it go in the ordinance? Just on the very last part of the ordinance, on number two, it says reimbursement through check on the city. So is it hereby authorized to draw and deliver checks? Yes. So we could just say pay, delete, hereby authorized to pay Play Studio deleting draw and deliver checks. That is correct. I move that amendment. Thank you. Second? Second.
 I'll second it, but just for purposes of the future, if there's a clause that says they get payment, I think we would delegate to the Bureau the decision about how the payment is actually affected. And with changing technology at some point, if you want to pay them through an iPhone, that's your privilege. I don't think the Council is intending to limit the manner in which you pay. We'll change our standard language. Yeah, we've got to change our standard language at purchasing so that that's the case –
 because I'm saying that says we'll make payment at our discretion yeah yeah okay thank you okay I've got a roll call on the amendments second take a vote on the amendment please right hi fish hi no fake okay anyone want to speak on this item no one did okay then roll call on the amended emergency ordinance
 Good catch, Emily, and the Treasury Department. Thank you, Emily Roth, Brett Horner, and Kia Selle at Portland Parks and Recreation, and to the volunteers and staff on the new Explore Washington Park, which formerly known as the Washington Park Transportation Management Association. Hi. Fish. Hi. Saltzman. Hi. Novick. Hi. Hales. Hi. Thank you. Okay, let's go back to 154 then, please.
 154, authorize a contract with Nivu Nan
 for design and construction administration services for the Ventura Park play area improvements and lieu installation for a total not to exceed amount of $120,000. Thanks for being here earlier, Marianne Kasson. Let me introduce this. On September 9, 2015, City Council unanimously accepted the park supplement report to the citywide administration
 americans with disabilities act transition plan the park supplement to the transition plan includes an assessment of 260 facilities owned managed or programmed by portland parks and recreation and identified two thousand twenty thousand three hundred and fifty five barriers in these facilities so quite a long list which i seem to remember is costing over seventeen million dollars but we're going to plug away at it by bit
 The design and construction work identified in this contract will further the city's equity goals by mitigating access barriers and improving safety at Ventura Park in the East Portland neighborhood of Hazelwood. The improvements will include making the parking area, main path of travel, and play area more accessible for all the visitors.
 And additionally, the proposed Portland Loo will achieve goals presented in the 2014 Parks Replacement Bond to provide safe, clean, and accessible restrooms in parks that are currently served only by temporary facilities, those being particularly in East Portland. Bond Program Manager Marianne Gasson is here to give us another of her delightful presentations. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of the council. Just a quick reminder for the viewing audience, I know you know this, but the framing guideline for this contract is that it's part of our replacement bond program and that consistently over the centuries, the voters have responded to our requests for funding for these kind of capital improvements, this one being particularly focused on replacement of critical needs contracts.
 There were seven focus areas in that measure, and this one is concentrated in the playground category, in which we are promising to do 20 places that need playground replacements. Ventura Park, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, has really outdated play equipment. You can see our wonderful restroom facility there that will be much updated. We will also address...
 accessibility. And last but not least, the Bond program, like any other capital program in the city, has a commitment to art. And just like the Bond measure 20 years ago, rather than doing a scattershot of teeny little art projects throughout, we've concentrated our efforts. And this is one of the chosen locations for a significant art piece. The artist is part of the team.
 For those not familiar with the location, this is a really important park. It's along South East Stark Street, highly visible, immediately adjacent to an elementary school, hundreds of households that aren't adequately served now, good public transportation access.
 And again, we are happy to say that our outreach efforts have resulted in good minority women and ESB utilization at 78% for this team. And significantly, the minority part is 64%.
 The list of items I'm going to be coming forward with you is getting shorter. This one is on the horizon next month, but it doesn't mean we're not doing anything. We're seven months into the program, and there are 27 projects underway. Fortunately, this procurement, getting the technical design services in place, we're coming to an end of that, and now we're really rolling, and our first construction contract is coming to you next week.
 Are there any questions? Questions for Mary Ann? I have one question, which is I'm noticing the same language in the draw and deliver checks payable. Do you need to make a change to that in yours as well? Thank you. I had not picked that up. Good spot. I move that we replace draw and deliver checks with pay. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. Further discussion? Roll call on the amendment. Second. Fritz? This is just on the amendment. We will take that for a minute. Aye. Aye.
 Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Again, we'll ask that language become standard in the contracts, not just in the Parks Bureau probably, but at least in the Parks Bureau going forward. Okay. Any other questions or suggestions? Okay. So let's then take anyone who wants to speak on this item. Come on up.
 Good morning, Mayor Charles Hales. It's good to see you. It's always good to see you in the morning. Good morning, Commissioner Dan Saltzman, Commissioner Nick Fish, Commissioner Amanda Fritz, and Commissioner Steve Novick. It's always good to be around these tables. I came here to sit. Put your name in the record, too. Yeah. Yeah.
 Just for the record, my name is Veronica Bernier, and I'm a graduate from Portland State in public health, but also school and park health. I claim to have worked in that area, and I have, actually. We're always looking at the parks. I do have some comments about that park, and in terms of availability and also workability as a solid park, it's beautiful. The vast riparian greenness of that park is lovely. The entrance to it...
 could use a little help. I always wanted to, I love to say, or quote Dr. Seymour Adler, good neighbors build good fences. He said that in 2003 at Portland State University.
 And what I wanted to carry forth is that I would like to see some fences and parameters and borders brought in there along that street that goes into the park to kind of wall off the property there so that it's safe for the children. And also safe off-leash dog walking areas. The ingress there is so important to maintain for children and dogs and parents.
 And the point, the little matrix there that I wanted to bring forward is that I did watch about 50 kids go in there one day because I think it's fun to watch parents and people and dogs. And part of public health work is to look at the parks and the people in the schools. And I did see that in a race, the dogs come in first, right?
 Because they're fast. And so they deserve more off-leash dog walking area, you know, a little bit to the side of where the women and children come in. I just wanted to bring that point forward. And also a few, you know, parameters and boundaries of short fences are okay, you know, six foot or whatever might firm up that border and make a little bit easier ingress into the lovely park space. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 hello my name is crystal elensky thank you commissioners i'm going to represent 10 000 maniacs again and since i come here today i've heard a lot of input on the parks and i'd like to say that i'm concerned with the budget cuts on the parks i think they're they're integral to our city we have the second largest municipal park in the nation
 And the first in the nation is where I came from originally in 1990, Phoenix, Arizona, which is completely surrounded by development since the last time I visited. It's very sad. It's called South Mountain. We have a forest park, and I would really like to see the city concentrate on parks. I've heard a lot of input from people in my neighborhood saying,
 uh, about, especially about this neighborhood. This is my new neighborhood that is not very accessible. Um, and, uh, huh. I'm going to have to submit some written statements because I'm not really, I haven't been granted the authority to speak on their behalf, but we need to concentrate on housing for people. I, I've talked about this since 2006 and some of you know that, but
 Considering houses that are built before 1918 is a bit of a misnomer. There are a lot of housing and parks built around the history of houses built at that time. For example, 72nd Avenue and the...
 bicycle transit. Those houses were built in the 1940s tracts era and they're very historical. I would like us to start expanding the concept of parks and accessibility to the city to the historical buildings of our city as well. As far as deconstruction, if we're going to consider expanding the influx of our city to
 And I would like to really concentrate on that. So as long as the Parks Bureau is under Commissioner Fritz, to please consider the livability of our communities in hand with the parks. 1918 seems to me to be a very arbitrary number as far as the way we've built our city. And I don't know if you get around as much as I do,
 As a homeless person and as a person who's been moved around a lot because of the housing crisis in our city over the last 10 years, I've been very, very discouraged by the way we live.
 protect the historical value of our city. And that goes hand in hand with the park. So if I could place it in the hands of Amanda Fritz and help out with that, I would be privileged. Thank you. Thanks very much. Crystal, can I ask you something? Do you have authorization from Natalie Merchant to represent 10,000 aliens? He's joking. He's joking. Try to ignore him. Don't encourage him. Please. Don't encourage him.
 Next time we'll talk. I'm sure. Thank you for giving me the time that you did. I know that all of you offered me 10 minutes since the day I was kidnapped and tortured underneath the federal building. And Mayor Hales, I believe you're still holding true to your promise.
 ability to meet with me despite your staff turning me off on many occasions you said that you would look into the fire hazards of the underground bunker of the federal building that was in 2013 and I understand this is your last year and you're not running again so hopefully we can address that this year thank you thanks very much thank you okay let's take a vote please on this
 Thank you to Marianne Kasten, the Bond Program Manager, and Gary Detka, the Project Manager for this one. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Great project. Thank you. Aye. Okay, 156. Reallocate City as Local's share of the 2006 Metro Natural Areas Bond. Commissioner Fritz. Aye.
 Thank you. In 2006, the voters approved the Metro Natural Areas Bond that allocated over $15 million to Portland Parks and Recreation to be used to purchase natural areas, trails, and neighborhood parks, and to improve trails. With that money, Parks, often partnering with the Bureau of Environmental Services, has purchased about 400 acres of new parkland. Parks has about $1 million of the money left to spend on natural areas and trails over the next year.
 While there are some great opportunities to purchase natural area properties, there likely aren't sufficient opportunities to spend the remaining funds allocated to trail acquisitions. So parks would like to reallocate the trail money to be used for natural area acquisitions. Selene Nunn, the Assistant Property and Contracts Manager in Portland Parks and Recreation, will make a short presentation.
 Thank you. Good morning. I'm Zelaine Nunn with Portland Parks. As the Commissioner said, for the last nine years or so, parks along with BES and Metro have been busy buying up property with our local share funds. The money has been used to purchase things like Riverview, Connemux Park, Wilkes-Headwaters, and numerous properties in Forest Park and the East Buttes.
 The program is coming to an end though and we have about a million dollars left and one year to spend it. So we've had to start looking at what opportunities can we really get done in the next year.
 Like she said, the IGA that we have with Metro further allocated the $15 million into the 14 different – or, I'm sorry, 14 four categories, which she mentioned. Two of those, trail improvements and neighborhood parks, we spent all that money. But we do still have about a million dollars between trail acquisitions and natural area acquisitions.
 We don't think we'll be able to spend all that on trails. There's about 400 left for trails. Just looking at the opportunities, some of them are too complex, or we don't have willing sellers, various reasons why we won't be able to complete those in the next year. So we would like to reallocate the money that was intended for trails to natural area acquisitions, because we still do have a number of those that we could accomplish in the next year.
 I'd also just note that part of why we have so much money left in trails is because we worked closely with Metro, who was often able to use regional share money for trail acquisitions. So we still were able to make significant improvements to the trail system, particularly along the Columbia-Slew Trail and Marine Drive. And the other thing is natural area pieces often do contain a trail component too. So some of this money still may be used for trails, but just in a little bit different
 I'm happy to answer any questions. Questions? So I guess I'm not clear to the extent we're talking about – what's been the coordination on this between Parks and BES? We've often partnered so that BES is putting in graded green funds and Parks is putting local share so that we jointly own various properties. So this is more I'm just saying that they've partnered with us, not that this money is actually used by BES directly.
 So, for instance, Riverview BES put money in, Parks put in money, but two different funding sources. So I understand how we collaborate. The challenge is typically Parks acquires or one of us acquires, and then we have to find a way to do the O&M going forward. So if we approve this ordinance, what happens to the $420,000 again?
 It would be reallocated towards natural area acquisitions. Rather than buying trails, we'd buy natural area. It just gives us more flexibility. So this would be pursuant to the IGA that we have between Parks and BES on how we manage? It would still be subject to that in terms of how we then managed it thereafter. It doesn't make any changes to that. This is just about the IGA with Metro at the moment. Okay. And then those decisions would be separate. Thank you. Okay. Further questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, it moves to second reading next week. Thank you. Okay. Item 157. I apologize. I have a lunch time. Approve and terminate limited tax exemptions for properties under the homebuyer opportunity and multiple unit limited tax exemption programs. Commissioner Salser. Thank you, Mayor. This is an annual exercise where...
 We remove home ownership limited tax exemptions for those properties that are no longer owner-occupied or their owners exceed income requirements. And then we're also adding in new home ownership limited tax exemptions for new homes that are affordable to buyers. I would urge approval. Let's see. Anyone want to speak on this item? It is a resolution. Let's take a vote, please. Yes. Yes.
 Oh, okay, sorry. Britt's left. Okay. Yes. I'm pleased to support this, and I believe concurrent with the creation of the new Portland Housing Bureau, the function of oversight of our limited tax exemption program migrated from PDC over to the Housing Bureau, and we now have regular council hearings on this.
 on this issue and the properties we're terminating are properties that are no longer eligible under the terms of the agreements that we had. And I'm very pleased with the work the Housing Bureau has done in terms of oversight of this program, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Good program. Aye. Ailes? Aye. And 158.
 Approve application to extend the property tax exemption under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Sitka Apartments located at 1230 Northwest 12th Avenue. Second reading. Roll call.
 So I'm going to support this because it's an extension of an existing abatement and because the units are currently occupied, and they are primarily units at 60% of MFI with some at 50%. But I'm going to just state for the record as these things come forward, in the future I'll be looking for investments either through direct investment or through abatements
 in housing that is affordable to disabled veterans and full-time minimum wage workers, which is another way of saying zero to 30. And, Dan, I appreciated the presentation that Director Krieger gave yesterday because he laid out where we are and where we intend to go through the Home for Everyone framework. And I'll be discussing with both you and the mayor a housing impact statement that can become a regular feature of these matters so we can –
 we can test where we are against the um the goals that we've established as a bureau and a council this has been a successful development and i have long believed that we should have the option of extending the abatement for long 10 years because the commensurate public benefit is affordable housing in our community so i'm pleased to support this aye saltzman
 well as commissioner fish alluded to this is a good investment worth renewing it maintains 203 out of 209 units to be affordable with 131 of those units affordable to those between zero and sixty percent of median family income so it's a very worthwhile uh abatement worth continuing hi novic fails hi and we are recessed till two o'clock
 Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the February 17th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Ritz. Ritz.
 here here here here here welcome everybody we have three items on the afternoon calendar uh you're welcome to speak on any of them let our council clerk know if you'd like to do that um and um we will i don't think any have any difficulty sticking to our normal three minute timed line for testimony if you're here to speak on the item with that i will ask
 that item 158-1 be read. Amend Bond Avenue roadway realignments in the South Waterfront District Street Plan Criteria and Standards document. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, last week, Council considered changes to the resolution brought to us in December. Changes included shifting the OHSU portion of the alignment north of Southwest Porter to the west, an interim and final design of Southwest Bond north of Southwest Porter, language about the OHSU commons, and a conceptual adjustment of the streetcar alignment. Potential changes to the alignment south of Southwest Porter on Zydell property will be considered at a later time.
 Commissioner Fritz also asked to make changes to certain references to the Greenway. Those amendments were circulated to Council offices via the Tuesday memo and should be in front of you today. I have one additional clarifying amendment I'd like to add to the resolution. In the first, be it resolved, I would move to insert the words phase one of before the words exhibits A and B. Thank you. I'll second that amendment. Thank you.
 Uh, so the purpose of that amendment, which I had a chance to discuss with your staff commissioners to make it clear that we're resolving the question of what the shape of the street alignment is, uh, uh, in the northerly portion where OHSU is getting ready to begin development. And it's still, uh, awaiting further, um, discussions and refinement in the southerly portion, uh, that is phases, uh,
 two three and four so i i apologize that my i don't have this in my binder i'll be right back the map uh i'm sure they've somebody else staff geraldine norah's here there she is and folks from pbot are here um there we go oh the resolution itself sorry so
 I was confused because the date is still November 24th, and so it's not. I think what I have is, in fact, as amended. But then you're putting Phase 1 in. Phase 1 is this portion. Okay. Got it. Thank you. Everything north of Porter. Okay. I got that right? Thank you. Okay. So any further discussions about the amendment? Can I just get a –
 procedural check, Mayor. I have some questions about the underlying matter. Do we have a presentation? Yeah, so, well, we certainly have staff available to answer questions, so if you've got some, let's have the appropriate folks come forward from PDC and PBOT. Just to clarify, this is going back to the original proposal rather than the substitute that was put in on Tuesday of last week. Is that correct? No, it's not correct. No.
 So we're amending the substitute, right? So that's the version I have is substitute as amended 211.16. Okay. In a box on the front page of that resolution. Yeah. So the difference between the substitute and the original differences are? The original original or from last week? From the last hearing original. Okay.
 We struck the language as proposed by Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Fritz in regards to any identification of the greenway in the whereases and the result. So in the substitute, you've taken out the language which we struck at the last hearing. Correct. Thank you very much. That's helpful. So...
 i just want to make sure that i understand three pieces here the first is with the realignment what is the impact on the width east to west of the greenway the greenway per code is a hundred feet from top of bank right the language in the resolution sets the road back a minimum of five feet from that hundred foot setback so at a minimum north of porter
 That greenway would be 105 feet wide. And is there – Go ahead. No, go ahead. You please. There are areas where it's more than 105, so at a minimum it's 105. And will it remain 100 feet as development progresses? I think on the east side of Bond Avenue, there will be no – there's no development parcel.
 So one of the issues originally with the alignment is there were two small development parcels on the east side of Bond between Bond and the Greenway. Shifting the road over eliminates those parcels. So one of the concerns we heard from OHSU, and Brian Newman is here to speak to it if needed be, is that they did not intend to – did not think they would develop those parcels, so they would basically remain un-developed.
 vacant property because they're very small. So this alignment actually provides a little more space for the Greenway and there are no parcels on that side. So we preserve the minimum of 100 feet for the Greenway? Absolutely, yes. There will be no intrusions into the 100 feet based on the action we're taking? Correct. We've taken the language out about any references to the Greenway, so we are not deciding the question of sequencing and funding? No.
 Correct. Correct. Thank you. We're deciding the location of a street now, a portion of a street now, so that OHSU can proceed with a couple of their projects. Right. Okay.
 You've answered my three questions. Thank you. I have a question for the mayor as to whether the Wiggles have been straightened out to your satisfaction. No, they have not, and thus the amendment. Because the section north of Porter, to me, makes sense as a street for the long run. The section south of Porter is still requiring further discussion with Zydel, who's changing some of their plans. And the city, in my opinion, as I said the last time, will...
 certainly needs to work with the Zydel company as a development partner but we need to decide the location of that and configuration of that street for the very long run in a way that passes a straight face test
 It doesn't necessarily simply suit the short-term interests of any property owner, including Zydell's. So we will get to that place later on, but we're not getting there now, and that's why we made this amendment that says Phase 1, because Phase 1 is between Porter and the existing River Parkway. Did we define Phase 1 somewhere? It is defined in the exhibit.
 exhibit a it's just if it's in black and white it's really hard to see which phase is which okay but you're comfortable with that it is shown in the color version of exhibit a that phase one is the portion between porter and river parkway okay
 The other concern I had outstanding from the hearing back in November or December was the issue of whether we could encourage, in that special design of the street, encourage handicap parking along the greenway so that there's more, so that really does increase accessibility for people who need, who have mobility concerns. So I'll just put that back on the table as going forward. Thank you for working with all of our staff over this past week. Any other questions? Yes.
 thank you both okay this is a previous agenda item um unless there's any public testimony on this item i think we now take a vote on it right on the amendment on on the amendment first and then on the uh on the resolution yes hi novic hi hails hi and now on the resolution itself
 So thank you, Commissioner Novick, Mayor Hales and staff for the revised resolution wording that does help clarify the questions that I had with earlier versions.
 The development in this area is a very complex sequence of projects and involves several sources of funding. The realignment will benefit the Greenway in terms of improving public access and visibility to the waterfront and keeping development further away. I hope that there will be some consideration of step-down on the other side of the street with the development of the OHSU parcels to make sure that the Greenway and the step-down is respected.
 It's my understanding that the special design area improvements in the Bond Avenue right-of-way will not be constructed until either the Greenway or OHSU Commons is built, and that the interim Bond Avenue construction will not require Greenway development nor any of the funds earmarked for Greenway development. The development agreement for the Zydell property envisions that the Greenway construction in approximately 2020 to 21 at the earliest. It's dependent upon tax increment financing,
 from structures to be built. And the price tag of a little over $11 million was stated as adequate for this section of the Greenway. This is less than the section that Parks and Environmental Services recently completed, in part because the...
 Stretch here has already been done with a cap by Zydel. It didn't include any in-river work or any bank restoration, which our project did. So it'll be an interesting walk or cycle or stroll or roll for folks going along the Greenway to see the version that the government did that really does respect all of the wildlife habitat
 and the version that has been done privately, which certainly takes care of the capping, and we appreciate the ZYDAL working with environmental services on it, but perhaps is not as spectacular as our piece.
 The Green Bay Master Plan update that gets underway this calendar year is being led by Portland Parks and Recreation, and we'll coordinate closely with transportation, OHSU, ZYDAL, local residents, and the public at large to ensure a good outcome from a design perspective, which is what the Design Commission is recommending. Thanks to all. Aye. Aye.
 Commissioner Fritz previewed her comments before this hearing, and I second them. And the questions that have been addressed at the hearing were our concerns. But I'm going to channel Steve for a second. And when Commissioner Fritz turned to the mayor and said, have we worked out your Wiggles problem? It has nothing to do with dancing. Yes, right. I had a Steve Novick moment, and I took out my phone, and it brought back a flood of memories because it
 my son's favorite band was called The Wiggles. And he was born about 12 years ago, and his favorite song was the one that you're all familiar with, which was the classic Yummy, Yummy. And, Mayor, do you still have a problem with The Wiggles? Even less now. Hi. It continues. Saltzman? Hi. Novick?
 I would, first of all, I really appreciate everybody's work. I'd like to join Commissioner Fish in admonishing the Mayor about his concern about Wiggles, particularly when it relates to roadways, because I think we all remember that in the most famous discussion of a crooked roadway of all time, there was a crooked man and he walked a crooked mile. He found a crooked sixpence against a crooked stile. He bought a crooked cat which caught a crooked mouse and they all lived together in a little crooked house.
 Crooked roadways can sometimes lead to positive results. I just ask you to keep that in mind in the future. Hi. Thank you for all indulging my concern about this. And I'll take all that good humor in a good-humored way. But I just want to reiterate that it is important to get this right. I think we are. So thank you. I appreciate everybody, again, taking a little extra time to measure and then cut information.
 had a chance to visit rome for the first time and reminded me of something that in planning it's important to remember which is every now and then we get to decide where streets go
 You know, we're deciding how to pave and repair the ones that we have. But every now and then we get to decide where new ones go. We got to do that in the Pearl District. We're getting to do that here. We might get to do that again a time or two somewhere else in the city, especially after we do this cop plan and we adopt future street plans for parts of the city that weren't developed particularly well the first time around. The hotel I stayed in happened to be across the street from the Pantheon.
 That building was built and the street was located in 128 AD. The building's still in use. Cities decide lots of things. When we decide where a street goes, I have no idea when that decision ever gets changed. Because if you look around, again, we'll get a rare second chance with places like 82nd Avenue where there wasn't a good grid put in place the first time.
 but it is a very long-term process when we decide where a street goes. So buildings last a long time. They last longer than people do. Streets last longer than that, with the rare exception of something like the Pantheon. Let's only hope that OHSU builds buildings that last that long. There's a challenge for you. All right. Thank you. Okay. 159.
 Accept the annual report from the Age-Friendly Portland Initiative. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I'm very pleased today to kick off a year two progress report from our friends at Age-Friendly Portland. And just by way of background, in 2013, the city council accepted an action plan for an age-friendly city. And that action plan contained 10 different areas of focus.
 And we have officially designated Age Friendly Portland as our partner in implementing a number of those recommendations. And this, of course, all flows from a very proud decision a number of years ago of the World Health Organization to give us a very special designation as an age-friendly city. This is the second year progress report coming to Council.
 I was going to introduce Alan Del Torre, but he's still here. He's talking to our clerk. Alan, if you could just join us for one second. Yes, absolutely. Alan is going to introduce the panel, and we've set aside 30 minutes for a brief overview. And also, let me just say at the beginning, deeply appreciate Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Hales for their support and my council colleagues for the funding in our last budget.
 This is not just any group. This is actually our officially designated age-friendly partner. And so we're very proud of that relationship, and this year we made an investment in housing for older adults and accessibility, and we look forward to the fruits of that work. But today we're going to get your two report. Alan, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. And I'd like to say that as of yesterday afternoon, we finally executed the contract. It took only a month and a half. Sometimes there's red tape between governmental organizations, but it's on the books now, both at Portland State. I'd like to introduce the public
 presenters today to my right, Barbara Bernstein, the executive director of Elders in Action, Margaret Neal, who's the director of the Institute on Aging at Portland State University, and Bandana Shrestha, who's a jack of all trades with AARP Oregon. She does a lot of different things with the group. And we'll turn it over to Margaret to get started. Although the reason I was at the clerk's desk was we're waiting for the presentation to be populated. I don't know if it's ready to go just yet. We'll send it in. It'll be a minute.
 We'll go forward without it. So we are very pleased to be here at this time to report on our last year's work with the Age Friendly Portland Advisory Council and the Age Friendly Portland Initiative. It began back in 2006 as
 as a part of a research project with the World Health Organization. And we've been working since that time on making our community more age-friendly with a variety of partners. And the effort is organized through an Age-Friendly Advisory Council organization
 with our key partners, Elders in Action, AARP Oregon, and a number of other partners who make this all work together. The Institute on Aging is serving the role as a backbone organization striving for collective impact, but that requires one organization at least to pull all the pieces together, and that really has been our role. As Commissioner Fish mentioned,
 We approved, the council approved the action plan for an age-friendly Portland back in 2013. And there are 10 domains of action in that action plan.
 They include housing, transportation, outdoor spaces and buildings. Those comprise the sort of built environment piece of making a community age-friendly. Then we have social participation, respect and social inclusion, civic participation and employment.
 communication and information, and community support and health services. Now, if you were counting, that was only eight. In our effort here in Portland, we pulled apart civic participation and employment so that we could focus on employment and economic development,
 and have a special focus on that in our community. And also we pulled apart health services and community services because they were such big domains, and we wanted to be able to focus on those independently. So our council decided that we couldn't act on all of those domains at the same time. So in 2014, we identified three priority areas, civic engagement,
 employment and the economy, and housing. And then in 2015, we added two more, health services, prevention, and equity. It used to be just called health services. And transportation. Thank you. And so the key accomplishments that we've had in the last year fall into three general areas. One is governance.
 One is providing education and raising awareness, and another is in the area of policy development. Each of those areas touch the different domains that we've identified as a council to work on. So highlighting some of the highlights with respect to governance.
 In October of 2014, Multnomah County decided to join the Age-Friendly Movement, and its board of county commissioners made a resolution to adopt the same areas of action as Portland had adopted and then to work on developing its own action plan.
 They also agreed to have our Age-Friendly Portland Advisory Council serve as the advisory council to the Multnomah County effort. So one of the things we did as a council is change the name of the advisory council to the Age-Friendly Advisory Council of Portland and Multnomah County.
 Another thing that we did that was very important, and I believe it was your suggestion that we do this, Vandana, as an advisory council member, we adopted a charter. And so we spent some time working through the various elements of how we wanted to govern this initiative, and we set that forth in writing, and that's an appendix in the report that you have.
 And the next example of an accomplishment within the education and raising awareness area is the Aging Well Conference that we had at Oregon Health and Science University with all of our partners on October 3rd. There were about 140 people there, and it was...
 targeted to consumers and community members. We had sessions on housing, on brain health, on volunteering, physical activity, nutrition, end-of-life care, and county-based resources for adults. So it was a pretty broad-reaching effort. And at the end of it, we all took a walk across the Telecom Bridge, which was lovely.
 We had another event in October called What Are Old People For? This was our sort of follow-up event to the first annual event. This time it was held at Warner Pacific College, and Commissioner Fish served as the master of ceremonies for that event. It was keynoted by a woman named Dr. Janet Taylor, who's a community psychiatrist.
 in New York City, a very well-known individual, and talked a lot about equity and about the value of older adults and the contributions that they make to our community. And we have planning underway right now for a 2016 event in the fall that will be focused on intergenerational opportunities for engaging younger and older adults together.
 Another awareness-raising effort that we engaged in was actually conducted with funding from grantmakers in aging. And what we did is we developed a case for age-friendly communities. This case statement will be...
 released, I believe, next week. We have the proofs for it right now. And this was really prepared as a document that would pull together the existing research that pertains to why we should bother creating age-friendly communities. And it looked across all the domains that we mentioned and presented that research evidence. It has something like 300 footnotes. It's
 So it's very well documented, and it focuses on the following areas. The economic benefits of age-friendly communities, the social capital benefits in terms of older adults who volunteer, as well as who make charitable contributions. The opportunities related to housing, opportunities related to physical infrastructure,
 the health benefits, not just for older adults, but for people of all ages and abilities, for having a community that works, and a variety of other benefits.
 And then another area in which our council made contributions was with respect to the city's comprehensive plan. The advisory council members reviewed the plan. We submitted verbal and written testimony, worked with community partners to provide additional input. Dr. De La Torre was selected to participate as a policy expert in the policy expert group on neighborhood centers.
 And he's also a member of the Residential Infill Project to assist in addressing aging and accessibility issues in housing. I'll turn it over to you, Barbara, now. Thank you. Elders in Action comes to the Age-Friendly Portland collaboration through the commitment of the City of Portland to civic engagement. We really appreciate your support and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement.
 In addition to being an active member of the Age-Friendly Advisory Council and assisting in joint projects, no, no, keep that. Can we go through those individually? Sorry. The age-friendly projects that you talked about, our programs also fit in within the domains of the age-friendly cities.
 So we prioritize our programs based on the issues of most concern to older adults that we hear from every day. We hear from about 3,000 older adults in our community. And the four areas of major concern right now are housing, not a surprise, I suppose, affordable housing, identity theft, scams, and fraud.
 transportation, and isolation and neglect. And the first slide you see here is one of our responses to the identity theft, scams, and fraud issue. We are collaborating with the Oregon Department of Justice
 APS and local law enforcement to create fraud panels that you see there. And Commissioner Fish participated in one. Thank you very much. The audience is about 40 to 50 people, and they're there, and they get to talk to their service providers directly, hear about resources of support, and to learn about prevention to those issues. The next slide.
 a group of older adults headed down to Salem to advocate for affordable housing. In response to the number of calls that we're getting from older adults who are being priced out of their homes and can't afford the large rent increases or experiencing no-cause evictions, we decided that we wanted to educate ourselves about how to be better advocates for this. And so we created a series, a session, to help older adults be their best debt.
 So those who had experienced housing insecurity. And then we created a partnership with REACH, Home Forward, the Urban League, Fair Housing Council, Oregon Opportunity Network, Northwest Pilot Project, to put together a series of
 which we could become better housing advocates and this included that trip to soon that you see there and also participating in the Fair Housing Council's discrimination tour which gave us a little bit of a historical perspective on the issues facing us today the next slide shows oh that's part of that was one of the activities to one of our volunteers this one is the
 It's the opening of the Orange Line, so we participate in those community events also. But that represents our commitment to transportation issues. And as an example, we work with Ride Connection to recruit volunteers for their ride share program. And that teaches older adults to navigate and use the public transportation system when their own individual transportation systems, or when they can't drive anymore, essentially.
 The next slide is, again, the housing project. That's the bus tour there. We had about 50 people participate in that event. And then finally, I think,
 This is the Age-Friendly Business Certification Program, which most of you probably know about. This started as a program by Elders in Action volunteers who felt themselves becoming invisible to their own community. So they created a program that educates businesses about how to serve and create friendly environments for the older adults so they can...
 continue to participate in their communities. This reduces the impact of social isolation on the individual and the community, and it's a great way to engage older adults in creating the kinds of communities they want to live in.
 In 2013, we started to do this program a little bit differently, and we're engaging business districts. So we have engaged the Hillsdale Business District, Lloyd District Center, the mall, and the district. And we train a group of volunteers and then go out to a group of businesses. And then together, they are talking about best practices, about how to serve the older adult community.
 And we're using this also, this system, to do the 19 libraries in the Multnomah County Library System. So instead of us going in, our volunteers going in and doing the certification process, they're recruiting their own volunteers, and then they have champions within their system to continue to promote age-friendly activities. The library's already great, but it's been a really important and engaging conversation to have.
 What were some of the findings, some of the most common things that people could improve? Well, each library is a little bit different. So, for instance, Selwood, they've moved their hold library.
 little things like this. So they've moved their whole shelves to the back of the library, and you have to go down a very narrow kind of hallway that they've created. It used to be at the front of the library, so that has challenges for people with disability and just kind of those kinds of things. So that sort of thing. The library already has great programs. They're reaching out to older adults. They're delivering books. Their service is really very good. But those kinds of individual libraries might have had things like that. And what were some of the things in the businesses that...
 people should be thinking about but don't thank you for asking well um benches in in in places of business that's that's a way for anybody who to rest you know to to be there to not have to stand while they're waiting so that might be one thing signage was a big thing we did providence um
 a Providence hospital, and the signage was really very confusing. The facilities management people had already identified these problems, but it wasn't until the volunteers came in to advocate for that that the administration took notice. So I think having advocates of people in the community saying the things that maybe we already know but haven't the will to make change helps those things change. Absolutely.
 It's terrific to have your volunteers because both of those examples are things that everybody can use a bench to sit down on when they're tired of waiting for whoever's shopping. And everybody can use better signage. So the fact that your volunteers are out there and are respected and doing this certification is a great example of how making everything more accessible makes it more accessible for everybody. Thank you. And you will be really happy that it's now called Age-Friendly Program instead of the Elder-Friendly Program because of that very thing. Yeah. Thank you.
 So that, I think we also did the evaluation of the new water customer flyer. And I think in 2016, we have a really great opportunity to continue to do the work that is a collaboration between theory, policy, and practice. Can I just put a little plug in on that? Sure. I hope it's something we can, each year, bring all the bureaus together.
 into this conversation. We had a brochure at the Water Bureau that outlined discount programs, and it was small print, was a small document, and it was very hard to read. And so we showed it to our friends at Elders in Action and said, could you help us recast this so that it's more accessible to older adults? And they said, well, the font is wrong, that layout's wrong, it's unfriendly.
 It's me. You said it very well. Maybe we said it more diplomatically, I hope. Right. And we got a whole list of things, so we redid it. And we submitted it, and we got back another two pages of single-spaced. And like one of the comments they made was there's like six or seven phone numbers on the brochure.
 And if you're an older adult and maybe not, you don't read as well and you're confused about how to interact with government, six or seven numbers just makes it harder. So where's the one number, the one person that's accountable? And also we had some disclaimers about do's and don'ts, and it was deemed to be off-putting because the disclaimers were positioned in such a way that it looked like we were making accusations rather than saying, you know,
 Fair warning, you know, these are some lines. And so we redid it. We increased the size by 50%, which is a modest cost factor, blew up the font, and we've gotten a great response from it, and frankly...
 Without their input, it wasn't clear to me all the ways in which it fell short. And I hope it's a resource that we can all use because a lot of our most, you know, a lot of the customers that we're serving are older adults, and many of them have the same issues, including vision. And we have to be responsive to them. And so I can't thank you enough. It actually changed my thinking about a lot of things. Thank you. Thank you.
 Oh, there is one more picture. Oh, there is? But that's it. I'm done. I have just a few slides. Again, I'm Vandana Shrestha with ARP Oregon, and it's just a great pleasure to be here. And I want to start by saying thank you so much for having us come back and do this report. It's great to have leadership and commitment from the city council, from the mayor, and Commissioner Nick.
 Commissioner Fish, your leadership has been great and great support to the work that we're trying to do collectively. I think there was a slide that Margaret had which talked about collective impact, which is that we together as a community of partners, of stakeholders, of advocate groups, we're working together to really work towards making our city age-friendly. And I think it was – you said it right, it's not just about one specific group.
 it really is about age friendly for all ages even though we start with older adults um maybe because we are arp for instance or elders in action or because we're in student aging but i think the work we're trying to do is really about creating sustainable communities and i don't think i need to say that much but um i think what we have seen is that the shared interest uh between what we are advocating for because we think it's going to be good for people 50 plus and what we see
 see, you know, we share interests with lots of other groups who are also thinking about their constituents. For AARP, our interests are very similar to what Elders in Action is, but I'll
 tell you a little bit about our connection to the work that's going on also around the state because we at AARP were championing age-friendly communities and the network of age-friendly communities around the country. Margaret mentioned the WHO, and obviously Oregon, and especially Portland has been doing this work since 2006. Thank you.
 And we, as AARP, have been very proud to be a partner and support of that work. But a few years, about six years, four or five years ago, AARP nationally became an affiliate, affiliated with WHO and the Age-Friendly Global Network, and is now really championing the Age-Friendly National Network.
 when it began, there were only seven communities, and Portland was, of course, one of them. And now it's grown to 75 communities around the states. And they represent cities mid-sized like ours to large metros from New York to LA to really small towns.
 variety of communities around the states and I think that just speaks to the good work that has begun in Portland and how others are learning from it. So I think we have a lot to be proud about and even in this past year I know for AARP we've been very pleased to be part of a cohort of
 organizations and advocates being able to do certain new things. For instance, we launched our Neighbor Walks program, which we're really thrilled about. The folks at PBOT Active Transportation have been great supporters of that. We have volunteers running this walk program. We have had over 500 people participate.
 we're also doing other things related to advocacy around housing, for instance, speaking up both at local levels as well as statewide, you know, for instance, with the inclusionary zoning. But we continue to also, just like...
 Barbara said, and I think Margaret also mentioned, you know, there are different ways of trying to do this work. And for us, it means advocacy. So we are making sure our volunteers and our 65,000-member strength is heard at City Hall as well as at the state level when we try to advocate for the age-friendly policies like safe streets and good food.
 you know, sound funding on resources that are going to make sure that people are able to age successfully. So we appreciate your support and thank you. I think I have a couple more pictures. Let's see. Okay.
 This is a good one of various activities. And the first one is there with Commissioner Fish at our Vital Aging Conference doing a really great keynote for our attendees. There were about 220 people. And the latter, the bottom one, is a walk, the neighbor walks. It was our first walk in Irvington, and I think we had 100 people show up, which was a shock.
 But it's been a great success, and it just shows that older adults really want to engage in that community.
 You have 65,000 members here in Portland? Yes. And what's the age? How old do you have to be to be eligible? Or how old or young do you have to be to be eligible? You can be a member at any age, but the full-fledged members, you know, you can be 50 to get lots of benefits and stuff, which we as the nonprofit arm aren't responsible for. So 50 and above. Yes. Okay.
 But our members are really of all ages. You can be a member at all ages because what we do is driven by our mission to make sure that people can age with dignity. And aging begins when you're born. So if we go by that and not just the benefits and discounts, you can be a member at any age. Yes.
 So I think that's about it. And the last one is, you know, we were really pleased to do the first. We partnered with Elders in Action and with support from the council to do one of the first Portland mayoral forum in 2012. And Mayor Hills was part of that along with two other candidates. And we hope to do the same. And this is the save the date for you all. Please mark your calendars and we look forward to seeing you then. Thank you. Are you going to invite all the candidates? Yes.
 Right now, we have a policy which says we look at certain polling numbers.
 So if I might make a request that you consider inviting all the candidates, something that the Columbia Corridor Association found was that by sending a questionnaire to the candidates and asking everybody who sent the questionnaire back, that meant that some people were not willing to put in the time to send the questionnaire back. So I would suggest that it's hard for candidates who are not well-known to be –
 to get their message out and that as somebody who has a group that's very inclusive and aware of abilities and disabilities, something other than polling numbers might be helpful to the democratic process, if you just consider that. Thank you. Although, Commissioner Fritz, I will say I remember once being on a stage with Josh Alpert and 14 candidates, and I'm not sure it was the most informative forum ever,
 But I did get, I think, one question for the evening. But I wanted to ask you, Charlie, was that an effective forum back in 2012? It was a very effective forum, so I'm glad you're doing it again. And I want to second Commissioner Fritz's point. In January of 1992, an Oregonian poll showed me at 6%. So I hope the threshold would be lower than that. It is, I think. No, that's a fun fact I didn't know, Charlie. Thank you.
 So it just shows how reliable early polls are. Right. I know. Ours is not until April 2nd, so we have some time. And we are internationally known now for that candidate forum because it's featured on the World Health Organization Age-Friendly Globe website. Yeah.
 And I know that all the ARP cities where they are working with, like Texas has done that after us. Lots of their communities have done it, so it's a good thing. You mentioned inclusionary zoning, and we've got a big fight on our hands down in Salem, and it's not quite going the way we would like right now. And I think it's worth remembering that when we talk about inclusion,
 people at zero to 30 of medium family income, which sounds very social, you know, sounds very wonky. Let's put the human face on that. That's a older adult on SSI, and that's a full-time minimum wage entry-level worker. And if we want a community for people of all ages, we have to have housing for both. Entry-level worker, full-time minimum wage, and an older adult on SSI. And they both need housing at zero to 30 percent of medium family income.
 And that's one of the reasons I think everyone up here believes this fight in Salem is very important. Yes, thank you. I've got just a couple comments, a couple slides left to talk about where we're heading in 2016 and beyond. And I want to note that after I did my math, I think I've been volunteering with AARP since I was 26. So all ages are welcome over there at AARP.
 So our efforts continue to move forward. We're continuing to implement our action plan from 2013. I'd also like to call out very briefly our SVP Social Venture Partner Encore Fellows who are here with us in the audience, Bill Stack and Shayla Shvachani, if you could raise your hands. They've come to us after careers in Portland Public Schools and Intel to continue to further the efforts with Age Friendly Portland and Multnomah County, and we're really happy to have them. They've been incredible benefits to the Institute on Aging and to Age Friendly in general.
 As Margaret talked about earlier, Multnomah County is ramping up right now to do their baseline assessment and action plan. And I'd say that in the next year to year and a half, we'll see those unveiled. Also, the City of Portland funding is enormous.
 key for us in moving forward. And I'd say that in some ways you could think about it as seed money. So as I move forward in my efforts as a researcher at the Institute on Aging, I now have the ability to look for additional opportunities for funding outside of government funding to say nonprofits and to other organizations that are interested in helping us to implement the action plan and to also look at exciting ways to further research
 and to even start teaching in intergenerational classroom and community settings. So I'll talk a little bit about the capstone course at Portland State that we're looking to develop. And if you could advance to the next slide. A little bit about the deliverables and the actions that we're taking as part of the 2016 age
 age-friendly efforts that have been funded from the city. We'll now produce quarterly reports on what's happening with the council and the housing committee, which is being revamped at the moment. The second action is to revise our housing action area. We know that some of the actions there in 2013 were good, but they could be improved upon, especially in light of the current crisis and homelessness issues that we're facing in our community.
 We also want to identify priorities to increase age-friendliness in Portland's housing. This is actually not as easy of a lift as I originally thought. There are both regulatory barriers or difficulties in finding regulation to improve age-friendliness in housing and very intricate incentive-based approaches that we may be able to take.
 But as Mayor Hales knows, the work of the Residential Infill Project Stakeholder Advisory Committee, there are a number of different players and actors at the table. And finding solutions and bargains is much less easy than some of us anticipated early on.
 The final piece of the revision of this action plan and the summary of priorities for moving age-friendly housing forward is going to need to be vetted and brought back to the council in some ways. So you've adopted the resolution, by resolution, the age-friendly action plan, but these updates need to be passed through you again. We need your commitment to look at these and to give us advice as we move forward. Thank you.
 With respect to the residential infill project, I've been a member of that since its inception, and I will write a briefing in June of this year to describe kind of where the affordable and accessible housing opportunities and challenges are emerging. And I want to point to the two images that are on the screens. These are examples of what are known as stacked flat housing projects.
 This is something that's on the table as an alternative housing type. Both of these represent a townhome-type development that allows for one single level to be accessible. They're not audacious or hideous. They actually would fit well in the fabric of our communities. And these are examples of ways in which we're able to change through small modifications the way that we're improving Portland's housing stock. And there's support from the Stakeholder Advisory Committee and others to look at these types of solutions. Thank you.
 Just to mention very briefly, the Age-Friendly Service Learning Project that is part of the grant that is essentially
 essentially underway as of yesterday afternoon. We're working with University Studies, which coordinates Portland State's capstone program, to develop an age-friendly capstone project where we're taking undergraduates, around 10 to 12 undergraduates, to do specific projects in the community. And we're actually looking for some input. I had a chance to talk to Jamie Dunphy from Commissioner Fish's office and ask, should we do this as a one or a two-term project?
 How much do we integrate students into the research project? Do we train them to become junior researchers in some way? And then who are we engaging in the process? Are neighborhood associations a priority? Are business associations a priority? How does our age-friendly network and our age-friendly advisory council play an important role in the work that we're doing? And finally, what's the final product?
 that we're creating and how is that useful to the bureaus and offices, elected officials and policymakers in this city. And so we, we want your input. We're looking forward to engaging with you and trying to create the best possible outcomes from these projects. And I want to leave. Can I just give you a preview? Oh yes, absolutely. The mayor a number of months ago had a group of students come in from a high school. They were doing a project around, um, what was it designing the city or something. And, um,
 I think at a minimum, we're going to want to talk to you about a time certain in the future where we could have a council presentation. If the students are going to be working on developing this project, we're going to want to hear them, I think, in this room.
 That'll make some excited and some very nervous, but I'm sure that's a possibility. We're actually being asked by the university to winnow down where our deliverables are going to be focused and who our core partners are. And I think we may end up having our core partner be the Age-Friendly Advisory Council with the deliverables coming to the city specifically to try and inform your work.
 Thank you for the recommendation, and I'd be very excited to bring the students here. I want to leave with a quote from this publication that Margaret talked about earlier, The Case for Age-Friendly Communities.
 What we do now to make our communities good places to grow up and grow old will yield returns not only for today's elders but also tomorrow's. That is all of us. And I think the work underscores the fact that this is for all ages and all abilities. And we very much appreciate the support from the city, from you as council, and from the partners in the community. We hope we have a little bit of time for either comments or questions. Questions for this great panel. Thank you very much. Great presentation. So...
 Keep it up because between the comp plan and the rest of the work that you're doing and the infill project, there's a lot that will make a difference in people's lives. And just the way you described at the end there, get it right the first time and it lasts for a long time. Thank you. Other questions, comments for this group? Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else that would like to speak about this report? Two people signed up, Gabriel Watt and Sean Davis. And Mr. Walsh, come on up. Oh, thank you.
 Come on up, please Well, sir, did you say three Two and then mr. Walsh here. There's Gabriel and Sean Davis My name is Joe Walsh and I represent individuals for justice. I'm a little dizzy. So that's why the hesitation I
 One of the things I thought of during the presentation was that because of my dizzy spells, I don't drive anymore. So I ride the TriMet and the Max a lot. And one of the things that you'll notice on TriMet is they do a great job with wheelchairs. The bus drivers are very sensitive. They stop the bus, they lower the bus, they get out, they help. But that's it. When people get on with walkers...
 and they're in their 70s and 80s, the bus driver doesn't even get out of the seat. And I often wonder why. They don't lower the ramp. The person is struggling to get the walker up. Even when you lower the bus, you still have an area of maybe 12 inches because I have my little oxygen that I lift up. So the question is, do they have a policy in TriMet that says,
 load a ramp for wheelchairs, but what about the walkers? Now, I'm not interested in the shopping carts that older people bring on because I think that's not necessary. The walkers are. They are medically necessary. So it seems to me that Elders in Action and AARP, which are very powerful organizations, send a note to try and make, say, what's your policy on this?
 And if you don't have a policy on walkers, get one, because they should lower the ramps, let those people on with their walkers so they don't struggle. And if you watch them, they struggle. And I'm saying to myself, why do we do that? Now, TriMet has not responded to me personally, but I think they would with AARP if they wrote them a note. And I'm a member of AARP.
 So that's that. The other thing is I am a true believer that if you want to fight a fire, you ask a fireman. And if you want to know about what older people need, you find people in their 80s, 70s, 60s say, what is it you need? I like to see older people sitting at this desk. Now, I'm not going to get into the ages of the people that were sitting here today,
 But they really look good if they're 80. And I suspect that AARP, and I've been a member since I was 50, or 55, I think it was when I joined, go older. Because 70 is totally, I rode my bike when I was 60, so I'm going to be 74. It's very, very different in the 70s. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Walsh, which bus lines do you generally ride? What number buses do you usually ride?
 I ride the four bus and the 14. If the four bus is very crowded, then I switch off to the 14. So those are the two main buses. But I notice that when I go to meetings and I ride the 70 bus, 72 bus, other buses, it's the same thing. The bus drivers are very sensitive to wheelchair, and I praise them for that. But for whatever reason...
 They don't ignore the walkers, but they don't have the same response. And I know you ride TriMet, and you can watch them. Well, no, that's my point. On the buses, the lines that I ride, they tend to put the ramp down for the walkers. They don't get up to help the way they might with a wheelchair. But it's interesting. We'll find out the policy. I was just wondering. Yeah, I would just be interested in talking. Because there's different cultures on different rides, on different lines. Thank you. Sure. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Gabriel Bott. I'm speaking here today.
 not only on behalf of myself, but also on behalf of Sean Davis. I just had a couple of quick questions or comments based off of the Elders in Action Advocacy Group presentation here. The first that I was thinking about was a comment that was made regarding the elders being priced out of their homes, no-cause evictions, that sort of thing. And I'm just, I just really want to
 hope that these sorts of evictions and actions are something that are being undertaken or at least considered by City Council, if not currently in the recent past. I don't know of any specific actions currently that are happening in this regard. Okay.
 The second, I actually have a question. Is there an incentive plan for developers to create age-friendly housing within the city? As I see that our city is an age-friendly city. So I'm just kind of curious about that.
 Good questions, both. When it comes to policy, Commissioner Saltzman has led the council in enacting some policy for protections of renters, longer notice periods. And then a good question about whether we have employed incentives so far. We're actually talking about our incentives right now, so your timing is good. Well, we have many incentives to – or requirements, actually, that affordable units –
 be suitable for people with disabilities or or can be retrofitted at some point in the future to be suitable for people with disabilities thank you sir um do you may or may not know uh are these well known to the uh aged community some to some people that develop that that market of housing yes for some but it sounds like i think one of the things you're probably getting at sir is that there are some
 threshold levels of accessibility that ought to be embedded in our building code regardless of of who is served in the housing i think that's where you're getting and i think there's agreement up here that our code should reflect a minimum level of accessibility and that's something that perhaps our friends through age friendly can help us with thank you thank you thanks very much anyone else want to speak on this item mayor i move to accept the report then let's take a vote please to accept the report
 Thank you very much for the report and for all of your work on behalf of all of us. Most of us have the goal of becoming older.
 or older on a daily basis. So I actually learned several things today. The most interesting to me being the change, the reason for the change from elder-friendly to age-friendly, and I have been using the words age-friendly for some time and hadn't really understood the significance of that. So thank you for your work on behalf of everybody, and I appreciate Commissioner Fish for your ongoing advocacy on behalf of Elders in Action and our age-friendly community and this report as well. Aye. Aye.
 Yes. Thank you for an excellent report, and thank you for the work that you do in our community. We're going to be more effective when we all link arms. You mentioned in your presentation the work the Attorney General is doing combating elder fraud. We know that the county is involved and has a range of services they provide to older adults.
 We've got a housing piece. We can go on and on and on. But we want this to be a city that is welcoming to people of all ages. That means we want children to go play at playgrounds that are universally acceptable, accessible, and we want older adults to be able to age with dignity in homes they can afford that are accessible. And I am so proud of the work you're doing and grateful for the service you're giving to our city. Thank you. Bye. Thank you.
 Thank you for the report and keep up the good work. Aye. No thank you. Thank you for the report. Thank you for your work. And I want to extend my thanks to AARP and Elders in Action in particular for their engagement on transportation issues in the past year plus. Aye. Anything else?
 Well, we have lots of mentors in how to grow older well, and we appreciate the good counsel and advice of Elders in Action, AARP. One of my personal role models is Bud Clark, with whom I get to go on a 30-mile bike ride every year. So I'm impressed by that. And I think the greatest sage on this subject,
 i'll take a role from commissioner novick who's usually quoting music lyrics jimmy buffett said i'm growing older but not up my metabolic rate is pleasantly stuck so let the winds blow over winds of change blow over my head i'd rather die while i'm living than live while i'm dead so i think that spirit of how to grow older gracefully should be with all of us and with your good advice more people in portland will manage that thank you all right
 Thanks very much. Good work. Okay. All right. Let's move on to our third item this afternoon, which is 1160.
 160, direct the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to develop code language for council consideration to require deconstruction for the city's oldest and most historic houses and duplexes. Welcome this panel to begin this discussion this afternoon. Just a couple of comments. We have a lot of work to do in this city to preserve the great old buildings that we have. There's been too much demolition.
 and demolition done too carelessly. There's some
 Pretty salient concerns in our community right now about health, and that's one reason why we need to do this more carefully, to remove asbestos and other hazardous materials when houses are demolished more carefully than we have in the past. I think if we pay any attention to what's going on in our city right now, we realize that issues like elevated levels of cadmium or asbestos or arsenic are serious threats to the public health.
 Secondly, job creation is something that even in a good economy we ought to keep thinking about, and deconstruction of homes creates more jobs than tearing them down with a track hoe. There's also opportunity here to prioritize opportunities for folks that haven't necessarily had opportunities in the construction industry before. Thank you.
 Reducing waste and meeting our carbon goals are something this whole council is committed to and that this Bureau is committed to, and this is one more way to do that because homes sent to the landfill is a huge loss in terms of material and a huge load on the environment.
 So I appreciate the thought behind this work and the folks in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability who have brought us this proposal this afternoon. And with that, I'll hand it over to Susan and her team to take it away from there. Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon. Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And with me here today are Elisa Kane and Sean Wood. And we're here to talk about deconstruction as an alternative to traditional demolition.
 so we all know portland has been recognized as a sustainability leader for years we've shown our leadership on everything from recycling to storm water management to green building we recycle about 70 percent of our trash we have 350 lead certified buildings and since 1990 we've cut our carbon emissions 35 percent per person but in the midst of all this uh there's still a lot of work
 to be done. And so one area in particular that we want to talk about today is construction waste and demolition. Currently about 20 percent of the garbage, the stuff that still goes to the landfill, is construction waste and demolition waste. And while we build very efficient buildings and more sustainable buildings all the time in Portland, the standard practice when we tear them down is to just demolish them, sending most of the waste to the landfill.
 Deconstruction helps to salvage quality materials for reuse. The benefits are twofold. First, we keep materials out of the landfill, and second, we also avoid the energy waste and other wastes from creating new materials to put into our homes.
 So one reason we're focusing on deconstruction now, as you know, is you asked us to come back with this report, is the uptick in demos throughout the city. We all know that demos are happening in the city, and some of those are happening because structures are old and they're dilapidated. But many others are also happening because of market demand.
 We may not want those homes to be torn down and demolished, but if they are, we want to make sure that we do it right. Whatever we can do to reduce waste, to salvage great materials, and to improve and protect human health are things that we want to put into code.
 So, what we're proposing today is a first step. It's a resolution, and then we will come back with an ordinance by May, so we're moving quickly on this. The resolution has been vetted through a couple dozen meetings at least, and has the support of both the Landmarks Commission and the Planning and Sustainability Commission. So I'll pass this on to Elisa and Sean, and we'll go through the specifics of the resolution.
 Thank you. Great. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Elisa Kane, the Green Building Manager with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And this is such an exciting day for us because with your approval of this resolution, we will be the first city in the nation to address some of the concerns
 impacts of demolition in a way that actually benefits our whole community. So when we talk about demolition, I think we've all been by a site like this, whether on your way to work or in your own neighborhood. It's quite jarring to see a home that maybe had residents in it a month ago come down. And often, through traditional demolition, it'll come down in about a day's time. It's usually a backhoe on site and a couple of dumpsters, and it's gone. Right.
 The materials have no chance to be reused, and most of them end up actually in the landfill. So there's no actual benefit to anything that comes out of that house. And those houses are made up of our old forests, and they're made up of our old craftspeople who poured over those sites 100 years ago and really was an important part of our development as Portland.
 And we're not here today to argue about if a building should come down, but if it should have to come down, we think there's a better way, and that is through deconstruction. And deconstruction is a more systematic disassembly of a structure with the intent to maximize the salvage of those materials.
 and it can be done by hand. It can also include some mechanic equipment. It can often take a couple of weeks whereas a demolition can happen in a day but we're talking about one to two weeks at times so there are additional considerations around time and labor costs for deconstruction but we also think there's a lot of benefits to be had there.
 When we talk about demolition, and I've even seen it at council here, there's a universe of concerns that come up around waste is one. We've already established that. Hazardous materials, very importantly. The loss of historic resources. We've had conversations around affordability as it relates to demolitions, compatibility, and then who gets to know what's going to happen. I've had...
 residents call me and say, there was a house next door to me yesterday, and I came home from work and it's gone. And I think that really can be quite disruptive to communities. And some of these issues are being addressed in other avenues. Deconstruction doesn't necessarily mitigate for all of these things, but it does for some. And particularly compatibility issues are being addressed in the residential infill project. We're going to be looking at compatibility and affordability issues there. We've had conversations at council about the delay in notification.
 But deconstruction starts to mitigate around the things around waste and resulting carbon emissions, hazardous materials, importantly, and the preservation. And it has one additional benefit, and the mayor touched on this, about job training.
 So I'll run through the benefits just very briefly here. You know, one of the biggest ones around waste is the carbon benefit. By those materials not going to the landfill, you know, we're talking about 20 metric tons of CO2 saved per house. And if you're talking about 300, 350 homes every year, you know, every house that's saved is four cars off the road.
 And, you know, in deconstruction, we're looking at a low reuse rate of 50% all the way up to 98% of a house. A lot of it depends on what's in it, the condition it was in when it turns over. In terms of hazardous materials, there's a lot of benefits there around deconstruction. It produces significantly less dust.
 And because deconstruction is a more deliberate process, and there are people on the site, you discover unabated materials like asbestos. So if you pull out an old cabinet set, oftentimes the flooring underneath had asbestos. During the initial walkthrough with the abatement company, they couldn't see through those walls, and they find it. Work stops at that point. Abatement companies are called. It's handled properly. It's disposed of properly. It doesn't get pulverized and emitted as dust into the...
 into the neighbor's yard and others. I also want to point out that that doesn't just affect the person right next door. It affects the people who work on the site, so the demolition contractors. It affects the people who are sorting, and it affects up to many hundreds of feet away. So it's not just a contained site. So one of the questions around affordability often comes up around deconstruction. As I've mentioned, deconstruction can cost more. There are labor costs associated. It doesn't always cost more.
 The affordability of the homes being demolished. So we took an average of the sale price of all the homes that have been demolished in the last couple of years, and the sales price for that was $175,000. And then we found average replacement costs, not specifically on that site, but just the average market values. You can see there's a pretty big chasm between the home that gets lost and the homes that get replaced.
 And I'm not going to say that every house deserves to have another 100 years with us. There are some homes that need to come down because of condition or because we're trying to meet our density goals. But the salvage benefits start to take an impact on affordability.
 Affordable materials come out of these things, so people who are either renting or want to fix their homes up can have access to affordable materials. It also has fed into a lot of temporary housing opportunities, such as Dignity Village. And then in some areas, and specifically you'll hear from Habitat for Humanity, actually the deconstruction of homes leads to affordable homes because it's helping support their affordable housing efforts. Thank you.
 And lastly, you know, one of the questions we've gotten about is, if this resolution passes, is there an industry out there that can support this? The industry already exists. You'll hear from a lot of those folks today. There's people who are doing the training today. We will also have someone from Oregon Tradeswoman that has a program right now that is training people who are pre-apprentice with a good career pathway into the construction industry. They're being trained on deconstruction right now. Those programs will need to be expanded, and I think it will, again, provide support
 Excellent opportunities for people of color, women, and other historically underrepresented groups in construction. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Sean to talk about the process about how we got here. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm Sean Wood. So I just want to give a little bit of background, and we've been here a couple of times, so some of this may sound familiar. But back in February of 2015, at the conclusion of a hearing on demolition delay and notification, the mayor asked BPS to develop an advisory group on deconstruction so we could look at ways of advancing deconstruction as an alternative to demolition
 in the City of Portland. We established that advisory group back in April and have met a total of 14 times since we first started meeting. That group is a really robust cross-section, I think, of stakeholders in all of this. So we have the development community, the neighborhoods, and the salvage industry all present at those meetings.
 And one of the first things we came up with, and this was back in June, is we approached council with a recommendation to start off with a phased approach for deconstruction.
 And as a first phase, we would look at a grant program, so a voluntary incentive-based first step. We kicked that program off in September. Meanwhile, the advisory group kept meeting, knowing that we wanted to come back in January of 2016 with additional recommendations on those next steps. We're pretty close to January. It's February now, so I apologize for not quite meeting that deadline. Okay.
 But what we did is developed recommendations for that next step, which is why we're here today. And it is a resolution that would direct the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to create code language that requires projects seeking a demolition permit for a one- or two-family structure, so that's a house or a duplex, to fully deconstruct that structure if the house was built in 1916 or earlier or as a designated historic resource.
 And by historic resource, I mean landmarks, contributing structures in conservation and historic districts, as well as projects that are listed on the historic resource inventory. One of the things we learned from our advisory group is not all houses are historic.
 suitable for deconstruction. So in developing code language, we'd make sure that there are exemptions for hazardous structures that potentially pose an immediate public hazard or are unsuitable for deconstruction due to rot or fire or mold
 And you're probably wondering why 1916. It seems like a relatively arbitrary date. And what I'm going to try to do here with the next series of slides is distill nine months' worth of advisory group meetings down to 60 seconds. So here it goes. Okay.
 When we look at the universe of buildings, we've got single-family structures, multifamily structures, and commercial structures. All of these buildings have great materials in them, some more than others. We know from our advisory group that any kind of requirement, we want to keep simple.
 We don't want to flood the market with too many materials because the value of those materials offsets the cost of deconstruction. We want to make sure there's sufficient labor in place to actually accomplish this additional work. And we want to make sure it's done in a safe and effective manner and that these requirements are successful. So that requires a measured approach.
 I'm going to narrow this down to 1916. Commercial buildings, there's a lot of great material in these. However, they're not very homogenous in terms of how they were constructed. Brick, masonry, concrete, steel, wood, all different types of framing. They're all different types of sizes. Let's eliminate those.
 multi-family, similar challenges with commercial structures, various materials, different sizes. There's also only a handful of these taken down in any given year. So that leads us to houses and duplexes.
 There are about 300 demolitions a year when it comes to single-family structures. While it would be great to deconstruct all of those, getting back to kind of our guarded approach coming out of the advisory group, we need to narrow this down. So if we've got a universe of homes, let's split those into thirds, kind of pre-war, post-war, and then houses that are over 100 years old.
 1965 to present, that's when adhesives were introduced, so it makes the buildings harder to deconstruct and also the material quality starts to go down. Similarly, post-war, no adhesives but material, second growth lumber, hollow corridors, those are the types of things we see in those houses. So not as good a candidate for a first step.
 When we look at pre-war, this is the cream of the crop. These are the best materials. We're talking old growth, lumber, hardwood floors, solid core doors. If we were to draw the line just in material value, this is where we'd end up.
 But that's 66% or two-thirds of all the house demolitions. That's too big of a first step to take. So we started looking at, well, what are our oldest and most historic homes? Those are the ones that are over 100 years old, and they represent a third of all the demolitions, so roughly 100 a year.
 Historic, we want to put that in there for obvious reasons. Anything that the city has, or the nation in fact, has designated as a historic resource, if that building has to come down, we want to see it deconstructed and those materials live on. So that's how we ended up with 1916 or older.
 This is a more finer-grained breakdown of the age of structure and the number of demolitions. So you can see the proposed kind of first phase would be 33% of all demolitions, which is that 100 years old or older. Historic demolitions represent less than 1%, so it's not a huge, huge number. Moving in 1917 to 1930, that number goes up to 27%. That's a big...
 That would be a big step and something we could consider in later phases. There are geographic components to this. If we're talking about pre-1917 homes, we're talking about streetcar era homes, areas close in, north, northeast, and southeast. When, you know, Selwood along Foster, even some in St. John's.
 We don't see a whole lot of 100-year-old or older homes east of 82nd Avenue or even in large parts of Southwest.
 If the resolution were passed today, looking at next steps, as Susan mentioned, we would work with both our advisory group and the Bureau of Development Services and the city attorney to craft code language that would work towards meeting this resolution. Those code languages.
 The code requirements would go into effect in late October of 2016. And as a way to check in and make sure we got that right, we would come back to council a year after the effective date of the requirements and just check in and see how things are going and report on the status of the program.
 the program, and then finally come back to council two years after the effective date and look at raising that bar. So bringing in additional houses up to the 1930s or starting to look at major renovations or commercial structures or multifamily structures.
 So that concludes staff's presentation. I wanted to end on this particular slide. This is a building on Northwest Marshall back in 1943. This structure came down. So demolitions isn't a new thing, nor is deconstruction in our city. And I like to think of this slide as
 what's old is new again in terms of both the salvage of these materials living on and then also deconstruction as an industry. It was something that we used to do as a city. We've sort of lost touch with that, and now we see that resurrection. So thank you, and we're happy to answer any questions you might have. A couple? I'd like you to just give us a – if you could address for a moment the –
 question of the capacity of the market to meet the demand that we will likely be creating by passing this. And so one of the things that I imagine will happen is we'll be creating lots of new businesses by creating this incentive. But in the short term, how would you assess our capacity both in terms of the firms that do the work and the facilities that receive the materials?
 So, you know, a big part of our advisory group was taking a first step that was manageable. So we knew we didn't want to take such a large first step that we end up flooding the industry with extra work and extra materials. There's currently a large demand for the actual materials, so I think that's less of a concern than the boots on the ground that would be responsible for deconstructing these buildings.
 All of the major deconstruction firms in the area have been part of our advisory group, and they feel strongly that they can, with training, which we'll hear a little bit about here later, is a critical component to meeting that additional demand.
 Between now and, you know, that effective date of late October, we'll be working with a bunch of different industry partners to establish training to meet that demand. Okay, and the other just question I had has to do with the public health dimension of this. You know, the mayor and his team has been very focused on the environmental impacts and how we might, through this effort, limit asbestos and other airborne pollutants. We've had an interesting discussion.
 We're having an interesting conversation about this question over the past couple of weeks and whether we have adequate federal and state laws and oversight. As part of this effort, do you contemplate looking at whether there are some local regulations we can adopt so in addition to the deconstruction, we can fill some gaps in the regulatory patchwork to make sure that asbestos abatement is done and is done professionally? MR.
 The Department of Environmental Quality is currently in their rulemaking process for final rules on requiring asbestos surveys for any demolition, house demolition. I know that BDS had asked them, the Bureau of Development Services, to consider demolition.
 as a requirement submitting that asbestos survey at time of demolition permit. I don't know if DEQ is going to take them up on that suggestion, but that would certainly help fill the gap. If BDS is the entity that is taking in the permits, DEQ can only request that survey if there's a complaint. So could I just make a suggestion? We keep learning.
 to our great frustration that there are either holes in the regulatory system that's set up over here that we rely on, or anytime we have a good idea, it gets preempted. And so maybe there is a third option here, which is at some point just to regulate. And if someone thinks we're out of line, let them take us to court, and we can defend what we're trying to do in terms of public health. But I think between those two...
 I think there's a growing frustration with the idea that somehow this responsibility has been delegated over here and there seem to be some holes, and then whenever we try to act, we're told we're preempted. It might be at some point an area where you give us a risk assessment and the council says, let's go. Yeah.
 And if it turns out we've overreached, fine. But in the interim, we've actually stood up for people's health rights in the interim. I do believe years ago, Margaret Mahoney, when she headed up what was a different, the combined planning and Bureau of Development Services, we looked at were there options for local codes related to health, energy efficiency, and ADA requirements that we could do?
 do an addition to. We found very limited, but it was exactly what you were saying. We could have done it and then had someone push back and decide whether or not we really could, whether it was interpretation, which is allowable, versus local code. Susan, you love to push the envelope. We're going to get sued no matter what we do and we'll likely be preempted no matter what we do.
 I think it ought to just be part of the conversation. What kind of local steps could we take and then see if we can defend our actions?
 Any other questions for the Bureau? MS. First, I want to compliment you and the Bureau for this very elegant way of addressing the demolition challenge coming back after the demolition tax proposal. I think this is a much more nuanced and careful and has had a lot of community input in it. So I want to thank everybody for your participation in this and your leadership in particular.
 Part of the impetus for it, though, is that we want to discourage demolishing of good old houses. So I'm not necessarily persuaded that we shouldn't do the 1917 to 1930 range if we want...
 And I've been taught by my colleague, Commissioner Novick, about how supply and demand should fit the market with Uber. And so maybe we should just open up a lot more homes that would be available for demolition or deconstruction. When you think about – I appreciate the explanation of why not multifamily and also why starting with 1916. I also remember Commissioner Novick admonishing parks to consider the heritageness of trees earlier so that they could enjoy their heritageness for longer.
 And the question when I first heard it was 1916. I was like, well, we're going to keep moving that.
 goalpost, I think there is a case to be made for 1930 as the beginning of the Great Recession, or the middle of the Great Recession, presumably homes at that point started getting made with less quality materials. I think getting, even though that's now 60%, that's not necessarily a bad thing. If we are much more careful and thoughtful about demolishing 60% of our homes, that would also accomplish the goals.
 So I'd like us to hear testimony and consider that. At the very least, I would suggest an amendment that not just the structure is a designated historic resource, but also requiring deconstruction in historic conservation districts.
 certainly for contributing structures as well as designated structures. So those are things that I'd like to hear some testimony about and for us to consider. And maybe a reaction about is it administratively feasible to take that next tier of houses into the program, in your opinion? We can tell you our opinion, which is basically formed from what we heard from the industry, which is,
 hold on, it's a fire hose. If you shoot it all at us at once, we may fail, and we don't want to fail. And so I'd like, as people come up to testify, for you to ask them a little bit, some of that, so that you can get that here. Would they just say, no, I can't do that? You know, just like any other company, if you've got to, you know, they would say...
 I have a six-month waiting list. Well, fair enough. And then there would be other companies who say, look, there's a niche here. We're going to come on board. We shouldn't be crafting our permits for...
 The only experience I have that's familiar to this is when we suddenly made more energy efficiency requirements. They did the exact same thing and they rolled it in over a two-year period, which is more what we're talking about, because the industry needed to get there. And you would have had really shoddy work, and we don't want to have poor work done.
 I agree with you. We need to get there. I'm just not sure we need to do it tomorrow. We may want to roll it in over two years or something. As I said, I want to listen to testimony about that. I just wanted everybody to know that's concerns I have. Commissioner, on the Uber analogy, I would note that we didn't pass any legislation requiring a certain percentage of the population to take taxis everywhere. And I would have been hesitant to do that without making absolutely sure that there was an adequate supply of private for hire service. Duly noted.
 Other questions for the Bureau or other reactions from you? Okay. We'll probably be calling on you again. I know we have some invited testimony in two panels here, and then we have public testimony after that. So let me thank this group and call Stephen Reichard, Joe Connell, and Travis Phillips as our first panel. Good afternoon and welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Stephen Reichard, and I serve as the Executive Director of the Rebuilding Center.
 The rebuilding center deconstructs homes and occasionally commercial structures, salvaging up to 85 percent of the materials for resale in our warehouse on North Mississippi Avenue. We estimate that eight tons of materials come into and leave the store on a daily basis. Each year we sell over $1.5 million of salvaged goods, prices of 10 to 60 percent of the retail costs, saving over 60,000 customers over $2 million off of retail on an annual basis, reducing the cost of their projects.
 while recycling roughly 3,000 tons of materials annually. We provide employment to 30 individuals, roughly 50% of whom are people of color, several are ex-felons. We offer a minimum starting salary of $12.50 an hour with full health benefits and three to four weeks paid vacation, depending on the length of tenure. And our profits, such as they are,
 are reinvested into the community through our community outreach program. And we also donate tens of thousands of dollars of materials to various organizations around town annually, including many that address the issue of homelessness, such as Dignity Village, Right to Dream 2, and Hazelnut Grove.
 I serve on the Deconstruction Advisory Group to the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and in that capacity I've attempted to offer to the advisory group the knowledge that the Rebuilding Center has as an organization with more than 15 years of experience in the deconstruction industry. The Rebuilding Center offers its strong support for the resolution that is before council today. By our estimate, roughly 30 homes were deconstructed in the Portland area in 2015, of which the Rebuilding Center deconstructed 15 homes.
 Although the resolution, which we believe may triple or even quadruple the number of homes to be constructed, is ambitious, we believe it is very doable. There are three scaling issues that arise with respect to this proposal.
 The first is scaling the workforce so that we can deconstruct the homes in need of demolition within the timeframes that are acceptable to the deconstruction industry. Secondly, scaling our ability to move the additional product that will materialize as a result of the increase in the number of deconstructed homes. And thirdly, scaling market demand for that additional product. We have begun to address all three issues. We believe it will require some 25 to 40 new deconstructionists to perform the additional work.
 and it is admittedly difficult to hire skilled tradespeople in the current building boom. That said, we have already begun working with partners around the community, partners such as Constructing Hope, Oregon Tradeswomen, Portland Opportunities Industrialization Center, and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, amongst others, to design a training program that will allow us to ramp up in a timely manner to meet the increased demand for services.
 Increased deconstruction in the associated jobs will provide a valuable workforce development opportunity. These jobs can pay well with good benefits. It is our intention at the Rebuilding Center to seize this opportunity to also advance an equity agenda, focusing our hiring on people of color, women, ex-felons, veterans, et cetera.
 With regards to the two additional scaling issues, being able to move product and scaling demand, we have examined our market and we know that we sell 40% of all of our product in the five contiguous zip codes around the rebuilding center. We are the largest single merchandiser of salvage products in the Portland area, but our zip code analysis indicates that there is substantial room for growth in the marketplace. To address the challenge of distributing the additional materials, we have begun a close partnership with Habitat for Humanity's Restores.
 In addition to the three local restores, there are nine other stores between Eugene and Longview. Joe Connell, the manager of the local stores, has been pestering me for some time now.
 to provide him with salvaged wood for sale in his store. We tested his promise in January. Joe took two loads of wood off of us, and he rapidly sold those in his restores. So we believe that the market will easily absorb the additional materials that will materialize as a result
 of the adoption of this resolution. Finally, on the matter of asbestos that has risen before the Council today, I'd like to share with the Council the results of a study that we conducted last fall on behalf of the Office of Planning and Sustainability regarding asbestos. Prior to conducting a whole house deconstruction, we hire or ask the client to hire a firm to assess the home for asbestos and, if asbestos is found, to abate the home.
 Thus, prior to beginning any deconstruction, the homes that we deconstruct have been certified asbestos-free. We looked at the 51 whole house deconstructions that we performed in 2013 through 2015. And of those 51 homes that had been declared asbestos-free before we began work, we found asbestos in 26 of those homes.
 The only conclusion I can draw from this study is that deconstruction offers the only foolproof method of eliminating the risk of asbestos exposure. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you for having me. My name is Joe Connell. I'm the Vice President of Retail Operations for the Portland Habitat for Humanity.
 Before I read my statement, you sparked a thought earlier with your story about Rome. And I was looking at the recent National Geographic, and on the cover was a picture of London and the demo work they're doing or the digging they're doing there and the thousand years of stuff they're uncovering.
 So it came to mind when you were speaking about reading about that and how they would tear apart and reuse, tear apart and reuse and build layer upon layer upon layer to make that city what it is. So it echoes consciousness.
 kind of what you were saying earlier. And my other thought there was I'm from rural Maine and we didn't throw things away. We would tear things apart and reuse them as part of our culture. The nearest Home Depot was an hour and 40 minutes away. So it wasn't
 quick on our on our list to get to so things went to the dump and uh yes bryce it was called a dump it was not a transfer station because everything just got dumped there but the advantage to it was that we could glean stuff from it um i was often there on a saturday afternoon pulling stuff back out of there so very little went to waste compared to what our modern urban culture is used to so that's part of my motivation and the work i do and part of why i'm here so
 I'll read now, sorry. As you know, Habitat for Humanity builds affordable homes with community support, and one of our ways of supporting this work is through our restores. All funds from the sale of materials in our stores help to build affordable homes. Our work is supported by the community in many ways, and the one way in which we see the most growth potential at this point is in increasing our materials donation base and growing our stores.
 Our present three stores are salvaging about 13 million pounds of material annually, but we believe there is the potential for far more. We are now planning to open three more stores and expand our deconstruction operations to build our capacity to double that amount in the next several years. This would more than double our fundraising for affordable housing as well and enable Portland Habitat and our neighbors to build an additional 14 homes per year.
 In looking to build our deconstruction program, we have already started partnering with Rebuilding Center to start priming our customers for salvage lumber. We are also talking to deconstruction contractors about setting up partnerships that would allow us to do a hybrid-type decon where they would take the building down and our volunteers and staff could capture the salvage materials.
 This model has been successfully utilized in other markets such as Raleigh, North Carolina, and allows for the capture of materials through decon with quicker timing and lower cost. Several of us are traveling next month to Raleigh for the National Deconstruction Conference to learn more from others around the nation, and Raleigh in particular.
 In conclusion, we support the recommendation before the council, understanding that this is a bold and balanced step for the city, the salvage industry, developers, and demolition contractors. We also understand that as the market adjusts, so too should the city's requirements with the ultimate goal of deconstructions, far outnumbering demolitions. Thank you again for this opportunity and for your leadership. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Council. My name is Travis Phillips. I am the Manager of Housing and Development for Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives, or PCRI. I think several of you already know we own over 800 units of single- and multifamily affordable housing here in the city of Portland, located in over 30 neighborhoods. We believe that everyone should be able to afford a safe, stable, and healthy home.
 We develop affordable housing for families to rent and for first-time homebuyers. We were created by the community over 20 years ago. And because of all this, it's very important that we are sensitive to and responsive to the needs and desires of the neighbors where we own and where we develop these homes.
 Deconstruction, as one of those sensitivities, is well aligned with our goals to be good neighbors and good stewards of the environment. We save homes where it makes sense, but we can improve density and opportunity and affordability in cases where it doesn't make sense to save homes.
 We also know that low-income families are disproportionately impacted by the disparate health impacts and negative environmental conditions, so we're especially sensitive to health when we develop homes and in cases where we replace a home that was already existing. That sensitivity includes the health of the people and the health of the environment.
 So to kind of hit on a couple of the issues that I think are critical when it comes to deconstruction, to provide affordable homes, cost obviously is a concern. To achieve affordability, we have to keep our costs in check. Deconstruction costs, and deconstruction is a method that we've used on several projects over the course of probably at least and maybe more than 10 years.
 We see that deconstruction costs vary from project to project depending on the site conditions, the value of the material. In the best case scenario, including the most recent development where we've got some new homes that are actually under construction now, deconstruction was cost neutral to the project and it only added a very small amount of time to the overall project timeline. We've seen some other scenarios where there might be a $2,000 or $5,000 cost differential for deconstruction versus demolition.
 But I think one of the real benefits is by its nature deconstruction is more controlled. It minimizes dust and debris compared to machine demolition. We've certainly talked about the difference as it has to do with abating and controlling asbestos.
 And it also includes, although to a different degree, lead, which currently I think is one of perhaps not as easy to deal with because you can't remove lead from a property in the same way that you can remove asbestos. But by deconstruction, as a manual process,
 ensures that we minimize the amount of lead dust that's put into the environment, and it allows us to control what and where lead-contaminated materials go when we have to dispose of those. Can I just stop you there for one sec? Because every time we mention lead, people start having visions of Flint, Michigan, and then they go out and buy bottled water. So just a quick – just to make sure that we're all –
 We have no lead in our water system. And we don't even have lead in the connectors from the main pipes to the homes. If there is lead in anyone's water, it may be because of household plumbing. And the homes that are particularly suspect were infill homes between 1970 and 1985. And apparently the reason is lead.
 that there was from time to time people then used lead in the soldering and that's one of the reasons why the water bureau at no cost to our customers offers a free lead testing kit and i'm i'm testing my water next tuesday uh marin and uh on camera and i'm gonna ask my colleagues to do it too but it's we do not have lead in our water we do not have lead in our water distribution system
 But it is possible that lead was used in the soldering of houses of a certain vintage. And that's why we encourage people to test. And if you're not sure and you're worried, you have two other options, which you can buy a filter. Actually, the two options are a filter to be absolutely safe.
 or do a test but the test is is very easy even i can do it so if people are concerned and have homes between 70 and 85 we they can go to a water bureau website get a free kit and then we'll test it for you and let you know if there's a problem thank you thank you for that public service announcement thank you
 So I mentioned that as it had to do with lead, the manual process of deconstruction really helps minimize any lead dust that workers are exposed to, that any neighbors are exposed to, or that perhaps ends up out of sight. I think that's very important to be mindful of our health.
 Being a manual process, deconstruction, as we've talked about a little bit here too, though, equals more labor and more opportunity for living wage jobs. And as a provider of affordable housing and knowing that the amount of housing that is affordable to many working families in Portland right now isn't keeping up with the need, the opportunity to provide jobs is very important, too.
 to help us bridge that gap and to ensure that folks are self-sufficient, which is certainly an end goal that I think we all have. I do just want to bring up very briefly a couple of considerations and perhaps challenges that I've seen and I'm sort of aware of with the potential for deconstruction. I think that the folks from BPS touched on this a little bit,
 But there are relatively few contractors and a smallish workforce at this stage that perform and specialize in deconstruction. So I do think we should be very mindful of a widespread rollout to ensure that we can do a good job with it, to ensure that we can ramp up the workforce. And I would say I also tend to agree with the idea of, in fact, that ramp up so that organizations like
 like Habitat for Humanity and the Rebuilding Center can train those workers and ensure that we do good quality deconstruction and don't have folks who are put in a situation to not do things the way that we want them to.
 And so I think taking some time to be mindful and make sure that we do a good job of bridging that skills gap and bringing folks up to speed and ensuring that there is the capacity to continue to do good work with this is great.
 And then I think just the only other note that I would make is that because many of the homes built at the point in time that we're talking about have at some point in time or have the possibility of lead paint and other lead materials and lead hazards, there are some limits to utilize existing training programs where folks in the training program perhaps don't have lead certification.
 and to increase that workforce. So that needs to be considered, and there definitely needs to be a mindfulness of expanding and adapting the programs to address that consideration as well so that folks do know how to handle things properly so that folks are safe, so the workers aren't exposed to things that we don't want them to be to, and they have the appropriate skills to do that.
 But that all said, I am in support of it. We have used deconstruction many times. It's been a fantastic opportunity to really gain some support of neighborhood where removing an existing home makes sense. And certainly the neighbors that we've worked with have been much friendlier having gone through the deconstruction process versus machine demolition. So I do support moving forward. Thank you. Other questions for this panel?
 thank you all very much thank you i have another panel to call and then we'll go to public testimony uh that is stacy edwards amy james neal mary helen kincaid and barbara kerr i think we'll need to pull up one more chair to get all four of you here if you're all four here but just grab a chair as you come up and make it work nope susan's got one for you okay good afternoon maybe we're missing
 Oh, Stacy's not here. Okay, false alarm about the chairs. Welcome. Hi. My name is Amy James-Neal, and I'm the construction manager and job developer at Oregon Tradeswomen. Oregon Tradeswomen is a state-certified pre-apprenticeship training program that prepares low-income women for careers in the construction trades. And these are high-wage jobs that we're preparing these women for.
 So as a way to get our students hands-on construction experience, we partner with nonprofits and need construction work done, and we perform that work for free. So for the last six months, we've been working out the Living Kully project. This building operated as a strip club for more than a decade until it was purchased by the Living Kully partners. And...
 We have been performing the deconstruction on that building, the interior deconstruction. So it is a method to get this building more attractive to potential tenants to take over the building and be an asset to the community. We've been doing all of the deconstruction on the interior of the building.
 So, with some really intensive safety training and some keen oversight, our students have done all of the work so far, which includes tearing out all of the interior walls, some of which were load-bearing, some of which were just partition walls. We've removed posts and beams, doors, metal clads, firebreak panels, cabinetry appliances, all of the fixtures.
 Carpeting, subfloor, all of the materials that were salvageable within the building. And although in our program, it's just a seven-week program, and our students only have five days of hands-on experience, all of this work was performed by these students, and it was entirely by the students. My students that come into my program have very little to no experience working on a crew with power tools or in the construction industry at all. And again, all of this happened over the course of five days on the project.
 So by the end of these five days, not only did these women learn the skills that it takes to enter these high-wage apprenticeship jobs, but they also, in doing so, in the training process, we salvaged hundreds of board feet of lumber and, again, all of those materials that would have otherwise been diverted to the landfill.
 And to be honest, I'm a carpenter of 25 years. I was a little... This is the first time that I've done a major deconstruction project with a group of students before. And I wasn't sure how it would go, how much they would be able to do as a group of novices. But I was...
 really surprised that with very little training, just some intensive training and some really good oversight, that they were willing to do all of that work and they were able to do all of the work. And what I also learned is that if we are determined to make deconstruction a part of Portland's values, there are people that are willing and able to do this work. And as a side note, students that participated in this project, doing the deconstruction on this project, many of them are now pursuing deconstruction as a career.
 as a career. So if they're exposed to the opportunities and there are jobs at the end of my training and they know about these jobs, they want this work. It's really good entry-level work into high-wage construction careers.
 So, and additionally, as an educator, as their teacher, and as somebody who's been in the construction industry for a really long time, I'm the one who's tasked with teaching these people. This is the future of the construction industry. This is the face of the future of the construction industry. And I don't want to be the one to tell them that our industry does not value natural resources or that we don't have a responsibility in reducing waste. I don't want to teach them that the industry standard is to crush a building and put it in a landfill. I don't want to be the one to tell them that.
 We teach our students at Oregon Tradeswomen that all of the materials in a building have an embodied energy. There is an environmental impact to every component of that building and a resulting reliance on fossil fuels and carbon emissions associated with all of those components. So I want to continue to teach that the future of building requires that we preserve resources and that we value reuse and recycling. And I'd appreciate the city of Portland reinforcing the message that I already teach my students in the classroom by our actions in the field.
 So I'm personally committed as their trainer to doing what it takes, being an integral part of building up the people that are going to be necessary to do this work. I will be part of that training to meet that industry demand. My students want this work. And I invite any of you to come out and check out my students on this project. Come watch them do the work of deconstruction. It's really great work. Thanks for your leadership. Thank you. Thanks very much. Do you support the proposal as written? I do support the proposal. Thank you.
 My name is Barbara Kerr. I am the United Neighborhoods for Reform representative on the Deconstruction Advisory Group. Just move the microphone over. There you go. Thank you. I wondered what she was doing. Okay.
 First off, I want to really thank Sean and Alyssa and the BPS for an incredible job on a committee that represented competing interests, but I felt that we were all heard and it was constructive, absolutely constructive. I'm hesitating because I've been hearing so many fantastic things today. There really isn't any reason for me to go over all of the things I wanted to say.
 in terms of the benefits, et cetera, because we've had such incredible testimony. I do want to say, you know, Sean and Alyssa have put in years waiting for this. And next year, it will be 40 years since I co-founded Rejuvenation. And it's been a long time coming, and I'm real excited, real excited. Okay, so UNR feels...
 that we want to be sure that as we adopt deconstruction as the way Portland removes buildings if they can't be relocated, we want to be sure that that definition is maintained that it has to do with maximizing reuse. We don't want to see
 Any of the incredible standards that our existing deconstructionists have set be lessened in any way. We don't want there to be greenwashing where people claim that because we're deconstructing that means it's okay to take the building down if we're saving materials and we are deconstructing. There's a lot of definition and care that will have to go into the codes when they're written.
 Also want to be sure that it's well-defined because deconstruction can be complaint-driven enforcement, can function with complaint-driven enforcement as opposed to demolitions that go down in a couple of days. And so we want the public to know what deconstruction is and what it's not. We feel that mandatory deconstruction will be successful. There's clearly a reuse market. That's not a biggie. Okay.
 And that, but we also want it to be understood that all houses have potential for salvage or reuse. If the, typically 85% of the materials that come out can be reused, and even materials that can't be reused for their original use can be repurposed, as we know. But also, and here is our, you know, one of our biggest pushes, is that if the materials can't be reused, they still must be deconstructed to avoid the hazmat exposure.
 to be controlled in how they're removed. We feel that when the work is there, the existing businesses will expand. As we've heard today, we feel that also that abatement and demo companies will adapt. New businesses will start up. It's just a matter of having the houses
 having the supply of houses. Not that we are encouraging houses to be taken down. We're not. But if they have to be taken down and they're done by deconstruction, then the business will be there. The businesses will be there. The labor force will be there. Okay.
 It does cost developers a little more money and time sometimes, probably more often than not, but that's the cost of replacing with new construction. When they're not deconstructed, the building is being subsidized by the neighbors and the environment, and we just have to be clear about that.
 Deconstruction is not a detriment to affordable housing. The used building materials will help low-income people be able to repair their houses. In rejuvenation, oftentimes somebody can come in and they needed to fix their front door lock, and we could give them a mortise lock that would fit back in the hole. It meant that they didn't have to go and spend $150 for a new front door passage and have to hire a carpenter to put it in.
 besides the houses that are removed when houses are removed and demolished, are the affordable ones. The ones that replace them aren't. So we need to be clear about that. And with any change in health and safety regulations, there can be delay, and delay causes developers some money, and that's totally understood. But the delay in controlling the hazardous materials and the delay in reducing our carbon impact outweigh that, and we will adapt. Thank you.
 UNR urges that the resolution be amended to speed up the timeline. The materials and houses built in 1916 or before are irreplaceable and high quality, even in the smaller, less substantial homes. The 1920s, however, used the same old-growth lumber and even more built-ins and other features. With the advent of electrical appliances, people stopped employing servants,
 and started building smaller houses. The money was put into the quality materials and features. If you've ever seen what's often called a storybook house built in the 20s, they're gorgeous, and the woodwork, the tile, everything, the features are beautiful in there. So there's a whole lot that we would lose during that time. Besides the fact there are a lot of 20s houses and there are a lot of neighborhoods that are built of mostly 20s houses. Okay.
 The other thing about 20s houses was that was an era that had reacted to the germ theory, and so things were painted a lot. It was just the fashion. There's a lot of paint. Obviously, there's going to be some lead paint in there, which in terms of reuse is not a problem because it has, you know, what, 80, 90 years of paint over the top.
 and can be sealed in with new paint and can safely be removed if done right. However, if they're demolished, then that is pulverized and goes up into the air and becomes a major health issue. With increasing public concern, we feel that waiting to mandate a deconstruction plan
 any further is going to be a problem for the developers too because they're with you know people are going to start suing they have started suing there's a class action suit in flint there's one coming up in southeast portland they're going to have to deconstruct just to avoid that liability and the city will as well so we're asking we totally support this first step
 And we're asking that it could be amended to move up the timeline to increase the number of houses and save the resources and the health and safety that are involved in that next era. Thank you. Thanks very much. Mary Helen, good afternoon. I think I have left. Yep, you're on. I think I'm just going to move. You're on. You're on. The whole thing slides down. It works. Okay. Okay.
 Mary Helen Kincaid, I was a member of the destruction advisory group and sat on that committee as the DRAC chair. There were two other DRAC members, first Kristen Wells, and then she was followed by Phil Damiano who participated. They both had environmental concerns and that's why they wanted to participate.
 I, too, I'm not going to reiterate things, but I do want to say that the BPS staff did an excellent job. There was good representation from various businesses that participated at BPS.
 in varied ways with deconstruction and demolition. There were two community representatives, Barbara and I guess you could call me community, but I was more draft. There was no true neighborhood association recognized organization on the committee. I'll later kind of address that.
 BPS staff came to our January DRAC meeting and made a presentation. DRAC neither voted to support or oppose the proposal because they had too many questions. And so I kind of took the notes from that meeting so that I could relay those questions that DRAC had in regards to those questions.
 They were concerned of how the age of the house would be determined because not all the time are the records correct when in the records that BDS has and so there might be some way to
 fix the system because if the house is remodeled in 1970 and then it gets completely remodeled, then there's a lot of intricacies there. So that was one concern. Which historic designation would be used? Because we all know that the HRI is pretty much useless right now, but the good news is that BPS hired a historic planner and we'll hopefully be able to move forward on that. I wasn't going to name names, but I think we all know.
 The increased cost of deconstruction varies widely with who you ask. I heard Travis say that it was cost neutral. I've heard that it's $9,000 to $10,000, and a lot depends on what has to be done. Excavation is a big issue because when they deconstruct and there's a basement,
 part of the deconstruction does not include the excavation so then whoever is doing the building has to then hire someone to do that added excavation so there was a concern of how that cost would be covered and most people are pointing saying well the developer or the landowner should pay for that but
 it's only going to trickle downhill or uphill to the next buyer for affordable housing. So how that is tackled, I think, needs to be a very important piece of this to make it successful. I've been at a couple neighborhood meetings where there's been some good suggestions about incentives so that if most of your waste is just construction waste and that you get credit for what you deconstructed and didn't bring to the landfill and that they're...
 lesser fees for those people that are doing deconstruction, that the costs somehow be shared. And one of the DRAC members brought up, Herman Kolas brought this up. He said, why should I support an emerging industry? Why should I pay $9,000 more for an industry that's now emerging? And can we find a way to...
 help with the training, help with the cost to get those things more in line with what a mechanical demolition would essentially accomplish, but not in a way that some people would like. If someone chooses deconstruction, is there a way to lower fees? Is there a way to offer them an incentive, much like we do when we buy a refrigerator that's energy assistance? You get some sort of thing. And so I think there's those kind of options that have not been put into this.
 a feasibility study. Everybody says we can handle it, we can do it, but we've not seen cold hard numbers, and so would that happen? That was, there was a concern that there was only three full-time deconstruction companies in Portland, and that we would add to that burden, and I've heard today that they say they can take it on, so I don't know who's going to decide that, but that would be a concern, and yeah.
 Does less material to the landfill have unintended consequences? Are we going to put somebody out of business because they aren't hauling things to the landfill and we're taking 40% of waste away? What's going to happen to those people that were doing that? I know it's a kind of a social kind of issue, but will those people transform into another and can that be part of the issue? And then how would this be administered? Inspection costs, enforcement costs, all of those kinds of things need to be explored before –
 As Barbara mentioned, the complaint, everything's complaint driven. So I complain that I didn't like the way they did the deconstruction. What is a deconstruction? So that needs to be clearly defined. So going forward, I think I've been asked the question several times, would DRAC support this proposal? And I think they would with a lot of additions.
 And I can't speak because we have such a wide, varied, but those were their concerns with what they heard at the January meeting.
 I think the number one thing is a clear definition of deconstruction needs to be on the table, that there needs to be more community input. Barbara and I are not representative of the entire city. There was no outreach done to land use groups, neighborhood coalition chairs and directors meetings to get their feedback. I brought it up at a south neighborhood association meeting and a guy brought up the idea about incentives for dumping costs.
 I think there needs to be more of that because I think there's a lot of wisdom in our neighborhoods, and I think we need to involve them more in the conversation because they're the ones that are being most affected. I also think that there needs to be state regulatory people because I could go on forever about hazmat, control, asbestos, lead, who enforces, who does what. I really like your idea of the third option, but...
 of let's just do it, but as current history daily today is going on about state regulation of different things, as well as what I witnessed when I, when part of the demolition delay ordinance tried to get everybody in the room about lead and asbestos. There were 11 different bureaus and state agencies that came to that meeting.
 that all had different pieces. None of them were talking to each other. They all kind of had some familiarity. So it's a big task. But I think that hearing this today, I think that the city could take a lead and say, we want to fix this. We want to make it be better. And this is how we get those people in the room. We've already met two or three times. It might be a good opportunity to bring those people back to the table. OSHA and OHA and Multnomah County and the lead line. And I could go on and on.
 I think there needs to be a clearly defined process for permitting and inspection and enforcement because otherwise you're just going to have a lot of people saying, and no offense to all the colleagues and people that do this, but a lot of people are going to become deconstructors, and if there's no guidelines, then what happens? Mary Helen, I just want to stop you there for one second. Are some of these questions you're raising the kind of questions that people
 that can be addressed through the rulemaking process? Right, code, yeah. Code, because I'm trying to figure out where it's... I think they need to be specifically requested that these questions be answered. Well, I think they're all, yeah, I'm making a list, and they're very thoughtful questions, but they could, in fact, be addressed, many of these could be addressed through the code, right? The definitions, the...
 I don't think you should set a date. I mean, well, either way, I think we need to answer these questions before we implement this program. Well, one of the questions that I would have is, does the mayor intend to bring back the proposed code language to council? In which case, would we have that? Yes. So if...
 That's the only way to get it to be code. Sure. No, I understand that. Well, there's some stuff I think we can delegate. But if the intention is to bring code back, then that would be at least an insurance policy on some of the things that you're raising. And we could also request a certain level of outreach between now and then to get these voices.
 Okay. I agree, but I think the concern was that there wasn't a lot of neighborhood input other than Barbara's voice and me being out there in the land use world. But I think we need to have public forums tell people what it is and how that needs to be a piece. So those are the concerns. I addressed the concerns at DRAC about the equity and the funding and how it would affect
 affect affordable housing that comes after. That was a big one. And then the question of
 who really pays you know if we're paying if it if it is the difference between nine thousand one thousand is five thousand bucks who how is that five thousand dollars going to be absorbed into the process and why not share that cost with the industry with an incentive with some other because right now it's focused laser focused on the development industry and i think that um
 They can surely be a participant in the process, but I think all it's going to do is add to the cost of affordable housing, and there's other ways to get at that, incentivizing people to do deconstruction. So I think that's it. Thank you very much. So questions for this panel? Thank you all very much.
 So let's turn to public testimony, and folks, come on up. And again, obviously we have a great deal of information already, so if what you've already heard answers your concerns, feel free to be brief. We have 21 people signed up. The first three police coming up are Terry Parker, Jim Brown, and John Sandy, and they'll be followed by Al Ellis, Margaret Davis, and Scott Yelton. Thank you.
 Thank you for the opportunity to testify. My name is Terry Parker. I'm a fourth-generation Portlander, and today I'm speaking as a member of the steering committee of UNR.
 For a city that prides itself promoting reuse and recycling, why does this resolution still allow single-family homes built after 1960 to be mechanically demolished with reusable materials literally being crushed using a diesel smoke-belching excavator? The delay in fully implementing a deconstruction mandate appears to be a development community claptrap fabrication that suggests the deconstruction and reusing building materials industry will fall short.
 The preservation of existing homes needs to be top priority. However, when a home is slated for removal, the sustainability and preservation tools are found within the deconstruction toolbox.
 The reuse of building materials lessens the need for new raw materials, including new lumber from growing trees, while preserving historical artifacts such as period window frames, interior moldings and trim, and other materials of character that otherwise could not be replaced. The marketplace for these products currently has an unmet demand for both restoration and repair work and for repurposing uses.
 There is also a need for more livable wage jobs within the community. As compared to mechanical demolition, deconstruction can create significantly more jobs, including entry-level jobs that can lead to higher-paying jobs. With a truck, some tools, the proper training, and the will to work hard, deconstruction supports the creation of numerous small business jobs.
 small family and minority businesses that in theory could even dominate the local deconstruction industry. In the 1920s, Portland was in the midst of a new home building boom. These homes are of high quality construction built with old growth lumber. Extending and amending the deconstruction mandate to include homes built in the years from 1917 to 1930 cannot come soon enough. It is a crime not to preserve the irreplaceable lumber and reuse the materials from these homes.
 Instead of accepting delay and waiting a year or two after an effective date of October 16 to take the next step, a fast-paced track to full implementation of the deconstruction mandate should be viewed as an opportunity to both create new jobs and add even more vibrancy to an already thriving reuse marketplace. The City Council needs to pass this resolution and take the Field of Dreams approach, require deconstruction, promote the reuse process,
 of deconstruction materials, assist in early training, and then watch the industry soar to new heights. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Jim Brown. Address for the last 36 years is 3407 Northeast 27th. I've lived in the Grant High School area for about 70 years.
 I recently retired from five years as land use committee chairman for Alameda Neighborhood Association. Our most frequent contacts from homeowners concerned destruction of livable homes and construction of new homes that appear out of character for the neighborhood. That said, certainly demolition of a perfectly good house is a waste. What is worse, the waste is compounded by the current practice of smashing and trashing.
 Homes built in the 1920s and even some up to the 1950s contain old-growth Douglas fir lumber. Deconstruction yields wood of a quality that is not available from today's commercial forests. This old wood is denser and stronger, has a higher resin content, and is more durable. Present-day lumber comes from trees that are farmed, managed to grow quickly, and often harvested at an age of as little as 40 years. .
 Today's lumber is adequate to meet current structural standards, but is not fine-grained. Large, old-growth posts and beams from deconstruction are resurfaced and reused for structural purposes, often left exposed for their unique appearance. Smaller lumber is reused, remilled, and or repurposed by local small businesses to manufacture furniture, moldings, and cabinets.
 I am told the market for products made from this wood is strong and growing, as customers learn of the unique quality and look of old-growth wood. I urge the Council to develop regulations that will encourage and increase the use of this resource. The minimum dated 1916 should be ramped up as deconstruction capacity grows. Perhaps a few more trees will remain growing in our forests. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 John Sandy. I'm a resident of northeast Portland. A couple personal things that I've been involved with this discussion today. One, I recently built a dining room table with materials from the rebuilding center that can sit my 12 members of my extended family. And I recently had a home that was torn down right behind me, and it was deconstructed, and myself and my neighbors slept much more peacefully knowing that it was deconstructed.
 My emphasis talking today is on the hazardous materials. Back in December 2014, as part of a UNR, I focused on that and brought up a couple studies talking about the HUD studies that talked about the –
 spread of the lead dust from from sites up to 300 feet and Concentrations above that so that started these studies and I referred to these studies in my talk and please That sparked my passion for the hazardous materials focus that I've given on this subject for the last 15 months or so what has occurred and well that the highlights of that two things one is
 Those studies said proper wetting, two simple things, biggest thing, proper wetting and partial deconstruction of the high lead concentrated windows trim and that were the biggest factors to reduce that spread into the nearby lots. Those two factors. We're talking about one of those today.
 What has occurred since December 2014? One, the Bureau of Development Services has instituted the self-certification by contractors to follow the rules. Unfortunately, that has been shown to be woefully ineffective with recent data from the DEQ, as analyzed by the Oregonian, showing 65% non-conformance levels when you're talking about asbestos abatement and demolitions in Portland.
 65%. Obviously, the honor system is not working too well. What else has occurred? Citizens have promoted through the legislation SB705, which is the Espresso Survey for Single-Family Houses. UNR and activists are working with the DEQ to put some teeth into this. Right now, as we talked about earlier,
 they can request this. We would like to see verification. We need verification. This should be surveys and should be available before a permanent issue as we started to talk about what can we do. So after 15 months of knowing the potential risk to public health, and this brings up some of the other things that were said earlier, nothing concrete has been done to mitigate the risk. It's 15 months.
 With the recent national and local issues around it, I would hope the City Council would take that to heart and institute simple, urgent requirements. Full deconstruction is the surest way, but at the very minimum, partial deconstruction coupled with proper abatement and adequate debris wetting should be verified with on-site inspections.
 So to fill the gap between the economics capacity to create full deconstruction, we should at least take this intermediate step of partial deconstruction and such. So I think most of the other things have been covered, so thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all very much. In my written comments, I failed to mention I am serving on the UNR Steering Committee. Okay, thank you.
 next three are al ellis margaret davis and scott yelton and they'll be followed by doug liktor preston browning and david bennett come on up go ahead okay well my name is al ellis and i'm one of those elders that fills up my retirement time with with volunteer work and
 I'm involved in three organizations. One is the Portland-Habato Sister City Association. I'm president of that Sister City Association, but we're not here to talk about the Russian Far East. We're here to talk about the welfare of our neighborhoods here in Portland. The other two organizations are neighborhood organizations. One is the Beaumont-Wilshire Neighborhood Association,
 Association. I used to be president of that. Now I'm editor of the newsletter. And the other is the organization, the grassroots organization that I co-founded a few years ago, the UNR, the United Neighborhoods for Reform. I serve as UNR's representative on DRAC's demolition subcommittee.
 so you heard from the bureau of planning and sustainability that there's been an average of 300 portland homes demolished the past two years whether this constitutes a demolition epidemic is up for debate but there's no denying that many viable contextually compatible homes have fallen victim to this wave of destruction with portland residents bearing the resultant environmental costs
 BPS concludes that, quote, demolition of housing has raised community concerns about housing affordability, health, waste, and neighborhood character. And I was at a RPSAC meeting a couple weeks ago or a few weeks ago, the Infill Reform Committee that the mayor has initiated. And the mayor spoke to this committee.
 And he basically said that these concerns that I just mentioned are part of or comprise his Hippocratic oath, really, to do something about these things. And it's these very concerns that gave rise to UNR. It's been endorsed by 43 neighborhood associations and with a shared tenet that
 Destroying the village in order to save it is never the wise policy. A central plank of our resolution, our demolition development resolution, deals with environmental fallout from demolitions.
 And it's a logical extension that deconstruction is the way to go. The proposed legislation before you today is a step forward in addressing the impacts associated with waste generated by demolitions and hopefully the beginning of a path that will fulfill UNR's ultimate objective, which would be mandated deconstruction for all residential demolitions.
 So I think there's a sense of urgency here. Just as there's a sense of urgency on the global warming front, there's a sense of urgency in southeast Portland. There should be a sense of urgency on this issue. And I encourage you to expand the –
 expand to 1930 at least to cover homes that were built, you know, at that point. Because right now, 1916 leaves out so many homes that were destroyed and will be destroyed. Thank you. Thank you. Malcolm. Hi, I'm Margaret Davis. I work with United Neighborhoods for Reform, and I also live in northeast Portland. Okay.
 I'm betting that most of you up there recycle. I'm betting that most of us here recycle. We do it because it's the right thing to do. And nobody pays us to take that extra effort to go over and put our recyclables in the special recycling bin and schlep that down the driveway. We recycle because it's the right thing to do. And we can recycle whole houses because it's the right thing to do.
 i've handed out a metro report that was published in december and for the first time in nearly a decade we've registered a decline in our recovery rate and that is the materials not going to the landfill two of the three materials that were part of that decline are wood and scrap metal and those two materials are attributed to the construction industry
 There used to be a pulp mill in Newburgh that burned all of our vintage homes. That closed in October. So I think you're going to see a much deeper decline in our recovery rate starting from now if all these homes are headed to the landfill instead of to that pulp mill where they used to be burned. We can save these materials. We have a great, ready market, and you'll hear from some of those salvage experts, and you already have.
 Most of all, we avoid our hazmat release. And I don't think anybody should breathe breathing lead or asbestos, certainly not our kids. And no neighbors to these demolition sites should breathe or come into contact with any of these hazardous materials. If you look at Blilzai Glass and the other glass factory in North Portland, no one's paying them not to use arsenic or cadmium in their recipes. For the same reason, I don't think we should have to pay to anyone
 not breathe the asbestos and the lead issuing from these demolition sites. I believe these costs rest with the people responsible for releasing these hazardous materials. I don't think we can share the costs. I think the costs belong to the people profiting. And I think...
 The costs, if they're added and they don't make affordable housing, I don't think they're making affordable housing. You had Randy Sebastian sitting here before saying the average cost of the homes that he builds are $700,000. In Beaumont-Wilshire, we did a study of two years of homes that were demolished, and the replacements were 2.4 times as expensive.
 So if you want affordable homes, you keep the homes that are there. You don't demolish them. And if you do demolish them, you must deconstruct on your own dime. We've been here a lot in the last year and a half. We're
 Anxious for any measure that prevents the loss in our neighborhoods of quality, old growth materials and construction. Homes that were modestly sized that people could age and place in for decades. Homes that sheltered generations of Portlanders and they can shelter many more. So this is another chance to stem that loss and to stop wasting Portland. We hope you'll take it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both.
 Let's take the next. Doug Lecter, Preston Browning, and David Benick, and they will be followed by Jordan Jordan, Sarah Badiali, and Natalie Perrin. Good afternoon. My name is Doug Lecter. I'm a resident of southeast Portland. I'm also the department manager for deconstruction services at the Rebuilding Center and have been for the past eight years. Okay.
 We're very excited in this industry to think that you folks might endorse and pass this resolution. We'd like to think that we can take this tremendous step towards deconstructing the majority of the buildings eventually that come down in this town.
 and make a mark nationwide as having been the first to enact this kind of a policy. One of the things we're really excited about is the opportunities that will be afforded to additional companies to engage in this work. From everything you've heard today, we're going to require a minimum of 25, if not 40, additional participants to deconstruct these buildings, and these will be skilled participants.
 tradespeople who have gone through an apprenticeship program, who know what they're doing, who have OSHA training, who know how to work safely, who know how to work in concert with a team, identify hazardous materials.
 Currently, if you were to Google deconstruction in Portland, only two firms would come up, both Deconstruction Services, the Rebuilding Center, and Lovett Deconstruction. There's room for the growth of additional companies to do this work in this marketplace. We can't accommodate between the two of us all the additional houses coming in. So we're very excited at the prospect of a rising tide, as it were, of additional firms who can engage in this.
 pay their staff living wages, do good work, reclaim these materials for reuse, and encourage you to pass this resolution. So thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hello. My name is Preston Browning. I'm the owner and founder of Salvage Works in North Portland. We're a retailer of reclaimed lumber. I spoke to you some in June, so thank you for having me back, and thank you all for hearing and considering this important resolution. I told you in June that my business was growing, and I just hired my 10th employee. Well, in less than a year, I've just hired my 13th and 14th employees.
 I really see this as a huge boon for, you know, a small but a lot of potential for growth industry, a niche, as it were. And I think that there's a real trickle-down effect here for economics and finance.
 job creation, and maybe it's trickle up because the increased deconstruction, obviously there's jobs there, and then there's increased jobs on the retail of that material, and then the increase in the jobs of the fabrication of people making
 products from this material. And, you know, we, a lot of our customers are fabricators that do specialized work here in Portland, and they're building trade show booths. I'm talking about the 2,000 square foot booths that go to the shoe show in Vegas, that kind of thing, for Nike or Timberland or Danner. Yeah.
 And they come to us for their materials, and I often can't supply the volume that they need. So I see that this resolution and requirement will really add to, you know, the economics that we're talking about. And, you know, there's real room for sort of an export market for this material.
 I believe that it will continue to, and this has been said, but I think it's important, that it will continue to put Portland on the map as a progressive and forward-thinking city. So I would strongly encourage you all to pass this resolution.
 We'll also encourage the resolution to be passed as is. Believe me, I understand the desire to salvage more of these houses. I do have concerns about the industry. And Commissioner Fritz, I'm absolutely happy for competition. I think there's a lot of room here for that, and I don't think it will affect my business. But, you know, I do have concerns about –
 a glut of that material, and that can, if there is not a value in that material, it will raise the cost of deconstructions that much more because deconstruction contractors or non-profits are relying on the income of that. And then also I would hate to see a deconstruction happen and then that material get tossed away anyway because there wasn't a market for it. So thanks again, and it's great. Thank you very much. Welcome.
 Hello, my name is David Benick and I'm from Bellingham, Washington. So I'm going to give you another perspective than the local groups. I'm a deconstruction consultant and contractor. I travel all around the United States and Canada performing this work. Now, I've been doing this for 40, 40, 23 years now.
 And seems like 40 years. And I've been to 42 states and four provinces, so I get to see what everybody's doing and their different perspectives. And frankly, I'm really impressed with everybody here. And actually, you know, we're all – I said, you know, around the country, I've said it before that –
 People are looking at Portland, and they're impressed, you know, with what's happening here and the progressive measures that you're taking to protect your citizens and things like that. So now we couldn't wait for an ordinance to be passed, so we just started doing deconstruction. And I've done 900 buildings. So I've also been involved in about 3,000 total projects. So, you know, you don't always have to deconstruct.
 Like a lot of people were saying here, you might just gut out the building and then use that building. You might want it remodeled, but you don't always have to get rid of it. And I've proven that, of course, by doing work in that limited scope.
 One of the things we've done was we did it in unsubsidized scenarios where we were doing it under regular market conditions. We didn't have grants from the government. We didn't have volunteers. We didn't have anything helping us out. We were just going kind of toe-to-toe with demolition contractors and winning. You know, to my clients, and I do my training, they kind of look at us as a role model and say, well,
 what are you doing dave you know what do you think about this type of building what do you think about this project and if i reject a certain project or a certain type of building then it's almost like they all are going to follow in that and reject it so it's really important to me that i push the limits and that's what i've done in a lot of inner city job training and and taking down buildings with lower value things like that not just going after the really high value buildings i think portland is doing that as well
 where you're serving as a role model for other parts of the country, whether you know it or not, because I'm in other parts of the country asking. And so what I'm seeing is that when you do something good here, you make an effort and somebody follows you.
 then whatever good you've done has then been magnified by whatever good happens in that community. Because they are looking to you first. You're the test subject. If it works for you, then they'll follow you. So that's an important point.
 One of the other things that we deal with are time and money. You know, people don't want to take, they don't want us to take too much time. They don't want it to cost too much. So we're constantly faced with that issue. We've been able to get projects down to three or four days, and we've got the cost about similar to demolition. And you could say, well, that's not what we've heard today. Well, no.
 Wait about 900 projects, and then you'll see that, you know, maybe we could get that down. And one of the trainings we do is to try and accomplish that. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Appreciate it. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Jordan Jordan, Sarah Badialli, and Natalie Perrin. And they'll be followed by Ben Gates, Luby Wind, and the person who signed up after Luby at the same address. Good afternoon.
 good afternoon mayor hills members of the council my name is jordan jordan and i represent earth advantage located at 623 southwest oak street here in portland i also serve on the city's deconstruction advisory group earth advantage is a portland-based non-profit that works with the building industry to help implement sustainable building practices our mission is to advance green building science and create an immediate practical and cost-effective path to sustainability and reduction of carbon in the built environment
 we've recently partnered with metro to develop a program that beginning next month will provide consultation and material brokerage service to builders and developers in the metro region with the aim of facilitating greater rates of salvage of deconstruction and salvage of reusable materials it's our belief that for a project that requires replacement of an existing building to be truly green responsible removal of that building and maximum reuse of viable building materials
 Deconstruction provides a path to those outcomes, diverting waste from local landfills, reducing waste of embodied energy and emission of carbon, protecting neighboring properties from dispersal of hazardous materials, and passing quality reusable materials forward into productive use. Deconstruction and salvage can also drive local economic development, as you've heard, creating six to eight jobs for every traditional demolition job,
 providing a growing salvage material market with the products it needs to thrive, and offering the community affordable options for acquiring quality used materials. Deconstruction allows us to keep our history out of the landfill. I think most of us feel a visceral reaction when we see an older home demolished. And the traditional crunch and dump method of removal feels like insult added to injury. It feels like we're losing something because we are.
 There's a history and culture in our older buildings, and too often it's literally being thrown away. And while in rare instances concerned neighbors have successfully intervened to keep a threatened home intact, in most cases deconstruction provides the best opportunity to save the irreplaceable material culture that is typically thrown away when older buildings are removed. The resolution before you represents an opportunity for the city to advance a number of stated planning goals and help to level the playing field for builders who have voluntarily chosen to deconstruct.
 If adopted, Earth Advantage will work to ensure that the growing supply of locally deconstructed materials will find new homes. Thank you for your leadership. Thank you. Hi. Thank you for having me. My name is Sarah Battagliale, and I've been working in deconstruction since 2005. In 2014, I was the board chair for the Building Material Reuse Association, a national membership organization for furthering building material reuse and deconstruction.
 The Deconstruction Advisory Committee proposal is achievable. We have thousands of unemployed Oregonians, as you've heard, who can be trained in deconstruction, including unemployed veterans already skilled in teamwork, physical labor, and communication that are perfectly poised to learn to safely and efficiently unbuild buildings. We currently have deconstruction training outlets for women and minorities in organizations like Oregon Tradesmen, which you've already heard about.
 Unemployment resources like WorkSource Oregon are in position to direct people seeking training in deconstruction. The Building Material Reuse Association has a comprehensive deconstruction training curriculum that has been created by national professionals in the field. Building deconstruction is a gateway skill to trades like electrical, plumbing, and construction and is a foundation for life work, not just employment.
 Portland has the resources for market growth and salvage and reclaim building materials. Since 2011, I have been cataloging news and resources in building material reuse on my website, the Reclamation Administration.
 There are thousands of posts about businesses spanning all levels of industry using reclaimed materials. Corporations like Starbucks, who now only design cafe interiors with reclaimed materials, Defender, who just released a series of guitars in old-growth wood. There are craftspeople in cottage industries making everything from laptop cases to tiny houses in reclaimed materials. Thank you.
 The salvage wood furniture and interior design industry is worth millions in the United States, but also in Japan. The Japanese bio-reclaimed wood and architectural salvage from the United States starting on the West Coast. Portland's creative class and entrepreneurs are in a position to make great things with materials saved from our houses. We want those materials and we don't want to jeopardize our health, safety, and liberty to get at hundred-year-old wood from a demolition site. A table made from old growth wood can feed a craftsperson for a month.
 Not only can we absorb a glut in the market from reclaimed materials, we can turn it around and produce groundbreaking products. Just give us the chance by passing the deconstruction resolution. Portlanders have always been leaders in sustainability and creativity. The nation and the world looks to us for innovation, and we are on the cusp of making history with this resolution. My sincere thanks for the opportunity to testify and by serving on the deconstruction advisory group.
 And I wanted to add one more thing. When we talk about health, we often talk about air quality. And one of the things we don't talk about is water quality. We're using clean water to keep emissions from these dusts, and we are actually putting clean water on buildings to keep things like lead and asbestos.
 into the groundwater. And there are also other chemicals that come from hosing down buildings like benzene, which is a derivative of natural gas. And when this stuff doesn't get filtered out, like if the demolition companies are not putting filters in the storm drains, then that water goes right into our water table. So I just wanted to add that one more thing. So thank you. Thank you.
 welcome thank you my name is natalie perrin i'm president of the board of directors at restore oregon at 11 30 southwest morrison street number 318.
 Restore Oregon staff have been on the Deconstruction Advisory Group since its formation a year ago. Through that involvement, we worked with Bureau planning staff and other stakeholders to ensure that historic resources were adequately considered in the drafting of this resolution. While it is Restore Oregon's position that historic resources should be preserved and maintained intact...
 Requiring deconstruction would serve as a small disincentive to removing significant houses from the city's landscape. In fact, this is not a new idea. Since 2002, the zoning code has required that would-be demolishers of historic resources respond in writing to all offers to salvage building elements before demolition.
 While salvaging historic buildings is never as preferable as preserving them, requiring deconstruction would reduce some of the external costs of teardown in cases where demolition cannot be prevented.
 While Restore Oregon believes there are many opportunities to expand and strengthen the city's historic preservation program, we support the resolution in front of you as a tool to discourage the demolition of otherwise viable historic resources. And I also wanted to address one other question that Commissioner Fritz had earlier regarding which properties would be included in this resolution. And as I understand it, historic resources are those defined that are on the National Register –
 local landmarks, conservation landmarks, and the historic resource inventory, either individually or as part of a district, which you had asked earlier, about whether or not the conservation properties, if they were contributing to a conservation district, would qualify. We'll clarify that. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 and speaking of apprenticeship thank you for uh training the excellent new historic resources planner that now is working for the city i wasn't going to mention it but since you're going to try that you are very lucky to have him he's going to be quite a bit of the city thank you and our apologies for the theft the next three are ben gates luby wind and the person who signed up after luby at the same address
 And they will be followed by Chloe Utile, Jordan Palmieri, and Paul Grove. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for the opportunity to testify in support of the deconstruction resolution. My name is Ben Gates, owner of Urban Patterns, a Portland-based company that provides real estate development services to private and nonprofit owners. I'm also a member of the Deconstruction Advisory Group and a board member of the Rebuilding Center.
 A substantial number of our clients, landlords, tenants, and owner-occupants elect to use salvage material in our projects. Recently, a new startup and local food industry incubator.
 Now, a lot of this has been mentioned about the benefits of deconstruction, so I'm going to abbreviate my testimony and don't have to reiterate that. But I just wanted to highlight that there is a substantial demand for salvaged material, and increasing our deconstruction efforts has a positive effect in supporting an increased supply in quality, affordable materials that we can repurpose into buildings. Okay.
 We see this demand in our projects. Our clients are asking for it. And in addition, we're excited about the economic growth opportunities in our work. We look to grow and incubate small businesses, minority-owned, women-owned, emerging small businesses. And also we look to work with those who provide job training opportunities to low-income communities and local communities as well.
 So we're excited about this growth potential. We think that increased deconstruction activity will allow the industry to retool, hire, and train employees. And we know that for every one demolition job, six are created in deconstruction. So again, we can grow businesses that repurpose salvage materials and provide affordable quality materials.
 and we can also increase the health of our communities by diverting materials often hazardous from the landfill. So thank you for your leadership in pursuing this resolution and the opportunity to testify today. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you. Can you hear me okay? Okay.
 Great. Thank you, Mayor Hales and the council, for the opportunity to speak today and to show our support for this very important resolution. I would like to speak specifically in regards to job creation. Put your name in the record, too. Oh, sorry? Just put your name in the record, too. Okay. My name is Luby Wind, and I serve as the Employment Navigator at Mercy Corps Northwest Reentry Transition Center in Northeast Portland.
 And I want to speak specifically to the boots on the ground that Sean was talking about earlier. The RTC has been operating for six years, and we exist to help individuals released from incarceration to become responsible citizens of society.
 The work we do along with our community partners serve over 1,000 individuals per year. Find and use resources. And we have saved the state of Oregon an estimated $8 for every $1 spent on our services. My job specifically is to advocate for and to assist individuals find employment and keep it.
 Meaningful employment, which I believe this project will bring, is one in which a worker receives fair livable earnings, benefits, and a connection to a collective purpose. This is a cornerstone of successful reintegration and positive change following a length of incarceration. It is a well-known fact that the ability to engage in work has a strong impact.
 on preventing or reducing recidivism. More than anything, our clients need the opportunity to connect in a workplace in a beneficial and in a meaningful way. Meaningful employment goes much further than what we often hear of as a survival job. The Rebuilding Center's plan, and I believe BPS, is to train and employ workers in the deconstruction of homes. This is not simply a survival job.
 Careful, safe, and professional deconstruction runs parallel to our clients' efforts in reconstructing their lives. These are sustainable opportunities that offer an integrated learning environment where future carpenters, plumbers, tradespeople, general laborers can learn skills and abilities and prepare them for future careers in the trades.
 We are really pleased to have the opportunity, if this resolution and ordinance passes, to collaborate with the Rebuilding Center and who happens to be a second-chance employer and to provide a path to training and employment for job seekers who are in reentry.
 On a related subject, if I have time, I want to thank the council and the mayor for your leadership on behalf of our hundreds of volunteers and our thousands of clients and our staff for your leadership in passing the Ban the Box Ordinance. This went a long way to paving the way to removing the stigma of incarceration or previous incarceration.
 We now ask you to pass this resolution for the Rebuilding Center and the RTC to create employment opportunities for Anthony here, who will speak next. Thank you. Welcome. Hello, everyone. My name is Anthony Rutherford, and I am a volunteer representing Mercy Courts on deconstruction versus demolition process. I have been working construction for over 10 years and have seen many of the ins and outs of demolition.
 I became interested in deconstruction because I do remodeling projects and they call for reusing all materials possible. It only makes sense why destroy when we can recycle. All across our nation, we encourage Americans to recycle just about everything we purchase from our local stores, which includes paper, plastic, and glass. So why not recycle building materials? I've read the extra cost from deconstruction is recouped or surpassed by taking materials
 advantages of tax deductions for donating or selling materials saved during this process. Deconstruction also diverts tons of wasted materials from the landfills. Local activists do not have to worry about hazardous materials with deconstruction because proper steps and training are done first. Deconstruction also keeps our environment intact
 provides employment, help homeowners save materials by donating to nonprofit organizations and the builders get certified training and learn new skills for higher rates of pay. I am one of the underrepresented people here and I will actually struggle from felony background records and where I'm from second chance is a real big problem so
 Our nation suffers from recidivism because our system prosecutes instead of rehabilitates. A steady job provides not just financial resources but also connections to a new community that can help reduce recidivism. Men and women have the same problems with housing as well. Employment and stable housing is the most effective tool to reduce recidivism, resulting in a safer community and low cost to taxpayers.
 So give us men and women with past criminal history a chance to return to society and learn how to live and prove to ourselves and our families that we can succeed. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Next three are Chloe Utile, Jordan Palmieri, and Paul Grove. And then the last three who signed up are Harriet Roth, Jeff Fish, and Gabe. Come on up. Welcome. Who wants to be first? I'll go. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Chloe Daly. I've been writing and rewriting my testimony as I've been listening to everyone hoping to present a slightly new perspective. I'm here to give testimony in support of this resolution as an affordable housing advocate, a fan and neighbor of the Rebuilding Center, and a concerned citizen.
 Last year, PSU researchers shared the somewhat alarming results of their multi-year study, which revealed Portland's hottest and most polluted areas. They're now hard at work on coming up with solutions. We should all be doing everything within our power to reduce environmental hazards and health risks to our residents, and we should be regulating environmental impact across all industries, whether it's glass manufacturing or property development.
 The greenest home is the one that already exists, and as we saw earlier, it's also the most affordable home. If we cannot preserve these greener and more affordable homes, we should at least be requiring developers to take the most responsible path to taking them down. The decision to waste energy, increase pollution, and add tons of reusable materials to our landfills shouldn't be a choice.
 The majority of Portland residents are not benefiting from our development boom. In fact, they are suffering from it in the form of rising rents, displacement, and being locked out of the housing market, among many other negative impacts. It is unreasonable that we should also collectively suffer the impact of wasteful and hazardous demolition practices. Deconstruction also comes with great community benefit, as we've heard, including more living wage jobs, decreasing demand for new resources, and saving consumers money.
 These homes often display a level of craftsmanship that is largely lost today, and they are built from timber from old-growth forests that we will not see again in our lifetimes. Short of saving them, deconstruction is the most fitting final tribute to these historic buildings, and reusing these materials is a way to honor and enjoy them for generations to come.
 I agree with Commissioner Fritz and others who would like to see the range expanded to include homes built in 1930 as quickly as possible, and I would prefer to see developers bear the cost rather than be funded by grants. But this resolution is a step in the right direction. Thank you for the opportunity to give testimony today and for your leadership. Welcome. Mayor Hales, city commissioners, my name is Jordan Palmieri, and I work in the green building program at the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.
 My work focuses on reducing the life cycle environmental impacts of building materials. I'm here today to help highlight the environmental benefits of deconstruction and material reuse. For most building materials, such as lumber, cabinets, light fixtures, windows and doors, the vast majority of the environmental impacts caused by these materials occur during their production, not their disposal.
 Therefore, the largest environmental benefits of reuse are not avoiding the disposal impacts, but instead avoiding the production of new materials. From a carbon perspective, DEQ research shows that the deconstruction and reuse of materials from a single-family home has a two to three times increase in carbon reductions compared to demolition.
 Other environmental impacts to air, water, and land can also be reduced through building material reuse and the subsequent decreased demand for new products. Additionally, it is the policy of the state of Oregon to prioritize material reuse over recycling, composting, and burning for energy recovery and landfilling.
 Oregon is a leader in the field of materials management, and DEQ's 2050 Vision for Materials Management calls for Oregonians in the year 2050 to produce and use materials responsibly, conserving resources, protecting the environment, and living well. Part of achieving this vision is that when materials are no longer wanted, they are recovered for their next highest and best use. The city's Climate Action Plan commits the city to partnering with DEQ to implement the 2050 Vision for Materials Management.
 The deconstruction resolution you're considering today is a commendable step to conserving resources, protecting the environment, and living well. Thanks so much for the opportunity to comment. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Mayor Hales, members of council, for the record, Paul Grove with the Portland Home Builders. Thank you for the opportunity to provide comment today. I want to start off, and I'm not being trite in saying this, we all want and want to promote policies and practices that are environmentally friendly and support our sustainable objectives. And frankly, at the HBA, through our sustainability education programs, through our lead-based training programs, we've taken a little bit of time to think about how we can do that.
 a leadership position on some of these issues in the residential industry. And I think, as was noted in previous testimony, particularly around lead-based paint and other stuff, there are some additional opportunities on this front around enhancement of particular training programs.
 I wanted to spotlight three to four issues that were already noted today, and I don't want to belabor the point. The first is the cost, and as previous testimony noted, the costs do indeed vary, and we heard some folks talk on the low end of what those costs might be. Our infill group, in talking with them, noted that the additional costs were approximately $8,000 to $10,000. Again, it varies by site, et cetera. I'm not saying anything that
 Council does not know. I think as we move forward in the process and have these discussions, we would ask that we have a conversation around an incentive for
 program to help mitigate those additional costs, recognizing that oftentimes these are passed on to the end user, to the home buyer, and we want to ensure housing affordability. So as we move forward in the process, we would look to have that conversation around what a potential incentive looks like and a potentially sustainable funding source as well on that front if this is indeed a path that we go down.
 The second issue that was talked about involved capacity. These are my terms, not those that were used earlier, but I've categorized it as institutional capacity and the workforce component. We talked about the firms, and I think we want to be sure that –
 You know, there's a limited number of firms that are doing this work today. They have acknowledged or they believe that they can assume the additional work, but there is a ramp-up period. And I would echo the comments that would support a feasibility analysis on this front to ensure that there is not a glut, to ensure that we can accommodate the increase in materials that we would realize.
 The second piece is the workforce piece. And I think there's great opportunity on this front to have a robust and comprehensive workforce development program that provides career pathways along the way.
 This isn't unique to deconstruction. Our industry is facing a shortage of framers and other workers. We think this is something that has transitional skills. We'd love to be a partner in the development of a workforce curriculum at the end of the day. This does indeed take time, but I think there's great opportunity to, again, provide those career pathways for folks moving forward.
 And then the last thing I would highlight is around the timing. And I know that the current resolution notes October 31 implementation date, effective date, if you will. I think it's important that we address and understand these foundational issues first before we move forward with an October 31 implementation date, effective date. The last thing we want to do is move forward with a proposal that isn't completely fleshed out, that haven't –
 fully articulated and address the underlying issues, and we don't want to see a proposal move forward that is set up to fail. So with that, thank you for the opportunity. Thank you. I have a question. That 8,000 to 10,000 number, is that the net cost of deconstruction compared with the cost of tipping and the amount that you get for selling the materials? Yes.
 It's my understanding that – and I have to get back with you, Commissioner Fretz. I would be remiss if I answered that right now. So let me follow up. Maybe that's a question for staff, but I'd just be interested in Commissioner –
 Fish and others have mentioned about recycling. One of the reasons that we recycle a lot is because otherwise we're paying extra for putting more in the garbage. So I'd be interested to know their relative costs. I'll certainly follow up. Mayor, can I just ask a question? I know we're running out of time. But, you know, Mr. Grove, you're fairly new in this role, at least in testifying here. And I would say that.
 I can think of this as the third or fourth time that someone from the homebuilders locally has come, whether it's the tax abatement programs, demolition fee, or this, where you've come, laid out reasonable and thoughtful concerns that you and your members share, and you've asked us to consider them in the legislative process, which I think is perfectly valid. And I just want to say to you, I am profoundly disappointed –
 that this body has not received in writing from your organization why you're trying to block the number one legislative priority of this council in Salem, which is inclusionary housing. And if there is a view that the organization has that there is some reason why we should not be able to have that tool, I would simply ask you, in the spirit in which you have and your predecessor has come before us and laid out concerns with every other piece of legislation we've taken up,
 that you give us the courtesy of putting in writing what those concerns are, and that we don't keep running down to Salem finding out that you and the realtors and some other groups are trying to kill the number one legislative priority of this city. And I would ask you to seriously consider both your strategy and in how you engage this council, including laying out in the same detail you're laying out, I think very thoughtfully now on this issue, why your organization feels that we should not have that authority. Please do get back to us on that. Thank you.
 Okay, next three are Harriet Roth Jeff fish and Gabe bought is that the last three the last three who signed up Thank You mr. Mayor and council I
 And I may ask you for a little more time. I'm also on the Deconstruction Advisory Committee. And I don't have prepared remarks. I want to address several different issues that have been brought up previously. Commissioner Fish, early in your discussion on this, you talked about maybe having to get the attorneys out and fight some of this issue, as far as cleaning up the air.
 I'm speaking for myself, but as a member of the Home Builder Association for a lot of years, I think we're on board with this. The only question is the cost of the deconstruction and how that ought to be handled, and I'll get to that in a minute. In response to your question to Mr. Grove, I haven't deconstructed a lot, but we did one in the summer solely because being on the Deconstruction Advisory Committee,
 I wanted to know what those costs were. We came at $9,000, give or take a couple of bucks, over the bid we had to demolish it. And in that $9,000, that was a net number. Levitt Deconstruction did the deconstruction. They sold the materials to – I'm not sure whom exactly they sold them, but they sold them to some of the material people –
 One of the frustrating things is we tore the siding off, which had lead-based paint, loaded in a drop box, shipped it to Newburgh at the time that had the hog fuel burner going, so burned it up there. So we paid to take it off by hand and send it out there. Currently that material is going to either Everett or Medford. Those are the two closest places to burn hog fuel. Okay.
 This committee, I've been on a lot of committees in this city for a long time. This committee is one of the better ones. I really interacted well with Stephen Reichardt, Joe Connell, Preston Browning, a couple other people that are in that recycle business, and I would like you to listen to them when they say take the first step first, you know, what they think they can get done. They bared their soul, and I felt, on what they could do as far as making this process work.
 My concern is that, for lack of a better term, that $9,000 net over what it costs to deconstruct. If any of you have had a mortgage on a house, you know that when that mortgage is in the process, there has to be an appraisal done on the property. If I go out and build, I'm going to pick a number, a $300,000 house and I have to spend nine, I'll round it to $10,000 for easy numbers, if I have to spend $10,000 more,
 on that home to deconstruct it, yet my competitor around the corner is building on a vacant lot or demolishes a house with mechanical and spends $10,000 less. If I sell my house a month before, there's a comp for him. He can take advantage of the fact that my house sold for $310,000, his house is identical floor plan or close to it, his house will sell for $310,000 even though he doesn't have that additional $10,000 cost. And the used market in real estate is based on the new markets.
 So if a neighbor is selling a 20-year-old house that's roughly the same square footage, that's going to drive his house up too. So it's going to increase our problem with affordable housing. I think that if we find a way to take these 150 houses, let's say $10,000 a house subsidy, if we can find a way to subsidize it, that's $1.5 million. Right.
 It's not chicken scratch, but in the scheme of things, it's not a lot of money either. So if we can find a subsidy measure to pay for the deconstruction, I think it will keep the cost down to the general public, and we can get deconstruction done. And I think for the most part, I'm not going to fight over the two days it costs me to demolish something versus eight to ten days. Okay.
 That's something I'm willing to accept the expense on, and I think most of the guys are that way out there too. Thank you. Thanks very much. By the way, if you have suggestions for incentives, either you've seen in other cities, incentives you want us to consider, or some offset, we have some time to do some rulemaking. I hope you furnish those to us, and you might have a good idea that we'd like to know about. Yeah, I don't currently, but I'll sit down with Paul Grove and see if the HBA can come with something that works. Okay, good. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, Commissars, thank you so much for letting me be here to speak, and I appreciate your time. I'm not a member of the— Just put your name on the record again. I'm sorry, Sean Davis. I'm not a member of the Deconstruction Council or part of the homeowners, builders. I am a post commander for an American Legion on northeast Portland, and I deal a lot with combat veterans that are coming back.
 These combat veterans, while they're ready to come and start working, some of them are not ready for nine-to-five jobs or offices. Deconstruction would be perfect for them. Getting them in there and having them be able to work with their hands outside would really benefit them a lot. Many of them come back and they may feel like they lack a purpose, and giving them this opportunity to do so to –
 Really, reuse products, help the environment. It would really give them that purpose and give them a much-needed job because some of them just sit at home and don't do anything. So if we get them outside, it would be great. On the other side of that, I'm also the post-commander of that American Legion that was given to us in 1947, and we're remodeling it right now. We're going to definitely use a lot of equipment from the Rebuilding Center, but, I mean, we can...
 It's cheaper to remodel. We're helping the environment, and we're getting combat veterans jobs. I think it's a win-win, so I'm here to support it. That's great. Thank you very much. Thank you both. So I think we have some questions for staff before we vote, particularly on the subjects of historic and contributing structures in districts, right? Yeah. We'd love to hear your thoughts about that as a potential change to the resolution. Sure.
 Was the testimony that we heard accurate that the language in the resolution actually covers the contributing structures within conservation districts? Contributing, exactly, not non-contributing. Not non-contributing, but contributing as well as those that are actually designated. Exactly. So it would mirror our historic demo delay and historic delay requirements in the zoning codes would apply to those exact same structures. Okay.
 That's satisfying. Any other further questions for staff before we proceed? Thank you very much. Let's take a vote, please, on the resolution. Thank you, Mayor and staff and Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for bringing this very nuanced, very carefully thought out. When Jeff Fish says that a committee has worked well, he knows. Compliment. Yes, indeed, that's a compliment worth having, so congratulations to staff.
 Clearly, you've heard a lot of interest in going further, and I'm persuaded from the testimony that your approach is the right one to start with 1916 and hopefully get further quicker. But this is a really good start, and thank you very much for coming up with it. Thanks to all the neighbors and the construction industry, the deconstruction industry, and others who have worked on this opportunity.
 I hope that it will actually result in fewer houses, old houses being demolished at all or deconstructed, and that would also be a benefit. So by doing it in the measured approach, we can nuance it better as we move forward. Thank you very much. Aye. Mayor, thank you for bringing this forward. It's a very thoughtful proposal that's gotten a lot of community input, and obviously it's going to evolve over time. But we're going to start here.
 I thought some of the concerns even raised by the skeptics and the critics, our critics are valid, and we need to track that. And I think any time we can soften the blow on folks of the cost, particularly at the lower end, we ought to be open to that. If someone has a creative idea, we'd want to look at it. Fifteen years ago, I first started learning about deconstruction when
 The then Housing Authority of Portland deconstructed homes that used to be called Columbia Villa, now New Columbia. And it's kind of exciting to learn about it. And they made a concerted effort to deconstruct. That technology has evolved. One of the things that – there are two things I love about this approach, Mayor. One is that it's in keeping with the city's green standards and values.
 And number two, I love the idea that we may be – that we are, in effect, incentivizing an industry that's also going to meet some of the compelling employment needs. We have workforce needs in our community, and not just veterans that are struggling, but all kinds of people who, through this, are going to have a chance. So to me, it feels like a well-conceived first step. It has a lot of process getting to this point.
 It's consistent with our values, and it has some other dividends which are really neat. And I think this council should wholeheartedly embrace this approach. And today I'm very proud to vote aye. Saltzman? Well, thank you, staff, but also the Deconstruction Advisory Group. I'm very impressed with the balance in this proposal, taking into account sort of the needs to nurture what's still a young industry, the deconstruction industry.
 And I'm very heartened at the same time about sort of the glide path I think we all foresee for it with Portland leading the way. We'll be putting people back to work or creating more jobs for people. And that's a really good thing. And then from an environmental point of view, I guess my instincts were also why 1912 or 1916, whatever the date is there. But I'm persuaded by the staff report and subsequent testimony we heard from the deconstruction industry that,
 We've got to sort of do this in the right way if we're going to make sure that the vendors we want to be successful doing this are indeed successful in doing this. So I think there's always going to be room for further review and modification, but this is a great balanced starting point that's really going to make a difference. So thank you. Hi. There's an old quote that's misattributed to Vince Lombardi, winning isn't everything, it's the only thing.
 I wouldn't quite say climate isn't everything. It's the only thing, but I might come close. So I'm particularly persuaded by hearing that the difference between demolition and deconstruction is equivalent to taking four cars off the road for a year.
 So I'm very pleased to support this. I'm incredibly impressed with the amount of work that's gone into it. I too have been persuaded by the testimony that it's reasonable to start sort of small with the 1916 date, but I really appreciate everybody's work. Thank you so much. Hi. Let me just mention three things, context, process, and a little personal experience thrown in. Context.
 you know i spent 10 years in between my two chapters of public service working all over the country and you know there's some things about portland that we all talk about and that they all know about and there are things like light rail and urban growth boundaries and and those are good things but there are a couple things about portland that we know and that compare so favorably to other cities that don't get talked about as much one is our park system we have this amazing park system most other cities have a great park or two we have 200
 It's undersold as a great thing about Portland. And the other thing, believe me, after walking over miles and miles of streets in other cities trying to figure out where a light rail or streetcar line should go, nobody has got the miles and miles and miles of streets full of great old houses that we have. We've got a few great old neighborhoods. There's Queen Anne and Seattle and over the Rhine and Cincinnati and so on, but nobody's got this. It's a treasure of incalculable value.
 And I think we have come to see how vulnerable it is during this recent wave of demolition. I have. I know many of you have. It is a treasure, and we have to defend it. And this is an important step in doing that.
 I think this hearing has illustrated what a great process this has been. So I want to thank the citizens who worked so hard in this committee in helping the Bureau do its work. And I want to thank Susan and Sean and Elisa because this Bureau has a talent, as we've seen again and again, of moving forward.
 people together forward on progressive things. Yes, we have progressive values, but Susan, once again, you've figured out the right increment, whether it's recycling or green buildings or commercial energy benchmarking. You've done a great job of figuring out what the right step is and bringing people along to it, and this really illustrates that, so well done.
 And finally, a personal experience. I've told the story a few times about the house that my family built together for my parents when my dad retired. And we took the ruins of a mill built in 1776 that had been burned down by Phil Sheridan and left as a ruin and rebuilt the stone walls, logged oaks on the property, milled them into posts and beams.
 and then floored the thing with 150-year-old heart pine boards out of a factory in Lignum, Virginia that somebody took the trouble to carefully deconstruct because nobody could ever find dense red heart pine like that because it doesn't exist anymore.
 And I still have the memory of drilling thousands of holes into those boards and screwing them down to the subfloor. But my kids grew up playing on those floors. And now somebody else's kids will do that and their grandkids. And that floor is going to be around for a really long time because my dad built a house you could land a 747 on and it would survive. But just the memory of the value of that material, again, incalculable because it can't be replicated.
 is powerful to me and it will be powerful to people that get to live in good buildings or work in cool offices with materials that have been thoughtfully salvaged from old homes, a few of which are deconstructed in this city in the years ahead. Well done. Thank you all. Thank you very much. And we're adjourned.