Are we ready, Carla? Yes. Good morning, everybody. This is the February 14th session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Prince. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Wheeler. Here. Here.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings, to make sure the process is clear for everyone. I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also ensure that decorum is maintained. There are two opportunities for public participation –
 First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subjects they wish to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of resolutions and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. And if you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up, and when your time is done, the red light will come on. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony, or interrupting during council deliberations is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting.
 Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass. If folks want to show your support, please, a simple thumbs up is good. If you don't like something, a simple thumbs down works. With that, let's get on to the first item, which is communications. Carla? Item 134, request of Timothy Mears to address council regarding homelessness and hygiene access. Good morning. Good morning.
 In my current career path in healthcare, a new paradigm is informing policy and treatment. It is no longer considered sufficient to merely address a particular symptom or condition. The health and wellness of an individual is now considered in terms of a combination of mental, emotional, and physical well-being. It is nearly impossible for an individual raised in our society to be healthy mentally, emotionally, or physically without sufficient access to hygiene.
 The false image of someone who is homeless as a dirty bum, unworthy of consideration as a human being, is reinforced by denying basic human services. It is impossible to convey what it feels like to walk down the sidewalk and have nearly everyone I see look at me with contempt, fear, and anger, or worse, make an effort to not acknowledge my existence at all. The current policy of trying to clean up the problem of homelessness by sweeps will never work.
 Pushing people from one place to another with a stick may temporarily make some sidewalks and mostly more affluent neighborhoods look cleaner. But ultimately, sweeps can never clean anything because people aren't garbage. Soap and hot water clean. Toilet paper cleans. Laundering clothing in a timely fashion cleans. Toothbrushes and toothpaste with running water cleans.
 Pushing people from one place to another at the point of a gun with a stick is never going to be compassionate or clean anything. This policy makes you dirty for using it. Sweeps don't clean because people aren't garbage. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 135. And again, please, no clapping, no booing, thumbs up or thumbs down. Mr. Walsh, you know the rules.
 135, request of Severo Gonzalez to address counsel regarding an investigation into private correspondence leaked to the media and sexual harassment endured while working at the city. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Severo Gonzalez and I will be speaking this morning in follow-up to email correspondence I previously sent to the City of Portland regarding sexual and workplace harassment. Correspondence I must note that was leaked to the media without my knowledge or permission. With respect to this leak, representatives from the City of Portland have offered that any material in their possession is a public record and therefore subject to release, not untrue.
 However, the City of Portland utilizes a very stringent public records request process in order to ensure that publicly held information is adequately reviewed prior to its release. In the case of my correspondence, no such review occurred, nor was a request submitted prior to its release. Complaints of harassment are considered confidential by City Code. The release of my correspondence without review or redaction violates the City's administrative rules.
 separately and in response to the city's assertion that, one, my complaints would have been investigated if they had been reported, and two, that Mr. Adams is no longer a City of Portland employee, limiting the scope of any investigation, I would note the following. I reported my concerns to at least two supervisors, Tom Miller and Jennifer Yochum, that neither felt compelled to investigate my concerns does not absolve the city of their responsibility to determine what actually occurred.
 Additionally, an investigation should never be limited to the actions of the perpetrator, in this case Mr. Adams, but should also include an investigation of those supervisors who have a responsibility to ensure a safe work environment. For example, Ms. Yochum previously served as my direct supervisor, and unlike Mr. Adams, she remains a City of Portland employee.
 Given her involvement in this matter, I believe Ms. Yochum should be required to account for her inaction with respect to the concerns I previously raised. In conclusion, I would like to share the following four points. First, the City's decision to approve of the leak of my confidential correspondence has impacted how others in the future will seek to report their personal concerns or feelings of harassment.
 Second, the City of Portland must stop denying there is nothing more to be done. I urge the publicly elected City Council to support an external investigation of this matter. Third, I witnessed firsthand how the City's practices stifle complaints of sexual harassment. In 2007, a temporary Peabody employee complained to me about inappropriate behavior by a permanent Peabody employee.
 When the matter was brought to the attention of our then supervisor, I was ordered to speak to the temporary employee in an effort to discourage him from pursuing other remedies. The temporary employee eventually resigned. However, the permanent employee remains working for PBOT. Finally, I was able to find a few documents to support my allegation that I used my personal funds for goods and services that benefited Mr. Adams.
 I have left copies of that information with the council clerk. Thank you. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carl. Item 136, request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address council regarding Hanford 1995 water reports. Shedrick here. I do not see him here yet. Next individual, please. Item 137, request of injured and pissed off to address council regarding public apology to city auditor.
 Good morning, sir. My name's injured and pissed off, and I've got a court order that states that from February 3rd of 2017, so I've been injured and pissed off for more than a year officially, according to McNoemha County Court. And I was going around yesterday thinking that it was the 13th, so...
 Next year, well, I hope to report here at this time that I've been injured and pissed off for the whole year. And I'm apologizing to the city auditor because the city attorney, I think it was June 6th, that that desk was sitting there. I don't know if it's the same man or woman. But anyways, I went up and showed her the publication document.
 of the meeting and asked him at that time why my name was abbreviated to Just Injured. They'd done that for two meetings. The May 24th meeting, they printed Just Injured and June 6th, I think, was the second date. And the city attorney said, well, sometimes they abbreviate names. And I go, well, why didn't they abbreviate any other people's names?
 And then he said, well, the city auditor's the one that did it, that deleted your name. Well, I went down to the city auditor after the meeting, or a day or two later, and told her that. And she said, oh, no, it wasn't her. This Mary Cabello...
 whole Cabello, the city auditor, that it wasn't her, it was the seven city attorneys upstairs. Well, I went up there and wanted to talk to all of them or one of them, and the receptionist, she said that you can't do that. And I said, well, talk to her. And she said, well, I feel uncomfortable announcing your name in public at the city council meeting. So I assumed that it
 that I was talking to and I said, you feel uncomfortable. And I said, well, after seven dog attacks of my service animal, which is against Oregon state law, Wheeler, you know that,
 And the city owns the property that I live at, which is the reason why I've had such difficulty never being able to get legal representation, even though a civil conspiracy has occurred, as I'm indicating with seven city attorneys deleting my name. And she's well aware of that situation.
 I told her that conversation, and the city attorney has agreed to print my name, injured and pissed off. Very good. I'm glad it's worked out. Thank you, sir.
 Well, you'll be getting a lawsuit someday. Several conspiracies are in the way. 138, for the rest of Ann Casper, to address counsel regarding Elliott Stormwater and Sewer Project, Department of Justice settlement, HUA, mental health, and respond to a letter to Portland looking back at 2017. Good morning. Good morning.
 Long time I haven't seen you guys. I've been at tech conferences, actually, in Vancouver, B.C., in Seattle, and Oakland, San Francisco. It's interesting. So my name is Ann Casper. Going to other cities and looking at their values and cultures and what we have in Oregon and talking about that. And also just thinking about, I came back and yesterday someone said in Portland there's a love-olution going on.
 So there's actually some good things going on here. And I got this pin, and Ted, excuse me, Mayor Wheeler, if you want it. It says love more visibly, so I'll give it to you. If I can give it to you, that's possible. First, I want to say to all of you commissioners and Mayor Wheeler, thank you for the job that you're doing. Really grateful. It's not easy in this city. We're in a big change of transition. So I just want to say as a person, thank you for your work. I know you're doing your best. Thanks, Anne. Thank you.
 And so when I was visiting these other cities, I talked about Oregon and Portland values. And just think, what would Mr. Bailey say, right? And we talked about also why do we have no sales tax in Oregon? And why don't we pump our own gas? It's because we care about people who don't have higher incomes. We actually do care. We have those values here. So let's work with these values.
 And I just found out today OpenSignal is coming, and it was used to produce there. And I think we need a communications center where we don't have enough time in City Hall to talk about stuff. We need one where people come in and present their views and with podcasting virtuality. And so you guys can get information with what you need, with the visuals as well. So we need a new kind of information center.
 And I was also here to talk about Elliott Sewer Stormwater. And we're still waiting on a street. I think the construction's coming soon. So we're looking forward to seeing the signs in the languages we asked for, Tigrina, Oromo, Amharic, Spanish, and Somali, on the street to make sure that every neighbor knows when to park, how to do things, what's going on, when the construction's coming. I came here about six months ago to ask for that. So I know construction's happening soon, so we'll see those signs up soon, right? I hope.
 And also I just want to add, Judy Shiprock, excuse me, Commissioner Shiprock had an idea about a mental health liaison. And I think we need a couple liaisons with the city and the county. So because they can offer new ways of doing things, looking at things, trauma, and things that happen in hospitals to look at all sides. What happens? Why would that happen? And so I think you need more than one liaison though. Judy was thinking one. I think we need a couple.
 And so as we're making new things in the city with our new people moving in, we can all work together and have a revolution. Thanks, Anne. Where should I leave this, Ted? Just leave it with Carla, and she'll give it to me later. Thank you so much. It's great seeing you two. Thank you. Is there any – excuse me, folks. Folks. Okay, they're leaving.
 While they are departing the chamber, are there any items currently pulled from the consent agenda? I've had no requests. Very good. Call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item, please. And that would be item number 139. Thank you.
 proclaimed February 2018 to be Pioneer Black Firefighters of Portland Month. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Before the proclamation is read, I wanted to give a bit of history and invite staff with Portland Fire and Rescue to speak on this item. A few years ago, it was discovered that there was a black firefighter appointed to the Bureau in 1890. This man's name was Gus Waterford.
 Considering the state of race relations in Oregon at that time, this accomplishment is remarkable. The next black firefighter, William Carr, was not sworn in until 1952. And after William Carr, there were no other black firefighters until the early 1970s. A group of current and retired Portland black firefighters...
 are interested in making sure the legacy of Gus Waterford is recognized in conjunction with Black History Month and beyond. They have been working with Portland Community College on creating a fire science scholarship in his name that will go to students who are the first in their families to go to college. With us to speak on this today are...
 Chief Mike Myers, Lieutenant Ted Mays, Lieutenant David Barron, and Firefighter Salton Shabazz. And after they speak, I'll read the proclamation or the mayor can read the proclamation.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioner. Commissioners, thank you for having us here today. My name is Mike Myers. I'm the Fire Chief of the City of Portland. As you know, I represent several hundred firefighters with the City of Portland, and every day they display a level of courage that we are very appreciative for. But today we have the opportunity to express our commitment to an individual who showed their personal courage, and it is my opportunity to stand before you today, and thank you for that. So thank you. Thanks, Chief.
 My name is Lieutenant Ted Mays, so obviously you know I voted for you. You had to. There's only two of us left. And it's also good to see Commissioner Fish, who was our commissioner and did a great job.
 I just want to thank you guys for taking this day, and it's kind of appropriate that it is Valentine's Day that we celebrate someone that has been a great representative of the Portland Fire Bureau, but also just a great American story. He started off where his dad was a former slave who earned his own freedom from Tennessee and worked his way up to Kentucky and married a Martha.
 Griffin, and they moved up to Canada because that was considered the promised land at that time for blacks because it was a safe haven. And then he made his way to the Oregon borders in 1865 and unfortunately when he approached the border in 1865 there was exclusionary laws that limited access for free Negroes and Mulattoes.
 And then there were some other restrictions where they couldn't own land. But in spite of that, he was able to thrive and eventually became a Portland firefighter. There's other key people that were in that history that I came across, which was Joseph Simon.
 who put pressure, he was a politician, he became a future U.S. Senator, but he put pressure on the city, and eventually they hired, in 1892, Moody Scott, and then they followed up with Portland Police Officer George Harden in 1894, and then Gus Waterford followed shortly thereafter.
 But yeah, we just want to celebrate his history and what he's done. But you know, we're, like you mentioned, the scholarship that we've set up, that's also to make sure that we represent him and continue to represent him in the future. And so I want to thank the people from PCC that have assisted us as well. And then I'd also like to thank my firefighter family that's behind us. And then there's some other individuals that also had key parts in our history.
 Those three individuals were Larry Harper, Bill Kendricks, and Don Lewis, who set up the apprenticeship program back in 1995. We were able to have people that weren't actually able to come in, but were able to come.
 We're able to hire not just people of color, but also women as well. And so we want to thank them as well. So we have a rich history, and it's not just black firefighter history, but it's all of our history. So we just want to thank you for taking the time to give us a moment to celebrate that. Thank you. I would just like to...
 Thank you guys for allowing us this platform. And also just ask for any members of the city, citizens of the city, to support this scholarship in the future. Thank you. Sir, could we get your name for the record as well? Salton Shabazz. Thank you, sir. Yes. And how could people donate to this scholarship if they wanted to? Yeah, we have a couple. Can I have someone come up? Christina Klein, who represents PCC. Very good. Welcome. Thank you.
 If you could just state your name again for the record, please. Hi, I'm Christina Klein, Portland Community College Foundation. Thank you for having us here today. To make a gift to support this scholarship, the easiest way is to go online at pcc.edu slash give and make a note that you're supporting the Gus Waterford Memorial Scholarship. We also have some materials here that we'll hand out today. So thank you guys for supporting this wonderful honorary scholarship. Could I ask a question? You know, for some people...
 going through those hoops is a barrier. Is there some way that we could get just a app or a link that we could put on our websites that Commissioner Saltzman could ask each of us to put on our City Hall website so you just click on and it takes you someplace? Would it be possible? Is that technologically feasible? Absolutely. We could provide you guys with some hyperlinks that would go to a site specifically for this scholarship. If you could do that, we could just have a click because otherwise if
 If people are like me, I have trouble doing all the backslash, and I get lost. Perfect. Happy to do that. And by the way, what's your goal for the endowment? Right now we're working on an annual scholarship, but to create an endowed scholarship, it would be $25,000. So we would love to hit that $25,000 mark so we can endow this scholarship and permanently award it to wonderful fire safety students.
 Well, thank you. Thank you all. And Mayor, do you want to read the proclamation? I'd love to. Thank you. I'm honored to read it. And then we'll gather for a picture. Terrific. Okay. Whereas in 1890, a man named Augustus Gus Waterford became the first black firefighter to join the Portland Fire Bureau, and whereas Firefighter Waterford was stationed at Engine 6 in 1890, 1891, and possibly part of 1892...
 And whereas William Carr was the next black firefighter to join the ranks of PF&R, he was sworn in on April 5, 1952. He served on Engine 8, 13, and 11. And whereas while it takes a heavy dose of bravery to be a firefighter, it also takes an extra level of courage to be the first person to break down a social barrier.
 And whereas PF&R's first black firefighters did not have the reassurance of seeing other people who looked like them on the job, but still had the wherewithal to visualize themselves as firefighters and the personal conviction to go after a career in the fire service.
 And whereas today, there are many more people of color who put on the Portland Fire and Rescue uniform and proudly serve this city. Whereas, as February is Black History Month, now is the time to recognize those who paved the way for all the black firefighters who came after them.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim February 2018 to be Pioneer Black Firefighters of Portland Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month. Thank you. We'll suspend the rules, folks. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 We have a lot of representatives of Portland Fire and Rescue here. Maybe we can all gather for a photo in front of the dais. Thank you, everyone.
 Thank you.
 Ready? Woohoo! Hey, hey, history. History, history. Finally. Yes, indeedy. Perfect. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good seeing you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you.
 Can I say one other thing? Yes, sir. Hold the air. Hold the air. Hold the air, folks. Let's take the conversations outside, please. I just wanted to actually thank someone as well who's very instrumental in this. Thank you.
 And that's my chief here. I just want to applaud you guys because I think you guys did an exceptional job in selecting him. He's not just a person, he's not just a visionary, but he's also a person of action. So I just want to let you guys know you did a great job. And when it comes time for budget cuts, remember, here's your guy. Well done, well done. That's a criminal message, well done.
 Who says we don't teach leadership here? That was brilliant. That was brilliant. Never miss an opportunity for a plug. Thank you all, and thank you, Chief. So, colleagues, item number 140. Carla, I'll let you read it. I'm pulling it, and I'll explain why in a minute. Okay.
 Item 140, accept the North Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy Oversight Committee 2017 report. Colleagues, the North Northeast Housing Strategy Annual Report is submitted on behalf of the North Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy Oversight Committee. This report outlines the outcomes of the Preference Policy Home Ownership Program and the Home Repair Program.
 After consultation with the Northeast Oversight Committee Chair, I move this item back to my office. I'll request this report brought back to Council at a later date in March. In the meantime, I've instructed the Portland Housing Bureau to come up with a specific set
 of action items to address the North Northeast Oversight Committee's concerns with a vetted response of specific solutions indicated to be brought before the North Northeast Oversight Committee and to this Council. In other words, we were prepared today to provide a report that shows the successes and shows concerns on behalf of the Oversight Committee. We're
 But rather than having the Housing Bureau and the Oversight Committee and our nonprofit partners potentially pointing fingers, what I want us to do is meet, come to a consensus on how to address the concerns that are clearly outlined in the report, and come back to the City Council.
 to present our action items for addressing the concerns raised in the report. And after having met with leadership of the Oversight Committee and having communicated with a number of the partners, they agreed that that is the best strategy. And so I hope you will accept my forbearance on that, and we will bring it back with a fuller report, including solutions, next month. Mayor Wheeler.
 Commissioner Fish. We're a little ahead of the game here today, and I note that the first couple of agenda items are procurement reports, and I don't see anyone from procurement. So I wanted to ask a question. Do we have the authority to suspend the rules and just move open signal up a half an hour? No.
 Let me defer to legal counsel on that. I certainly have no objection. Well, we have a report from OpenSignal scheduled for 1030. It's not controversial. Do we have the authority to suspend the rules and move it up until 10? For a time certain? Correct. No. I wouldn't recommend that. I mean, if it's scheduled for a time certain, it shouldn't happen until 1030. I apologize. You're the lawyer.
 Well, we could take a break. I've got lots of Valentine's cookies and cakes in my office, Mayor. We could spend half an hour. You can do the rest of the agenda. I just don't know that anyone from procurement is here. We could try. Call item 150 while we're trying to do that. And, Michelle, if you could help with that as well. Call item 150, please.
 150, amend regulations for trees not impacted by development and establish appeal procedures for trees in development situations. Colleagues, this is the second reading of an ordinance. This is an ordinance that has already had a reading. It has already had a staff presentation and testimony. Therefore, we are calling the roll.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Do you want to just do a poll to see who's here? Why don't we see if we have anybody here. Do we have anybody here for item number 147 to present on 147? Yes. Good. Come on up. Okay.
 Go ahead and read the item. Please read item 147. Accept bid of Just Bucket Excavating, Inc. for the Southeast 50th Avenue, Southeast Division Street, to Southeast Hawthorne Boulevard project for $1,150,656. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. We have before us a procurement report.
 for an exciting project that will rebuild Southeast 50th between Hawthorne and Division with numerous new ADA-compliant corners installed. And this is a great example of your local 10-cent gas tax at work, as this is a Fix Our Streets project funded by those dollars. And I'm also happy to report that this bid came in at a bid over $1 million with over 98%
 of the work going to disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business participation, and 53% going to the prime contractor, Just Bucket Excavating, and over 44% going to certified subcontractors. So it's a great example of local dollars supporting up-and-coming local businesses. And we have somebody here from procurement, and I'll turn it over to you.
 My name is Norberto. I'm the project manager. I'm not actually from procurement. I'm from PBOT. Oh, okay. Sorry. Engineering services. Sorry. Well, sir, the question we have for you, is there any reason we should not accept this bid? I don't see any reason that you shouldn't. I mean, I think it's good for the public. It's good for the southeast 50th neighborhood there. And the crumbling pavement is actually needed to be fixed. All right. Thanks. Thanks.
 Did you say your MWESB was 98%? Yes. Just bucket is MWESB. That's great news. Thank you.
 That ups the ante. Yeah. I think even more impressive, the prime contractor is a minority business, but they also made room in the contract for 44% of the subcontracting. You know, we've seen majority firms who just choose to do everything themselves, but this company shared the benefits to other smaller companies, and I think that's especially exemplary. Yes, it is. Any testimony? No.
 I also want to note that, you know, usually we, well, often we see that flagging and other such non-manual labor is part of the women's allocation. This one has $353,000 of a women-owned business performing paving. I think that's fantastic. Mayor, I move to accept the report. Do we have to take testimony? There is no testimony. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. We have a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Thank you.
 Thank you for being here. Aye. Fish? Congratulations on the numbers. Aye. Thank you. Yeah, good work. And congratulations to Just Bucket Excavating. Aye. Eudaly? Utilization rates are one of those things that I think sound really boring to the public, but are extremely important. And our typical utilization rates are under 5%. So 95% women and minority businesses is extraordinary. Aye. Okay.
 Wheeler. Aye. Bid's accepted. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Please call item 149. 149, grant a franchise to Sprint Communications Company, LP, for telecommunications services for a period of up to 10 years. Colleagues, this agenda item is a new franchise agreement to replace the previous franchise agreement with Sprint Communications Company, which was passed by Council in 1998. Okay.
 December of 2017, the Council extended the terms of a franchise agreement with Sprint Communications Company.
 This allowed more time for city staff to negotiate the current franchise agreement being brought forward today and to provide sufficient time for staff to complete the formal franchise process required under the city charter. Here with us today to discuss the process is our utility program manager, Jennifer Lee. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Jennifer Lee from the Office for Community Technology in the Revenue Division.
 As the Mayor noted, in 1998, City Council granted a franchise to Sprint Communications Company to build a telecommunications fiber system within the city streets.
 The agenda item before you is a new agreement which would supersede and replace the original 1998 franchise. Staff in the company have negotiated a new 10-year franchise agreement, which is typical of the term for franchise agreements with other telecommunications fiber companies. The terms are similar to the original agreement but reflect modern standardized terms, such as updated insurance and bond language permitting requirements and reflection of updated city code requirements.
 Similar to other telecommunications franchises, Sprint Communications Company will be charged a franchise fee for its use of the public rights of way. No new builds to the system are planned at this time. The expected franchise fee reflects the calculation based on the existing system built in 1998. However, any additional footage or routes will be subject to the adjusted rate for which the year will be built after city council approval. Additional routes would require an amendment to the franchise.
 Based on city charter requirements, the franchise has been published in the Daily Journal of Commerce and is currently scheduled for second reading on March 21st. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. I have a question, Mayor. Commissioner Fish. You know, we've seen in Washington a number of actions taken by federal agencies to reverse longstanding rules, including things around net neutrality, but there's other things in the pipeline. And so my question is,
 Are there any changes to federal law that we have to pay attention to when we do these franchise agreements to protect our values at the local level? Well, as you probably know, there's a – I think this might be getting a little off topic, but there's a bill –
 I think it's House Bill 4155 in the Oregon House. I think Rob Noss and others are working on that. Right, right. And that's directed towards net neutrality protections and Internet privacy. Anything that would affect franchises, I think the things to watch out most for are –
 requests from the FCC or their Broadband Development Advisory Commission to preempt local municipalities' ability to manage the rights of way, including charging reasonable and fair franchise fees for their use. We've heard some...
 indications that the FCC is being lobbied pretty heavily to eliminate some of those or reduce municipalities' abilities. Right now, I haven't heard of anything urgently pending in the federal government, but I think the FCC has another meeting scheduled soon. Thank you.
 Okay. So it sounds like the answer is we can proceed with this franchise agreement, but there could be further actions taken by Congress or by regulatory bodies which could hamstring us in the future in terms of our ability to manage these franchise agreements. Is that fair? Yes.
 Yes, that's true. You should know that our office, along with the city attorney's office, government relations, we're all watching the FCC and federal government very closely. So hopefully we'll be able to put in our –
 two cents before anything happens. You know, just for the record, colleagues, I was down in Salem the other day and met with Representative Noss, and we talked a little bit about net neutrality. And, you know, these are complicated issues, but one of the issues that alarmed me was the fact that people are trading browsing history without the permission of the customer. And while I have nothing in my browsing history to be ashamed of,
 I do from time to time, for example, in my browsing history, look at medical issues. And I found it rather shocking that that information could be shared widely with others. And so there are very profound privacy issues that can be implicated. And that's why it's important, in my view, that we have protections around Internet privacy. And hopefully the legislature will be able to do something on that. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you, Jennifer. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? I see out there. Sorry. NOS. NOS. Excuse me. What did I say? NOS. I mean, what's understandable? He's used to hearing NOS. Is he? He's totally, yeah. Oh, okay. It's too confusing. Everyone says it different. NOS. NOSy. I've heard NOSy, too. Just say rep N. I think it's NOSy. NOSy.
 No one signed up. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. Item 151, please. Thank you, sir. Welcome. Thank you for being here.
 Thanks, Phil. Thank you. Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Portsmouth University Park Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E10335, for an estimated cost of $4,110,000. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Let me just pull my notes. Okay.
 We're all out of sequence today. You're keeping us on our toes. I am. Mayor and colleagues, this ordinance would authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to rehabilitate approximately 8,200 feet of severely deteriorated sewer lines in the North Portland neighborhoods of Portsmouth and University Park. This project is part of BES's large-scale sewer rehabilitation program,
 and is necessary to protect water quality, public health, private property, and our environment. Today we're joined by Margaret Russell, Project Manager for the Bureau of Environmental Services, to give us a brief presentation. Welcome, Margaret. Thank you. As Commissioner Fish mentioned, I'm Margaret Russell. I am a Senior Engineering Associate with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and I'm here to request authorization for the Portsmouth Sewer Rehabilitation Project.
 Portsmouth is one of 39 large-scale sewer projects, and you can see it in green on this picture. It is in North Portland, and it will rehabilitate and replace severely deteriorated sewer pipe, and it will also provide extensions for 10 non-conforming sewer properties. It will be protecting human health, the property, and the environment by reducing any risks of sewer backups and releases to basements.
 It is typical of the large-scale sewer projects. We have 34 segments of pipe for 8,000 linear feet in these projects. The typical diameter is 8 to 10 inches, and it will primarily be in residential streets with three segments of pipe on an ODOT right-of-way on Lombard. Typical deteriorations that this project will repair are intrusions from roots, holes in mainline pipe,
 and then ladders that have holes, as well as dropped connections at the main. This always reminds me of medical imagery, and also, Commissioner, I'm just wondering, do you use the same pictures every time? Because they all look just really gross. It's funny you mention that, and since this is a family show, and there are children watching, we will...
 We'll park over here the medical imaging part of this conversation, although I'll share with you a private story. Please don't. Actually, yeah, it's true. I will exercise my HIPAA rights, and I will not share that piece. But the...
 When Scott Gibson, who is often in our meetings preparing these things, and we go through the awful pictures to prove the point, we actually give extra credit if there's like a little rat in the corner or something really horrible. But they do a great job of coming up with just disgusting photographs to prove the point. It's too early in the morning for this. Yes.
 Oh, do go on anyway. Sorry. So for an easier picture to look at, the construction methods for this project will be CIPP lining, which is a trenchless method, pipe bursting, another trenchless method, a spot repair, which involves a localized segment of pipe, slip lining is inserting a pipe into the host pipe, and then...
 18 segments of open cut where we will cut through the street with a trench and then replace the pipe. Also on two segments, there will be a pilot testing method for bidding where the contractor will be allowed to bid either construction method shown there, open cut or pipe bursting. And this approach is called contractor's choice. And the purpose of contractor's choice is to obtain the most competitive bid for the city and
 It allows the contractor at the time of bidding to choose whether they are going to be using open cut or pipe bursting. And on the project, all pipe segments are listed as separate bid items. And what is pipe bursting again? Pipe bursting is where you take a pipe and you pull it through the host pipe, which is deteriorated, and break it apart. And you have a brand new pipe inside. Okay.
 For the project, we do have noise variances that have been acquired for three locations that were needed because of extended CIPP curing. That's the lining of pipe where large liners may need curing times past 6 p.m., as well as we wanted to maintain daytime traffic mobility, so we had noise variances for those.
 Our public involvement staff have done extensive outreach to the homeowners and the schools and businesses. They've done flyers and been attending neighborhood association meetings.
 And as Commissioner Finch mentioned, we're asking for the authorization for the $4,110,000 for the project. Our level of confidence is moderate. While the scope is typical of our large-scale projects, the bidding approach is being piloted, as well as there are contracted communities kind of indicated that the bidding prices have been rising in the Portland area and that there are pressure on labors and materials.
 Our goal is to advertise February, March this year and begin construction in September. The duration of construction will be for a year. Are there any questions? Colleagues, can I just add a couple more points? Clearly, now that you've seen the presentation, you've picked up on what I picked up when I got my first briefing, which is this is going to be terribly inconvenient to our neighbors and businesses in this part of the city.
 So we have gone the extra mile or attempted to in terms of community outreach. So presentations at the Portsmouth Neighborhood Association, University Park Neighborhood Association, newsletters, door-to-door visits, flyers, the works.
 But there's no way around the fact that part of the construction will occur on North Lombard Street and Willamette Boulevard. They are hugely significant routes in North Portland. We will do our very best to minimize impacts. But in a project of this size and scale, there obviously can be impacts on businesses and homeowners. And we've done our best to stage it and to be cognizant of the concerns.
 and to choose construction techniques that minimize noise, but the bottom line is this is going to be disruptive. And I think the best that we can say is that we'll do our level best to meet or exceed the construction duration so we get the work done in as expeditious a time as possible. Thank you.
 Any further questions, colleagues? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Item 148, do we have folks here from VES? Yes.
 We will take a 10-minute recess until 10.30, then we'll take up the time certain, then we'll follow it up with 1.48, and we will finish it out with item number 142. We are in recess. In session. Carla, please read item 141. Colleagues, I'm going to start with some brief introductory remarks. We're going to start with some brief introductory remarks.
 We're going to hear from our first panel. Then we're going to have a brief video presentation followed by our second and third invited panels. There will be time, of course, for you to ask questions any time you would like. I'm going to then read a proclamation. And at the end of that, there is a request that the council and the Open Signal folks join down here in front.
 for a picture. This is not a formal report to the City Council, so we are neither taking testimony nor are we taking a vote. This is simply a voluntary report to the City Council. So with that, it's my esteemed privilege to welcome one of the City's long-standing partners to present to the City Council today.
 OpenSignal is probably invisible to the viewers at home, but they're the reasons that our meetings reach hundreds of thousands of Portland households through cable television.
 They are the largest community media center in the entirety of the Pacific Northwest, and they offer low-cost education as well as media production studios and over half a million dollars of equipment to the public free of charge.
 In this era of so-called fake news, in which citizens' journalism is more important than ever, Open Signal, formerly called the Portland Community Media, is providing avenues for everyone to create and broadcast their unique stories.
 At the conclusion of our presentation today, as I just mentioned, I'll read a proclamation. But first, we'd like to welcome our first panel from OpenSignal. I'd like to welcome Justin Harn, the Executive Director, Rebecca Burnell, the Director of Strategy and Development, Natalie Sept, Government Affairs Advisor, and Carlos Lassunet to present. Come on up and welcome to Portland City Council. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for giving us the opportunity to share more about the growth of our organization. My name is Justin Harden. I'm the executive director of Open Signal. Sorry, folks, some technical difficulty. Just trying to give you an opportunity. Awesome. Thank you so much. Perfect. Thank you.
 As you may know, Open Signal, Portland Community Media, is a grantee of Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. We're overseen by the Office of Community Technology within the Bureau of Revenue Services. We come to City Hall today at the culmination of two years of thoughtful planning, hard work, and outreach to transform the organization to be more responsive, accessible, and vital than ever before.
 In 2015, the Board of Portland Community Media launched a strategic planning process that set up a course to reflect digital technology needs in the 21st century, make better use of our assets, and take an assertive approach to addressing equity.
 In the past two years, we've hired new leadership staff, we've created new programs, we've renovated our building, all of which led to tripling our community engagement. Our staff and board are growing to more accurately reflect the community that we serve. 48% of our staff and 66% of our board are people of color. Every council session, committee hearing, and community meeting associated with the City of Portland is recorded for the public to see. Our team is honored to be a key part of sharing your message beyond City Hall's walls.
 In 2017, we broadcast a total of 148 city council meetings. And I'm not sure if you folks know this, but this is all being filmed. I want to switch really quickly to Janelle, our Director of Production Services, who oversees these productions on the daily. I was struck on the 148. No wonder I'm tired. Yes. For youth... Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah.
 We are the largest community media center in the Pacific Northwest with a 10,000 square foot media facility, two media production studios with full green screen cyclorama, and a large studio that's 2,000 square feet. OpenSignal provides five cable channels airing local and independently produced content reaching 400,000 homes in the Portland metro area. We provide programming in English, in Spanish, Chinese, Farsi, and Russian.
 One of the biggest benefits of our media equipment library, which is valued at over $650,000, including professional-grade cameras, lighting, microphones, iPads, MacBook Pro laptops, fully loaded with Adobe Creative Cloud software, and more. The public is invited to check out this equipment totally free of charge in order to create content to air on our channels. We're a proud member of the Digital Inclusion Network and committed stakeholder to the Digital Equity Action Plan.
 We're excited to support the Digital Inclusion Summit later in May by offering resources, space, and staff connections to help lead the nation in the mission for digital access and equity, along with Comcast, Free Geek, Multnomah County Library, Prosper Portland, Work Systems, Inc., Elders in Action, Portland Public Schools, and many others. Our education for youth and adults provides affordable beginner and advanced classes covering camera and production studio operation, editing, animation, and more.
 This provides accessible workforce training for people who can't afford higher education or unpaid internships. We offer education in both English and Spanish at the best rates in the city. In the last half of 2017, 48% of OpenSignal's adult students reported annual income under $30,000. And here's a photo of one of our classes that we taught in Spanish. For youth, we offer after-school programs.
 summer camps, and a long-time partnership with Open School North, an alternative middle school for non-traditional learners who have left our public school systems. Our community events, including our annual block party, bring together the neighborhood on Northeast Martin Luther King Boulevard, where we are proud to be located, and provide screenings, immersive media events, and exhibitions.
 We're serving more of the community than we ever have. In a single year, we tripled the number of Portlanders that we engaged through events, education, cable broadcast production, and community partnerships. In light of all the success, we were thrilled to host United States Representative Susan Bonamici back in the spring. As a co-chair of the STEAM Caucus and vice-ranking member of the Committee on Education and Workforce, we discussed opportunities with her for growth in arts interdisciplinary training for kids and adults.
 And even better, we are honored to have a couple of you attend our open house events. Here is Commissioner Eudaly kicking off our grand reopening in February 2017, and Commissioner Fish at our open house in May. Thanks so much for attending those events. On behalf of everyone at Open Signal, we'd like to thank you again for allowing us to preserve our entire budget in the last fiscal cycle. We're doing more with your dollars than ever before. I'm so proud of the work that we've done, and I know that this is just the beginning,
 We couldn't have gotten to this place without the support of the city. Thank you for believing in us, our mission, and the future of OpenSignal, a new era of equity, access, and community impact through the arts. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Rebecca Burrell, and I'm the Director of Strategy and Development at OpenSignal. I'm here to share with you the progress and measurable impact that we've made since we presented to you last year.
 In January 2017, we reintroduced ourselves to the community as Open Signal. We did this because Portland Community Media, as an organization, was struggling. And because between our new executive director, new leadership staff from the Hollywood Theater and the Regional Arts and Culture Council, and beyond, we had new programming and we approached equity with new assertiveness. We had truly become a new organization.
 We chose the name Open Signal because open symbolizes that we're here for everyone. And signal indicates that we exist to help amplify the voices of our community. To complement this transformation, we renovated our space to be more open and flexible with the changing capacity and demands of our volunteers, students, and neighbors. Here are some images from before the renovation. Just a couple here. And here's what it looks like now.
 And this is an image of the exterior of the building. We launched a partnership with RAC for emerging muralists last year. Local artist Molly Mendoza was the first muralist to participate. This past year, usership and community engagement on all levels have been way, way up. With the same funding from the City of Portland, we have been able to deliver exponentially more services to more Portlanders, and the demand is rising. So I'm going to give you a little bit of a look at some of the numbers from fiscal year 2017. Thank you.
 So first of all, 48% more people checked out equipment from our library. Our producers made 4,905 individual equipment and studio reservations last year, checking out our cameras for a total of 61,666 hours and laptops for 93,069 hours. We also more than tripled class registrations.
 We educated 249 students in fiscal year 2016, and that jumped way up to 818 students in 2017. We also delivered more than four times as many equipment certifications, which enable our students to check out our equipment from our media library for free after they complete their class. So for comparison, we delivered 158 certifications in 2016, and that jumped up to 818 in 2017.
 Perhaps most significantly, we more than tripled the total number of people we engaged over the previous year. Through 40 free community events, classes on-site at our center, as well as in schools and at public libraries, we jumped from serving 1,628 people in 2016 to 5,244 people in 2017 in just one year.
 As we look forward into 2018, the immediate future of OpenSignal will focus on providing deep professional development for media makers who come from marginalized communities. Both locally and nationally, we know our film and TV industries are almost entirely dominated by white men.
 A 2016 study by the University of Southern California revealed that 87.3% of film directors are white, 90.4% of broadcast TV directors are white, and 83.2% of cable TV directors are white. And those statistics just address race, not gender or class barriers.
 So as the most accessible media arts program in the city, we have to ask ourselves, what is our role in changing the literal face of the media field? How can we use our privilege to provide pathways into these family wage careers for women, for people of color, for those who struggle to gain access to expensive equipment, or those who simply don't think that technology is for them?
 In addition to the educational offerings we already provide, we will further address workforce development by providing training through our production crews. And then in the middle of this year, we'll launch a fellowship for black filmmakers, which will provide deep training on the highest level gear, mentorship, and practice working on a film crew. All in all, we accomplished more this year than we ever imagined. We look forward to keeping you posted on our work as it unfolds, and thank you for your continued support and collaboration. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Carlos Lawson-Sett. And up until last year, I was the science teacher at Open School, middle school. As was mentioned before, that middle school program is an alternative school program. And I had been with the school for going on 10 years.
 and so I have a clear understanding of a before and after our partnership with Open Signal so it's my goal just to kind of shed some light on some of my experiences and some of what I've seen
 Being working in a middle school program with kids who have been disengaged from their learning for whatever reason, a lot of circumstances that, you know, financial, socioeconomical, you know, just children of color. There are kids who, it's not that they cannot learn.
 But their experience in public school or in the city and their learning experience has made them feel like school isn't for them. This is the population that we served. So you could imagine middle school kids, it's a challenge trying to get them to be into learning when they have so many roadblocks in front of them.
 that interfere with their learning. Maybe they're struggling at home. I'm not going to spend a lot of time talking about those stories. But it's an uphill battle for any teacher trying to teach in that situation. It's an uphill battle for any teacher, period, trying to compete with so many distractions.
 So what the partnership with Open Signal made possible was for us to, by incorporating the media into our classes and teaching the kids about media, it just made the engagement go through the roof.
 The kids are already curious about, they're watching, they live in the world, they're watching YouTube, they're watching, you know, listening to these artists. They're, basically, they're consuming all this media, but they don't see a way that they can themselves be producers.
 This partnership with Open Signal showed them that they have their voice mattered, their voice matters, and they can use their voice to become producers, to participate in this economy. Because we know going forward, right, our economy is creativity is the key.
 Right? I always tell my students, I say, creativity is important because there's a lot of problems in the world and we need your creativity to help us come up with some solutions.
 Um, so giving them iPads and, and all these resources, I mean, it's just amazing. And, and giving them their imagination again, it gave them like their, their imagination that they could, things that they could dream up or ideas that they had, they were valid and they could make them, they could create them.
 Right? And that's something that, you know, being disenfranchised, feeling like they don't have any power, they're realizing their potential. So as a teacher, this experience working with them was invaluable. And then to be able to use it is such a flexible thing. I was able to use it in my science class. We used it in our art classes.
 You know, I had we we did dissections and I had the kids filming it and we did nature walks and looking for things in the in the neighborhood, different type of plants and animals and to have that tool that they could use. Right. And they can see that the stuff that they're learning goes with what what you want to do or the stuff that you're learning is important.
 because that's what it is so and I'm sorry this is my first time ever doing something like this so thank you and then the other side of this too is when you talk about and I always would tell my kids 21st century skills yeah
 I always would tell my kids, I would say, you know, by the time you get ready to have a job, your resume is going to be a video or EPK or some kind of YouTube or, you know, some kind of digital presentation. They need to know how to use this stuff, how to tell stories, how to present themselves well. If they want, they could be, they have the potential to be entrepreneurs in that cyber world.
 To be competitive in the economy, they need these skills. And just because of their backgrounds, it's not fair that they get left out of the opportunities. So I super appreciate Open Signal for leveling that playing field, opening that door so that they see that, yes, my voice matters. Yes, I can have the skills and I can make something in this world and build something with these skills. Yeah.
 Yeah, that's pretty much it. Appreciate it very much. Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Justin, I had two questions for you. One is I'm reminded of a famous story that Mike Lindbergh likes to tell, former city commissioner who I –
 It was once, I think, the longest-serving city commissioner. Dan, I think you're giving him a run for his money. I've eclipsed him. You've eclipsed him. And this just goes way back, but he was once doing a call-in show as a city commissioner. And during one of the breaks, he asked the technician, I'd just be curious to know how many people are watching. And apparently this grim-faced person came back and said, well, given the hour, no one's watching. And it was late in the evening. No.
 technology had not evolved and whatever. But it begs the question, because we hear from a lot of the people that watch us on Channel 30, just like I'm sure our friends at the county hear from people. So they will watch a work session and then send an email with follow-up questions. Do we know anything about that audience? Yes.
 You know, we need to run those reports 100%. I think we have a – we reach 400,000 homes in the city. We don't know exactly of those folks who are watching at any given time. Well, I know, for example, that Senator Aval Gordley religiously watches because we get emails, follow-up questions, comments. Hi, Senator Gordley. We know that when –
 When Mayor Katz was alive, she used to watch it quite closely. But I think at some point it would be interesting for us just to know what's the slice of the community that's watching us. Absolutely. And partly that's so that we can make sure we're communicating with them effectively. Definitely. So whatever data you compile on that, I'd like to know. And the second question I have is the last time that I had a visit, and it was during one of your fairs, and the place was packed and it was just fantastic. Yes.
 You had a little truck in the back where someone was doing a podcast. Yes, Stream PDX. What is the state of podcasting as part of your mission? And how do people...
 Because it seems like a low barrier way of doing something in the media. Absolutely. How do people enter? What's the door they go through if they want to do a podcast? Most definitely. So I think speaking to that point, we're all about accessibility. So when we were engineering and thinking about the services that we wanted to offer, we wanted to make sure that anyone could come to us from any background and feel comfortable telling stories.
 So for many folks, we have a professional voiceover room that we have within our facility, but that's kind of scary and intimidating for people. So we figured what more way could we disarm this process than we have some gear from Guitar Center, we have an Airstream trailer, and some simple straightforward classes that allow folks to enter into that world.
 we collaborate with StreamPDX to register for folks or register folks for classes and workshops and offerings like we do our own. So we're looking at these sorts of partnerships for how we can kind of innovate and advance our mission of connecting folks with story and technology. Well, that's great. Congratulations. Thank you so much.
 I'm just going to lean over. Hey, can we have Gustavo J. Ramirez and PC Perry, producers, come up, as well as Lisa Faust, our board chair. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Gustavo J. Ramirez. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak with you guys today. I'm from New York City, the capital of the world, as they say, city of doors. And yet, I've created, collaborated, and creatively excelled in open segment one year more so than I could have in five.
 I know this to be true because it happened to me. It is why I now speak with you here today. I want to tell you how when someone becomes a producer at Open Signal, how they can have a ripple effect in the community. I was working with a director to shoot a short film. She knew one of the producers at the studio. We were to shoot in studio A, the topic social justice. I asked myself, how can I get involved with this studio? I was impressed by the caliber of the individuals, the equipment, and I found out that day that everyone was volunteering. I was impressed by the caliber of the individuals, the equipment, and I found out that day that everyone was volunteering.
 When I spoke to a staff member, I was introduced to classes with the idea that if I was to get certified, I would be able to rent out equipment and produce work of my own. I would also be able to utilize editing suites and software. And not to mention anyone who's willing to volunteer using the online community website Switchboard as a pathway. Of course, it took tons of work on my part, but the opportunity was there. What seemed like an impossibility now was around the corner, literally on MLK and Graham.
 Because of this, I began a process that would forever change my life. I had a story written, and I asked around for a team of volunteers, and I found some great people. Greg Palmer, specializing in audio. Jeremy Cook, editing and directing. Christopher Polanco, who's 16 years old, cinematography and camera. Elijah Hassan, cameras and photography. And an actress, Amy Reese. In a span of three months, we met several times, did rehearsals, production meetings.
 finalized the location, and had a rental agreement for the equipment. We shot on location and shortly thereafter, we edited it. What amazes me most is that in three months we got all of this done. In New York City, this would have taken me five years. I say this because since then, everyone working on my project has now continued to produce work of their own, involving more community members, creating new stories, and involving more members to extend the family to the Open Signal community.
 all the while learning new techniques, creating bigger pool of collaborators, and creating more opportunities for our community, especially for our youth. Most importantly, embarking on lifelong friendships. I don't think I can express my gratitude for Open Signals, but maybe this is a start. Open Signals, I thank you guys, and thank you guys too. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you for the applause.
 So good morning all. I'm just going to tell you a story about myself and forget that it's about me because it's just a small example of other people who have come through Portland Community Media, now Open Signal. So I guess I was a photographer for, oh God, I can't even remember how many years. Started in the 60s. Worked on journalism, commercial work, advertising.
 and then actually textbook illustration for schools. Parlayed into video when I stopped doing 11 years of textbook illustration. Over those years, somebody said to me, well, what do you want to do? And I said, well, I'd like to do this, but that's a little hands-off. You don't just walk into a place and start doing a video like that. Well, in 1985, I did that.
 And I wound up covering things across the world from Nicaragua to my latest one, I think on Monday, who was a houseless individual sleeping in a tent and explaining to me what that was like and how he did it and why he didn't come to the city and why he didn't go to shelters.
 I give the example many times of I tried to cover stories, both interviews and speakers and events with Flying Focus Video Collective, as well as other projects where I would be a camera operator or audio or lighting with someone else's project to cover things that CNN didn't cover. Our network affiliates in town here didn't cover it.
 So I've gone many places across the world, as well as many places in town, to cover the voiceless, which is a cliché now, but is not a cliché if you're the person in the circumstance that has to be covered. And having access to modern equipment, reliable equipment is even better at a facility like Open Signal, PCM, has been invaluable. It's actually...
 During the elections for Obama, I was in Denver at their facility to see what it was like there. It's much better here. I was in New Haven in Connecticut seeing their facility and using their facility. It's much better here. I can't imagine where it's better in this country, but I know it needs to continue here. So you all know about redlining, and I'm hoping that you'll be at the speaker's demonstration ceremony
 talk in April talking about redlining at the Alberta Abbey. Let's not let that happen with communications like cable access. There's been enough redlining. There's been enough red-tagging on houses. Let's make sure that people have a voice to get their observations and interests out to a larger community and themselves.
 We need this kind of facility. It's not a luxury. It's a necessity. When I was working up in Barrow and they were working with radio, they were talking to communities so they can stay in touch and stay alive. It's the same thing here. We have lots of need and people are learning all the time. I'll just add this last one.
 Learning from OpenSignal, learning earlier from PCM, learning earlier from Portland Cable Access taught me enough to be able to teach other people. So I'm not sure of the number, but I think we have some record at Flying Focus that it might have been 300. And an example of how that happens is somebody came to me once out of Eugene and wanted to know how to cover something in their community.
 met them at a restaurant, explained the whole process to them. They went out and they did it. I haven't seen them again, but I know they got it done. So many times the people that I teach, Flying Focus teaches, the cable access facility that we're so lucky to have, have gone out and taught others. So you're doing a great thing. We hope you appreciate the benefit of it.
 And please keep it going. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Thanks for sharing. Hello. Good morning. Morning. My name is Lisa Faust. I'm the board president at Mopen Signal. I've been on the board for over five years, originally appointed by Commissioner Saltzman at the time when we were Portland Community Media. Yeah.
 At that time, the organization was in a much different situation, and I was asked to join the board due to my financial acumen to help steer the organization with current leadership at that time to a better place. Thank you.
 Since joining the board, we've done a national search for a new executive director. As you know, Justin Harn was our local candidate, but he outweighed the national candidates that came to want to be part of what we're doing. Now, combined with staff from Regional Arts and Culture Council, Hollywood Theater, a committed board, and Justin's leadership, I'm proud to say that we're stronger than ever.
 Along with new leadership, our financials at OpenSignal are also stronger than ever. Management of resources, oversight by our fiscal director, outside CPAs, it gives the finance committee and the board assurance that the organization is strong and continuing to grow.
 I'm encouraged by our new programming and workforce development and production services and the Open Signal Labs, an incubator for filmmakers of color, which is very exciting. We will be becoming an even more robust resource in a time when media is really under siege.
 We have several community partners that we are proud to work with. We'd like to thank our community partners, and some of them that we work with are Cleveland High School, iUrban Teen STEM Summit, Lentz Youth Initiative, Media Institute for Social Change, Multnomah County Library, National Alliance for Media, Arts, and Culture, Open School North, Portland Workforce Alliance. There's several. I just want to see. Got a couple more in here. Sista Sista.
 Vanport Mosaic, Vox Siren, Women in Film, and many, many more. As a daughter of Cuban immigrants, I've witnessed the barriers to advancement that some face in this country now perhaps more than ever. Open Signals Board and management look forward to continue to break through those barriers and continue the advancement in our community by the programming that we offer to the community.
 I'm proud to be part of Open Signal because of the commitment to inclusion and equity and providing a safe space for all individuals in a time when our community needs it most. And we would like to thank you for your continued support of the important organization and the work that we're doing and your leadership in the community and the city each and every day. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you for sharing. I appreciate it.
 Thank you so much. Last, I'd love to welcome Justin Harn, Executive Director, and producer Elijah Hassan back up to the desk. So as we've seen, Open Signal producers are an inspiring group of activists, of artists, and community leaders. They're men and women and non-binary folks and children of all ages and ethnicities. They create content in English, Spanish, Farsi, Chinese, and Russian.
 In the 2017 fiscal year, our volunteer producers created 943 new TV programs. And every new program reflects an entire volunteer crew who helped with cameras and lighting, writing, costumes and sets, on-air guests, and much, much more. These people embody community, and when they come together, they accomplish something far greater than they could as individuals.
 Every day at Open Signal, we are moved by the collaboration and service exhibited by our producers. By the way that people show up for other people. These producers have inspired us to introduce a new annual award, the Open Signal Community Producer Award. This is an unrestricted cash award that honors the commitment of one producer to the Open Signal community. It's not a filmmaking award, but instead recognizes the many hours they volunteered their time to make Open Signal a better place.
 It's about service, community, and connection. This award will be delivered annually to a producer who has given back to our organization at least as much as they've received, someone who embodies a culture of philanthropy and gratitude. This award is intended to allow the awardee the opportunity, if they choose, to create a new work. I'm very proud to award the very first Open Signal Community Producer Award to Elijah Hassan, educator, filmmaker, photographer, and Open Signal producer of more than 20 years.
 Elijah is a bridge builder with a profoundly generous heart. Elijah pays it forward providing free trainings for dozens of members of our community, getting gear into the hands of people that would not otherwise have access to our services. He was the first community member to step up and volunteer to serve on our equity committee. In his personal work as a teacher and as an artist, Elijah leverages his art and actions to combat systemic oppression. He's a connector. He's positive. He's resilient.
 We're a stronger community because of Elijah Hassan. So again, we're so proud to present Elijah Hassan with the first ever Community Producer Award. Congratulations, Elijah. Thanks a lot. I don't have a lot of time. I just want to say all praise to the one.
 I guess I'll tell a short story. I was watching, I'm researching for a short film I'm working on, so I was watching Good Night and Good Luck, which is, if you haven't seen it, it's the film about Ed Murrow, the CBS reporter who went up against McCarthy. And there's an opening scene where he's addressing this radio and TV organization. And I was just really struck.
 how he made a prediction 50 and 60 years from now what the people who were looking back at the people at that time would think about them. And I was really struck how he was right on point or that story was right on point as far as profit, advertisement, capitalist interests really impacting and influencing media, all the TV that we watch. And so I guess what I'll say in my
 short story is that independent media is surely valuable in these times and all times and I would suggest that we all value it. It's just a treasure and you won't miss it until it's gone. And I'll just leave it at that. And again, thank you very much for your support and until next time. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 And whereas Open Signal is the largest public media center in the state of Oregon, community producers have been making use of Open Signal's resources, volunteering thousands upon thousands of hours of their own time to document locally relevant issues in English, Spanish, Farsi, Russian, and other languages.
 And whereas open signal producers have broadcast a broader range of perspectives than we see in the mainstream media, covering issues of activism, houselessness, the police, family, faith, comedy, experimental art, and other topics that would not have a home anywhere else on the television airwaves.
 And whereas these producers lead vital nonprofits like Wisdom of the Elders, Vanport Mosaic, and the Flying Focus Video Collective, they are some of the most productive, community-minded, and change-making citizens in the city of Portland.
 And whereas at a time when basic liberties are under threat across the United States, community television is one of the last remaining homes for free speech, and open signal producers are stepping up to boldly share their voices, showing us it's important to communicate, stay connected, and be proud of who we are.
 And now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim February 14, 2018, to be Producer Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you for this presentation. It's really a good reminder of the value of community engagement and that you need training, you need equipment, you need a place, and you need people. And so thank you for providing all of those. Thank you for your service on the board. I just want to acknowledge that this has not been an easy road to get to this place. And when I was in charge of the Office of Cable Communications and Franchise Management in my first term here,
 Portland Community Media was not in such a stable condition. So I want to acknowledge Sue Disciple, who's here with us today for her leadership over many years, C.C. Ugly-Nuel, a previous executive director who really assisted in correcting the course, Julia Melchek, who's here today too from the Office for Community Technology, and the former leaders Mary Beth Henry and David Olsen.
 who have been huge supporters. And then thanks to my College Commissioner, Fish, and Commissioner Saltzman for their leadership and our insistence that we are going to keep funding Portland Community Media and now Open Signal and for the entire council last year doing the budget notes saying that we're going to look and find out what is the best place for your staffing to happen within the city structure.
 So thank you. It's been a long road, and it's really exciting to see where we are now. Thank you all. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Yeah, I just wanted to say, Justin, congratulations on your first year. We started our new adventures at the same time. So we should check in and talk about how that's going. I'm really impressed with the progress that OpenSignal has made over the past few years. Obviously, this is...
 a passion of mine, independent media and self-made media. And if freedom of the press is guaranteed only to those who own one, access to these tools and resources is vital. So thank you for your work and congratulations. If I could just add one other comment.
 The council is working on a number of recommendations that address arts affordability, both for organizations and for artists. And we'll have something coming back soon after a council work session. And one of the things I learned in my last visit is you've got that beautiful piece of property to the east of your campus. And I hope that as you continue to grow and prosper,
 we collectively think about how to leverage that space because it's a dynamite address. It's an amazing space. And it might someday be the home for affordable art space for people that are also connected to your mission. So thank you for all of your good work. Can I just make one request? I know we have lots of people here from OpenSignal, but there's a handful of people that actually –
 are connected to Channel 30 and broadcasting us. So can we see a showing of hands of people that are actually involved in the city council broadcast? They're probably working. They're all working. Thank God someone's back there working. Well, in absentia, we want to thank them because it is so important that the public have this access to their government. And the people that do the work are terrific. So a heartfelt thank you.
 Very good. I'd just like to add my accolades to OpenSignals. Great work over the last couple years. And Lisa, in particular, thank you for agreeing to serve on the board and helping to really bring fiscal discipline and responsibility in what was needed at the time. And so I really am excited about your progress reports. That's very exciting information.
 about how many people are producing and how many people are learning, and so keep up the good work. Thank you. Very good. So open signal, producers, staff, council, let's gather up here and let's get a photograph. Is there a producer in the room that can help us figure out how to do that? I assume we have some experts present. Hi.
 Thank you.
 Who wants to speak? I'll hear back. Where's Mr. Executive? Where's he? Oh, there you go. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Can we get this off the record? Can we get this off the record? Oh, the people who are not here. Maybe we can sneak in here and just roll here.
 All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 I'm going to sit down.
 All right. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you for inviting me over. Yeah, great presentation.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Oh, nice. I knew you looked familiar. I wasn't sure where you were.
 Thank you. Yes. Thank you very much. I'm asking, you've been around for a long time. I remember flying with you. I used to work at Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books. I'm going back to Latinx books
 I couldn't, I was, it was working on it, you know. Yeah, that's right. Boy, you've got good memory. Yeah. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 I think it's under revenue there. Oh, we put it back there? There's nothing that... We did that because we no longer thought it should be under a commission? Yeah, you could say that. It just felt like a better fit to be on the back side of the new division since they bring in all the franchise fees and stuff like that. Okay. Yeah. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you. He's a good man. We're going to do the first big brownfield in Luke's district. He's been the champion in the legislature. There's a ton of brownfields in this district.
 and the intersection of environmental cleanup and equity and opportunity. So we're going to try to find a big project. So I'll be happy to be asked. Could we have an opportunity? Yeah. Thank you. Thank you very much for joining us. So we're going to have a board session in March. So maybe following up from that, let me give you my schedule card. Yeah, that's good. And then we'll be happy to do that. Thank you, sir.
 I also work with organizations that are called National Ultimate Action.
 I have that. Yeah. You never know. Yeah, you never quite know, but boy, what a difference. See you.
 Okay. Caitlin, why don't you guys come forward? I think we're next. Let's take care of it. Okay, one minute. All right, folks, we are going to go to item number 142. Okay.
 This is a relatively quick item. As you will recall, we took a preliminary vote last week on this subject. The law requires us to take a final vote. Carla, could you please read item number 142?
 Yes. Appeal of the South Burlingame Neighborhood Association against the hearings officer's decision to approve with conditions McAdam Ridge, a 21-lot subdivision, environmental review with modifications, and environmental violation review for vacant property west of and adjacent to 0319 Southwest Taylor's Ferry Road, LU16,
 dash 213734 LDSENM Mayor, I move to adopt the findings. Commissioner Fish, can you use the I've been advised we need to use the full language here. Okay, go ahead. I'll go ahead and just use that the bottom paragraph.
 I move, Mayor, I move that the Council grant the appeal in part and deny the application for land division, environmental review, and modification, except that Council grants approval of environmental violation review with conditions. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further Council discussion? Call the roll. Fritz. This was a really remarkable appeal.
 by the neighborhood organization, and I appreciate the outcome. Thanks also for the staff for all of your great work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The council has granted the appeal in part and deny the application for land division environmental review and modifications except that council grants approval environmental violation review with conditions. Thank you. Item 148. Okay.
 amend contract with Tetra Tech Inc. for additional compensation to perform engineering during construction for the Oaks Bottom Culvert Replacement Project, number E0-8576, for $263,401. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, I have to note that in this council we've had a couple of really wonderful and interesting
 meaningful celebrations today. Maybe something about Valentine's Day took over in this chamber, but it had a different feeling and we've had some really wonderful presentations and I'm so honored today to be able to introduce this item because I think it's really important and I think you're going to be really excited. Here's the background. The City of Portland and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are partnering for the Oaks Bottom Habitat Enhancement Project.
 This is a vitally important project for our river, as Oaks Bottom is the largest remaining natural area in the lower Willamette River floodplain. Interesting factoid. Today I'd like to invite Sean Bistoff, Capital Project Manager, and Caitlin Lovell, Watershed Division Manager from the Bureau of Environmental Services, to give us the good news. Caitlin? Great.
 Thank you all. Good morning. My name is Caitlin Lovell. I manage the science division for the Bureau of Environmental Services, and joining me today is Sean Bistoff, the project manager. We are very excited to present and introduce this Oaks Bottom project to you, which is going to construction this summer.
 You may be familiar with Oaks Bottom. This is a picture of it. It sits below the Selwood Bluffs. There's a lot of seeps and springs that drain from those bluffs into the open reservoir. And then that open reservoir drains through a small channel under the spring water trail there and out to the Willamette River through a small culvert. The Willamette River here, this is Ross Island in the...
 Picture the river flows north into downtown Portland. You can see the Springwater Trail cutting through the project area and then the Oaks Amusement Park. Further upstream is where we have Tryon Creek and Johnson Creek, two of our biggest salmon potential streams entering into the Willamette River.
 What you might not be familiar with are some of the superlatives of Oaks Bottom. Just on February 10th, it celebrated its 30th anniversary as the city's first and to date only urban wildlife refuge. That designation led in 2004 to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service designating it as a Migratory Bird Treaty Park.
 As Commissioner Fish mentioned, at 160 acres, it is the largest remaining intact floodplain wetland below Willamette Falls. And that's pretty critical for what we have planned.
 It is full of wildlife birds, notably a lot of duck species and shorebird species, as well as Portland's beloved blue heron. There is a pair of nesting bald eagles in the area. There are river otter, turtles, amphibians. This is a great place in the urban core.
 But it couldn't be better. And so today, Sean is here to tell you about our project that we have to enhance Oaks Bottom. Thanks, Caitlin. Good morning. My name is Sean Bistoff. I'm the Capital Project Manager for Environmental Services for this project. And as Caitlin mentioned, this is the largest remaining tidal wetland in the lower Willamette River, and the project will restore the tidal connection there.
 between river and wetland for roughly 75 acres of the wetland itself. It will also restore fish passage and wildlife passage to and from the river and wetland. The project is located about a quarter mile north of the Oaks Amusement Park, and it entails a replacement of a small concrete culvert. I will try to point to that on the cursor. Here, depicted by the pink line,
 That culvert will be replaced with a large box culvert, which is the brown shape just adjacent to the pink line. That new box culvert will be fish passable, and again, we'll restore that natural water exchange between the tidal fluctuation of the river and wetland. We're also removing a small water control structure, essentially a dam. It's in that circular inset.
 That dam is failing and that once we remove that water control structure, it will allow us to improve about 2,000 linear feet of channel within the wetland. To do so, we do need to remove about 145 trees, but the good thing about that is those trees will be reused on the site in the wetland for largewood habitat structures. And within the impact area, we're revegetating with roughly 2,600 native trees and plants per acre.
 And an additional benefit of this project, I think everyone who's been out there knows that the Spring Water Trail is pretty high speed there. It's fairly narrow. We're installing a viewing platform and a trail bump out to give people the opportunity to pull aside from traffic and view the refuge and the river out of the main flow of traffic.
 Here's a cross-sectional view of both the berm and the culvert beneath the berm. The existing culvert's on the left in the pink. You can see it's a pretty small pipe. It's very deficient in terms of water exchange. The new culvert depicted there in the center is a 16x10 box culvert. It will allow free exchange of tidal flow.
 And I mentioned in the previous slide the trail bump out, which will be right above the culvert about in the vicinity of where the illustration of the woman walking the dog is on the upper left. There will be a planned trail closure associated with this project, and that's during the regulatory and water work window from July 1st to October 31st. The summertime closure is unavoidable. That's the only time we can work in the water.
 And we looked at every design alternative to avoid the actual closure. And there's just no feasible or safe way to not close a trail. There would be a large open cut through the spring water berm during a good portion of the time. The good news is with the new Selwood Bridge completed, the Tilcum Crossing, and a lot of great work that PBOT has done to local bikeways in the neighborhood,
 There are a lot of good alternatives and the project involvement staff on the Oaks Bottom team is working with PBOT and PARCS. The Corps of Engineers is involved in public involvement as well and getting the word out that disclosure is coming. Alternatives will be well signed and we will continue that work as we move closer to construction to make sure the word gets out. Thank you.
 Is it going to be closed the entire period? July 1st to October 31st. Unfortunately, yes.
 And we recognize, Dan, this is a significant inconvenience to people who use it. It's summertime, and as the presentation makes clear, we looked at every other alternative. There are windows when you're allowed to do in-water work, as you know, and we're dealing with lots of partners, and this was the only time we could do it. And we deeply regret the inconvenience, but there's no workaround, other than using other trails and other parts of our system. All right.
 If I could just state the obvious, which is, first of all, I believe you when you say you've looked at every alternative because you know what this means. But I would encourage us to start noticing the trail at our earliest convenience to let people know that this is coming. Thank you.
 The signs have been ordered, so those will be going up. And they've already been out to the community, to the Neighborhood Association, and working with Bike Portland to issue some blog posts. So the word is definitely getting out, and we're working with the biking community. As Sean mentioned, too, we've been working closely with PBOT to actually advance some bike safety improvements that have been on the long list of things to do. And so the bike community is really appreciative that we're getting out in advance to address some of those detours and safety concerns. Good. That's smart. Well done.
 That's a great segue because this project wouldn't be possible without the numerous partnerships that we have. The first and foremost being Portland Parks from the beginning. This has been a joint effort with Portland Parks. Oaks Bottom is a Portland Parks facility. And the design that we're pursuing is very much a joint effort with them.
 The Army Corps of Engineers is a key partner. This is the third in a series of projects that we've done with the Corps, the first being in the Columbia Slough back in the early 2000s, more recently in Crystal Springs with the culverts in the Westmoreland Park Project.
 This one's more ambitious and more complicated, so we're really fortunate that we have those lessons learned from the earlier projects to move forward. And we're really confident that this one is going to be just as successful as those. The Corps brings to the table approximately almost $5 million of federal funding to this project. And they are managing the construction contract as well as the public involvement during construction.
 Because we are so well coordinated with the Corps and with our partners, we are supplementing that public involvement as well to get out there early and to bring all of the tools that we have in our toolbox to the community, recognizing the impact.
 Our success here sets the stage for yet an even more ambitious partnership with the Corps. We have a $30 million package of five projects in the Willamette that are currently awaiting funding from Congress. So this project will really set that stage for that next bigger package yet to come. Next slide.
 And that brings us to the value of this project within the overall city as well. Back in the fall, we came to and declared the first ever salmon sanctuary in Crystal Springs. We had a number of candidate projects and candidate sites. Oaks Bottom was the only site in the Willamette River.
 that we identified. It's a very culturally significant site. We want to work with the Native American tribes to really come up with and refine the criteria that we have to add a cultural significance element to it. We don't know if Oaks will qualify this year. We're going to have to continue to collect data, but when we come back to you in the fall with our Salmon in the City Day, we will definitely bring a lot of great pictures of the construction project and the successes that we anticipate this summer. Thank you.
 So I'd like to speak a bit about the construction contract and then the schedule. The construction contract, as Caitlin mentioned, is managed by the Corps of Engineers. And it's a mentor-protege arrangement that's part of a federal program to increase diversity in contracting.
 The protege is LKE, which is a small woman-owned business. It's owned by Kim Arion, who BES has worked with in the past successfully on other restoration projects. The mentor is a large civil engineering firm, K&E Excavation. They bring a lot of great experience to the table to be able to deliver this project effectively.
 In terms of schedule, we will begin tree removal in late February or when water level allows. If we get some high water, that could be delayed a bit. Trees will be reused, as I mentioned, in the wetland for large habitat structures. And the photograph shows some examples of other large habitat structures we've built on Johnson Creek.
 The main construction is from July 1st to October 31st. The project will be complete entirely by December 31st. There will be a couple months after the trail reopens where the contractor will have some presence out there, but the trail will be open at that time. So the design contract and the ordinance before you today is for the amendment of the city's contract with Tetra Tech.
 The city managed the design contract, and Tetra Tech completed the design and brought the plans and specs into core format so that those plans could be handed to the core so that the core could manage construction. It's a bit of an unusual arrangement, actually, and we're having great success in partnering with the core. And this amendment allows us to retain Tetra Tech for any necessary engineering during construction.
 And it ensures that our design engineer has oversight and input in the construction process and really just creates a smoother flow of communication between the core, their contractor, their technical staff, and the cities. It does increase the PTE contract by $263,000, but that is included as part of the cost share with the core of engineers. Okay.
 This ordinance is an emergency because the contractor is now mobilizing. All the dates I mentioned for construction are obviously 2018, so we are ramping up quickly. And then this last slide is the total budget for the project. The entire budget as a whole is $8.8 million. The federal share is $4.9 million. The city share is $3.9 million. The construction estimate is $4.6 million. That is part of the $8.8 million.
 We have an optimal level of confidence for this project. And the pie chart shows the drivers for change, the scope and budget over this 10-year process that it took us to secure a partnership and refine the design. The original budget in the orange on the right is from when design assumed a phase approach for Oaks Bottom. There was a phase one and a phase two. And the phase one was for roughly 24 acres of restored area.
 As we got into design and started to learn more about the site, we realized it made a lot more sense to combine phases and expand the scope and include almost three times as many acres affected and benefited by the project. So that scope increase on the lower left in the gray represents that work that was done to increase the scope.
 The blue sector of the pie chart represents our partnering costs with the Corps of Engineers. Partnering requires some work and required us to comply with the Corps of Engineers requirements and entailed a feasibility study and a value engineering study. And it led to a successful partnership that we have now.
 This process did take 10 years. It was a complicated project, so there's some escalation over those 10 years. Even though it was a long process, I'd like to point out that the city is still saving roughly $2.3 million as compared to if we did the project alone. So the work we did to partner with the Corps is really a benefit.
 And with that said, I'd like to say we're really excited to be entering the construction phase of this project. I'd like to thank City Council and our partners at Parks and Recreation and the Corps of Engineers for working with us to achieve this milestone. And we're really looking forward to having it complete. We're ready for your questions.
 It's a great-looking proposal. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. So will salmon be able to return to Oaks Bottom? Yes. Yes, primarily. It's for juvenile salmon. It's not really adult habitat, but yes. Okay, for juveniles.
 So this type of habitat is considered one of the most limiting factors for salmon in the lower Willamette. So by opening up this habitat and giving them that access, what we do is we just increase their survivability as they go out to the ocean, especially going downstream. It gives them that off-channel refuge. They can seek hiding. It's a great food source for them, so they can rear and grow fish.
 So we're excited about what this can do to the overall population of salmon in the Willamette. Okay, great. Thanks. Very good. Call the roll. Fritz. This is a great project. Thanks for all your work on it, and thanks, Commissioner Fish. Aye. Fish. Caitlin, first, could you email a copy of that last photograph to everybody? Okay.
 Which one? The one of the last on the slide. On the questions? Sure. That's one of the most beautiful pictures of Oaks Park. And secondly, I'm going to circulate, if I can find it, an essay that Mike Houck sent us on sort of the history of Oaks Bottom. And there was nothing quite inevitable about this being in its current condition. And there's a wonderful story that a lot of community members were involved with, so I'll circulate that to my colleagues. We're very excited at BES. Yes.
 around this partnership, building off of the experience that we had at Crystal Springs. We're also very excited about putting the salmon at the heart of what we do as a bureau. And I look forward to the next time we have an opportunity to celebrate a partner and an urban, I guess we now call it just salmon sanctuary, not urban salmon sanctuary. But the next time we have a chance to spotlight some of our partners and a partnership
 and achievement around salmon sanctuaries. This is core to our work, and we have a wonderful team at VES leading it. Caitlin, thank you both for your work. Thank you. Silksman? Yeah, very exciting project, and don't look forward to all the headaches it's going to cause, but in the long term it's going to be worth it. So a great asset for our city, or we're turning up a great asset to our city. Aye. Udailey? Aye.
 Thanks for the presentation. Very exciting. Always nice to see part of our city moving in what feels the right direction. I thought this was a great presentation, and I appreciate your thoughtful approach.
 Your long-term doggedness, Commissioner Fish. My breath caught a little bit when you said you wanted to forward us a photograph. I was worried it was from the last presentation, the one with the pipes in it. So I was grateful to see it's actually the scenic photo showing the oak's bottom in all of its glory.
 And I just want to say I think today is a first. I don't believe I have ever sat in a city council session where not a single member of the public testified on any item, which I just will point out is extraordinary.
 And maybe it's because it's Valentine's Day and people have better things to do. So there you have it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you very much for your hard work on it. And we are adjourned until 2 p.m. tomorrow, Thursday, February 15th.