Other than that, I'm sure it was fun. Okay. I think we're ready to proceed. Yes? Yeah, yeah, no problem. That's fine. Good morning. And welcome to the February 18th meeting in the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll, Carla? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here.
 here saltzman here novick here hales here welcome everyone we have a proclamation and some communications and then regular council business after that this morning if you're here on regular council items we typically invite some people to test them to testify and we have some invited testimony this morning and we also allow of course any citizen who wants to speak on any item to do so typically allow three minutes for citizens to speak unless we have a crowded agenda it doesn't look like that this morning
 If you're here to speak on a council item, feel free to just give us your name. You don't need to give us your address. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization, let us know that, please, because the code requires it. And we practice decorum here, so if you agree with someone, give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand, but we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' opinions so we get to hear them.
 That's about it in terms of procedure. So let me start first with a proclamation, because there are a lot of people in public service, and this one honors a particular group. Whereas for millennia, individuals have wanted the spoken word translated into text to record history and accomplish this task, it relied on scribes. And whereas the profession of scribe was born with the rise of civilization...
 And whereas in ancient Egypt, scribes were considered to be the literate elite, recording laws and other important documents, and since that time served as impartial witnesses to history. And whereas scribes were present with our nation's founding fathers as the Declaration of Independence and Bill of Rights were drafted. And whereas President Lincoln entrusted scribes to record the Emancipation Proclamation.
 And, whereas since the advent of shorthand machines, these scribes have been known as court reporters and have played a permanent and invaluable role in courtrooms across our country, and whereas court reporters and captioners are responsible for the closed captioning seen scrolling across television screens, like right here at sporting stadiums and other community and educational settings, bringing information to millions of deaf and hard-of-hearing Americans every day,
 and whereas court reporters and captioners translate the spoken word into text and preserve our history, and whereas whether called the scribes of yesterday or the court reporters and captioners of today, the individuals who preserve our nation's history are truly the guardians of the record. Now therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim February 15th to 21st, 2015 to be National Court Reporting and Captioning Week,
 nationally and here in Portland, and encourage all residents to observe this week. So I don't know if we have anyone here on behalf of that good cause. Please come up and welcome and say a few words this morning about court reporters and all they do. Speaking of captioning in Portland City Hall, good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I'm Carol Studenman, Legislative Committee Chairperson of the Oregon Court Reporters Association, and this year I serve as the Chair of the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. I'm also President of LNS Captioning, a Portland-based women-owned business. My business partner, Robin Nodlin, and I are also owners of LNS Court Reporting. On behalf of the Oregon Court Reporters Association, thank you for helping educate our community about the value stenographic skills bring to today's marketplace.
 It's also my pleasure to extend my thanks and appreciation to the City of Portland for its commitment to captioning televised City Council meetings. Our company began captioning Portland City Council meetings in January 2000, 15 years ago. Thanks to the example set by the City, the City Council meetings of Beaverton, Bend, and Eugene are now captioned as our Metro Council and Multnomah County Commission meetings. I'm glad to have the opportunity to let you know how nice it is to work with Ms. Moore-Love and Ms. Parsons and all our friends at Portland Community Media.
 A major study conducted by Johns Hopkins University found approximately 7.8% of the general population has a hearing disability significant enough to interfere with one's ability to hold a job or seek an education. About 50,000 Portlanders fit into this category.
 TV captioning has long been valued as a tool to help people learn English as a second language, and I'm sure you understand how large that population of people is in our city. Once again, I wish to extend my thanks to you for leading the way in creating a welcoming city and state for people with hearing disabilities. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Terri Munt. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I have been a stenographic court reporter since 1975 when I was the first graduate of what was then a court reporting institute and is now Sumner College. So we are fortunate that we have a court reporting school here in Portland. It is the only one in our state and I am now an instructor there.
 Back when I started court reporting, that was when we dictated our notes and we typed them on a typewriter. Now it's all computerized. Technology has taken over, which is what allows our captions to be shown up here on the screen. And also to give us instant transcripts in court cases, which is a real boon to the litigants to be able to have their transcripts immediately from what was said that day.
 Our National Association projects that there will be 5,500 new jobs in the next five years, and there are way more jobs than there are applicants. We need students in court reporting schools, so we are very thankful for this opportunity to showcase the opportunities that are available.
 What I have always loved about court reporting is, first of all, just the fascination with words and the machine. Also, of course, all the stories being involved in history itself and recording it, saving it for posterity. I also have with me today one of my students from Sumner College. This is Molly Wolverton.
 Good morning, Molly. Thank you, Terry. Hi, thank you. And good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Molly Wolverton. I am a student at Sumner College in Portland here. This is about my year mark.
 and so I am very much in awe of what I'm seeing in terms of the captions today because I know from the battlefield as they say it is a hard road but a very rewarding one I am a Pacific Northwest native I went to University of Portland in 2002 got a BA in sociology and have sort of been looking for that
 profession ever since. What appealed to me about court reporting was just its immense versatility, knowing that I could do everything from hopefully sitting in a trial, a capital trial in Oregon, to helping out in college classes, transcribing notes for students, to captioning some of my favorite shows.
 So the application of the career is just really only limited by human imagination and technology. And so I thank you for all the opportunities you've given everyone in this profession. Thanks. Great. Well, thank you all. If you'd like, we can take a picture with the council and your proclamations. Thank you.
 we made sure we didn't talk over the mayor thanks very much appreciate you being here today and we appreciate what you do okay let's move on to communications items please starting with number 170.
 Request of Mary Pavito to address council regarding air toxics policy in Portland. Morning, Mary. You have some other folks here. Do you want to come up together? Yeah, sure. Okay. So if you could call Spencer and Mary Postlewaite as well. 171, request of Spencer Ehrman to address council regarding diesel pollution. And 172, request of Mary Postlewaite to address council regarding diesel pollution. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Thank you very much, Mayor Hales and the other members of the commission. My name is Mary Pivoteau, and I am the president and founder of Neighbors for Clean Air.
 When I first discovered the problems of air quality in my neighborhoods, my children were 12, 9, and 3 years old. Evidence today of the time that I've put into this is my now 16-year-old daughter and 9-year-old daughter. My oldest will now graduate from Lincoln High School this spring. And as their mother, I have spent the last six years trying to ensure that the air that they breathe and the air that all children breathe is safe.
 So to make the most of my time here today, I want to be very clear, and I've provided some handouts for you with some of the citations and extra information, including a statement of support from the Forest Park Conservancy and understanding of the impacts of air pollution on the forest. But I want to be very clear. We're asking the city for two things. Oh, sorry. I provided them, but they have not been passed out. Thank you.
 The first is that the City Council today take immediate action to reduce the most dangerous air toxics by supporting the legislation this session that would phase out the operation of old diesel engines in Oregon. The second is join us in crafting a clean air future that's safe and equitable for all Portland citizens by establishing a Clean Air Task Force to address the air quality challenges Portland will face as a result of growth and climate adaptations.
 While action this year is critical to stem the dumping of older equipment from California in the wake of adoption of strict diesel rules in that state this year, the city also needs to recognize that the negative effects of air toxics unique to city environments will be exacerbated by urban effects of climate change, like heat islands and deteriorating neighborhood air quality issues.
 for years to come. And so I'm asking the city today to make a commitment to meaningful action to reduce toxic air pollution by establishing an air toxics task force. This task force should be populated by the tremendous resources we have right here in Portland, like research teams at Portland State University, who can explore evidence-based solutions and actions that the city can take as
 as well as influence state and regional policies and ensure the livability of all Portland neighborhoods against the known and real hazards that currently exist and will be worsened by climate impacts. When I started this work as a private citizen, the biggest challenges about addressing any air pollution problem, whether it's an industrial point source or the air pollution caused by the tangled web of transportation infrastructure and freight movement,
 was that unlike water, our current air pollution problems are nearly 100% legal. This despite the fact that Multnomah County Health deems diesel alone to be the number one environmental contributor to the three leading causes of death in the county. Diesel particulate emissions account for 460 deaths a year in Oregon, and those deaths and other non-fatal health costs, such as hospitalization and lost work days, cost the state $3.5 billion annually.
 I recognize the city's limitations in the regulations of air emissions, and in fact, I share them. But as a citizen who's pursued evidence-based advocacy, I have been heartened by the progress we can make against something that is often considered too complex to solve.
 Since we began, we have helped individual companies find opportunities for meaningful reductions in emissions, and we've pushed our state to do a better job at enforcing its own rules. I implore the city to join our ranks, first by supporting the statewide rules on diesel, and second by establishing the air toxics task force. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor Hales and commissioners, I'm Spencer Ehrman, and I'm here today on behalf of the City Club of Portland.
 I had the opportunity with colleagues from our research committee on air toxic regulation to appear before you some 18 months ago where we presented the report and our findings, our conclusions and recommendations.
 Since then, City Club has been very active in the community in advocating for the implementation of those recommendations. We, along with Neighbors for Clean Air, have helped form a coalition of county health professionals and other NGOs to further the cause of reducing air toxic in our airshed, particularly as respects diesel.
 City Club has a legislative agenda this year, which includes supporting two bills that are being proposed by Portland area legislators to have a significant impact on reducing air toxics.
 the old diesel equipment, and these bills would help effect those changes. We would hope that the city council would be willing to stand behind the rest of us in furthering this legislative agenda this year.
 City Club continues to attend to this issue, and we will continue to do so during the coming months and hopefully years. So I just wanted to check back in with you today, let you know of some of the progress that we've been making. We're very encouraged since we published our report to see that we do have some legislation opportunities here.
 in Salem. Again, appreciating the limitations on the city for regulation, we would be wholly in support of Mary's suggestion for a task force to be based locally and begin to investigate and explore ways in which the community can...
 begin to have a significant impact in this area. Spencer, can I ask you a question? Absolutely. And thank you for joining us today. The Water Bureau, obviously, is planning for a big project in 2016 in Washington Park. And this issue was first raised by the Arlington Heights Neighborhood Association about clean diesel. And there have been some conversations about it.
 One of the things that I want to just touch base with you following the hearing is get a sense of where do you believe those conversations stand? What kinds of measures has the Water Bureau discussed with you to mitigate the impact of diesel? And since we've got a little lead time here and we haven't done the contracting yet, I want to make sure we don't miss any opportunities here. And, of course, the legal landscape may change if the legislature acts. Okay.
 And since the Water Bureau may be the biggest player, it's certainly in Washington Park in the next few years that addresses this issue. I want to make sure that you feel you're getting a fair hearing and that your ideas are being, you know, considered by the Bureau. So let's follow up later on that, and I'd be interested in knowing if we've made any progress. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. We'd love to do that.
 Thank you. Mary, good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm here with Village Gardens. I'm a community health worker, and I'm here as a resident of North Portland and a mother. I've lived here since 2000. I moved back then. And since then, I have battled many entities for the safety of my children to and from school.
 just the safety of our neighborhood. I live in particularly the former St. John's Woods apartments, which has been statistically known for, you know, rough things going on there. However, all these years that I've battled all the gang members, the schools, transportation, management, men trying to hurt my daughter, I never knew...
 That the air that we breathe is killing us at over twice the rate that the things that I just spoke of are.
 That is appalling to me. Every day I turn on the TV and I see somebody got shot, but I never have heard of anybody telling me about the types of toxins that are in our air that are killing us so fast. I've lived here for 15 years. My whole life I have never been put on medication. I've been on medication for the last two years. There's been a study shown that air toxins and pollutants and poisons in the air kill.
 hurt the cognitive part of your brain in children, and it has been shown to cause depression in studies of mice to show that they lose memory, they're depressed, they can't follow mazes, things like that as far as the mice go. However, my daughter, she goes to Roosevelt and Roosevelt High School is a
 In the bottom 1%, if not the worst, in our city as far as air quality goes. And I live right next to many industrial plants, the wastewater treatment plant. And many a days I've woke up and I go outside. I love to breathe fresh air, but I can't.
 I can't because it stinks. I can't because I know what's in the air. And I can't feel comfortable breathing in the morning like I like to. And that's unfortunate. We can't sleep. We can't do any of that for just the industry that's in our area. I went to a meeting and I found out these statistics. And...
 I was asked to come and sit here and talk to you all, so here I am, and I'm asking that you also support the legislative action, statewide laws.
 We need that, absolutely. Thank you. I appreciate all three of you being here. Could you elaborate just a moment on the recent development here in terms of California changed their standards, and that is actually causing people to relocate. Is it just trucks, or is it also the construction equipment? Yeah.
 Railroad equipment, is it all of the above? All of the above. They're moving that to Oregon or elsewhere because it's no longer legal to use it in California. Do I understand that right? Yes. California has been in the process of implementing phased-in rules that would restrict and eliminate the use of the older pre-2007 diesel engines that are the biggest sources of particulate exhaust pollution.
 And so in 2015, the final rules come into full implementation. So we've anecdotally been hearing about the movement of equipment. It's easier to track the trucks, although multi-state use of trucks makes licensing kind of less,
 a little bit murky um but we just the there is no licensing for um construction equipment so it's more difficult to track that but as i shared with you the article by rob davis in the argonian he actually as opposed to just going into department of transportation and data he actually started talking to auctioneers and folks who are actually in the business of brokering
 equipment and finding significant evidence of movement. And we understand that railroads as well, that they'll move equipment up here that they no longer can use down in the rail yards and near the ports. Thank you. Commissioner? Commissioner?
 Well, thanks to your advocacy, the support for clean diesel legislation is on the city's legislative agenda. I was down in Salem lobbying on both Saturday and Monday, and I'll be back again on Thursday. And I can tell you that our government relations staff, who are your government relations staff, your official lobbyists, are hard at work on this, and it seems like there's a good buzz in the building to actually pass something decent this time. So thank you for your advocacy, of course.
 having folks go down to Salem and tell the stories. That was really compelling. Thank you for being here. That's really helpful. Mayor, I was wondering about the task force suggestion. Is that something that you're planning? I like the idea. I think we should take it up and consider it. I think having maybe city and county together, given the county's public health responsibilities, it might be smarter to do it that way than just us alone.
 Obviously, as you know very well, there are some things that only the state is allowed to regulate, but that doesn't mean we can't have an adult conversation between local government and the state. So I like the idea. I think it sounds like there's an interest in that here, so I think we should pursue that. But again, let me talk to the county chair about it as potentially a joint effort, given their public health responsibilities.
 You know, we're doing also, I think it's really important for us as a government, and I think the county is doing similar work to walk our own talk, you know, clean up our own fleet. And we've done a lot of that. We're making progress in terms of using clean diesel and biodiesel, and now we have about 11% of our fleet that's electric.
 We actually just last week had a very innovative proposal from the Bureau of Environmental Services to take methane that's produced by the sewage treatment plant and compress it and use it for vehicles.
 So, pretty cool idea in which they're asking the city to invest in this in order to be able to save a lot of money and improve air quality. So we're trying to walk our own talk by having the city be a good example. I think that helps a lot if we're going to go to the private sector and say you should do this if we've already got our own house in order. So a number of us, transportation and other bureaus are working hard on trying to change out our own fleets and get to the level of responsibility that you're asking for from others.
 So I think, again, there's local work to do, and having a local commission might help advise those efforts as well as put pressure on the state. So I appreciate very much your advocacy and the suggestion. It sounds like there's an interest here, and you'll be hearing from us about it. Thank you. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Let's take 173, please.
 Request of Robert Shannon to address council regarding Holgate Street from 92nd to 122nd. Okay. Mr. Shannon, are you here? Mr. Shannon? Doesn't sound like it. Okay. We'll give him another opportunity another day. Let's go to 174. Request of Emily Triggs to address council regarding community source capital. Good morning. Good morning.
 Hi, thank you for having me, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Emily Triggs. I'm the Oregon Director for a social enterprise called Community Source Capital. I'm here today just to simply introduce you to our organization and our enterprise, and then also ask to find ways to partner with the city to expand our impact. So...
 Community source capital is set out to strengthen local economies by creating a way for small businesses to source capital directly from the community around them. Community source capital runs a crowd lending platform where businesses can raise anywhere from $5,000 to $50,000 of loan capital sourced directly from people around them who already know and love that business.
 The way that it works is that companies apply with us, we approve them to use our platform, and then they run campaigns for 30 days on our web platform. And they invite their friends, family, customers, neighbors, other business owners to buy something called a square. A square is a really simple mechanism. It's basically a $50 increment of the overall loan.
 And as a citizen, you can buy anywhere from 1 to 20 squares in a particular business. It's not a donation and it's not an investment because there's no interest on it. But folks get paid back exactly what they put in. So it's kind of a sharing mechanism, really. We don't charge any interest on the loans either. Instead, we charge a small fee for businesses to use the platform.
 Some examples of some businesses that we've worked with here in Portland, actually right downstairs, Happy Cup Coffee, you raised a loan with us to open their new location in North Portland. Plywork, they're a small photo manufacturing plant in southeast Portland. They were investing in some new machinery in their manufacturing facilities. North Street Bags, a bag maker, Plywork.
 also in Southeast, was investing in some inventory. As you know, it can be really difficult for companies of this size to access capital through traditional sources like banks for a variety of reasons.
 And what's really unique about our program is that we found an efficient way to do microlending because the underwriting is based on social capital, trust, and reputation that a business has built in the community versus collateral or credit or other things that traditional banks will do.
 So the system is really working. So far, we're two years old. We're based actually out of Seattle, and I'm here in Portland as the Oregon director. But so far, we've done 45 loans. We've lent over $600,000 of capital and engaged more than 4,000 individual square holders, which are the lenders in the system.
 So far, all of our loans are in good standing, and a third of the capital that we've lent has come back to us. Three of the businesses that we've worked with have come back for our second loan.
 And I'm here today because we're looking for partners for ways to grow our work. Actually, in Seattle, where we're based, we've already developed a partnership with the city of Seattle where they'll help market opportunities to other small businesses in the area that might be interested. And also they've helped us.
 helped bring it to neighborhoods low-income neighborhoods and minority owned business owners in Seattle and also we're developing a partnership with them where there's a matching capital fund where the city is matching loans that are raised from the community because they see the value in in the model and the connections that can be made from citizens and business owners
 So in conclusion, I just hope that you'll join us on this journey because really we set out not just to make loans but to really transform the way that people think about money in their community. Thanks very much. A couple thoughts. First is that what we often hear, what we regularly hear from our small business friends is they have trouble accessing capital.
 And we invited Emily to come speak today because we thought this is such an innovative idea, this idea of using crowdsourcing to help raise capital. And the fact that the community public offerings became legal as of January in Oregon. So it took a change in the law to allow this to happen. And I think a number of us have visited the Plyworks plant in the Central East Side and
 And whenever, their work is very distinctive because what they do is they put photographic images on wood. And they also frame things interesting with wood. Some people actually have business cards made up of wood that they fabricate. And they're in the Central East Side. They're one of those maker businesses that...
 is flourishing. And we were also struck by the fact that this idea was blossoming in Seattle, but the good folks at Community Source Capital thought it was time to have a Portland branch and to be working here. So we're going to talk to Venture Portland and some of our partners about making sure the small business community knows about this opportunity.
 But we also wanted to welcome Emily because this is, we think, a great idea that will help some people who can't access traditional capital fill the gap with crowdsourcing. Thank you.
 That's great. In fact, the very next item on our council calendar this morning is about minority contracting. I think there are a lot of folks that are here for other business that might be interested in hearing about this new program, and then also the Portland Development Commission, in addition to Venture Portland, ought to hear more. So I was just over visiting some of the small makers in the Central East Side last week, and this is
 so well configured for the kind of business growth we've got in the city, which is mostly small businesses, a lot of them, and it's really great. So I'm glad, Commissioner, you invited Emily here, and I'm glad to hear about what you're doing and look forward to hearing more. I think I'll beat Commissioner Fritz to the punch. Could you tell us about your website?
 and where people can get additional information about your services? It's just communitysourcecapital.com, but there's lots of information. And where's your office? Actually, I'm located in GenoCraft 3. They're a community lender here. I am located in their office. That's great. Emily, thanks for coming and joining us. Thanks. Look forward to working with you. Thank you. Okay. Let's take the consent calendar briefly before we move on to our time certain item, and that is I think we have one.
 request to pull an item from the consent calendar, which is number 176. Any other requests to pull items from consent to regular? If not, let's take a vote on the balance of the consent calendar, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, item 175.
 Establish the Commission on Equitable Contracting and Purchasing to Increase Utilization of Minorities and Women-Owned Businesses in City Contracting and in the Workforce on City-Funded Projects.
 Very happy to queue up this discussion this morning. We have some panels here to present on this idea. It's something that, a goal that's broadly shared here among members of the council, and it's one where we've made some progress. In 2007-2008, about one, little less than 1% of our contracting dollars from the city went to minority-owned businesses. In 2012-2013, that's up to 5.5%.
 of total funds and 16.5% of involvement in some contracts. So that's good news. There has been progress. There are some significant problems in the configuration of how that's happening. It tends to be more of the lower-paying jobs.
 for example, flaggers in construction as opposed to the other trades. You'll hear more about that today. There are wage disparities between workers of color and other workers, white workers in the workplace. So there are issues here in terms of what kind of progress are we making here.
 even while we are happy about making some. So the intention of this discussion and the creation of this commission is to have a formal effort, not beyond our bureaus themselves, but engaging critical people from the community that are involved in this work to work in partnership with us. And again, we have some panels queued up to talk about both the numbers and the research, the policy issues and the opportunities.
 So let me start by calling Andrew McGough, James Posey, and Dante James as the first of those panels to come up and speak with us this morning. Thank you all for being here. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I think I'll go first, right? You'll go first, James. It is indeed a good morning. Thank you very much, Mayor and Council Members. Thank you.
 Put your name in the record, James. My name is James Posey. You know who you are. Most of you are. I've been arresting you all for many years.
 You know, honestly, to my knowledge, Mayor, you're the first mayor who has raised this issue to the level in their administration that deserves merit. And I want to thank you for that. You know, you spoke at the City Club and you spoke about it, and really, unless we have that sort of energy and that sort of leadership on these kind of matters, we're
 We're doomed to just kind of muddle along. So thank you very much for that and making this a priority. It goes without saying that your staff has also been really involved in this. Your guy, Josh, is a hot shot over there. Gail and Bryant and even Fred from the procurement area there worked to put this together.
 From my perspective, this is really an amazing commitment. And frankly, I'm just going to be honest with you, I didn't think it would occur. I guess I've been jaded after many years of doing this kind of stuff and working along these lines. But this is really an amazing kind of attempt to put the right to ship. Today...
 You know, it's kind of ironic that this ordinance is being introduced because this is Black History Month, as you all know.
 And very few people know why these sort of efforts came into being in the first place. And many of you that have been around for a long time, that they understand back in the 70s when we were having riots and community unrest, et cetera, that many of these programs came into force because of those issues and the disparity and the issues in these communities.
 And quite frankly, you know, we're still having those sort of disparities and issues to the day. We're talking 20, 25 years out. So it's a real interesting thing here that we're introducing this ordinance and you all are focusing on what we're trying to do today.
 Well, let me just be honest about this. Suffice to say that this is really just the first step because we –
 We have a lot of work to do, and if we are successful in this, then it will be because you all have taken an intentional, aggressive, and results-based approach to getting this done. That's going to be huge. It means there's going to be broader, deeper collaboration and accountability at all levels. I'm going to say that again, a broader, deeper collaboration, accountability at all levels.
 If we're not measuring this stuff, then it's not counting. I think most of you all know that. I can't say enough about our relationship with Portland State and Curry Smith and those folk over there.
 This is exciting for me because we take academia and bring it home to a community and let them involve us in solutions. This is a huge, huge thing. I don't know if people understand that, but this is huge. It means that these – and here, I want to be real clear about this –
 It means that we'll have a better assessment of these policies and how they translate into economic well-being in communities of color. We can maybe really see what's going on in these communities, whether or not we're being lifted as a result of our procurement policies. I want to point to my friend back there, Alvin Hall.
 We worked on the Tooeleka Curves 20 years ago. You all know those Tooeleka Curves. We were back there. He's the oldest African-American dump truck owner in the state, 1972. Still chewing tobacco out of the truck. I don't get into that story.
 So Delta Park, I can go on and on and on and talk about the history of what we've done here. It also means that this issue is comprehensive-based.
 data-driven. And that's also huge. We can actually look at things and see things that are happening in real time. We don't have to wait a year or two years to really assess this or a disparity study. And so, in summary, there's a vision here for me. And the vision is about Portland being all it can be.
 I see this commission as a way of how Portland can do things differently. I'd like to see, personally, that this commission and this equity policy be at the same sort of level as when folk come to look at our transit system. They come from all around to look at metro and so forth and so forth.
 I think if we're successful in this thing and we really put our minds and our energies to doing this, we can have people coming from all over the nation and admire and trying to replicate what we're trying to do here with this policy. So I thank you very much. And there's a lot of other people who want to talk, so I'll shut up right now. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. Thank you for letting me come and support what I think is a really important ordinance. You know, James didn't give himself credit enough for this, but he's a new board member for us. Andrew, you need to put your name in there. I'll put my name on the record. Sorry. Andrew McGough. I'm the director of the Workforce Development Board for the City of Portland, Washington, and Multnomah Counties.
 But James, his passion around these issues is real, and it's palatable, and I think it's very genuine. And I feel honored to be here sitting next to him at this time because this is something he's worked on for a long, long time.
 So we also, as the Workforce Investment Board, have a longstanding interest in trying to help women and people of color prepare for jobs in the construction industry. But also our goal is really to help people advance in those jobs and achieve self-sufficiency. And we know that a career in construction is just that. It's a career. It offers advancement opportunities, and it offers a pathway to the middle class,
 And, you know, I don't know if they're going to go through the data, but I think we've done a relatively good job of getting people and people of color into certain jobs in the construction trades. The question is, how well do we do in moving them forward?
 And I really think that this commission, as proposed, will allow us to create the kind of accountability, as James mentioned, through the data and through persistent look at that data in a disaggregated way to see who is coming in and who is moving up. Because I think ultimately that's the sort of real test here is how do people get into these jobs, but also how do they advance?
 and where do they land? And ultimately, do they begin to own businesses and then hire more people? So I think underlying this ordinance is that kind of opportunity, and on behalf of our board, my staff, we're 100% behind this ordinance and hope you'll support it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Director James, good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Council. Dante James, the Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 And it is my absolute pleasure to be here in support of this commission and give kudos to James. And I know his hard work over a long period of time. And also to you for continuing to institutionalize the concept of equity and the work of equity in this city. You know, there's a quote that I love, which says that organizations move in the direction of the questions they ask.
 And it's my expectation and I know for a fact that it will be this commission that will continue to ask the questions that move this work forward. I think as many of you know, I ran the contracting program in the city of Denver for about six years. And so I know for a fact that this work is important and it's necessary. Thank you.
 You know, James can talk about the history of contracting in Oregon and the city in Portland. Recently, with the disparity study, the procurement office put together a board of prequalification so that all general contractors have to come and be prequalified. But the application now has been changed to specifically ask about utilization of minority businesses on the work that they've done in the past.
 And I can specifically tell you, based on the responses that I've read to that application, the surprise that many contractors feel when they're asked the question, the lack of knowledge that they have on who or whether they have utilized minority businesses on their work. And they are taking notice that now it's important because the city is asking the question.
 And I think that's really what we're talking about is what questions are we asking, which then creates the expectation that we're serious about this work. And I think this commission will reflect that, and I look forward to seeing the good work of the commission. So I appreciate the opportunity to come and speak on behalf of this work. Thank you. Questions for this panel? I have a question for James Posey. James, when we did the last update to the disparity study,
 One of the things that the citizen oversight body flagged for us was that there were qualified minority contractors that couldn't compete for the work because they couldn't get adequate bonding or access to capital. Is it your intention that this commission would also look at those issues about existing barriers in the marketplace that prevent people from fairly competing? Absolutely.
 Absolutely. And you know, Commissioner Fish, this is a progressive sort of dialogue because
 The bonding issue is predicated on minority contractors having work, building capital, having a reservoir of resources to be able to bond. So this is all a combined sort of collaborative thing that we're talking about, putting all these pieces together so we can have a full context of where minority contractors can be successful. I just want to point out real quickly that minority contractors are behind
 If we were to start today and be equitable, and I mention this to you, then we have to understand the expectation is really not what it ought to be because minority contractors really need deep help in order to be competitive in today's market. The history of discrimination and exclusion has really cost. There's a cost to that. And so I don't know if that's even in the proposals that we're making, but we really need to make some acknowledgement of that moving forward. Thank you.
 Thank you. Other questions for this panel? Thank you all. Love those three terms, James, intentional, aggressive, results-based. Those are great criteria for us. Thank you. So our next panel actually is going to talk about the research that really undergirds this work. Ann Curry-Stevens, Greg Schrock, and Matt Chorpening from PSU have done the research that really fuels our effort here, and we appreciate you being here this morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm Ann Curry-Stevens from Portland State University and the founding director of the Center to Advance Racial Equity. We've prepared a report which fortuitously has been circulating in earlier versions but is actually formally released this week. And it is a product of the Center to Advance Racial Equity.
 that we believe underpins and provides concrete support for this ordinance. So we're very excited to be here in a place to share research with you and to tie it to an affirmation of the policy agenda before you today.
 The work began for us a bit over a year ago when Mr. Posey approached us and said, we really need to understand the evidence base, what's out there in terms of minority contracting today.
 And so as we worked with this, Matt Corpening has been a graduate of our program and has done the bulk of the work on this. We've also been able to involve Greg Schrock out of the Urban Studies Department and a student with him, Nathan Lamb.
 to do research on the Selwood Bridge project and to dig into more granular data there. He's not able to be with us today. But what I thought I'd do today is to just briefly introduce the report, to canvas what's there, to launch off with a set of the challenges facing the array of minority contracting at multiple levels.
 to pass then the microphone to matt who will detail some of the best practices that are in the literature and then to have james conclude with some of the concrete recommendations coming out of the report right so the sections we've been able to cover in this work has been to consolidate in one place the progress of the city the county and metro and for the first time ever give light in a more focused and critical way to what's happening at the state
 We also then have a section on the Selwood Bridge Project, a literature review around best practices, and a set of recommendations coming forward. So the report's about 50 pages in length, and it's pretty comprehensive. As James has suggested, it's the first of its kind that has this sort of consolidated evidence, policy, practice, and literature integrated into the work.
 Our areas of concern are numerous, and the biggest tragedy is that minority contracting isn't living up to its promise, its potential. It is a vehicle to bring real economic progress to firms that are owned by people of color and to, therefore,
 community economic development in Portland, which will primarily, firstly, benefit communities of color, but then also have a ripple effect across the region. We remain deeply invested in helping these systems work better and live up to their potential.
 The challenges at the different levels of government we've looked at are essentially that none are meeting their targets. At the state of Oregon, they have a target of 10% of contracts for minority firms and women-owned firms, and they're at 1.3%.
 Metro has a target of 17%. They're at 13%. The city has a target of 27% and is just shy of 8%. And the county has no target, but is at 5% for minority businesses and 12% for women emerging small business and minority businesses.
 The concrete challenges that we face as we move into this Commission's work are the MR. Excuse me. MS. Certainly. MR. Are those numbers you said that you just put in the record, are they the MWESB targets or are you disaggregating them? Because I think when you say 28 percent, are you talking about the MWESB which includes minority contracting or are you pulling out one piece?
 Our work on the most recent data had the city outcomes at 7.9% with the stated target of 27. 27 is the full MWESB? I think that's right. Yes. Because one of the things we know is that we've done better in certain categories than others. Absolutely. But you're talking the full spectrum of our policy.
 And in fact, it's generally problematic to try to pull out how minority businesses are doing, and that's one of the challenges with the data transparency. Are we at seven for all the minority women and emerging small businesses? Yes. So the concrete challenges as we move forward are these overall weak results. There has to...
 To the benefit of the state bodies involved, in many cases they've improved over the years. Some have actually lost ground, unfortunately. Transparency in data is a real problem as we've dug into trying to collect and consolidate the data. We often have this perpetual amalgamation of minority women and emerging small business, which leaves us unable to discern how minority-owned businesses are faring.
 That is routinely not shared about wage structure, occupational structure, and the nature of the contracts. So, for example, the data you provided about the Selwood Bridge project around flaggers receiving the vast majority of those investments, that was a piece we needed to discern and dig into.
 There's a reluctance to be transparent and open in many cases. And so better data availability is an important part of this change.
 There also are weaknesses in accountability. So there are no consequences for not meeting targets. There are no consequences for firms not meeting targets. And so it's an important piece to do to look at the efficacy of these systems and initiatives where the consequences currently don't exist.
 There's a challenge of when we look at how data has either been omitted or amalgamated, it's usually in the best interest of looking good, of appearing to make better outcomes than really are there. And so there needs to be somewhat of an attitudinal or a discourse shift so that we promote greater disclosure.
 And in the Selwood Bridge project, we've already talked about, we need to look with a more fine grain towards the outcomes for different groups and different trades. And in closing, we remain deeply excited about the potential of this commission to shift...
 the economic prospects for our locally owned firms of color and for the communities in which they reside and are deeply connected to. So we're very excited and look forward to the work that this commission performs. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I'll also steal a cue from Commissioner Fritz and let people know that in addition to wherever else people might be able to see the report, like at Portland State, it's going to be on our new city dashboard. So portlandoregon.gov slash dashboard. Under economic opportunity, there'll be a link to their research here for anybody that wants to see the document. So thank you. Matt, welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for having me. My name is Matt Corpening. I am a research fellow at the Center to Advance Racial Equity. I am really happy to be here today to vocalize support for the creation of this commission.
 My goal right now, though, is to share best practices available in the research that are in the report that I really hope are guiding principles for you as you consider this commission and the commission as they move forward. The research that is available is fairly scant, specifically on minority contracting. It's a relatively new thing that people are actually trying to study in fine detail. But what we have identified as practices that are –
 Successful for minority owned businesses and in terms of creating economic opportunity for minority workers start with really aggressive procurement goals with really specific subcontracting goals and benchmarks. They also require plans for employment.
 Moving minority-owned businesses from subcontractor to prime contractor, and that's going to require staff whose job it is to help navigate businesses through the certification process and through the process overall to move from getting smaller subcontracts on up to becoming prime contractors. Okay.
 Part of that, we've already discussed earlier today about bonding requirements. One of the established best practices is that bonding requirements on smaller projects be either waived or provided by the locality. In this case, it would be the City of Portland.
 and also government assistance with access to capital, whether that is short-term loans or quick pay provisions requiring prime contractors to pay subs within 30 days. One of the big threats to the success and longevity of minority-owned businesses in these situations is they don't get paid quickly enough by prime contractors and by the localities they work with.
 The other thing that could happen in some cities, I think San Diego is one of them, direct payment of the minority-owned business subcontractors to avoid that long-term delay in payment.
 One of the other things that has been identified as a best practice, and it's a huge theme in our research, is the need for streamlined data collection and real-time reporting so that data collection is uniform across agencies and across prime and subcontractors to collect and report workforce data. Without being able to measure where we're at, we're not going to know if anything that's happening, that we're trying to do, is actually working.
 Finally, just making sure that there are stiff penalties for fraud. One of the things that has come up and has been identified in the research is that if penalties for fraud, largely in the creation of front companies that sort of on their surface look like minority-owned businesses, but actually are benefiting larger majority-owned actors –
 If the penalties are too small, then they're viewed as the cost of doing business. And so one of the best practices is have imposed very intimidating fines, and it drastically reduces the fraud. So those are the practices that we shared in the report in more detail, and I hope that the commission will...
 frame them and put them on the wall while they're considering the work going ahead. Thanks very much. James, you have some thoughts? Yes, I won't, at the risk of being redundant, I won't go through all of the recommendations. They're very comprehensive in the report. I mean, they're all for everybody to see.
 But I want to highlight a couple of these things. And one is the regional plan. You know, we've been working in silos too long to really address this problem. And not only in the city of Portland, but, you know, across the region, we have to have leadership so we can really hone in and take advantage of the investments we're making in these projects. So that's the number one, the regional plan. And we've talked a lot about the data collection. And so that's
 key real-time data collection so we can make adjustments, we can do that. So we talked about that. But here's one that's going to give you all pushback, I think, and that is a moratorium on the low bid process. Yes.
 That's really important because typically minority contractors are really not in a position to be competing one-on-one with these other contractors because they're not there technically and otherwise. And so we have to acknowledge that and do something about that that's going to really require some creative adjustment on how we do business if we are really going to make headway in that area. Mr. Posey, are we allowed to do that? Well, let me put it this way.
 The state does, you know, they do these bids in which they're based upon
 How do you say the qualifications qualifications qualification based they add they're very creative You know I mean Amanda you've been around when people really want to do something they figured out You know what I'm saying legally and otherwise I know we sometimes do our construction management general contractor contracts And we do that outside of the low bid but my understanding was that there are some state mandated processes that where we have to do low bid and
 It's obviously something that you and the Commission will delve into, and I look forward to hearing more about that. Absolutely. Absolutely. And those best practices are out there, and negotiated bidding, looking at the state procedures. And really, frankly, as I say about a regional approach to this, it may be some legislative stuff we need to do, just like you guys were talking about on the diesel in the previous Commission, how you would make those adjustments and put a legislative agenda together to make these things happen. So you know what I mean.
 And so really, Greg is not here. This was his section, and I think the report is really a very comprehensive one, and people should take time to look at it. We will. Thank you. Any other questions for this panel? Thank you very much. The next three people I'd like to call are Reverend Bethel, Joanne Hardesty, and Mike Alexander. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and to all our commissioners. Thank you for the privilege of being here. I am Dr. T. Allen Bethel, Senior Pastor of the Church President and Albina Minister Alliance. Mr. Mayor, I do want to thank you for your work in support of this area and the resultant ordinance that's under discussion this morning. And while some progress has been made and what compromises or comprises that progress is a question of discussion,
 The data and findings are clear that there is something more that must be done. This Commission and ordinance seeks to do that. There are policies in place that were to ensure more participation. There still exists disparities of contracts and employment for DBE women owned and women owned businesses.
 I support the City collecting and analyzing the data to enforce and implement further goals of expanding and developing employment and contracting for minority-owned businesses. The Commission on Equity, Contracting, and Purchasing that will have oversight of this must not only look for opportunities, but also I hope that they will find where the disparities exist, what are the cause of those said disparities, and enforce the necessary corrective measures necessary.
 regardless of the contractor or the entity, and they must be of a nature and such that it deters trying to get around supporting and fulfilling what the ordinance calls for. So, therefore, I do support the passage of this ordinance and urge the Council to pass this ordinance with due diligence and support for implementation and continuance of the Commission on Equity, Contracting, and Purchasing. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak this morning. Thank you.
 Joanne, are you next? Michael?
 Good morning, Mayor, City Council members. For the record, I'm Joanne Hardesty, and I am here to testify in support of the ordinance in front of you. It's ironic. I realize that I've been around for a long, long, long, long time because I remember a couple of mayors ago sitting right at this table talking about minority contracting issues,
 and the really poor job we were doing, even though we continue to pay contractors big money to develop disparity studies to tell us what a bad job we were doing. Ironically, those reports sit on the shelves gathering dust today. I want to echo James Posey's thank you for the leadership that you're showing Mayor Hales and actually bringing this to light once again.
 Ironically, I was on a pre-approved contract for contracting for the City of Portland a couple of mayors ago. And the interesting thing was the other two firms that were on that same list, one of them got all the city contracting for public involvement. The other one got the contracts when that particular firm didn't get them all. And then there was me.
 And I was on that pre-approved list for four years, and I got zero contracts. And so needless to say, I wouldn't have eaten if I had been waiting for my pre-approved contracts to come through the city of Portland.
 And so we've done this over and over and over again. And I am hopeful that this process this time will really have some aggressive goals that will really ensure that there's accountability when contractors pretend that they're hiring women and minority firms. And the last thing I will say is please don't,
 stop at minority firms. We want to know how many African-American business owners are getting contracts in the city of Portland. We want to know how many Latino business owners, how many Asian Pacific Islanders are getting contracts. I think we start hiding behind the minority term because we don't want to deal with what's happening with individual business owners in this city. And so I look forward to working with the Commission and helping them.
 figure out what your role will be and actually pushing the envelope the last thing I will say is Commissioner Fritz when I was at the county we developed some very creative ways to ensure that minority business owners got contracts we would make the contract smaller we would actually develop a pool of contracts that were just for emerging small businesses and businesses that were owned by people of color
 If the political will is there, you can create the system whereby you can get the outcomes you're looking for. Thank you. Thank you. Morning, Michael. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Member of Council. My name is Mike Alexander, and I serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Urban League of Portland. And I'm here today to offer testimony on behalf of the Urban League in support of this proposed ordinance. Thank you.
 In September of 2012, as a very new CEO, I testified before this council in support of a community benefits agreement that would govern major city finance construction projects. That ordinance was proposed to strengthen the city's commitment to equal opportunity in contracting for all persons and to support Portland's social equity contracting initiative.
 The CBA was a significant milestone that served to focus multiple stakeholders on a concerted effort to ensure that goals for workforce diversity and community inclusion were integral parts of planning and bidding processes for all contractors. Since that time, leadership within communities of color,
 and their industry and labor partners have worked to define a path that allows the city to move more deliberately towards that goal. But it's clear that more needs to be done. Most minority jobs in construction are in trucking, flagging, moving dirt, and cleaning up. The high-paid skilled jobs in mechanics, electrical, and plumbing primarily go to the majority workforce.
 In the recently released study authored by Professor Stevens and her colleagues at PSU, the Selwood Bridge project was reviewed, and it was clear from that review that some progress has been made. However, that progress is seriously restricted in scope. Workers of color on the project make approximately 20 percent less than majority workers.
 In looking at the disparities between African American workers as well as majority workers, that gap is twice as wide. And so we support this ordinance as a necessary strategy to move the city's stated but yet unrealized commitment forward. We want to ensure that taxpayer money for public construction has a long reach into communities of color.
 And we believe that the establishment of this committee holds the potential to lead diversity for the sake of advancing equity, as opposed to diversity for the sake of diversity. I thank you, as always, for the opportunity to provide testimony, and I commend you and the work of this council in this ordinance in support of the needs of diversity.
 the residents of the city of Portland, and of the community that I serve. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Thank you all. Thanks very much. A couple more panels. We have next Stephen Green and Tony Jones. I think they're here. We're almost there. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Harris.
 Commissioners, my name is Tony Jones. I'm here as the Vice Chair of the Coalition of Black Men. We are here to support approval of the ordinance to establish the commission on equitable contracting and purchasing that report directly to the mayor. I believe this commission can be the model that can be replicated in other government agencies to improve the procurement and workforce practices to increase utilization of minority contractors and people of color in the workforce.
 By approving this ordinance, the City of Portland is demonstrating that the issue of economic equity for MBE and WBE businesses and minority and women workers is a guiding principle for our city. And that regardless of who is in the mayor's office, the city will lead the way through analysis of its own procurement practices by establishing clear guidelines for measuring MBE and WBE participation and utilization of minority and women workers.
 This elevates equity to its rightful place if we are serious about changing the economic dynamics for communities of color and women. The report, Economic Equities of Community of Color, the Effectiveness of Minority Contracting Initiatives, demonstrates two clear points. The current measurements at best show mixed results and show very limited accountability to none at all for not meeting contracting and workforce goals.
 There needs to be consistent guidelines within agencies of what indices are to be measured in public procurement to measure economic benefit and growth for communities of color and hold us accountable for results. The report points out the shortcomings of current measurement practices, combining the data between different types of certifications and lumping all employment results together are some examples. This lack of clear guidelines lead to mixed results at best,
 and continues opportunities for maintaining the status quo and further abuses in counting economic participation of communities of color. The City of Portland, by approving this ordinance, can lead the way to establish clear indices and measurements, establish and celebrate best practices, and make recommendations to support those best practices when we are achieving success, and implement corrective actions when our targets are not being met. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of the city council. I'm not Stephen Green. I don't see him here. I'm James Winters. I am the managing partner of Blue Leopard Capital. We are a venture capital private equity firm funded exclusively by people of color.
 Under different circumstances and perhaps the description of crowdfunding that we heard here earlier today, I am here to support the ordinance with some provisos. I think that similar efforts have been made in the past.
 And the results have been mixed. I guess I've probably been in Portland business a little longer than I care to disclose. But I hope this effort results in some different outcomes than I've had an opportunity to witness. Thank you.
 At the end of the day, in my opinion, I hope I don't break ranks too far with our previous speakers. This is a capital issue. I think I heard Commissioner Fish kind of bring that up, and it kind of got settled back down. This is a capital issue.
 bonding is a capital issue. Competitiveness is a capital issue. And if, for example, the diesel initiative, I want my air to be clean, I want my daughter's air to be clean, but if that was passed, it would severely impact a lot of the companies that are seated in this room simply because they will not have or would not have access to the type of capital to retrofit or replace their equipment. Okay.
 Most of these enterprises that are here, as while we're talking about crowdfunding, are well beyond that.
 the need for a $50,000 investment. And then there may be a couple that tap me on the shoulder and say, man, I could have used the $50,000, so maybe you shouldn't have said that. But for the benefit of our discussion, I would say that most of them are well beyond that. And to prosper and for them to grow, they will need access to traditional products,
 avenues of capital, be it private equity, be it venture capital, or non-traditional debt that are already established in the financial community but seem to be off limits to most of us.
 We have been dealing with this issue, our firm has been dealing with this issue for 10 years. We have all investors, private investors, a majority of them are African Americans. They want their money just like any other investor. Now, when I have gone out and tried to supplement that capital, follow on that capital with other
 capital pulls that are in this area, be it the state or the city, I feel like I'm being faced with a different set of circumstances. If these businesses are ever going to
 make it, I think that the appetite for this type of perspective on capital where, hey, we want to loan you the money, has to kind of be discussed. Anybody that had to borrow their way to contracting, I think, is going to be challenged to be a growing business, one that can provide jobs and one that can successfully provide
 put itself in a position to compete over the long term. Some of the financing needs to be actual capital, fixed capital, permanent capital, and it needs to be put in there in a position that the investors are getting returns that they would get elsewhere. It could be, and I think it's likely to be, that if...
 were the case, if you were allowed to have this perspective, some of the issues around apprenticeship and job creation and training could be a part of their revenue model.
 And maybe you wouldn't have to go out to several people and say, hey, train people for jobs. This could be done by the entrepreneurs themselves. So if this is to work, I think that the capital situation has to be addressed and addressed.
 The decision should be made by similarly situated firms. I've been in business for myself probably 20 years. I've seen what happens when some people go in for loans and some people go in and ask for capital, and I understand what goes into decision more so than perhaps others. If that's done correctly, you will have firms that are successful that happen to be people of color and not because they're people of color. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you. I just appreciate you being here. And if Stephen was here, I think he would say in terms of a community-minded bank that having the involvement of private equity and banks like Umpqua, his bank, in this effort at the commission level is going to be really important because I think one of the reasons why these problems have been so intractable is capital. So I really appreciate you highlighting that. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions, comments? Thank you both very much. Thank you.
 And the final three folks that I want to call are Jeff Moreland, Alondo Simpson, and Cynthia Harris.
 Rolando was here. Rolando's here. Rolando, if you want to come. Come on up, Rolando. Oh, did you sign up? Rolando. You can speak if you want or pass if you want. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for having me, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. My name is Jeff Moreland, for the record. I am the owner and president of Raymoor Construction. We are a minority contractor located in northeast Portland. We've been in business for roughly 14, 15 years.
 We employ anywhere from 20 to 30 people, depending upon our workload, of which 80 to 90 percent, depending upon the amount, are minority employees.
 So there's a couple things we've kind of gone through and addressed this. I'm in strong support of this commission. I've been around, again, for a long time now, and I'm very active in the minority community, first from a contractor perspective or just an advocate in the community itself. So this commission, I think, is going to be critical to actually moving things forward for a number of reasons.
 First of which is that I think it provides a clear program goals that can be complied consistently throughout the various departments and agencies. So those goals are not necessarily interpreted individually by those different departments and agencies individually. So we have a consistent, clear methodology in which we're moving forward on how the goals are going to be applied.
 The next thing is that we talked about is the mechanism to access and analyze the data with a consistent clear methodology to adequately evaluate if those goals set are achieving the desired outcome. The Commission will have the ability to provide some consistent accountability to the various departments or agencies with an opportunity to actually make changes while the projects are still going on versus us always being a lessons learned.
 You know, we typically go through these and at the end of the project we're able to look at the project and realize that we didn't get what we necessarily needed.
 And then finally, one of the things is that the fact that it's collaborative, is that I see this for a change being a situation to where we will actually not necessarily be top-down as much as it is bottom-up driven. I'm a contractor. I'm a businessman. I'm degreed. I've worked as a high-level executive for corporations prior to starting my business. I can run my own business if I have the same level playing field, right,
 I'm a finance guy, so I have good access to capital and I understand all those markets. My issue is being able to find work at the right margin. When you start talking about the low bid, one of the things that James mentioned, it puts me in a very precarious situation considering that I don't have years, 50 years of capital resources at my disposal to be able to buy the necessary iron that I need, meaning the construction equipment, to be able to do –
 the work and when you're operating in the state for example in old out when companies are operating at margins of five to seven percent there's just absolutely no way i can compete that compete with that and be able to build you know my company and to be able to train my employees and the things i need
 So we have a very rigorous training program where we train our own apprentices. We're very committed to the African-American community and the minority community as whole. So most of our workers tend to be in that category, and we train them ourselves to
 And we've been able to do that by some of the support of some of the agencies like TriMed have been able to afford creative opportunities for us to be able to do that. So I just encourage, you know, you guys passing this ordinance, letting the commission go and giving it all the support you can. Thank you. Thank you. You're complete. Good morning, Cynthia. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Cynthia Harris, and I'm emerging business. I'm the CEO and president of Hatch Coaching, and I've received zero contracts for the past years. I did receive something from Children's Alliance and DHS, and so I'm still struggling. But I did discover something, a project climb through PCC, and I'm applying for a scholarship to tighten my business.
 So I first want to thank you, Mayor, for joining the NAACP. Yay! I'm the third vice president of the NAACP, and my real goal is to make a difference. And I'm here for people of color, but I'm also here as a collaborator for human beings, that we would look at possibilities as humans to work together, to make a difference, to give each other opportunities.
 So what I've been doing for the past five years, I do a lot of volunteer work, but I would also like to get paid with my volunteer work. Right now I'm volunteering with the birthing and midwives program and I'm mentoring young people and I'm making a difference. But I realized something, you can't really live unless you have money and have opportunities.
 So I'd like to support the ordinance through the community work that I do, through sitting on the gang task force, through doing my mentoring work, and the work I do with Landmark Education, which is a transformation technology which helps us look at possibilities. So I would like to encourage us all to look at transformation, look at possibilities, and work together to make this a better city. One of the things I've noticed, I've been here since 2006 already,
 And it was really clear to me that it was different. But what's different now is there's a listening, that we're all listening for each other. And I would like for us to not only continue that listening, but to build in support and process and have communication that we can really help each other and lift each other up so that we can all have a good life. I want to thank you for this opportunity, and thank you for being the listening for the city. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mr. Simpson. Great. Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of the council. My name is Orlando Simpson, for the record. I am a small business owner here in Portland, Oregon, of actually the first ever African-American-owned integrated solid waste recycling company in the state of Oregon. So I wanted to kind of articulate a little bit about innovation because I believe that
 myself and my father have established ourselves as pioneers in that regard for people of our community. I am 100 percent on board and supportive of this ordinance, primarily because it's just going to provide the much needed oversight and accountability in regards to construction for people of color. I believe that the city has a very...
 strong commitment to sustainability, and that has spread and it's resonated around the world. And one area in regards to sustainability that we unfortunately have a hard time measuring is our social equity endeavors that we've invested a lot into. And I think that this is a perfect opportunity just with the information that has came from the team at Portland State University
 and the things that have been articulated by Mr. Posey, that this provides a platform with real-time data in that context to provide measurements of what we're doing on our social equity endeavors. Thank you.
 And it also, back to the context of innovation, puts Portland in a great position when we start talking about just the growing populations of color and how that's affecting all metropolitan areas around the United States right now.
 it enables us to start having that dialogue about what we're doing differently, innovatively, and essentially it adds more fruit to the table in terms of what we're doing in our local environment and our economy, as well as what we're doing for the individuals that make up that fabric and trying to assure that we have profitable, sustainable outcomes for our people of color.
 And I just wanted to thank you guys for allowing me to be here today. And I was not prepared because I was uncertain that I was going to be here. I just was here to support the ordinance, and I'm looking forward to seeing it being passed. So thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you all. I think what you've seen from these panels, I think we've all seen from these panels, that we've got a lot of sophisticated expertise in the community that we can call on to serve on this commission and actually want to propose an amendment because the proposal here is to make this a commission that advises the whole city council, not an advisory committee that advises a commissioner in charge. Each of us has the prerogative to create those kind of committees and appoint folks and have them –
 advise us in our work in our portfolio, but of course contracting spans out through the whole city. Even though I'm the Commissioner in Charge of Finance and Administration, every Bureau, or almost every Bureau, does some construction. So this should be, as our other commissions, one where I nominate and the rest of the Council approves appointments. So I want to make that amendment that Item 1A2 will say the Mayor may nominate up to seven voting members of the Commission subject to approval of the Commissioner's appointments by the Council.
 So I'm going to propose that amendment. Second. Second. Mayor, can I ask a question on the motion, which I support? Please. Please. We've had a lot of different bodies we've appointed to recently. In some instances, individual council members nominated someone. In some instances, the mayor consulted with the council to come up with his slate of nominees.
 and we've tried other models. How do you intend to recruit and nominate the seven members of this commission? Well, I also obviously want to call on each of you to suggest appointees, because again, this won't work if it's only housed in my office, and that's why this methodology matters. I think over time, we might want to think through and
 to some extent maybe regularize a little more how we do these commissions but typically if it's a commission like the planning and sustainability commission the the commissioner in charge proposes people to serve and the whole council votes on it and that
 That makes complete sense, I think, in this case, because, again, it's an enterprise-wide function of advising how the city does construction, regardless of which bureau is doing it. So I certainly want to solicit nominees from each of you to try to configure a package of seven initial members of this commission and probably consider that all in one ordinance. I appreciate that. And also, I know from the experience we had, I think that predates you on the council,
 When we did the last disparity study, there was a community-led oversight panel of some of the individuals we've heard from today. They raised a number of the same concerns about barriers.
 And I would hope that we could potentially recruit someone who had that experience to help us follow through on the findings of the disparity study. MR. Yeah, good suggestion. I mean, I think it's all of us, and we've heard it here in testimony today, and we're going to take public testimony next. But none of us wants to be involved in a Groundhog Day operation here where we keep living the same thing over and over again like the guy in the movie. So we're trying to actually learn, that's why the data matters so much, then have real
 real horsepower in this commission advising all of us about what's working, what's not working, what to change, what new tools to try, like the ones that James was talking about in terms of how we contract. So I think this gives us a chance to take this effort to another level of performance and then be continuously measuring how we do. So let's take a vote on adopting the amendment, and then we'll take public testimony.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Mr. Mayor, I have another friendly amendment. I'm really impressed with the panel discussion that you've had today, and I recognize that Mayor Potter and Mayor Adams both had passion for this issue, as do you. I think forming the commission is one step. The...
 Other piece that will keep it to the forefront is regular reports to council. So you do have that in number 9 on page 3 of the ordinance, but I would suggest in addition to it says the commission shall submit periodic reports on utilization to the council. I'd like to add at least annually. Okay. I think that is a friendly amendment.
 So unless there's any objection, we'll just make that change. Yeah, obviously we want formal reports periodically and at least annually is the minimum. But having this on the dashboard means that literally we're going to have constant information about how we're doing, and I like that. Okay, anyone signed up to speak, please? I show two people left, Charles Johnson and Tyrone Bailey. Okay, good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I'm very glad for all... Tyrone. Good morning. Okay. I didn't mean to usurp you. I was glad to hear Amanda offer the friendly amendment because obviously some behind-the-scenes work went into this, and we already have a number of independent commissions. Most frequently, I attend the Human Rights Commission, which meets monthly, and...
 Planning and sustainability has had some fun encounters with us down at 1900 Southwest as we talk about what we're going to do with the reservoirs. With this, to make this amendment real, you not only have to fulfill the letters of the amendment, but you have to have your behind-the-scenes conversations. Coming up on this agenda, we're going to have a million dollars or so for firms. Some people may have heard of it. Maybe you've heard of HDR. Yeah.
 We need to make sure that these minority contractors are having you use your personal political capital so that there's face-to-face interaction with general contractors and real dialogue between parts of our community that don't have a lot of interaction. So in addition to strongly supporting this amendment and the development of this commission, I want to see each of you commissioners make sure that...
 lunches happen, that meetings happen in the city hall and probably within a week we need to, as soon as we know who these commissioners are going to be, we need to schedule the review so that Mr. Posey and the other people who have presented, the president of the Urban League can proactively and quickly talk about shortcomings so we don't have a review meeting in a year or 18 months where we say, oh,
 We're still at 7%. Or, wow, congratulations to us. We got the MWESB, the Minority Women and Emerging Small Business Participation, all the way up from 7% to 8%. That's not good enough. Obviously, any progress is helpful to those businesses, but please...
 Don't take the passing of this ordinance seriously. Take this work seriously every day of your term. And I know for the most part that you do, but there's a lot on your plate. So I encourage everyone in this room to frequently call and remind you and ask for casual status reports. A few weeks ago, we talked about internal equity.
 And the fact that the affirmative action reports and the minority diversity reporting done internally with inside the bureaus sometimes doesn't get proper attention, that those reports sit on the shelves. We could play back the video next week if we needed to, to have, you know, those specific words. So, yeah.
 You know, unfortunately, it's a fight and a struggle, and people who are experiencing the most oppression need to hold the privileged feet to the fire, and you all need to be glad they do. Thank you very much. Thank you. He can have more of my time. He did well. He can have more of my time. And I apologize. I didn't come prepared. Just put your name in the record. That's all. Tyrone Bailey. Tyrone.
 Thank you for being here. Thank you all. I did briefly read some of the report there. I am basically a new entrepreneur in construction, mainly doing trucking. I've been doing this for three years with a whole lot more experience in the construction industry.
 In the three years I've had the challenge of even getting work with the city. And I believe I can go back with my records of doing bids and this and that, striving to subcontract anything with doing some trucking work.
 zero up to the day of any city work. I think this here piece here is value, is important, really majorly important for myself as well, mainly because what I'm looking for with this here is after the fact, after we leave here today, you know, several months on to when all this here good info is on the table and out there playing, some result that I'm actually going to be
 have a closer possibility of working for one of the contracts, the city contracts. That's my goal. And it's not just myself. It's other ones. It's just a handful of ones that's in my boot that I know have not gotten – I mean, have had it difficult to get that little city contract as small as – even though they say in the industry –
 Mainly trucking is one of the main things that are used out there as far as minority trucking and traffic control. But three years, I've gone through meetings and tried to support the city and this and that and different programs and nothing. And it's mainly because of the way the system is right now needs to be changed. Thank you.
 Thank you. That's exactly why we're here. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you both. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Well, again, I want to thank all our presenters. This actually will come back for second reading and final approval by the council next week. Any other comments before we close this item, council members? I'd just like to thank you, Mayor, for your leadership. And this sounds like a great commission, and I'm sure you'll nominate some excellent people, and they will provide us with –
 some useful guidance on how do we overcome some daunting objectives. I mean, we have great goals, but that's always the problem. They're just goals, and we don't have the tools to mandate things, but I think there's some creative options out there. The PSU report sounds like it has some very good, positive suggestions, and I look forward to this commission meeting.
 processing those and bringing those to our attention. Thank you. Well, thank you all, and again, we will look forward to getting this finally approved next week and moving on quickly to appointments and putting a good group of people to work on this agenda. Thank you all very much. Second reading next week.
 Okay. Let's move on. Let's see. Commissioner Fish has someone queued up on item number 190, I think. Thank you, Mayor. I think you have a consent item. Let's see. Let's take the consent. Thank you. The pulled consent item first, and then we'll move to 190. So let's take 176, please. 176. Appoint Carrie Stanley and reappoint Melissa Stewart to the Noise Review Board.
 Someone wanted to speak on this item? Come on up. Good morning, Council, Mayor. My name is Steven Entwistle. I'm a former heavyweight boxing champion Golden Gloves here in Oregon, and also representing Infant Individuals for Justice, Healing Man Sanctuary, and 100 Million Friends. I am speaking on this issue today.
 This has to do with a continuing noise issue that we have in our city that is not being dealt with at all. It's been ignored. People are, lives are being ruined and they're being, the health is being ruined due to the city's ineptness.
 to deal with noisy bars and 24-hour cafes. Let me just give you an example real quick. How many folks in here that are left in here have ever been to a sidewalk cafe and sat down and had a beer or whatever? Okay, there's been a few, right? Okay, that's fine and dandy until after 10 o'clock, especially if you have to drive a school bus in the morning.
 Imagine this. Imagine somebody living in an apartment building and has to get up at 4 o'clock in the morning and drive a school bus. Okay, your kids might be on that school bus. But if this city allows the bars and these businesses to keep up the neighbors and to ignore their noise complaints and to go ahead and actually protect themselves from being prosecuted, fined, or so forth...
 That is the case here, and that has been going on for year after year after year after year after year after year after year after year. And I've been experiencing this every night. When is the city going to wise up and put the sidewalk cafe inside after 10 o'clock? Why are they allowed to keep up the neighbors all night long every single day of the week? And you want me to drive your school kids to school?
 We have a problem here that's not being dealt with, and you're using all the wrong forks for the salads. What's it going to take before somebody wises up and has a heart for the people that live in the neighborhoods that are being affected by all this noise? We have, anyway, I'll be back on this issue. Thank you. Thank you. All right, anyone else?
 Then roll call, please, on that item. Motion to accept the report. I'll move. Sorry, it is a report. Is there a second? Second. Okay, roll call. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales?
 I want to just note we are actually going to ask the board and the staff to look at our code. It's been a little while since we have. The city is getting denser and therefore getting louder, so it's a real problem. We're also in our office working on something called a late-night activity permit. The state has regulation authority over bars and restaurants, but we have some of our own and we haven't used it all. So there are some tools that we haven't used yet, and we're looking into those. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, let's move, if there's no objection, to item number 190, because we've got folks here that might not be able to stay. So could you read that? Thank you, Mayor. 190, accept report on new surplus property policy for our utility bureaus. Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mayor, very much for your courtesy. I want to bring forth David Schaaf, the Director of the Water Bureau, and Eli Callison, the Bureau of Environmental Services Property Manager. Thank you.
 We have a brief report to Council this morning on the new surplus property policy of both the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services. And by way of context, a couple years ago, we learned about a surplus Water Bureau property in southwest Portland, the now infamous Freeman Tank property, which was being sold to a private developer. Neighbors objected to the sale of the property.
 and to the citywide surplus property policy that allowed the sale to go forward with what they viewed as inadequate public notice. After reviewing the contract of sale for the property, the city attorney advised me that we had no choice but to honor the contract and to move forward.
 However, in conversations with the community and other stakeholders, we concluded that the policy needed to be updated and strengthened. So I asked both bureaus to work with the community to find improvements to the policies with the primary goal of expanding community notice and building in reasonable time limits for people to participate in the process.
 Today, we're going to do three things. First, briefly share an overview of the new policy with Council and preview some upcoming properties that will be coming to you for surplus designation. Second, give you a sense of how this new policy has been working. And third, to seek your feedback for today and in the future for further modifications. Thank you.
 I want to take a moment at the outset to thank the Multnomah Neighborhood Association in particular for their partnership. David and I visited them last summer to present some of the draft improvements. They had, as you might imagine, a plethora of very thoughtful and constructive suggestions from that draft, which we incorporated into the current policy, which we consider a pilot process, excuse me, a pilot surplus property policy.
 I want to turn it over to David Schaff who will make a brief presentation, then to Eli, and then we will recognize Moses Ross who is here to give the community's perspective. David? David Schaff I'm David Schaff. I'm the director of the Portland Water Bureau. And I'm going to do a very quick outline of the actual policy itself, which is on our website. And then I will do a very quick tour of the website that went live yesterday. And then I'll turn it over to Eli.
 As Commissioner Fish noted, clearly the Freeman tank sales process did not work very well from the perspective of public process and information and communication and notice. And that's basically what this new policy does.
 So the first big step after the Bureau has decided that a piece of property is surplus and the Commissioner has evaluated that and agrees with the recommendation is that we, the bureaus, will notify other city bureaus that a piece of property is surplus, not necessary for that bureau's operations, and is available to other cities for acquisition.
 One of the important things that we noted with the Multnomah Neighborhood Association is that we're going to ask those bureaus that we communicate with to respond back in writing regarding their interest and that we will keep those. There is a Scribner's error in the policy in number four. We left out the verb in a sentence. So each city bureau will be asked to respond. We left out the asked in there.
 I believe there's another Scrivener's error because I know that the policy is to also notify the council offices that we get notified so that we can make sure that our bureau is responsive. I think we think of you as a city bureau. We'd be happy to put that. We could clarify that. That would be great. You thought you could preempt Commissioner Fritz in pointing out Scrivener errors if you brought it to the table first. I think that was misguided.
 Once we have done that, we will do a number of things that are intended to be simultaneous in nature. We're going to notify public agencies. So the bureaus will have 10 days and they can ask us for more time if they need it to determine whether or not they have a property, whether or not they would like to consider that property.
 Once we've gone through that process, we will be notifying a number of public entities, Metro, the county that the property is located in, the state of Oregon, ODOT, rail division, if it meets certain criteria for being near a railroad, as well as then the neighborhood coalitions, the neighborhood associations, the business associations in the area where the property is located.
 We'll list it on our surplus property website. Now, we've already gone ahead and done that. We have 22 properties that we've identified as properties that we no longer need for purposes of running our operations. So all 22 of them are on this website now. So the people can be looking at them, and they can know that it is our intent to eventually dispose of them.
 We will also then place an informational sign on the property. It doesn't say for sale. It'll be a notice much like what you see in land use type of notifications that says that it is the city's intent or the Bureau's intent to dispose of this property.
 And that will be posted for a minimum period of time, 45 days. And if a neighborhood association is interested in having that posted longer, we have indicated that we are prepared to post it for a longer period of time, up to an additional 45 days. We'll also put a printed notice or advertisement in at least one of the community newspapers that reach residents in the area. Thank you.
 After that informational sign has been posted for the requisite period of time and there is no public agency that expressed an interest in acquiring the property, we'll come to you with a non-emergency ordinance on the regular council agenda to have that piece of property declared surplus and there are a number of things that we will be including in that ordinance.
 Once the ordinance has passed or once the council has passed that ordinance, then we'll proceed to sell the property. But there are a couple of limitations that we've agreed to there. We'll update our surplus property website. We'll place this time a for sale sign as opposed to a public notice sign. We will not accept bribes.
 It will be up for at least a minimum of 30 days, and we will not accept any offers for the property for at least that period of time. We will list it on the RMLS website and other websites if appropriate.
 And then we will proceed to sell the property. That's, in general, the pilot process. There are a couple of pieces of property, and I will preview one or two of them, that it may not make any sense to do that with. And I have a couple of examples where they are ‑‑ we have ‑‑
 Little slices of property that are surrounded by other owners and there is absolutely nothing you could do with that piece of property So I'll give you a good example in a minute. I
 So let me walk you through our website. And we have a link on our front page. Actually, I'm going to go to the front page and you can see over in the features it says Water Bureau Surplus Property. And then go to our website and it's basically a general information page. But I want to point out a couple of things. We have a link to the process that I just outlined. So and we've identified them in various stages.
 Then we have another link that asks for feedback. This is an email that will go directly to the property manager and our webmaster. So if somebody has something that they want to suggest or a question that they want to direct to us, they can use that process. We have an automatic notification process and a link to that. I have...
 Signed up for this so that I can make sure it's working and I got a link today Because one of those little slices of property that I was just talking about Got put up on the website yesterday, and then we have you can sign up for these notifications You can also sign up for monthly billing. Yeah. Yes, you can and
 Not in the same length, though. And then we have links to both the BIPs, the internal, the City of Portland OMF website, and Bureau of Environmental Services. And then we have links on the actual properties. So, for instance, I'm going to go to the particular property that I was talking about.
 If you look at that, you see that little yellow slice is a little piece of property that apparently we own. That's relatively new news to us. It's a slice of property right in the middle of the parking lot of the Skyline Tavern.
 and it's surrounded by asphalt or a road. In all likelihood, we're going to quitclaim this to the owners of the Skyline Tavern who are interested in selling their property, and that's a cloud on their title. So that's just an example of something where we probably wouldn't follow that process. There are a number of properties on here, and I'll pull up one.
 the tennis court tank, which are properties that you all had declared surplus back in 2010. There are seven properties total that you declared surplus in 2010 that we are going to go through this process over again so that we make sure that people know
 Here's the notice. This is our intent. We go back and talk to the various bureaus. I picked this example deliberately because originally in 2010, all of the bureaus, when we inquired, said, no, we are not interested in acquiring this property. The Parks Bureau has expressed an interest now in potentially acquiring this piece of property. So we're going to go through this entire process all over again with all of the properties that we'd originally declared surplus in 2010. Okay.
 So I think that will give you a general tour of the website. As I said, everything that we currently own that we do not believe we have any reason to continue owning is on that list. So it's 22 properties right now. And as things change, as we dispose of those, we'll remove them. And as we identify other properties that perhaps we don't need, we will put those on the website.
 And then I'm going to link to the BES one and turn it over to Eli. Quick question before you do, because it's water-related, and that is –
 I don't need a detailed engineering explanation now, but actually when you look at that slide show, there's kind of a shocking number of tanks that you're selling. So I assume that because of the construction of new tanks, particularly on Kelly Butte and Powell Butte, you don't need those in the system anymore and you can maintain fire flow and pressure without them? Is that what's going on? Yes, Mayor. A fair number of these tanks actually have never been connected to the system, so I picked Richland Tank.
 That's from the old Richland Water District that was annexed 30 years ago. We've owned this property that length of time and have never connected this particular property to the system. Okay, so they're left over from water districts in a lot of cases. And that makes sense. Just wanted to make sure that the water was still going to be there when the Fire Bureau needed it. Yeah.
 Good question. Good question. And when we come to council on any surplus designation, we'll want to have those kinds of robust discussions about are we being prudent in declaring surplus? Might there be someday a backup need of some kind? Right. But that ultimately is the council's decision. Great.
 David? Eli? Right. So I just want to run you quickly through a couple of the properties that BES has taken partially through this surplus process. But before I get into that, I kind of want to put a caveat on that I've been the BES property manager now for three months, so I've not been with these properties through every step of the way.
 But I'm going to give you a little bit of our experience as we deal with this. We have two parcels. And contrary to Water Bureau, ours are more of an industrial area. The two parcels we currently have out were acquired as part of the CSO project. So we have a 15-acre site right on the Willamette zone, heavy industrial. And then adjacent to that, around 22nd and Nadeau, we have about a 3-quarter acre site, also zoned industrial.
 Both of these properties were, like I said, taken through this process. The public notification was put up last March, excuse me, last May. We did not receive any feedback from the public on any of these properties with regards to any concerns. Pretty much all the feedback has been as soon as the posting went up, people wanted to buy it well before we were at the spot where we could go through that.
 Both of these were placed surplus back in August and since then we're kind of at this point just getting the final engineering done to preserve the sewer infrastructure that we have underneath these sites. At which point we will be ready to post the sites for sale and we'll be waiting the 30 days to acquire them. Kind of briefly as David mentioned, VES and Water have gone back and forth on this process.
 BES had some concerns initially about the length of time, particularly with regards to a business interest of being able to time a property sale with the market.
 But with the addition to the public notice either being extended instead of having an additional length, we're pretty happy with where it's at. And we think that the process is enough to allow the public to have the input and then it can be extended as needed. But in the more residential areas, it makes a lot more sense to have that length of time. Mayor, before we invite up Moses Ross, I just want to comment that when you asked me to lead both bureaus,
 Part of our conversation was to find ways of creating uniform systems and policies.
 So, this and the first evidence of that was the joint CIP presentation, the fall of your first year, where we did it apples to apples and both bureaus used the same format. And I remember Commissioner Saltzman expressing to me the view that it was easier to follow when you had both bureaus presenting the information in the same manner. This is another example of both bureaus getting together, coming up with a uniform policy,
 with websites that have the same information and the same format. And because this is a pilot, we'll be soliciting on an ongoing basis feedback. And if you have suggestions for how to improve both the presentation and the policy, we'll continue to refine it. But, again, it's an example of the two bureaus working at a very high level together to try to get this right. So I appreciate both of their work.
 And if you don't mind, I know we're backed up by counsel. I thought maybe we'd have Moses Ross come up. Please. He was our indispensable community partner. Yep. And we've asked him to say a few words, and then we'll take some questions. Great. Why don't you guys stick around? Good morning, Moses. Good morning. Thank you very much for this invitation.
 I find upon reviewing the website and reviewing the detail that you have presented on all of those properties, I found myself thinking back to when this issue first came to my attention at the Multnomah Neighborhood Association and the residents that were living around the Freeman Water Tower had just heard about this issue.
 and they asked me to help them and I went and had to create my own list of those surplus properties and also in turn reach out to the neighborhood association chairs at all of those properties to make them aware of the situation. So I'm very appreciative of the effort that you have made to detail those properties at one location
 I think this transparency that you're adopting will alleviate so many concerns. For instance, if this transparency had been available to my neighbors in Multnomah prior to Freeman, it would have been, I think, a lot smoother, and we would not have had such a potential for contentiousness.
 so thank you for for listening to us and adopting many of our suggestions if not all of those suggestions the transparency issue the 90-day delay the 45-day delay that's imperative from the neighborhood association perspective to be able to organize and to be able to notify so I'm very appreciative
 you know mayor i'm really um i want to just publicly thank moses ross and the leadership of the neighborhood association when he said this was a contentious process he was using a euphemism this not only sparked a lot of frustration at the neighborhood level but it it spawned a lawsuit and some very tough conversations and um i think uh the bureaus in reviewing this matter realized that we could do better
 and the neighborhood had some really terrific suggestions and we incorporated some of them and we came to a meeting we found out we hadn't gone far enough and we took further feedback and what we have now is a significantly enhanced policy that addresses the transparency issue and make sure that all the key stakeholders get the kind of notice they need to be able to help us make the right decision we know we're not finished
 and we'll continue to work with our friends at the coalitions and the neighborhood level to get it right. But, I mean, this is an example. When we talk about working, doing our best work in partnership with the community, what could be a better example than working with a group that sued us and expressed such displeasure with our work that we actually had to rethink our whole approach, and out of it comes a policy that we think,
 greatly meets the public interest and gives us a chance to get a better outcome. Absolutely. So how many times do you get to celebrate that? And so, Moses, we want to thank you for your good work. Thank you. Thank you for your good work. Thanks very much. Thank you. Any other questions for the panel? Thank you all. Anyone else that wants to speak on this item? Mr. Lightning. Morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X1.
 one of the concerns i've stressed on the surplus properties in my belief anyway the public deserves to at least have a independent appraisal done on these properties to determine value there's a lot of times that i see these properties being almost given away for nothing for the public good the city is not philanthropist they cannot be giving away properties when you have debt
 of over $1 billion in transportation that needs to be addressed, $500 million in parks, $250 million in housing. You don't have anything to give away. You are buried in debt that you have to look at your overall assets and begin to understand you can't give these away at pennies on the dollar. I want to start seeing estimated values of $250,000 or greater to have independent appraisals
 from outside companies to determine a value. Another issue I have on these surplus properties, I don't think the city is qualified to make these sales. I would like to have an independent brokerage company, maybe Grub and Ellis, Coldwell Banker, very reputable companies to sell these properties if it's determined these properties are over $250,000. That separates the city from any conflict of interest,
 Any possible relations with the potential buyer, ex-employee, ex-relative, it separates all those conflicts. We need to have that separation on these type of deals. We need to obtain the fullest possible market price that we can get.
 This city is in a tremendous amount of debt and needs to take care of the debt, and we cannot allow these existing assets to be given away at low values to certain developers that a lot of the public has stated in here today really was unaware of what was going on. If you had an independent brokerage company handling that, independent appraisals handling that, this will never happen.
 The brokerage community is worth every dollar that you pay them on these type of transactions, and the reason is why they have the experience over years to get the highest and best price with the largest market base out there that can understand how to talk the language to sell these type of properties when you're dealing in million-plus dollar properties. The public deserves to get full value for these properties.
 The public deserves to have these properties go back in and begin to pay down some of the debt in these different bureaus.
 So, again, I'm at total disagreement on allowing the city to handle the sales and also have a suspicion on your overall values based upon your estimated values and not legitimate appraisals on these surplus properties. Thank you. So, Mayor, once again, Lightning has focused in on two of the most important issues in this whole transaction. And so thank you, Lightning.
 Paragraph 6, sub D of the pilot that's before you requires that when we come to council for permission, the surplus,
 we have an appraisal or other evidence of the market value of the property. And I think our intent is to seek an appraisal where appropriate, and a substantial property would require an appraisal. And if the council does not – thanks, I'm going to update the money. And if the council doesn't think that that's sufficient, we'll do something beyond that.
 And in terms of independent brokers, we completely agree with Lightning on this one. And so for example, Terminal 1, which is a 16-acre property in a prime industrial area, that transaction will be handled by a professional commercial broker.
 We've had a tremendous amount of interest that's been expressed to the broker already because it's highly desirable dirt, and it is precisely to keep that distance between the bureau and the marketplace. We expect to make a significant premium on that property, and I'd be remiss if I didn't once again acknowledge that during Dan's tenure, there were some decisions that were made to acquire rather than to lease industrial property for the big pipe.
 and there was some criticism of the city for buying because it was an uncertainty about the future market conditions it turns out that's like buying berkshire hathaway when it first hit the market these these properties are so valuable and we expect to be able to show tremendous value to rate payers when we sell terminal one and some other properties so we we agree with both points you made lightning and one is incorporated in the policy and the other is what we are in practice doing with our substantial properties
 If I may respond real fast, the term estimated value is of great concern to me. I want actual appraisals, actual sales comparables, income approaches, and
 I want to see real data, not somebody just throwing in an estimate. So that's a real concern to me. MR. The policy says appraisal. MR. Okay. MR. So we agree with you on that, and we'll also be notifying counsel of the broker we've selected to handle the transaction, and that will be at a public hearing where you can comment as well. MR. Okay. One other thing real fast. You said that you might take surplus properties and allow other bureaus to have a say on that property.
 What I'd like to see, if at all possible, is to take five bureaus, the top bureaus that need the most money, and every sale has gone back into a fund that is equally distributed between the bureaus. Now, I know you can't do that, but I'd like the home charter to be taken a look at and have legal counsel maybe to discuss that to see if that can be done together.
 on that type of a surplus property? Because if you can take that property and give it to another bureau, then why can't you take funds and equally distribute it? Let me be clear. Okay. I would be recalled and we'd have a new lawsuit and another petition drive if we gave it to another bureau. So you've pointed out something important. We're not giving it. All we're doing is giving a city
 acquire it at market price. And if they don't want to acquire it at market price, then it goes. And the reason we're doing that, Lightning, is because Commissioner Fritz may, for example, come and say, I want to add that piece to an existing park. Or Commissioner Novick may come and say,
 This is part of a master plan for PBAC, but they have to acquire it at market price. We're not transferring as a gift to any bureau. Based upon an appraisal, and again, that is public money doing that, and the public should have a say on that, and that's my point. Thank you. You made it. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else want to speak? Then motion to adopt the report, please. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call.
 Ms. Fritz? Ms. Welcome. Congratulations, Commissioner Fish, for your diligence on this. It is indeed wonderful to see such consensus and good work to the Water Bureau and the ESI. Ms. Fish? Mr. Thank you. I want to thank both of my bureaus for the hard work they put into this and, in particular, the time they've spent with community members addressing the concerns. In our jobs, sometimes, despite our best efforts, we don't get it right.
 And we can either just accept that as a fact of life or we can learn from those missteps and improve what we do. And this is an example where we fell short of community expectations around one piece of property, but it caused us to reevaluate our overall policy, and the result is a much better policy. It's more transparent. It has better accountability measures. And equally important from the ratepayer point of view is this is likely to result in better performance
 prices for the property that we're selling. So I want to thank my team. We look forward to working with the city to look across all bureaus at a more robust surplus property policy. We welcome comments and feedback throughout because this we consider as a pilot, and we don't think this is the final version, but we can always improve. And I want to particularly thank Moses and the
 Multnomah Neighborhood Association for all the time they spent helping us get it right, or at least better. Thank you. Aye. Seltzman? Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish and Multnomah Neighborhood Association and Bureau of Environmental Services and Water Bureau for giving us a good policy that gives a good framework for moving forward. Thank you. Aye. Novick?
 Really appreciate the hard work of the bureaus and Commissioner Fish and of the Multnomah Neighborhood Association. And I'm particularly pleased that there is now peace between my colleague and my neighbors. Aye. Hales. Very nice work. Thank you. Aye. Okay. Let's go back to the beginning of the regular agenda and go to item 183, please. Thank you.
 Accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $5,177 from Oregon Impact for the 2015 Pedestrian Safety Enforcement Mini-Grant Program. Okay. Captain Sheffer standing by. I don't know if we have any questions about this, but come up and give us a quick picture of this, please. Small grant. Okay.
 Good morning, still. Kelly Sheffer with the Traffic Division for the Portland Police Bureau. And with me are the two subject matter experts, Officer Brian Sweeney and Sharon White from PBOT, who will speak to the grant. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. What this is, it's something we've been doing for the last several years with PBOT already, but essentially it's five...
 enforcement missions where we will we've already identified five different locations in five different dates where we'll do a traffic enforcement at a crosswalk and Sharon can speak on how that will happen so thank you appreciate the opportunity and I also want to thank you for the times that you've served as a pedestrian and also Commissioner Novick thank you very much
 The Crosswalk Enforcement Actions is a wonderful opportunity to strengthen our partnership with the Portland Police and PBOT. It has a very strong educational element, and our goal is to help improve safety for pedestrians but all roadway users.
 Prior to each crosswalk enforcement action, we put together a media advisory, and we notify the media that we're going to be doing it. We send it out to neighborhood associations and different community groups. And then a day or two – we usually do that about three or four days ahead of the crosswalk enforcement action. And then –
 a day or two before, we go and we visit each of the businesses within two or three blocks. We tell them about the enforcement action, and we talk to them about always watching for pedestrians, and these are what the fines are and some of the consequences.
 Before we do the crosswalk enforcement action the day of, about 15, 20 minutes prior to start, we put out signs that are about this high that say pedestrian crosswalk enforcement ahead. And we have orange cone and a flag. And then if I'm the walker, I always have on a light-colored jacket or light-colored pants or something, so I'm definitely visible.
 And then during the enforcement action, whether I'm the walker or if it's one of you or another designated walker, we always allow adequate time for the driver to stop or bicyclist, whomever is approaching us. And...
 And we make good eye contact, so it's not like jumping out in front of people, drivers or anything. The police do a really awesome job. I don't take any responsibility for the enforcement or the warnings end of it, but they do a really great job. They give out the warnings and citations to pedestrians who are violating or doing something inappropriately, and then also to bicyclists and to drivers.
 After completion of our crosswalk enforcement action, we collect the results of it from the police bureau, and oftentimes we have a breakdown of what those categories are, like so many times it is failure to stop for the pedestrian or not wearing a seatbelt or talking on their cell phone or what have you. Then we take that information, we report it back to the media who had attended or either requested the information, and we post it on our website, and we share it with other community members that expressed interest.
 So I think all in all, it's a really great program. This allows us to do some additional over-hours time for the police for their time.
 And it helps us continue a program that I've been coordinating since 2004. And since that time, we've done 93 crosswalk enforcement actions that have resulted in 1,638 violations, or right around there, and a little less than 500 warnings.
 So I think it's been the community members seem to really appreciate a lot. Business communities also appreciate it. And it's, like I say, a good opportunity for PBOT and police to work together. Thank you. Questions? That's astonishing that you get so many violations even with all those warnings. Yeah. Is the pedestrian, the so-called decoy pedestrian, is that a paid person or a volunteer? Yeah.
 Well, right now it's always been a city person. That's why it's so inexpensive. They've been using city commissioners as volunteers. Yeah, no, but I would have thought that it could be even less expensive if it was always a volunteer rather than a staff person taking time out of their other job. Well, Commissioner Novick and I don't want to be greedy, so anybody that wants to volunteer, I bet they'll take the opportunity. I would suspect that neighborhood associations and others would be very interested in doing that, which could then stretch the dollars for the enforcement part even further.
 So that's something within Leah Treat and our Bureau of Active Transportation that we're thinking about and going to enter into a conversation with police about. In the olden days, the Willamette Pedestrian Coalition used to independently put these on, and there'd be 20 or so of us crossing the street back and forth. So I know that there is a willingness of folks to do it. Thank you. Good point. Is there some –
 legal obligation why you have to warn people? I mean, I've never understood why we warn people ahead of time, that and also on your cell phone texting things, why you post warnings you're going to be doing enforcement at this intersection.
 it seems counterintuitive to me to really curb illegal behavior well i would think that our emphasis would be to educate folks so to educate the public um so if that's where we're hoping to make impact if we're educating we're talking about it and then on top of that they also see they receive a citation that was because we weren't
 at least making an effort to educate what we're enforcing, whether it be texting while driving or the crosswalk missions that we're working on.
 I think that's a good point. It's open to discussion about how much warning we give people that, hey, we're really serious. Don't violate the law now. No, actually, it's always illegal to do those things. Having at one time been pulled over for not stopping entirely at the stop sign, I know that the heartbeat when I see the lights go on was definitely enough to get me to comply forever after. So the additional –
 fine would have been more punishment than gaining compliance. Most of the citations that are issued, they're also given an opportunity to take a class that we have here in Portland, the Share the Road Safety course, and most of the education in the class is about how to safely get through these types of locations in the city.
 pedestrian crosswalks but stop signs and speeding and cell phone use so most of the people that we contact are offered the class questions thoughts about it i definitely understand your point but i want to underscore captain sheffer's point that we take these opportunities to educate the general public beyond people that happen to be driving through that crosswalk enforcement action so it's a bit of a balance and i think that we strike the balance reasonably thank you very much other questions discussion
 Thank you all. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Okay, then let's accept the grant. Roll call, please. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you. Aye. Novick. I really appreciate Sharon's work and that of the Police Bureau. We've had
 that residents come up to us on the sidewalk and thank us for doing this and making the neighborhoods safer. I just wanted to note that recently Patrick Stewart, otherwise known as Captain Picard of the Starship Enterprise was in town
 And he was asked what he liked about Portland, and one of the things he said is that he really appreciated that motorists respect pedestrians at crosswalks. So I realize we've got a lot of work left to do. We're not as safe as we should be. But I think it's great that we managed to impress Captain Picard, particularly because he's been throughout the galaxy, and we see motorist behavior all over the place. Thank you.
 hailes well i think this program delivers a lot of teachable moments for very little investment but thanks to good work on your part well done thank you aye okay let's move on to 184. authorized city attorney to appear as amicus curiae to support freedom to mary mr auerbach morning thank you mayor hales member of the council my name is harry auerbach i'm chief deputy city attorney
 And I'm back with another amicus resolution, this one on behalf of the freedom to marry. So just very briefly, as you are doubtless all aware, the right of same-sex couples to marry has been litigated throughout the country today.
 generally in favor of upholding the right to marry, with the exception of the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, which encompasses several states in the Midwest and Southeast. And the United States Supreme Court has four cases out of the Sixth Circuit, which it has chosen to take for the purpose of answering the question whether the
 Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution requires states to recognize same-sex marriages. The Mayors for the Freedom to Marry, the United States Conference of Mayors, and individual mayors in cities are filing a brief as amici curiae. We've been asked to join in that brief, and after consulting with your execs in the mayor's office, we're bringing you this resolution to authorize us to add Portland to that list.
 Portland is, I'm happy to say wherever I go, has a proud history of being at the forefront of civil rights and particularly civil rights for same-sex couples, starting with our enlargement of our civil rights ordinance back in the early 90s to include categories that were at that time excluded from protection under state law but which since then have been added.
 So this is in keeping with our proud tradition, and we bring this to you for authorization. Thank you. Questions for our city attorney? Thank you very much, Harry. Anyone want to speak on this item? I have five people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Charles Johnson, Michael Long, and Cameron Witten. Come on up. Okay, it sounds like Cameron had to leave, so we'll go with Veronica Bernier. Go ahead, Charles. I think you're on first.
 Good morning, Commissioners. When I arrived, the sign-up sheet was blank. And we certainly know that the sentiments of Basic Rights Oregon and the ACLU are with this. And we're pleased to see that, unlike minority contracting and some other civil rights issues, you didn't need any public pressure. The city's attorney's office and the diverse staff there came forward. I would encourage you to take...
 All the man hours that you might be using to appeal, however limited that appeal may be, Judge Simon's ruling, and just transfer them over into this amicus curia work and give up that appeal. But what we need to do is really concentrate on the fact that
 LGBTQ people have had great success getting the city to support their civil rights, and in other areas of the city, other minority communities are feeling less success. So we need to look at what worked right here, that the city's attorney's office, that this can come up with no public pressure, and we need to find out through the Office of Equity and Human Rights how other –
 minority communities can have instant satisfaction because what we've learned in the struggle for marriage equality for gay, lesbian, bi, and trans people because there's still some work to be done in that area because people's government assigned gender can and will in some jurisdictions like the 6th Circuit and the 11th Circuit pose problems when trans people go and try and
 get their marriage rights even after the Supreme Court makes the right decision once our amicus brief is submitted and recognized by them. So thank you to the city's attorney's office and 40 some odd, 39 or so odd attorneys working there. And I want this council to encourage them to always be mindful of national issues so we can do more good things like this and maybe also talk about making sure that the state attorney's general office joins us. Thanks. Thanks.
 Thank you. Good morning. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Michael Long. I'm a resident of South Portland. I'm also an attorney in Portland here. I'm the past president of the Portland Area Business Association, which is the LGBT Chamber of Commerce. And I'm also proud to serve and represent Oregon and Portland specifically on the National Board of Governors for the Human Rights Campaign. And I speak today in support of the resolution.
 As you all are aware, the Windsor case and the Perry case focused the entire world on DOMA and on same-sex marriage. Although the Windsor decision was an amazing success for the LGBT community, the Perry case didn't get to the issues of same-sex marriage and ended at the standing area.
 But following those two Supreme Court decisions, what we found was we saw the Prop 8 plaintiffs in California marry, as well as thousands of other Californians. We saw a wave of amazing decisions from the federal courts and from the circuit court, specifically in support declaring the bans on same-sex marriage to be unconstitutional.
 including a powerful opinion written by our own Judge McShane in the Assistant Court here in Oregon on May 19, 2014, which ushered in that second round, you might say, of same-sex marriage or marriage equality in Oregon.
 Yet, recently, the Sixth Circuit opinion, they published what I would call a TED Talk opinion as to what the value is of the U.S. District Courts and the Circuit Courts and whether they should really be even weighing in on this, which leads us to needing the Supreme Court to actually finally rule on marriage equality for the last time. Today,
 The City Council is deciding whether to approve a resolution which charges the city attorneys with filing and or signing in on the U.S. Conference of Mayors amicus brief.
 Your affirmative vote will actually not only broadcast to our people and the LGBT people in Portland, but also to our youth. I was recently pleased to participate in HRC's national Time to Thrive conference, which was held here last weekend. 750 people, the educators, people, counselors working with LGBTQ youth came here to learn about best
 As they were here, they heard about Portland and what Portland is doing, and they know what support our community in Oregon has for LGBT youth.
 I mean, the youth listen to us. They listen to the leaders. They even listen to our politicians when they make a decision like this. And so it's so important for your vote to actually resonate throughout our community, throughout Oregon and Southwest Washington, and into the community, actually internationally, as they hear the Portland City Council supporting this. And so I strongly encourage you to do that on behalf of all LGBTQ people in Oregon and Southwest Washington. Thank you.
 thank you thank you that was a great conference it was really impressive yeah good morning uh mayor charles hale i guess i'm a little bit far back i'm a shorty only five four good morning steve novick i'm oh glad you're back did you have a good cup of coffee good um it's nice to see you all sitting here smiling this morning uh after uh the um
 The little amazing event last night, the beginning of Lent for the Catholics, has aroused a lot of energy and support and emotionalism, and all the other Christian churches here in the United States did celebrate that Tuesday with a lot of fanfare. We had fun and a lot of pancake suppers that were held at churches of our choice, and of course...
 And when I mention churches of your choice, of course, we know that Portland has one of the largest church bases in the entire United States. The Interfaith Council has always come through in the past in support of everyone with regard to all nations, really. In spite of race, color, and creed, we always seem to come across and sit at those tables and have some really mighty fine potlucks, Commissioner Salsman. Speaking of potlucks.
 There's another one scheduled, and I think I just want to mention something really briefly. I do support—I'm a married woman and divorced, okay, and I have children and grandchildren, and I just have to say that even having been married in the church—
 I do support people who have different lifestyles because that is the way some people are. And I think that in terms of all the people in the United States, there are many, many different walks for many people. I wanted to say that at the First Congregational Church, the United Church of Christ, we do have a jazz concert coming up. I'll put this up here so that you can see it.
 The jazz concert is this Sunday, and if you would support that, I would really appreciate it. At that church, we have tables for LGBTQ and so on and so forth. It doesn't matter about the initials. It's about what is important. And I always remember that in San Francisco a long time ago,
 A lady named, I think her name was Dove Martin or Lou Martin, wrote a book about two lesbians living together. And I thought, that is amazing. She wrote this book and she sold it at Glide Memorial Church, which is a Methodist church in San Francisco. They had an open door to gay couples and same-sex couples. So I generally support that, even having been a married woman and pretty heterosexual myself. I think that they all deserve support. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Others who are signed up on this item? I have one more name. I'm sorry, I can't quite read it. But they live on MLK. Someone else on this item? Anyone else on this? Then if not, then let's take a roll call on the resolution, please. Fritz? Mayor, thank you very much for having this on the regular agenda so that I can individually vote an enthusiastic aye. Fish? Fish.
 Yes, Charlie, thanks for bringing this forward. Barney Frank is speaking at Powell's the end of March. He is the first member of Congress to take advantage of the right to marry in his home district and we hope that the Supreme Court follows shortly thereafter with a resounding affirmance of what is happening in most of the circuits. Aye. Saltzman? Well, thank you to the City Attorney's Office and the Mayor's Office for bringing this important amicus brief to our attention and pleased to support it. Aye.
 Since Clarence Thomas has publicly complained about the court taking up this issue, I think that heralds a good outcome. Aye. Hales. This is one more time where it's great to be from Portland, and we're all very proud to be from a city that has a long and consistent record of supporting rights for all, and this is an important one. So I'm looking forward to a successful outcome of this, I love that term, final Supreme Court decision on this issue. Aye. Hales.
 OK. Let's move on into the rest of the regular agenda. Item 185. Authorize a contract with NIC Services LLC for an electronic payment system service and support in a not to exceed amount of $7,500,000. Good morning. Or almost. No? Good afternoon. Christine, you want to be first? Morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services.
 Since 2006, the payment gateway has become an essential means of conducting city business and receiving and processing electronic payments. Payment transaction volume has increased to the point the city has attained level one merchant status and the revenue processed has grown at an annual rate of approximately 20%.
 All City client revenue services communicate with the City's payment gateway via an application procedural interface that serves Bureau-specific requirements based on the type of service. The payment gateway is used by multiple City bureaus and is based on the type of services or transaction it accommodates Bureau-specific requirements.
 Examples of payments processed include utility bills, construction permits, ticketing for street car transportation, on-street parking, leave fees, and art tax. The City has determined that emerging requirements merited an evaluation of replacing the in-house developed custom solution with the standard commercial payment gateway system or service.
 In August of 2014, the City issued a request for proposals for electronic payment system service and support. And on October 6, 2014, one proposal was received. The proposal was reviewed, evaluated, and scored by a five-person evaluation committee that include representation from the Minority Evaluator Program. The proposal from NIC Services LLC was deemed responsive to the requirements of the solicitation and was recommended for awarding of a contract.
 NIC Services has proposed the use of a certified women-owned business for help desk, call center, customer support services. The city issued a notice of intent to award on December 19, 2014, and no protests were received. You have before you an ordinance recommending authorization of a contract to NIC Services for not to exceed value of $7,500,000 for the five-year period.
 I will turn this over to Jennifer Cooperman, City Treasurer, to talk more about this project. Good morning, everyone. So as Christine described, the payment gateway was internally developed by BTS in 2006, and it's a heavily used piece of software. It's highly customized. It's maintained within BTS, and it's been determined that the gateway is not PCI compliant.
 PCI compliance is something that the city is obligated to be because we accept credit cards. The payment cards that we accept, Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, and there's a fifth card that we don't accept, but they participate in this framework as well.
 Those card brands have set a security framework that they call PCI compliance, payment card industry compliance. And as a vendor, as an entity that accepts those cards, we are obligated to be PCI compliant. We are not PCI compliant.
 There are potential fines to the city that start in the five figures and rapidly escalate to the six-figure amount for not being compliant. Ultimately, past the fines, the card brands could come to us and say, we don't want you to accept our cards.
 Today, through the Gateway, the figures I have are for fiscal year 2014, but we processed over 9 million transactions a year that were valued at $155 million a year.
 As Christine mentioned, we've experienced growth in the number of transactions on the 20 percent level per year. I know I carry three cards in my wallet. I use my cards. It's a matter of convenience. We need to provide a service for the city to accept those cards that is compliant with the card networks so that we will continue to be allowed to accept the cards.
 The standards that the PCI Council set become more stringent over time. We are in what's called the PCI version 3.0. It started at 1.0 back, I'm not sure when, in the early 2000s.
 Because the world is changing and there are hackers out there and all sorts of new risks, the PCI Council periodically issues new standards, and we are at the 3.0 standard. It's more stringent than what was in place in 2.0.
 The 3.0 standard went into effect on January 1st of this year, and I will predict that at some point we will be working with a version 4.0. So it's a constantly moving framework. We are given time to become compliant with it, but it gets tighter and tighter and more stringent all the time.
 The Gateway has been identified as something that is not compliant. We have indicated to our bank, who has indicated to the card brands, that we will reach compliance by the end of the calendar year this year.
 Remediating our gateway is a significant step in that direction, and the NIC payment engine, the NIC payment framework that we are looking to contract with is and will be a PCI compliant framework for us.
 I'm happy to answer any questions. And we have with us Rick Nixon from BTS, our technology group, the e-commerce group within BTS, who can also answer any questions that you might have. Great. Thank you. Questions? Did we go out to bid for asking for an outside vendor to do the work for us, or did we go out to bid asking for a system that we could install? Because we have such a customized system,
 gateway today, we went out and said, these are the things that we need to be able to do. You vendors come back and tell us how you can help us do that. Either deliver us a
 total turnkey system or deliver to us certain portions that we could incorporate into what we already do ourselves. Is that fair? That's correct. It was an all-encompassing request for the RFP to replace in whole the entire system with a fully hosted solution or individual components as they would marry into our existing system.
 Has the Technology Oversight Committee looked into this? This will be the – we went to the TOC last year, last October, to talk about the gateway. The TOC is now – will be overseeing the PCI remediation as a whole, the gateway being part of it. And we are presenting to them for the first time this coming Monday for the PCI project. So I'm concerned that we only got one bid. Yes.
 How many contractors are there out there that do this kind of work? So we had an information session and there were 12 vendors who attended that information session. It was not required. And of those entities, one chose to submit a proposal.
 In our RFP, we did have several requirements. And from one of the vendors that I spoke with afterwards and asked, how come you didn't choose to bid, they said that they didn't feel that they could deliver all the services that we wanted and that pulling together different vendors and different pieces to put together a complete solution, they didn't feel would satisfy what we were looking for.
 And in these requirements, we did ask for vendors that also work with level one merchants that we are. Let me take a sidestep for a second. The card brands rank merchants according to their volume of business, and it's not the dollar volume. It's the number of transactions. Okay.
 You are a level one merchant, which is the top tier, if you process more than 6 million transactions a year. We process over 9.5, 10 million. So we are in the same category as a Target or any of the other large commercial organizations that are out there. So we were looking for vendors who can handle the requirements of a level one merchant that we are.
 I am concerned about the complexity of our system, as we're finding with the ITAPS vendor, that, in fact, sometimes contractors aren't aware of quite what they're getting into. So I'm concerned about just having the one bid. Could I just say, the one NIC, it works exclusively with government entities. They have, I think it's 2,500 contractors.
 different customers nationwide, some at the federal level, some at the state level, some at the municipal level, and not that a payment from
 from you and Target is any different than processing a payment for us for parking, but they're sensitive to government needs and government processes and government requirements. And how do we know that their cost per transaction is an industry standard? We have looked at comparable contracts as part of the reference checking. We've looked at contracts that they have with other entities. And I've not actually –
 I haven't seen that part or I can't think of what it is right at the moment, but a cents per transaction framework is the framework that they have traditionally been providing. And if I'm doing the math correctly, their 10 cents per transaction at $1 million, at 10 million transactions, is about $1 million a year, and yet the contract is for $7.5 million over five years. Why the increase? Yeah.
 The city has a significant backlog of demand from bureaus to set up the ability for credit cards, so we have factored that into our analysis. It is a ceiling amount. We do have some cushion in there because we don't know what the public is going to pull out of their wallet. We don't know if they're going to pull out coins to pay the meters or if they're going to pull out a card for the meter.
 We don't pay unless we incur the transactions. So it's a number to go into SAP, if you will, for when we book the contract, but we are not obligated to spend all of that money. And my understanding is we're planning to pay for it with an increase in parking fees. Is that? Commissioner Favey respond. PBOT, because we have so many parking meter transactions, is going to bear a large share of the cost.
 And, yes, I was about to mention that, I mean, given, as you know, PBOT doesn't have enough money to maintain the streets, we are going to be looking to raise additional money, and we are likely to come forward with a proposal to raise meter rates further.
 I should add that there's a traffic management reason to do that anyway in the downtown. It's good parking slash traffic management policy to have the cost of garage parking be slightly lower than the cost of on-street parking, because you want to encourage people to go into garages rather than circle around looking for a place on the street and causing additional congestion.
 And right now, for example, if you're parking for three hours downtown, it's cheaper to park on the street than the garage, which is not good policy. So we think that we are going to need to come forward with a proposal to raise meter rates. There's also a good public policy reason for doing so, in addition to, of course, the public policy of having safe credit card transactions. So I am curious about why we're doing the contract without knowing how we're going to pay for it.
 The way the fees go to NIC is that they look at the number of transactions that were incurred in the prior month, and they take it off the top, basically. There are no invoices that we then have to pay, but if we have $1.40 for an hour's worth of parking and we're at $0.08, then they pass through $1.32 to the city. I get that, but the contract before us today is for $7.5 million, which currently we don't have that.
 Well, it's foregone revenue transaction by transaction. Over five years. So it's up to the bureaus and OMF to forecast and the budget office to forecast revenue based on a number of conditions, including costs, right? But as of today, this is not a budgeted item. We don't have to budget $7.5 million to pay for this. It just comes off the top.
 Right, but as of now, a lot of it would come off the top of PBOTs. Well, and that's why they're proposing a fair increase, a rate increase. I think what you're saying is that if parking fees were not adjusted, then it would have to bump out something else in their budget. Yes. Yes. So it's – and I'm supportive of doing this. We have a budget process. We hear from the community. We hear from the businesses in downtown. Mm-hmm.
 to set parking fees and that wasn't what was on the agenda today so i just want to make that clear that we are going to have to figure out how to pay for this and perhaps that could have been done absolutely it's essentially no different than if the state comes to us and says your purse
 rate's going to be different next year and it gets loaded into the budget system up front. We don't have to budget for that, but we have to recover the cost if we can. In this case, we in some cases can by raising park fees or other fees as people buy stuff from us. We're going to be having another conversation this afternoon that is set to put a
 pressure on or change things in this year's budget process. And so I'm just flagging for folks that this changes what we have been planning for when the City Budget Office put forward their recommendations a few months ago. My last question, thank you for your patience. How many staff are currently working on the gateway and what cost savings will we have by having them not do that? We have, I believe it's 0.8 of an FTE who is responsible for managing the city's gateway today. Okay.
 Once we outsource this, we will still need staff, city staff, to manage that gateway and manage the relationship with NIC. That person will need to set up new web pages to use the gateway for bureaus that have been wanting to accept cards, and that person will still need to manage the relationship that we have with our external PCI auditor. We're required to do that. We don't have any internal cost savings.
 uh no but we will be compliant which today we are not thank you yeah mr saltzman did you have some questions so as i understand the seven and a half million is the top price i mean that's
 That's it. It says not to exceed. It's a not to exceed. It's an optimal price, so it can't exceed $7.5 million over five years. At some point, we would have to come back to you if we were at the point where the payment to NEC is exceeding $7.5 million. At an annual rate of more than what we planned on, right? So we'd have to be doing more transactions than you've planned on because it is $0.08 per transaction.
 they don't stop charging us at the nth transaction so you would have to come back that's a good point and i guess i'm just a little distressed about just one proposer that that sends up all sorts of red flags in my mind given our experience with software projects over the years so if there's anything you can say to it delay my concern about that but
 Well, I think that Jennifer did do some outreach to see why we didn't get any other proposers. And just to kind of help you a little bit, this was evaluated and it was a recommended award. Just because we get one proposal doesn't mean we have to award the contract. So the evaluation committee does feel that this is a viable proposal and it's something that we should go forward with. That helps. Thanks. Other questions? No.
 Thank you all. Thanks very much. Anyone signed up to speak on this item? I guess we have one person, Joe Walsh. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I really appreciate the questions coming from Commissioner Fritz on this. The one item that stood out to us also is the just –
 uh one person or Corporation coming back with a bid we don't like that we automatically have a reaction to that and it seems to me that this is a seven million dollar contract and I remember that uh commissioner uh fish when it came to contracts
 came to the decision that it would be a really good idea to bring anything over a million dollars. Half a million? Okay. Stan corrected. A half a million dollars to the council. My point is that he saw that there was a problem here with perception, just the perception of it. So our question is that if you have $7.5 million that you're talking about, that if you only get one bid –
 We should have something in our charter or regulations or rules that say, you know what, we can't go forward on this because there's too much money involved. So there's a cutoff point, like Commissioner Fish did with the half a million dollars, that if it exceeds whatever number you decide on, a million dollars, then there's got to be more than so many bids, two, three.
 Or they go back to square one and they set it out again. Because this system here is perpetuating the same contracts coming back over and over and over again because they're qualified and they can do it. So it leaves out a whole bunch of people. So there's better ways of doing this. Maybe you need to break up the contract.
 Maybe you need to do your own subcontracting. Maybe you need to say, okay, if it's more than $3 million or $2 million, you have to have three bids or it ain't going anyplace. Thanks. Thank you. Anyone else? Then this is an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote, please. Fritz? You know, it's an emergency, and I know that we have the need to do this, and it's really troubling to me that we only have the one bid.
 I don't have any way to gauge whether, you know, this isn't something that, it can't be something that's just us having this problem. There must be other jurisdictions. And is this company, I don't really know that much about this company. So...
 Looking for guidance or more discussion, it's hard being the first one up to vote. Want to wait to vote and see if Jennifer can reassure you any further? So in an unrelated conversation with –
 I asked about their interest in bidding. It wasn't related to this. And that entity said that they're now a lot more careful about their resource constrained, as are we. And so unless they think that there is a high likelihood of winning a bid, they're not putting the effort into responding to a proposal. This is a very interesting topic.
 On the one hand, it's kind of a commodity-like process, but on the other hand, you need to have deep pockets and lots of wherewithal in order to provide this service because it's rather technical and it crosses over the line into finance as well. So it's a marriage of finance and technology. Thank you.
 I can't say what was going on in the heads of the other entities, but we asked in our RFP and said, you have to show that you can handle the level of business that we produce. You have to allow us the right to change our bank at any time. You have to allow us the right to, when we change our bank, to give us stored data that you have.
 I don't know what other entities have been asking for, but we set some high standards because that's what our customer base in the city has been used to getting from a customized service.
 If I sell my house, yeah, it might be nice to have 10 bids, but all I need is that one that gets me a successful sale and I can close and they have the money in the bank. And because they focus on e-commerce only with government, I'm comforted that they understand what we're looking for and what we need.
 Thank you. That's helpful. If it helps. Yeah, well, particularly because over the six years that I've been on the council, Treasurer Cooperman has been someone who has consistently shown herself to be very fiscally responsible, very attention to detail, and I trust you. So on that basis, I still have the misgiving about doing this before we've had the discussion with our community about how to pay for it, but we'll figure out how to pay for it. Aye. Aye.
 Thanks for a good discussion. We are in the process of encouraging a lot more people to pay their bills online or with credit cards, and so we have to make sure that we can give them confidence that their information is protected.
 And we live in a world where I think we all have the experience of having to replace our debit card on an alarmingly regular basis because someone is doing transactions in some other part of the country that we're not physically located in. So we have to have the integrity of the system. I appreciate the discussion. It's brought me to a point of confidence in moving forward. Hi. Saltzman. I appreciate this discussion, and I trust that the Technology Oversight Committee will be,
 internally involved in the implementation of this award. No, thank you.
 Thank you, Jennifer, and thank you, Christine. This, it seems to me, really is an emergency. I mean, we need to take steps to protect the credit card information of our customers. We can't run the risk of imposing fines or even having the credit card companies say that we shouldn't be allowing the use of their credit cards in our parking meters and other contexts. So it will cost some money, but it absolutely needs to be done. And I have to say that...
 I applauded Commissioner Fish's move and his Bureau's move to go to monthly billing. Now I reapplaud it because if there is monthly as opposed to tri-monthly charges, then that will raise the number of credit card transactions that his Bureau's will engage in, which will raise the percentage of the total amount of this cost that they'll absorb compared to people.
 Kales. Mayor, could I propose a friendly amendment? I think the buck just passed here. Aye. Good work. Okay. Let's change to items 186, please.
 amend building demolition code to require notice and delay for all single-family residential demolitions in areas with a residential comprehensive map designation and make other changes Any comments before we vote second reading second reading roll call Fritz. I
 Well, thank you to especially Nancy Thorrington, who has sat through three hours of previous testimony to be here and who has done an amazing job on this project. Thank you very much. Jeff Fish was here earlier. He had to leave because the previous items took longer than scheduled. But he was the chair of the Development Review Advisory Committee, along with the current chair, Mary Helen Kincaid, did an extraordinary job.
 shepherding and indeed guiding this whole process. The other members of the subcommittee were Rob Humphrey, Claire Carter, Steve Highteen, Caroline Dow from the Historic Landmarks Commission and Gwen Milius from the Design Commission. We also appreciate Brandon Spencer-Hardell from Restore Oregon, Alan Ellis from United Neighbors for Reform and indeed many others from United Neighbors for Reform,
 and the city staff from Development Services, Andy Peterson, Karine Perkins, Jill Grenda, Terry Whitehill, and my staff, Dora Perry, along with Sean Wood from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. So this was a group effort. Many important issues were raised by community members that are now going to go to further discussion. The mayor and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability will be looking at the issue of deconstruction, not just of single-family homes, but of multi-family homes.
 Hopefully Commissioner Saltzman and the Housing Bureau will be looking into the issue of should there be a surcharge on demolitions in order to help pay for affordable housing. And then the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, again, will be working with our direct subcommittee on a number of other issues following up from this process. So still more work to be done, but definitely a good job done thus far. Thank you very much. Bye.
 I want to start by thanking Commissioner Fritz for leading us through this discussion, which is complicated. And I took a tour of my neighborhood recently, and I noted that it's a neighborhood that has large craftsman-style houses and small bungalows adjacent to each other.
 And once upon a time, as they were being built, we probably had the same conversation in the city about the juxtaposition of a small affordable bungalow next to a house three times its size, which was significantly more expensive. And in fact, I think one of the strengths of where I live is the diversity of housing styles that all seem to coexist.
 We're going to have more, not fewer of these discussions because of the urban growth boundary and because of our commitment to taking density where it can be accommodated. I think this is a good balance. I will tell you, though, Commissioner Fritz, I learned a lot from the discussion last time, and I particularly appreciated the feedback we got on health and safety issues.
 In fact, I asked the developer of a project not far from my house if I could see the asbestos and lead paint report. And it turns out it exists, and they were kind enough to fax it to me. And they also furnished me with a follow-up report done by the certified company that was hired to remove the hazardous materials.
 That's one issue where you've graciously agreed to give me a follow-up briefing, and I would like to at least make sure that you are confident that the different agencies of government responsible for this are aligned. We realize that the state and federal government has a role, but I think we want to make sure that regardless of who has that role, we can tell a neighbor or a neighborhood that they're safe. And I appreciate you willing to continue that discussion. Thank you.
 But I think this is a good first step, and I appreciate the collaborative way in which you brought us to this point. Aye. Schultzman? Well, I'd also like to thank Commissioner Fritz for her leadership on this very contentious issue, and thank the Bureau of Development Services and Jeff Fish and Mary Helen Kincaid and the rest of the committee for their advice, and United Neighbors for Reform. I think we've got a...
 A policy here that respects the need for more time to give neighbors, perhaps, an opportunity to acquire a property that may be worth a house that's worth saving, but it also respects the basic ownership rights of people who wish to sell their property and those who wish to buy it. So I think it strikes a good compromise. We probably haven't seen the last of this issue, though. Aye. Novick.
 I totally agree. I really appreciate the work by Nancy Thornton and Jeff Fish and the DRAC and United Neighbors for Reform and Mary Helen Kincaid. I think that this is a great way to address the notice and appeal issues. And I know that there's other demolition-related issues that we'll take up, but I think this is a tremendous first step. Thank you, Commissioner. Aye.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner, and thank you, Nancy. Thank you all that worked on this. This is an important piece of a multi-part strategy that we're all taking up to try to meter the amount of change and focus it where it's appropriate and try to focus it away from where it's inappropriate.
 You know, we all quote the line from the Joni Mitchell song about we paved paradise but a parking lot We're proud of the fact that actually we did it the other way around in Portland but the line before that is he you don't know what you've got till it's gone and What we've got in Portland is just mile after mile after mile of great old houses of as Commissioner Fish said variety scale
 And I think we're in great danger of losing a lot of that if we don't get this right in a time of huge change and massive real estate pressure. So this is a piece of a strategy that will hopefully focus change where it's most tolerable. None of us likes change.
 but there are places where it's most tolerable and there are places where it just makes us wince. And I think we can do a better job, thanks to this work and more to come, of sorting that out and getting it right and not having to mourn what we had that was gone. So thank you very much. Good work. Aye. Okay, 187. Thank you.
 Amend the Portland Parks and Recreation Fiscal Year 2014-15 adopted budget to add appropriation for new positions and associated materials and services to support the implementation of the parks replacement bond. Wow. Commissioner Fritz. I know. Wow. So this is the first of many appearances before council about the parks bond. And so I'm going to have Kia Selle. Thank you for being here all morning to explain it.
 Thank you, Commissioner. And Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, good morning, or I guess it's afternoon now. Excuse me. Good afternoon. For the record, my name is Kia Selle. I'm the Planning, Development, and Asset Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm here today to request City Council approval of an amendment to the Parks and Recreation adopted budget for the current fiscal year to add appropriation for new staff positions and associated materials and services funding to support implementation of the Parks Replacement Bond Program.
 With your approval, we will hire new staff for the replacement bond program, including up to five capital project managers, a communications and community engagement staff person, and a project support person. These new positions will be funded entirely by the $68 million replacement bond that was supported by Portland voters last November.
 supporting projects at playgrounds, pools, Pioneer Courthouse Square, bridges and natural areas, and accessibility improvements, just to name a few. We want to show results as quickly as possible, and so to do that, we're requesting this amendment by emergency ordinance so that we can immediately recruit for these positions and have new staff in place soon to begin project work. Commencing project work as quickly as possible will also save money,
 due to escalating construction costs and ongoing maintenance needs of deteriorating assets. Enacting quickly will help us restore service to the community that has been diminished, such as building a new playground at Cooch Park. With these new positions, planning and design for over 15 bond-funded projects will begin this calendar year, with a total of 25 projects to be funded by the first bond issuance that is planned for later this year. Thank you. Thank you. Questions for Kia? Yeah.
 How many capital projects managers are there currently?
 So we have a capital projects team that actually does projects that are funded by SDCs, urban renewal, and other sources of funds. And we have about eight people within that team. We will pluck a few people from that team that are very seasoned capital project managers to do a few specific projects because they have a certain set of specialized skills and abilities. But we are actually building a separate bond team.
 And that's primarily because the bond program will run very differently, and we want to do our best to keep finances separate from the rest of our capital funds. But there is a need for seven full-time people in perpetuity? That's correct. It won't be in perpetuity. Okay.
 So the bond program right now, because it's a $60 million bond, does have a finite amount of money, obviously. And so what we're doing, though, is we think that we'll have at least six to seven years of full-time work for those people. And in order to recruit for good people, we want to make those full-time permanent positions. We have difficulty, particularly in a good economy, finding good people to do this kind of work when we offer limited-term positions. Okay.
 Great. Other questions for Kia? Anyone else want to speak on this item? Okay. And then it is an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call, please. Fritz? Well, thanks very much to Kia Selle, Mike Abate, Jeff Schaefer, and our entire team at Parks, also Tim Crail and Patty Howard in my office, and to the folks who helped pass the bond measure, and particularly the voters of Portland that are reinvesting in our parks. Hi. Hi.
 Saltzman aye Novick aye Fish aye Hales you know these positions have a benefit beyond managing the good work and that is it builds a capacity in the community that then is around for a while
 And there are a lot of storied names in Portland Parks that have passed through the capital program over the years, names like Zari Santner, who managed the bond program the first time around in our lifetimes. You know, Marianne Kasson did some of that work, even though she was already with the Bureau. And there was this couple that moved to Portland, I think from New York, named Richard Bosch and Janet Bebb.
 who were hired for a couple of these kinds of positions, and they're still in Portland doing great work. So one of the effects of this
 this investment in physical capital as we're also investing in human capital. And those people, whether they're still in the public sector or still in the city or going over to metro or working in the private sector, are going to keep paying dividends to the city because we have really talented, experienced parks capital managers in town ready to do great stuff. So we'll see where this story leads for the folks that are hired for these jobs, but it's going to be more good news, I think. Thank you very much. Proud day for parks. Bye. Bye.
 Okay, 188. Accept $1 million from East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement dedicating 37 acres of the coal wood property as natural area. Nice round number. Roll call. Another piece of good news for parks and thanks especially to Bob Salinger of the East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District and the entire board. Aye. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Seltzman. This is great news and appreciate the East Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District's generous contribution to Colwood Park. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Thank you very much. Aye. Okay. Item 189. Second reading.
 Extend Portland Parks and Recreation smoke and tobacco-free policy to all city parks, natural areas, recreation areas, and any other places where Portland Parks and Recreation park rules apply. Mr. Marrials, I believe Commissioner Novick has a proposed amendment, which I will second for the sake of discussion. Okay. Describe your amendment, Commissioner Novick. Thank you, Commissioner. I'll pass it out. Okay.
 As I mentioned last week, I wanted to explore the possibility of having designated smoking areas in parks. Although I very much appreciate the instinct to get smoking out of the parks. And as a parks goer myself, I would appreciate not having to move around to avoid clouds of smoke.
 I am somewhat concerned about the idea that people might not take their children or dogs to parks if they smoke and there's a complete smoking ban. I also am concerned that there may be instances where banning smoking in the park will result in a cluster of smokers immediately outside the park.
 which the University of Oregon found when they banned smoking on university property. There are a bunch of people at a major entrance to the university all smoking, and people have to walk through that.
 So I mentioned this to Commissioner Fritz and the possibility of maybe having a petition system where people could petition the Parks Bureau to establish non-spoken areas. And she said that that raised a concern with the Parks Bureau that they might be dealing with tons of petitions and lots of public process and they just don't have the capacity for that. What I'm proposing today is that
 Only neighborhood associations could petition for designated smoking areas in the parks within their ambit. So that would limit the instances where there's a request for a smoking area to where people are able to convince their neighborhood association that it's a good idea. Now, one thing I do want to note is Commissioner Fritz pointed out that for many of our parks, there's not really one entrance point.
 where people would all be clustered. But I think there are some examples where there are. For example, I mean, it's not just one, but from Mount Tabor Park, one major entrance point is the steps on 69th. And I used to go there a lot. And I think you'd be better off having a designated smoking area within the park than having all the smokers clustered at the bottom of the steps so anybody going through the steps would have to go through that. So...
 what i'm proposing specifically is um to add to subsection e of pcc 20.12.110 what's currently proposed as an amendment is the director in consultation with the commissioner in charge in a manner consistent with the city's human resource administrative rules may establish designated smoking and tobacco use areas for parks employees for whom there is no reasonably available non-parks property where smoking and tobacco use is allowed
 I would add to that the following. Neighborhood associations may petition the director to establish designated smoking and tobacco use areas at parks located at least partially within the boundary of the neighborhood association. The decision about a neighborhood association petition made by the director in consultation with the commissioner in charge will be final. Okay. Thank you.
 Do we want to take any testimony on the amendment? How would you like to proceed? I believe we're required to. I'd like to first speak against the amendment that I seconded. I'm concerned mostly because we haven't asked the neighborhood associations whether they want that responsibility and authority. As the previous commissioner in charge of neighborhood involvement, I learned very quickly not to do things about neighborhood associations without asking them.
 Secondly, we think in parks that it would require us to then have a process to consider and then we would be back in the same situation where we would have to designate the smoking area, we would have to decide where the smoking area would be, we would have to maybe provide some delineation of where the smoking area would be. So when we were looking back and forward at doing this in a more general way last week, I don't think that this – it would probably reduce the number of –
 requests, but it doesn't get us back to the main issue, which is healthy parks and healthy Portland. What I would like to suggest, Commissioner, in lieu of this, if the majority of the Council doesn't support it, is that we would like to monitor the situation and work with your office
 as we implement the policy starting in July, you know, have frequent discussions, and we're always getting feedback from lots of people on how others use their parks, you know.
 This hopefully won't be as contentious as dogs in park, but if it's anything even half as contentious as dogs in parks, we get multiple emails every week and phone calls so that we would be instantly aware if there's a problem and would work with you and your office on it and maybe return to council with something like this after having discussed it with the neighborhood associations. Can I make a comment as well? Steve, I wasn't here last week. I was in Houston, and so...
 But I appreciate that you've brought this issue forward for discussion. And I thought a little bit about it, and I just want to share with you why I can't support this amendment. I feel very strongly about this issue of tobacco in our parks. I have the misfortune of having lost both my parents to preventable occurrences, one a car accident and the other one cancer.
 And I think that it is reasonable for us to join the state and lots of other jurisdictions in saying we just would prefer you don't smoke in a park. The concern that I have builds on something Commissioner Fritz has mentioned, because I previously had the honor of being commissioner in charge of the Parks Bureau. And that is once you open the door a little bit to something like this, there are some potential unintended consequences. And I'll give you an example.
 We currently don't have a policy that says we give discounts to nonprofits who rent our parks for doing God's work. But we have lots of groups that get a permit to do an event in the parks. And I found that almost invariably they would come to me asking for a discount. And it was very, very difficult to look Governor Atiyah in the eye or any number of distinguished people who said, you know, we're doing something great and we want you to reduce our fees.
 But what we found was that if we started making an exception here and an exception there, it became an expectation. And then what we had done is open the floodgates, and we spent an inordinate amount of time fielding those requests. So we took the position generally that we just didn't give those discounts. And we invited the council to come up with a subsidy if they felt it was strongly enough about it. And I have the same concern here. This is well-intentioned.
 But what this is going to do is create the expectation that there's a kind of a backdoor way of getting around the ban. It's going to impose additional responsibility on the director and the commissioner in charge. And ultimately, you're going to have to come up with a whole system to manage this.
 to avoid people feeling like you're doing this in an arbitrary way or in any way that's not thoughtful. And I would respectfully say, let's hold the line where it is and then come back and see if this is a problem that needs being addressed. I appreciate the sentiment behind it, but I think it does more harm than good.
 Other comments? Steve, do you want to respond? Yes. The neighborhood associations wouldn't have to come forward with these petitions. They would be free to reject any proposal to bring one forward. So this is something that would only come forward if a neighborhood association was convinced it was a good idea in a specific instance.
 And I suspect that those would be, if they happen at all, they might not, in cases where, for example, you have a clustering of smokers immediately outside a park, which people in the neighborhood conclude is a greater problem than having a designated smoking area within the park. So, I mean, I doubt that there would be a horde of petitions that would be limited to 99 because there's 99. Is it 99 or 98? 95. 95, sorry, neighborhood associations. Yes.
 I do very much appreciate Commissioner Fritz's commitment to monitoring the issue, and I hope that that means that if we hear from neighborhoods that there is a problem of smoking clustering, that there might be ways to address, then we might take that issue up again. Thank you, Commissioner. So anyone want to speak on this amendment? Mr. Lightning wishes to. I'll call vote. Come on up. Whoa. Pretty much. Okay.
 Okay, who's on first? My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X1. You stated opening up the door can possibly create problems, which I absolutely agree with you on this, but there's two sides to every story is that, correct me if I'm wrong, the employees of the city parks have a right to smoke in these parks. Is that correct? Okay, you've corrected me on that. The...
 golfers at certain events have a right to smoke in the parks. They buy a permit. Okay, so that is through a permit. One of the issues I have also, again, on this is that being classified as a misdemeanor on this, to where somebody smoking in a park, it can possibly be considered criminal. Okay.
 May I? Yes, absolutely. Because I suspect that that might be the concern of the others who are about to testify. And I was going to address that in testimony in the amendment. It was supposed to be on the amendment. But I was going to say this in my vote anyway. Park rangers don't have the power to issue citations. In order for somebody to get a ticket for smoking in a park, they would have to call a police officer who would have to be available to come, would then issue the ticket, and then the DA would have to prosecute that ticket. The DA, we've never done that.
 So as a practical matter, we have not, unlike dog-off leashes, we have not given the rangers the power to even issue fines. We will be enforcing this through education, and we can do it through parks exclusion, but there's no jail time for a parks exclusion. So you're saying there will be no misdemeanors if you're caught smoking in the park where you could possibly have a judge say,
 30 days to you because you violated this three times in a row. It's possible because like any violation of city code, it's a misdemeanor. Most items of city code, maybe I've got the city attorney nodding here. Most things in code are misdemeanors if you don't do them. But in practice, the parks rangers don't have the ability to issue a ticket.
 The police are far too busy to come on a complaint of smoking in park. And even if they did issue a ticket, the DAs are far too busy to prosecute smoking in a park. Okay, I guess my position on Commissioner Novick, what he's proposing on the amendment, is I absolutely agree with him on what he's proposing, only due to the fact is that I don't smoke cigarettes. I know a lot of people do. It's currently legal at this time.
 And you're imposing something that a lot of people have gone to these parks for many, many years, and they might not do that anymore. They might really get upset about this. Now, you're saying let's wait and see what happens. Well, I know there's going to be a lot of people upset about this. And I would like to have a possibility on an amendment to where the neighborhood associations can join together and maybe submit something and have a designated area, because I thought that's what it should have been done from the beginning.
 And again, where do we stop from just smoking? Do we go after somebody carrying a can of Coke? Do we go after somebody parking their car that has fumes that annoys you and it's too close to you on a sidewalk? Where do we stop going after people on these type of issues? It's legal to drive. It's legal to smoke. It's legal to drink a can of Coke. But you want to impose it through all these parks right now
 and say live healthier i'm going to impose this and you don't even have a right to have a designated area so i disagree with you on that issue thank you thank you who's next just on the amendment please joe my name is uh joe walsh i represent individuals for justice the amendment it seemed to us that allows a way of the neighborhood association to contact the city council and say we want
 to do this event, and we want to apply for a permit for a smoking area, very much like you would have with the golf courses. It's a little bit irritating to us that the golf courses were exempted by setting something up that they could have a permit, but the rest of the park systems, you would make a misdemeanor.
 I really appreciate the argument that all city violations are misdemeanors. However, you put it in there. You use the word misdemeanor. Now, there's an argument that you could get six months to a year in jail under a misdemeanor if the judge is really ticked off at you. That's what we don't want. You have a lot of homeless people in these parks, right?
 You have to figure out a way that you're not going to put them in jail. And if they have warrants on them, they're going to jail. And if you say to me the park rangers do not have the authority, and I agree with you, I don't think they do, have the authority to write citations, that they have to get a police officer to do that, then why put it in there?
 The back of my shirt is accurate. It's very difficult to enforce this unless you hire 10,000 rangers, hanging from trees, watching people chew tobacco or spitting. That's what you're doing. You're enacting something that's totally unenforceable. You can't do it without sending people to jail. Just tell people, don't smoke in apartments.
 That's what you should be doing. You should figure out a way to do a public relations campaign that says it's fair to smoke in parks. And as I said last week, I don't smoke. This is not a big thing for me. You're not going to get me because I don't smoke. But you watch you come out of here tonight.
 And look at the park with the feeding that's going on, and you will see people smoking in the park. And you know who they are? They're homeless. It's the last vice they have. And you're going to take it away from them because the park rangers will use it as an excuse to hassle them. You can't smoke in this park. I'll call a cop on you. I'll put you in jail. Look, we got pictures of you smoking, smoking. God sakes. All right.
 Get real, you know. Get government off our backs, and this is on our backs. And I'm not even a smoker. Did I say that? I'm not even a smoker. You did say that. Go ahead, Charles. Good afternoon, Commissioner. Thank you. As to the amendment, you know, one problem we have is that parks are very different in scope. Right.
 Waterfront Park, the Tomacal Waterfront, is an area that's rented out for a significant amount of monies by major event sponsors. And they can financially accommodate possibly the idea of smoking. It's still a little unclear to me if that's even an option. If a golf course can have a smoking-permitted event and Tomacal Waterfront Park can't. So maybe they can get some clarity on that.
 but also we've had conversations about enforcement here. Earlier, Commissioner Saltzman raised the issue of, why don't we just ticket the idiots who try and hit pedestrians? Why do we have a massive warning sign public relations event? Why don't we just ticket the offenders? In this case, we're saying, don't ticket. But the point is that there are people in this community who have a nicotine addiction and are at risk. Some of them are right across the street and committed
 You all, especially Police Commissioner Mayor Charlie Hales, will have to work really hard to make sure that this doesn't become part of the sweeps. Regardless of what we do with the amendment making part of having a way to have neighborhood associations participating in small areas, there's a great risk that this legislation will be used in an unfair way so that when we see a transient homeless person on a park bench,
 They can be harassed out of the park and then harassed off the sidewalk. And some of these people are harassed to the point where they become part of the suicide statistics or we find them dead on our streets. So I love clean air. It's a little bit annoying to walk through a park and have a smoker in front of me. It's not as big an issue across the street as it is when I'm in Forest Park. There's not great air quality in the park across the street. But whatever time and energy you put into finding an amendment that accommodates smoking with permits...
 I hope that you'll also, as we talked, you know, Amanda raised important points about the fact that the DA is unlikely to prioritize this. The police are unlikely to prioritize this. But it's your job.
 to make sure they don't prioritize it at all. That we just tell people it's a violation, please step out of the park area, but that we don't hound them. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, thank you all. So let's take a roll call vote on the amendment first. Fritz? Commissioner Novick, I greatly appreciate the collaborative way that you brought up this amendment. We've had some discussions over the past week. I just can't do something that,
 requires neighborhood associations to do things without having had their input into it. No. Fish? No. Saltzman? I appreciate your amendment, Commissioner Novick, but I do not intend to support the ban at all. No.
 Novick? Aye. Hales? Be open to maybe making a change like this later on. Let's keep it simple at the outset and then see if we need to modify it. So no. So therefore, because we haven't adopted the amendment, we're free to go ahead and take a roll call vote on the ordinance itself. Fritz? Well, thank you for this really good discussion. And thank you to Parks staff for bringing this forward and indeed the Parks Board who are our citizen volunteers that the concepts initiated with them.
 that we have wildfire issues in our parks. We have other people. In fact, it was pointed out to me after the hearing last week, I was interested that we had a room full of people and only five people testifying. So I went and talked to some of the folks. And one lady said that her son is currently unable to use parks because of smokers that set off his asthma. So we currently have people who are being excluded without meaning to because of the health issues. And so our parks are supposed to be about healthy behavior.
 And I was at OHSU when we went smoke-free first inside and then outside as well. And people adapt. People adapt at Autzen Stadium where for four hours or more you're watching a football game and you don't smoke and you choose to go there because it's fun. And so I would like...
 Portland's parks to follow the hundreds of jurisdictions across the nation where it's very clear that we will be asking people not to smoke in our parks. We will be having a publicity campaign starting before July or right at the beginning of July. It'll be very low cost. I won't be asking for any additional appropriations for anything for this. As Commissioner Saltzman had me promised last week, we will not be asking for more rangers for enforcement. This will be, uh,
 On the basis that once people know what the rules are, the vast majority of us follow them whether we agree with the rules or not. And so that's the spirit with which I offer this, and I really appreciate the support. Hi. Fish? When I was a kid, I remember being taken to a hockey game in New York City at Madison Square Garden. And in those days, you could smoke at public events like that.
 And of course, the seats that we had were the worst seats in the arena. So we were up in the nosebleed section. What I remember, though, about the event was there was a cloud between us and the event, a cloud of smoke. And in those days, it was cigarettes and cigars, and it was widely condoned. And I also remember going home reeking of tobacco because the entire arena smelled.
 My mother and father, my mother, excuse me, my father and my stepmother both smoked a lot, and I was often in a car being driven to school, a captive audience into a car that had a lot of smoke, and that was not my favorite experience. We've come a long way as a country in terms of the issue of smoking, and we've gotten real about the health hazards of smoking. I wish there had been a more robust public education campaign a generation ago, and it might have been.
 It might have allowed my father to live long enough to see his grandchildren, but that's not the case. And we still are in a country where we allow people to market a deadly substance to people using false messages.
 And people do get addicted, and they get addicted to something that kills them. And we should not celebrate that. Today, however, we're dealing with a very common sense adjustment to our law, which is consistent, I understand, with what the state does and what many other cities and states, which is we're saying that you're not allowed to smoke in our parks. And the parks are where families and children and older adults and young people come to congregate.
 And we're saying that if you have to smoke, do it somewhere else. It seems to me to be reasonable and common sense. I note that we already have a prohibition at a number of places, and I spend a lot of time at Director Park and Pioneer Courthouse Square. And my own experience is there are not people congregated on the outside of the park smoking, causing negative impacts on others.
 Instead, we're allowed to use these spaces without having smoke and dangerous smoke. Commissioner Fritz, you have brought this forward after a careful process of involving the Parks Board and a careful evaluation of the legislation. I think it's a common sense thing to do. I understand it's not popular in every quarter, but I think these parks belong to all of us.
 And I do not see it as an unreasonable restriction on personal liberty to require that people not smoke in our parks. I'm pleased to support you today, and I vote aye. Saltzman? Well, as I believe and as I did in my tenure as Parks Commissioner, the Parks Bureau, or Parks and Recreation Bureau, does have sufficient authority right now to ban smoking
 as they have done at Pioneer Courthouse Square, at Director Park, within 25 feet of any playgrounds. These are all actions that were taken when I was at the helm and Commissioner Fish was at the helm. And I believe that that's the proper approach, is to take high-density areas, high-population density areas, and implement bans there or implement bans on special events. But I think with 220 parks and natural areas, all of them outdoors, last time I checked,
 up to some 11,000 acres, that's simply unenforceable. And I believe that we are going to be setting up conflicts between our citizens. And we are, you know, like it or not, whether it's a park ranger, we are giving a pretext for police to hassle somebody for smoking. And we all know what pretext stops can often lead to bad things. We've seen enough of that in our history. I don't think we need to give another pretext here. I think we have a
 you know sufficient number of acres of open space and natural areas that we can you know give people some space to be left alone I think that's what people look for our parks and natural areas is for solitude to be left alone and I think we can do that but we can also ban smoking in the areas where it's going to
 high densities of people. I think that's the right balance to take, and as I said, I think the Parks Bureau has sufficient authority right now to protect public health. Novick? I very much appreciate the Bureau's and the Commissioner's commitment to public health and to dissuading smoking and to protecting park goers from having to wade through clouds of smoke. So I'm very happy to support this proposal. I would just have been slightly happier if my amendment had been adopted. Aye. Hales?
 Well, thank you, Commissioner, for bringing this forward.
 I'll just take a few seconds to tell a story about my father that might lighten the mood. This is an important change, but it's about how we share space and about an evolving understanding of where it's okay to smoke. We think it's normal now that you can't smoke in the workplace anymore, but that once wasn't true, or that you can't smoke in a public building, and that once wasn't true as well. Airplanes. Yeah, airplanes. That was a very painful memory that you brought up there. My father was a...
 an avid non-smoker in the era before it was possible to have a smoke-free workplace. And he had a colleague who was at a drafting table immediately across from him who smoked a pipe. And my dad was enormously irritated by this and physically discomfited by it. And once when his colleague was out of the room, he, my dad, chopped up rubber bands in very small pieces
 and mixed them into his colleagues pipe tobacco thinking it would make you know really unpleasant smoke when he came back. Well as it turns out when you do that with rubber bands I don't recommend this but you can try it if you want they don't just smolder they go off like little sky rockets. So there was a spectacular end to his colleagues smoking. So perhaps what you're doing here is preventing people from taking the law into their own hands in spectacular and maybe even violent ways. So with that maybe we can.
 Smile as we do this because I think it's good public policy, and I appreciate it. Aye. Okay. We have a couple more things to finish up here, and then we will take a break. 191. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Riverview Force Main Replacement Project Number E08866 for an estimated cost of
 $1,900,000. Mayor, this is a second reading, but we'd be happy to give you a full presentation. Do you like a refresher? Let's not. Roll call, please. Fritz? Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your very comprehensive briefing last week. Aye. Fish? Aye. Scheltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ailes? Aye. And item number 192.
 Amend contract with HDR Engineering, Inc. for final design and construction support services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant biogas utilization, project number E10033, for $995,410. Also a second reading. Roll call.
 fritz well thank you commissioner fish for your comprehensive response to the concerns that each of us raised last week and all of my questions were answered it does seem that this is going to be good for the planet good for the right payers and so definitely in the best interest of the city
 Fish. Thank you. And I should also note, Commissioner, that this builds on the good work of my predecessor, Dan Saltzman, who challenged the Bureau to think about ways of becoming more sustainable and using some of the byproducts to reduce our energy costs on site. And I appreciate that you've identified the triple dividend of this particular project, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman.
 I wanted to thank Commissioner Fish and the Bureau of Mineral Services for their detailed answers to questions we had last week. And I'm very – while I'm excited about this idea of using biogas for transportation, and I will support this, I do note that we still are relying on, in our cost-benefit analysis, a $2 million grant, I believe, from the state, and then looking at an $8 million capital cost to actually do the fueling station. So I want to make real sure that we have –
 customers lined up to use that before we take those next steps where we find out whether we get the grant and I know this will come back to council to authorize the construction so while I'm excited I also you know have some trepidation about it but it's a great project to move forward on I know Vic very impressed by this project I hails very innovative all right thank you and now
 Vacate a portion of Southwest Moody Avenue north of Ross Island Bridge, subject to certain conditions and reservations.
 Thank you, colleagues. In 2011, the city was awarded a grant in the amount of $23 million in the U.S. Department of Transportation. The funds were used to relocate and reconstruct Southwest Moody Avenue between Southwest River Parkway and Southwest Gibbs Street. The project elevated the roadway 14 feet above the original grade, created three traffic lanes, dual street car tracks, pedestrian walkways, and a bicycle cycle track, and we shifted the road to the
 And the purpose of this proposal is to vacate a portion of Southwest Moody Avenue north of the Ross Island Bridge. The petition was initiated by ZRZ Realty Company for the purpose of eliminating existing excess right-of-way that existed after the realignment and to incorporate this land into current and future development, long property owned by ZRZ and 3030 Property LLC.
 And I'll turn it over to Lance Lindahl for further elaboration and for questions. All right. Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Once again, an excellent job in explaining the little history behind this case. It's been kicking around for a couple years. Just a couple other items to mention.
 The City Engineer's Report, which was included as a reference, made mention of a street vacation also on the south side of the Ross Island Bridge. And per the request of the petitioner, that was removed from this proposal. That might be coming back forward to you at a later date. The Tiger II grant really radically transformed this area. It left some remnant parcels behind. And we're now hoping to return those to private ownership and put them back on the tax rolls.
 Thank you. Any questions? Any public testimony? No one signed up. And to be honest, I forget, is this an emergency? It's a non-emergency. We'll go to a second reading. Okay. Go to a second reading. We are recessed until 2 o'clock.
 Welcome, everybody, to reconvene the council meeting for today. Would you call the roll, please? Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Hales?
 Welcome, everyone. We have a single item on the council calendar this afternoon. We'll start that in a moment. Just a couple ground rules. If you're here representing an organization, you need to let us know that under our lobbying rules. If you're here representing yourself, you need only give us your name when you testify. We typically try to hold testimony to two minutes per person when it's in a large hearing like this, and we have a lot of people, so try to be...
 brief and to the point just so that we can hear everybody. And speaking of hearing everybody, we certainly don't have any problem with people indicating their support or opposition to their fellow citizen with a thumbs up or a thumbs down or some other gesture like that, but we ask that we not have vocal demonstrations in the council chamber in favor or against our fellow citizens' point of view so that they can express that point of view without feeling intimidated. So that's it in terms of ground rules. Would you please read the item? Thank you.
 Item 194, direct the Office of Management and Finance to amend the city fair wage policy so workers affected by it receive $15 per hour pay. Thank you. So let me make a couple of comments and turn it over to Commissioner Saltzman to do likewise, and other council members may have opening comments as well. This is an opportunity, I think, for us as a city to do what we can with what we have where we are.
 Where we are is a city where the economy is doing really well. Unemployment is down. Job creation is up.
 Average household income is even up. But for a lot of our fellow citizens, that's not the case. And in fact, there's a recent study that I keep citing to people that show that poverty has actually gotten more concentrated in Portland over the last 30 years rather than less. So the national problems of income inequality and of really two economies are,
 We see very much here in Portland as well. The cost of living here in Portland is going up in no small part because of a pretty substantial increase in the cost of housing.
 and that, in fact, a number of studies say that people need to make at least $15 an hour to just be able to keep up with those kinds of costs of living here in Portland. So that's why folks like the National Low Income Housing Coalition and the Alliance for a Just Society have supported this kind of public policy, because they see what's happening to the cost of just getting by.
 So we think that this is a good place for us as a city to make a stand and to make a start. We know that there are a lot of workers who won't be affected by this first step that we're taking as a city. And we know that there are more steps that we want to take, particularly to deal with our seasonal and part-time workers as well.
 But what we can do, we think, with the funds that we have available as a city now is go this far, and that is to pay our own workers and our direct contractors at least $15 an hour and then be ready to move on down that road as our resources allow us to do that. So that's the theory behind my support for this and my co-sponsorship of it with Commissioner Saltzman. I'll turn it over to you, Dan, for your thoughts as well.
 Well, thank you, Mayor, and thank you all for being here today on this very important issue of raising the minimum wage for working people. As we all know, and we will hear more about shortly, $15 an hour is being recognized now as the wage floor for all U.S. workers, and it's where the climb out of a low-wage reality begins.
 Over the past two years, I've listened and participated in many discussions and with citizens and activists regarding living wages and pay equity, and this hearing and accompanying resolution is a step at making sure your voices are being heard and that we are going to be taking some action in our upcoming budget. I've enjoyed working with those at 15Now PDX, and I thank you for your passion and advocacy on this matter.
 And while this resolution before the city council today doesn't raise the minimum wage for all Portlanders, it is a reasonable first step that could be accomplished over the next year. And as the mayor said, within the resources we reasonably have to raise people's wages. I was struck by a testimony of a woman two weeks ago when she was actually in an exchange with Commissioner Fish about building heights. But she said she was talking about her past activism in New York City. And she said, you know, you do what you can do. And that's what we're asking people.
 That's what I'm asking my colleagues here today to do, is do what we can do, and that is to take a good, solid first step towards raising the standard of living and the money in the pocket of many of our hardworking contract employees, security, janitorial, and parking attendants. So specifically, this resolution directs that our Human Resources Department to adjust the implementation of City Code Section 3.99.1,
 otherwise known as the fair wage policy to make certain workers under formal contracts with the city Receive at a minimum fifteen dollars an hour as I said for the most part they work at our city on facilities providing janitorial security services and Parking services it also directs the staff to make certain all full-time employees within the city of Portland make a minimum of fifteen dollars an hour and
 So, Mayor, I'd now like to invite up our one invited panel, a four-person panel, to address council, and then we can open it up to public testimony. So I'd now like to invite up Justin Norton Kirsten of $15 Now PDX. Saw a lot of Justin on the campaign trail last year. Mary King, a retired PSU economist. Sarah Kowalewski, who is with Portland Parks and Recreation. And last but certainly not least, City Hall's own Mark Jeffries.
 Thank you all for being here, and why don't we start with Justin and work our way down. So thank you for the opportunity to make this presentation before the council. I'm Justin, representative of 15Now PDX.
 We want to thank Commissioner Saltzman for calling this hearing, Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Hales for their leadership on this issue. We'd like to thank your recognition that $15 an hour is the bare minimum that a working person here in Portland and in the state of Oregon needs in order to
 not only get by but to thrive and support their family. We also would like to thank Commissioner Fritz for her staunch advocacy for more full-time union jobs with benefits within the Parks Department. It's a laudable goal, and we fully support that goal and look forward to working with Commissioner Fritz and the council to make that happen.
 We support the Mayor's proposal and the resolution before the Council today, but we see it as a work in progress. The fair wage policy was first adopted back in 1998 thanks to a hard-fought campaign by Jobs with Justice. When first adopted, the policy provided a minimum wage of $8 per hour plus an additional $1.50 minimum for benefits to security guards, janitors, parking lot attendants, and other workers at companies that contract with the city.
 Today, the policy's minimum wage is $10.32 per hour, plus an additional $1.98 for benefits. This is not a living wage. Say that again, please. Yes, $1.92 for benefits, 10, sorry, $10.32 for benefits and $1.98, or $10.32 in wage, $1.98 in benefits. Thank you very much. Yeah. Okay. So this is not a living wage. So we applaud the mayor's announcement to move on this and raise the fair wage policy to $15 for contract workers today.
 But we need to ensure that it's $15 in wages, not total compensation. While benefits like health insurance are important, workers cannot pay their rent or buy their groceries with these benefits. So we need to ensure not only that workers have the benefits that they need, but that they have the $15 in wages that they need to get by.
 We also strongly urge the council to include in the revised fair wage policy our proposal for a citizen review committee with representatives from the labor community. This committee will be tasked with ensuring companies who contract with the city comply with the fair wage policy and actually pay their employees $15 per hour. We also support the proposal by Mayor Hales to bring all permanent full-time city workers in Portland up to a $15 minimum wage. And we applaud the mayor for going this step further than just the fair wage policy.
 But while we support raising the minimum wage to 15 for any workers, we also emphatically fight for 15 for all workers. While supporting the mayor's proposal, we have to recognize that it leaves behind some 2,000 of the city's employees who need a raise to 15 the most. So-called casual parks workers.
 These workers already receive less than full-time hours and don't have any benefits. If anyone needs $15 now, it's them. Multnomah County has taken the lead by implementing a $15 minimum wage for all county employees, and we need our city council here in Portland to be real leaders on this issue and dedicate itself to implementing $15 for all city workers.
 We call on the council to form a contingent worker task force, not just to assess the appropriate level of compensation for these casual workers, but to create and implement a concrete plan for creating more full-time jobs that would be covered under the currently proposed $15 minimum wage for city workers, to redefine casual to be more accurate and limited in its use, and to raise the minimum wage for all city workers to $15, regardless of their classification or the number of hours that they work.
 For too long, the city has relied on this so-called casual contingent workforce, particularly within the Parks Department. Without having to pay decent wages, full-time hours, or benefits, the city leaves thousands of its employees behind and living in poverty. No one who works should live in poverty, and our tax dollars should not be used to pay poverty wages.
 All the other departments in the city have benefited from this unethical over-reliance on a low-wage contingent workforce within the Parks Department. Commissioner Fritz has been working hard to try and end that by creating more full-time jobs. We have been working hard to try and raise wages. It's time that the City Council and the City finally work together to make both happen. Thank you. Thank you. Please, folks. Hands, hands.
 Welcome. Thank you. Mayor Hales, city commissioners, I'm Mary King. I'm a labor economist and professor emerita at Portland State Economics Department. And I very much appreciate the opportunity to address you today on an extremely important topic, city wage policy. As you know, nationally, our minimum wage policy is a disgrace.
 The federal minimum wage hit its peak value in 1968 at $1.60 an hour. That's the equivalent of nearly $11 an hour now. In Oregon, we feel pretty good to have a minimum wage of $9.25, but that's only 85% of what the federal minimum was 50 years ago, adjusted for inflation. Thank you.
 Low-wage Americans earned considerably more in 1968, even though our GDP per capita was just over half of today's, again adjusted for inflation. So as a nation, we're nearly twice as wealthy per person as we were 50 years ago, but our federal minimum wage is much less as a direct result of national policy.
 And our nation is worse off for it. We suffer more inequality, more poverty, more homelessness, more despair. And locally, we have the ability to do something about it. The city of Portland plays a critical role in our economy as an employer, as a steward of our tax dollars, as a public expression of our values, and as a model for sustainable economic policies.
 We can set a much-needed floor to hold up wages and living standards for families in the community. One of the terrible outcomes of low pay is child homelessness. The Oregon Department of Education recently reported that more than 10% of the students in the Reynolds District lack a permanent home. And that's the case for more than 1,200 students in the Portland Public School District.
 You may have seen the recent PSU study by Sheila Martin and Elizabeth Moorhead titled, Where Ends Don't Meet in 2014, Measuring Poverty and Self-Sufficiency Among Oregon's Families. The report shows that $15 an hour is not quite sufficient to keep a parent and two kids in Multnomah County from having to rely on public subsidies, even if both kids are in school and the family has no child care expenses.
 One adult, a teenager, and another school-aged child need at least $16.50 an hour full-time, year-round, to live independently. So $15 an hour is by no means extravagant for the positions covered by Portland's fair wage policy or really for any city worker. What's more, there's a cold-blooded economic case for employers to pay higher wages than they have to.
 There's a payoff to employers who pay relatively higher wages, or the term economists use is who pay efficiency wages. Employers gain from employee loyalty and willingness to work harder and be more productive, as well as from lower turnover with its reduced recruiting, hiring, and training costs. All of us in the community benefit from higher wages at the bottom. It's not an accident that the higher wage states and nations are the most prosperous.
 Higher wages at the bottom give kids the security they need to succeed and join the mainstream. Local businesses prosper when families have enough to keep up with their rent and other expenses. People who earn less than $15 an hour have to spend nearly every penny they make, and that money is spent locally.
 For all these reasons, I strongly support the City of Portland in this initiative to amend our fair wage policy to set a new wage floor of 15 an hour, and I very much look forward to our ability to extend that to all Portland workers. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners, and members of the public whom I serve. My name is Sarah Kowalewski.
 I moved to Portland about five years ago out of love for its green spaces and awards-winning park system. I now feel lucky enough to work for Portland Parks and Rec at Multnomah Arts Center, where I have worked for the last five years. At Multnomah Arts Center, I found a niche coordinating arts workshops. I also book our community's important life events, weddings, anniversaries, birthdays.
 I approve scholarships and make spending decisions for my center. I am also one of the so-called seasonal or casual employees. I ration my 1,200 hours year-round, and like many others, I am living in poverty. I am counted on by my supervisors, one of whom is here today. But what I did not count on in my years of service is that I would struggle to feed myself. I currently depend on food stamps, and I have sought the help of food pantries more than a couple times.
 My student loans are also in deferment. I come to you today because what I see is a budget problem with a human cost. The cost is that there are two types of rec workers system-wide doing the same job, coordinating programs, approving scholarships, and making staffing decisions. One type of rec worker is hour-capped, low-wage, and a casual employee. The other type of rec worker is full-time with a fair wage and generous benefits.
 I fall into the first category, and my case is hardly the worst. I agree with your desire, Commissioner Fritz, to reward workers who have shown commitment and service with full-time jobs. However, we can't run rec or contract services with full-time positions alone. What we could and should do is convert casual jobs to permanent, stable positions with a living wage. A minimum of 15 or higher for all workers, whether full-time or part-time.
 I suggest this as I aspire for the best, most functional rec system, a place where I can continue to serve my community, a place where our programs and the employees behind them can flourish. I support 15Now and its call for 15 for contract workers, city workers, and ideally all workers. To paraphrase State Senator Chip Shields, who supports 15, we are asking for 15 because we want a chance and not charity.
 Thank you very much. Mark, welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Mark Jeffries, and I'm a janitor here at Portland City Hall and a member of the Service Employees International Union Local 49. I've been working here for close to three and a half years and for PHC Northwest for over 12 years. I'm proud of the work my coworker and I do, and we appreciate the support and recognition we receive from the people here.
 This afternoon I want to voice my support for a $15 an hour minimum wage increase for the city workers and contractors. I know of janitors with large families who struggle to make ends meet. We janitors work physically demanding jobs and should be compensated accordingly. With the extra income, my wife and I can choose to put more money towards retirement.
 A $15 an hour wage would help with maintenance and unexpected repair costs, such as the recent work performed on our car that cost us over $2,000. Extra income could also be used to help offset our contributions to our daughter's community college education. My daughter is employed and rents an apartment, and my wife has an office job in the private sector, and our combined income allows us to get by all right.
 we would have had strong financial challenges without the city's commitment to using a union contractor and our union standing up for working families. So along with my coworkers, union members, and city employees, I look forward to this beneficial wage increase. Thank you for listening to me on this important issue. Thank you. Thank you all for being here. Colleagues, I'd just like to bring to your attention again what Sarah Kozlowski said.
 She would not be covered by this policy. And when she met with me, along with other 15 now supporters in my office, I asked, wouldn't she prefer to have a full-time job with benefits? And she said, well, of course, but this is the first step. And I want us all to remember Ms. Kowalski, who is on food stamps. She is our city employee. And we need to make sure that we do right by our city employees, as well as by everybody else that we employ. So thank you all for your testimony. It's really helpful. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Frisch. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Let's take public questions. I have questions. Sure, go ahead. Amendments probably ought to come up soon, too. Yes. So the ordinance title is to receive $15 per hour pay. Is it the sponsor's intent that the pay would be $15 and then benefits on top of that? I think that's the correct answer, yes. Okay.
 okay and do we have an estimate for how much that would cost i think we do um who do we have here from the budget office i think it's uh someone coming up there's andrew come on up andrew yeah do we have any representatives from omf omf not yet here okay
 I'm going to have questions for you too, Ms. Cameron. Thank you. OMF did the costing. That's the only reason why I would invite them up. So I'm Andrew Scott, City Budget Director. And again, the costing was done by OMF. But the estimate right now for the policy as written is between $1 million and $1.1 million. The bulk of that is for the contract employees and then a smaller amount for the city workers. It's less than $50,000 for the city workers, right? Yeah.
 The estimate for just the pay alone for the city workers who are currently on payroll is about $47,000.
 We do have a number of positions that are vacant that haven't been filled yet. So that cost could actually go up as we fill those positions. And then the other piece of it that's very difficult to estimate is whether there will be any increased costs due to compression in some of those classifications. So just base wise of the people who are in that right now, in that we have on payroll, it is about $47,000.
 Right. So it's about a million for the contracted workers, about less than 100,000 for the city workers. And I just want to explain what you just said for those who might be watching at home about compression. So we try very hard in the city to pay fair wages for equal work. And so if
 somebody is currently at $12 an hour and somebody else is at $14 an hour, with this policy, do we pay both $15 an hour or do we pay the second one $17 an hour? That's a question I have for the sponsor as to whether that's factored into the policy
 $1.1 million estimate? It's factored into the overall estimate of the cost for current city employees because, again, if the positions were filled, there was kind of a ballpark of anywhere between $60,000 to $90,000, $100,000, but it was very much a ballpark. It's factored in for the city, but not for the contracts? We don't know as far as compression in the contracts? No.
 That, I, what Bryant would have to answer that question, I don't know for the contracts that the city has, but we did in the estimate from the budget office of going up to $100,000 for city employees only. That does include a guesstimate on compression. Okay. And before I leave budget, remind us all, Andrew, how much do we have in ongoing funding in the upcoming budget discussion? The current forecast is $4.6 million ongoing.
 And that forecast will be updated in April when we have new business license and inflation numbers. Okay. Thank you. Hello. I'm Brian Edge. Turn your microphone. Yeah. Brian Edge with the Office of Management and Finance. And Commissioner Fritz, at this time we have not included the estimate in terms of the compression. We believe that the contract
 will have to be negotiated with the union, and so we have not anticipated it in terms of what the compression cost would be.
 So at this point, we're looking at a minimum of $1.1 million? Correct. Thank you. Then, Ms. Canwit, in the resolution as written, there's an item that asks you to set a work plan to develop for assessing seasonal work and the appropriate level of compensation. When do you think you might be able to start such a task force? I'm sorry. I failed to introduce myself the first time around. Anna Canwit, I'm the director of the Bureau of Human Resources.
 We could put together the task force to put together a work plan within the next few months. The concern I had, and this was a discussion I had with Commissioner Saltzman's office, in terms of actually implementing that plan and doing the assessment the plan envisions, I don't currently have the staff to do that because we have another major project
 compensation project that we're working on. The plan, you know, we would start on relatively soon and have to counsel for review. But implementation of that plan, to be really honest about it, I don't think we could really start that for a year or so.
 Thank you. Does anybody else have any questions for this panel? I have one on this issue. And then I'll have some amendments. Thank you. So you've cost out what this resolution would cost the city, and we've got a range. My understanding is...
 We have contracts with third parties that require them to maintain a floor under our fair wage policy. So to what extent does this action trigger an obligation of some third party to also raise wages that provides a benefit to employees that we're not paying for directly? Yeah.
 Commissioner Fish, we have just learned that there is an obligation pursuant to an agreement between the city and Clean and Safe, and so we're going to do some additional analysis in terms of what it may mean in terms of both the city. Could you just, for the record, describe what Clean and Safe is? Clean and Safe is the group of workers that we see in the downtown area that are responsible for keeping our downtown sidewalks clean.
 So in addition to stadium attendance, parking attendance, parking garage, security patrol, there's now a fourth category of people who may benefit from this action, and that's clean and safe workers. That's correct. And what's the nature of our relationship with clean and safe? It's a third-party contract. So basically my understanding is that these contracts –
 with clean and safe, the subcontractors to clean and safe are obligated to, are required to follow the city's fair wage policy. Both the contractor and the subcontractor? The subcontractor. Are any of those positions represented? Again, I'm not sure. I have to look into that, Commissioner Fish. Okay. And under your current understanding of those agreements, is that an obligation of
 Us, them, or some combination? Additional research needs to be done in order for me to answer that question, Commissioner Fish. So the good news is this action may end up lifting essentially more boats than we have quantified to date. The question mark is who pays for what? That's correct. And are we, in the resolution before us, are we binding ourselves in any way to the outcome of that discussion? No.
 Does the language of this resolution compel us to resolve that one way or another? I'm not sure. I think the resolution is to set the clear signal to everybody who's listening and to everybody who works for the city that this is the direction we want to go. There's going to have to be details fleshed out between now and when we adopt a budget on July 1st. Yeah, I mean, the resolution directs policy. It doesn't automatically amend contracts.
 So I guess since what we're trying to do is fully quantify the scope of beneficiaries and the costs and not have any confusion about who is responsible for those costs, I understand what we're doing is setting the framework, but when do you think you could report back to council on the question of clean and safe so we know what the legal issues are and what council options are? Commissioner Fish, I would believe we can do the analysis in the next couple of weeks. Okay.
 And is that the only other category that we know of that's not currently identified in this resolution where there could be a direct or indirect impact of the 15? As of today. Commissioner, so as of today. Aren't there two? I think there's clean and safe and Portland Mall management, both of which are assessment districts administered by a third party.
 that might or might not be subject to our fair wage policy. Correct. And so that's a piece we're going to have to do with some additional analysis. I just want to be clear. We're identifying categories of employees that may benefit from this action, but we're not, by this action, you're not asking us to resolve the question of how those wage increases are funded.
 So what I'm going to be doing next is to... But today. You're not asking us today to decide that question. You're going to come back to us and report who are these other employees that may benefit from an increase, a bump in our fair wage policy, and then pursuant to those agreements, who pays for that? Correct. Based on the agreement. Okay. Good. Mayor, I have some amendments to introduce. Okay.
 First, to delete the paragraph that starts, whereas the Portland City Council recognizes the unique nature of seasonal employees and directs OMF and the Bureau of Human Resources to develop a project work plan. I'd like to delete that because I can't wait for 18 months before getting working on this.
 So instead, I'd volunteer to lead that work and substitute, be it further resolved that the council directs the parks commissioner to create a task force with members appointed by the mayor and each commissioner to assess seasonal, recreational, and apprenticeship work with the appropriate compensation. The task force shall complete its work so that council can consider appropriate compensation in the 2016 to 2017 budget process.
 That's my first amendment. Okay, you want to take these separately? I'm going to take them separately, yeah. Okay, so you're moving that amendment. I'll second that. Thank you. Further discussion about that amendment? I have some questions. Let's put them all on the table. Okay, let's put them all on the table. Then we can take action on them.
 The second one is to clarify that the proposal on the table today, as I've understood it from talking with the mayor, is for full-time workers in both the city and in our formal contracts. So to add to that.
 to clarify that in the now therefore be it resolved the first one Portland City Council directs the Office of Management and Finance to amend the City of Portland's fair wage policy so and then insert full-time employees performing work under formal service contracts entered into to the city receive $15 per hour all right you're moving that I'll second that thank you um third uh
 is to specify that this additional money that the taxpayers will be paying for the purpose of paying our good contract employees $15 an hour is to get to the employees
 intact and that we will not be paying additional overhead. When we renegotiate the contracts with G4S and other community partners that are providing that are employers for these folks, that there will not be any additional work for G4S and others. So all of the money goes directly to the workers and we should not be paying any more additional overhead.
 So the third amendment is to add, be it further resolved that additional compensation will not result in additional overhead charges by the contractor with existing contracts. Second? Okay.
 And then the final one, no, it's not the final one, it's the second, it's the final one that you have written down, then I have another one. We just found out about this, the wording of this resolution last week, and so I apologize that we haven't had all of these out for public review before now. It's again to specify that we're talking about City of Portland workers in full-time budgeted positions. So be it further resolved that BHR will make certain all City of Portland employees in full-time budgeted positions that are in the classified service will be a minimum paid at $15 per hour.
 Second to that. Okay. So they're all on the table for discussion? Yes. So where would you like to start? Anna looks like she wants to offer some guidance first and I have some questions of the sponsor. Thank you, Commissioner. Just one comment on the full-time designation for the city employees. Okay.
 For the hourly wage for the employees in budgeted positions, which is our regular employees in the classified service, their wage rate doesn't depend on whether they're working full-time or part-time. Those wage rates are set either through a nonrepresented pay range or through the pay set in collective bargaining agreements. And so whether somebody works part-time or full-time, their hourly wage would be the same.
 So the full-time designation doesn't work very well for the regular city employees. Are there any regular city employees that work part-time in budgeted positions that make less than $15 an hour? I don't know that. Probably not, but that's pretty much a guess. We haven't gone to look at the individual employee schedules yet.
 But we do have part-time employees in regular budgeted positions, and they make the same hourly wage. Of course, their annual salary is less because they're not working full-time. But given the questions that have already been raised, and I'm sure there will be others coming up in testimony, perhaps we won't be voting on this resolution today. We might be able to put that off. But I, as I say, was—
 making these amendments without the benefit of being able to talk with you. The intent, Commissioner Fish, is that we're fair to all of our part-time employees. And I prefer the term part-time rather than seasonal or casual because, as Sarah mentioned, many of our employees...
 employees working around and they're not casual or seasoned at all. They just are only allowed to work 1,200 hours. So we need to find, that's why I've been using the term part-time. One of the
 Wearing the hat I used to wear doing labor and employment law, one of the questions I would have is, is the language we're using in this consistent with how we use it in all of our personnel matters so that we all are clear what we're talking about? Perhaps we can flesh that out. I have a question to the sponsor about the First Amendment issue.
 Not the First Amendment. Your first... That First Amendment. This First Amendment. I have the right to speak, sir. Your First Amendment. And that has to do with, be it further resolved. And I have two comments. The way this is structured is that the Parks Commissioner would be responsible for doing this task force and reporting to the council. And so let me pose two considerations. The first is...
 You have eloquently made the case that this is a citywide concern. This is not just a parks concern. And, in fact, I think sometimes this debate points out the limitations of a commission-style form of government. I mean, we should all be concerned about this issue, not just the person charged today with being commissioner in charge. So to say that it's your responsibility to do it strikes me as somewhat inconsistent with the way we treat citywide issues when they normally come up. That's number one.
 And number two, the last time I checked the charter, the mayor decides who's the parks commissioner. And so while you are the parks commissioner today, there's no guarantee you'll be the parks commissioner tomorrow. So in light of that, do you think in a perfect world it's better to have this function and this responsibility? And I support the amendment, the thrust of the amendment. But do you think it strengthens or weakens your hand
 or our pan to have it placed in OMF or BHR and viewed citywide or delegated to a single commissioner who will serve at the pleasure of the mayor. Thank you for the question. We could substitute Commissioner Fritz for the Parks Commissioner if you'd prefer to.
 Frankly, we're in the middle of implementing a bond measure, so it would be difficult. Anyway, that's a separate issue. I volunteered because I am committed to getting this done. The vast majority of the workers are in parks. There's 2,000 or more part-time workers in parks.
 works. And I've demonstrated both with the task force on sick time and the task force that we just did on demolitions that I can get a public process done and get to a result in a short timeframe, which is what we have between now and the next budget cycle. So I know I'm committing to it because I know I can get it done. So yeah, refresh my memory and help to clarify the effect of this. Are there
 I'm not sure what you meant by apprenticeship work, so I want to tease that one out in particular, but are there seasonal and or recreational and or apprenticeship, right? It don't have to be all three. You don't have to be seasonal and recreational and an apprentice. Yes. You meant any of those things. Right. Do we have seasonal employees in other bureaus? I think we do in maintenance, right? We do. Obviously, Commissioner Novick, as the amendment says, each commissioner would appoint a
 people to be on this task force. So if you have bureaus that Okay, so you've volunteered to lead it, but you want people from other bureaus. Oh, absolutely. It's essential. Okay. And then apprenticeship obviously is running across multiple bureaus.
 Yes, and that's a recognition that some of our city jobs and indeed some jobs in our community really are starter jobs. They are learning jobs. They are truly seasonal aquatics instructors in parks who in their college summers may come back three or four years because they love working for parks. Mm-hmm.
 but they're not supporting a family and they're not intending to make a career out of being a summer parks aquatics instructor. And it's important for us to continue to have some jobs that are truly starter jobs and that people who want a full-time job to raise a family are,
 are not going to want to hone in on those jobs. So that was, and this was actually suggested by Felice Hagan of SEIU, that to use that term apprenticeship, that that's what we should, we in parks look upon many of our programs as starter jobs, we're the greatest employer of youth in our city.
 and we have a lot of programs within parks that are really not intended to be $15 an hour jobs. Right, right. But then the task force would look at which are appropriate for that and which actually are more like part-time employees, which are more like seasonal employees. So is it because this potentially raises collective bargaining issues?
 legal issues and classification issues. And we are, after all, doing a class comp. We've been pressing to do the pay equity piece. So there's a lot of pieces. I wanna make sure, I have great confidence in Commissioner Fritz's ability to lead this effort because I've seen her lead the other two task force to success. What I wanna make sure we avoid, however, is reinforcing a siloed look at this so that we're not looking at it system-wide. And it seems to me for this to work,
 It would have to be a commitment from legal, HR, and our labor team to be task force participants so that we're looking out for all the citywide issues. And also we need the independent budget office since the premise of this work is a recommendation that comes to council that we can fund. And so we have to figure out how we fund it.
 I applaud Commissioner Fritz for taking this on on top of everything else she's got. I want to make sure that the, because I believe this is a citywide concern, that we structure it in such a way that you get the citywide staffing and support you need.
 if, in fact, it's going to be housed in your office. Thank you, Commissioner. I know Anna Kamet has something to add. Anna looks like she might have a reaction. No, I mean, obviously we're very happy to participate in this. It's a matter of a workload issue if we're taking the lead on it.
 And I agree with you, you know, HR and city attorneys, et cetera, obviously would be involved in this. Just one comment, and it may be to just forestall some other things people may say.
 For the city, we have some apprenticeship programs, but they are fully approved through some of our unions. So that's a unique term that we use for what I would consider sort of a genuine apprenticeship program for some of our trades.
 The other thing I think as you alluded to, Commissioner Fritz, we do have some other training programs, for example, the program in the Fire Bureau, which is also intended to bring in people who are economically disadvantaged that can't afford
 to get the EMS certificates they need to become a firefighter. And it's intentionally a training program that is a lower wage rate but leads to be a regular firefighter. So we have some programs like that that I think are similar to the ones you've mentioned where they're intentionally a different kind of program where we're looking to create programs
 career pathways, but entry-level positions for people, you know, really coming out of high school that don't need a college degree or even a community college degree to do some of these jobs. Andrew, can I add one other consideration? Because it looks like we're heading in the right direction here, but I want to make sure that the –
 the process is set up to succeed. So when the mayor was elected, he set up some specific task forces to look at issues. Commissioner Novick and I looked at span of control. Now...
 When those were launched, we had a lot of other people around the table helping us, including we had a full-time staff person from your office guiding the process. We had input from HR, legal, because the issues were complicated. And we also had a budget, which allowed us to get consulting services, because there were some technical issues. So I want to make sure that if Commissioner Fritz is involved.
 taking the lead on something that's a citywide effort, that she has the resources, both staff and budget, to get the job done and that it's not be seen as just another thing that her office takes on, because I think that would be unfair. Thank you. Yeah, I certainly agree with that. And obviously the folks that report to me through OMF need to be made available to this process, and I'll make sure that folks like Anna, who have a very direct stake in HR policy, need to be involved. Okay.
 Do any of you have any concerns about the language of the amendments that we have in front of us? In other words, do we have the right words on the page for the policy intention that Commissioner Fritz has articulated here? I have a change of ear. Returning to the question of full-time, do we mean in the fourth item, do we mean to include the words full-time? Well, perhaps we could.
 i i don't i hope we're not going to vote on this today because there's a lot of so we ought to at least adopt the amendments with an understanding we might do more wordsmithing later but i want to make sure for the moment for the sake of the community discussion that we're about to start here that we at least know what we're proposing i heard the concern about yeah i think we understand that we're at least i think we should vote on the amendments to put them on the table because i'd like to be really clear that we are talking about full-time positions both in the contracts and in the city
 Is that all right with you to have it stated that way for now? Yeah, I think that's fine. I think we can address the wage rate issue. We've been using terms interchangeably, full-time, budgeted positions, and we tend to use them the same, even though technically you can have, again, a part-time person in what's considered a full-time budgeted position. I see. So I think generally we mean the same thing, and –
 would have time to make sure that the wording is more accurate. Anna, Commissioner Fritz has trained me to look, scrub the details in these things. So if we are going to make the language changes in the Second and Fourth Amendment, which inserts the full-time, do they have a fiscal impact? Well, I can't speak to the contracting. It would not. That shouldn't have a fiscal impact. It should not have a fiscal impact when we're talking about city employees, but
 Because, again, the wage rate should be uniform regardless of someone's work schedule. It's really driven by the position that they're in, not their work schedule. And as a practical matter, the way we costed it, we costed it assuming that people in these positions are working full time. We don't know whether they are or not, but the costing takes that into effect. So we haven't under-costed that. Okay.
 Commissioner Fritz, since we don't have the benefit of a public involvement sheet on these, is it your sense that the insertion of full-time in those two paragraphs has a fiscal impact? Yes, I think it probably would reduce the fiscal impact. Reduce it? Yes. By restricting it to full-time? Yes. Okay.
 Okay. Okay. So any further discussion? Actually, Mr. Mayor, I did want to put on the table informally or formally sort of an alternative task force amendment that was suggested by Laborers 43 that sort of gets at the same issues. And it may sort of address Commissioner Fish's issue. I just wanted to mention the language that they suggested. Okay.
 which is, be it further resolved, the Council will create the Contingent Worker Task Force to review and analyze the definition of casual and other types of appointments written in H.R.A.R. 3.03 with an eye towards equity and fairness by September 1, 2015. The Task Force will make recommendations at a Council work session to clarify the definition of casual workers and limit the use of the casual category of employment.
 It's my understanding now that laborers would be okay with the slightly different timeline that Commissioner Fritz suggested, but they still would like to have language like this about taking a look at the definition of casual. My sense is that's encompassed by what we have in front of us here and that this also this timeline is a little more realistic, I think.
 So, my feeling is this accomplishes that purpose. I'm not sure what a contingent worker is. I know what a part-time worker is.
 I think that part of their goal was to take a look at the definition of casual with an eye towards possibly changing it. That's the intent of my resolution. The task force would definitely do that. Okay. I think we have the legislative history. Colleagues, since we have four amendments, Mayor, I would propose we just adopt them as a package. Yeah, I'm comfortable with that. I don't personally have any reason to pull them apart because I support all four. So anybody have any difference with that?
 So we'll take that as a single motion to adopt the amendments in front of us, and therefore we'll conduct a public hearing on the ordinance as amended. So a roll call on that, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Commissioner Fish, I have to note that I just checked the Vegas odds, and Commissioner Fritz is a 1 to 40,000 favorite to be parts commissioner tomorrow. Aye. Okay.
 I think I can improve those odds. You'll report . Hi. And, Mayor, just one final comment. With these amendments, we've clarified that we're talking about essentially full-time positions. There is still the major problem raised by Sarah and others about our
 part-time workers, our seasonal workers, casual workers. So I'm going to be proposing an amendment to the budget that Parks submitted. I wasn't aware that there was a willingness on the mayor's part to look at increased compensation to our city workers. And so the way the budget direction came to Parks and to other bureaus, if we wanted to
 elsewhere in our own budgets. And the Parks Budget Advisory Committee decided that we had a couple of those that we just have to do, but that by and large, we were not going to propose new ongoing money. Now that we're done with complying with your instructions on that, I'm going to be adding, sorry, Andrew is shuddering. I'm going to be adding a proposal to
 raise the seasonal maintenance workers who are covered by Laborers 483 to get $15 per hour starting in their second year of employment. And that will be a request that will be considered during the budget along with all of our other requests. But I wanted to announce that because I, for one, am not thinking if we adopt this that we're done with the whole discussion. We already have some requests in the park budget to change 489's
 seasonal rangers to full-time rangers, and we have a request to change some of the maintenance workers to full-time workers,
 In addition to that, I think until we can right-size the workforce in parks and other bureaus that rely on temporary workers to actually do full-time work, I believe we need to make a down payment on that. But I do believe that that should be part of the weighing and balancing in the budget process rather than an amendment that I'm going to put on the table today. Good. And please obviously get that prepared.
 proposal to me soon. And Andrew and I and his team are going to be spending way too much time together over the next several months, way too much time together from their standpoint. But I think what I'm trying to do in the mayor's proposed budget this year is capture what I believe is council intent to, again, start with this.
 then start making steady progress and we don't have to wait for next year to start making progress so we'll see how much progress we can make this year against the larger agenda of of fair compensation for all employees and addressing the really gnarly issues that are involved in parks because parks bureau is a strange animal from that standpoint and that most of the rest of our workforce are full-time employees in roughly 40-hour shifts
 Parks is all over the map because of the nature of the work. So you've got, you know, you have to pick that apart. That's why it's appropriate for you to lead this work on the council's behalf. It affects other bureaus, but it doesn't affect any other bureau as much as it affects parks. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, are we squared away? So we'll be calling on each of you obviously a lot. There's some answers We probably need more quickly than others like the impact on those two Contracts for clean and safe and PMMI before we take final action on the resolution Okay now with that let's take public testimony. We have 32 people signed up. Okay Did you want to take people with children disabilities first, okay, I
 if we have anybody who has a special needs to come up or needs to leave early due to children or okay i have a lot of special needs good afternoon good afternoon welcome my name is russell anderson i represent okay she's gonna give you a special mic there you go yeah
 I represent BSHC, which is Bakers Continent Holdings Corporation, and I'm a public representative for the company in the near future. And I would like to put our name down for support for 15 and beyond. We're looking at maybe $30 an hour in the near future for the bigger companies.
 We just want to put our name down as support for 15. Because me, myself, and everybody in here needs 15 just to make ends meet. We're all struggling. The handicapped are struggling. And I'm here to say that we're out there. You just need to come to us and say, we support you. Go for your $15 an hour job.
 And don't step in our way because we're going to run right over you. Thank you. You're very welcome. Thanks very much. Thanks. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Very quickly, I would just like to congratulate all of you for tackling this. It's complicated. You have a lot to think about. And I congratulate all of you for trying this.
 And that's basically what we ask of you to try. And if you succeed, we will cheer you. If you fail, we will cheer you for trying. And you're trying, and $15 an hour is not the maximum people should be paid. It's the compromise. The maximum is about $22 an hour, a legitimate wage.
 $15 an hour is a compromise. So think of it in those terms, and don't try to make the sausage over and over and over again. Just say we want the sausage, and work from there. That's what you were doing a little while ago. You were getting into so much nitty-gritty that I got nervous that you would not be able to do this.
 And don't lose the opportunity to send a message to all the other cities around the country that Portland pays its citizens well. And we pay them a living wage. That's something to be really proud of. So I congratulate you again. We'll fight again tomorrow. But today, I congratulate you and thank you. Thank you, Joe. Thanks for that. Very nice. Thank you. Okay. Next. Next, folks.
 So we'll take four at a time. The next people are Dana Cartinson, Scott Gibson, Eric Dash, and John Talbot. And they'll be followed by Linda Sponer, Father Jack Mostrucker, Joe Rastattler, and Icarus Jacoby Smith. Good afternoon and welcome. Who first? Thank you.
 Who's first? Go ahead. Good afternoon. My name is Dana Carstensen, and I'm a union representative of Labor's Local 483. Approximately 1,800 workers of the City of Portland earn less than $15 an hour and wouldn't benefit from a resolution that only applies to full-time budgeted positions.
 This is after your resolutions, of course. Instead, these workers are casual, quote, unquote, workers limited to 1,200 hours per year without benefits, and they are defined by the city's HR as positions that occur, terminate, and recur periodically or regularly. Okay.
 At 7.5 months of the year, these employees can work 40 hours a week without benefits or the security of a stable employment. At 12 months of the year, it's about 23 hours a week without benefits or stability. Local 483 believes that the mayor's commitment to a living wage of $15 an hour with full-time employees is admirable, but to truly be a living wage resolution, it must impact all workers.
 These workers are the hearts and faces of the city of Portland. They're in all the communities, and they're part of the communities. Even though these 1,800 are primarily employed by the Bureau of Parks and Rec, it's the responsibility of all to tackle this issue. Today, we and the commissioners have an opportunity to do the right thing.
 In addition to the Mayor's proposal of $15 an hour for full-time budget city workers, it should create a contingent workers' task force beginning July 1, 2015, of the new budget cycle to recommend a process for converting casual positions to permanent positions and a commitment to true net neutrality during a democratic or commitment to true neutrality
 during Democratic Union organizing, which includes no costly obstructionist activities from all departments, including HR and legal. 483 suggests these following things for the task force. Review and analyze the definition of casual and other types of appointments written by HRAR 3.03 and
 And by September 2015, make recommendations to the definitions that ensure casual workers is truly casual. Using the city audit for numbers, hours, and lengths of service and casual workers, make recommendations to limit the use of casual category of employment. But November 2015, recommend a timeline and process for converting full-time casual positions to permanent budget employment. By November 2015, recommend a timeline and process for...
 for converting part-time casual positions to permanent budget employment. Finally, ensure equitable and fair standards for truly casual and temporary workers. In closing, these workers and public servants deserve better, and we have an opportunity to create a better future for not only them, but ourselves and our communities, both of whom benefit greatly
 from the hard work and dedication from these workers. They deserve a fair shot. And I would also like to say 483 is in support of those amendments. So congrats. Great. Thank you very much. Thanks. Who's next? PowerPoint slides there. I'm going to be showing a short video. My name is Scott Gibson. I work for Laborers Local 483, which clearly represents parks and recreation workers. So hopefully I'll be starting this in just a second.
 Hey, Jenny, what are you doing here? Is this your day off? Yeah, from this and the other job. It's great to see you outside of Mount Scott. You guys at Portland Parks and Rec rock. We've got 15 centers and a crazy amount of programs. Rec serves more people than you think. I've been taking piano lessons with the same teacher since I was six. I've been taking piano lessons with the same teacher since I was six.
 I'm learning jazz and blues now. It's awesome. I rent basketball courts with my buddies at Mount Scott during the winter. It's awesome to play and not have to freeze our butts off outside. I dance at East Portland Community Center every Saturday, and my toddler learned how to swim there. We love it. This is so much fun. It's got to be great to work in rec.
 Kind of. It really depends on who you are. I'm supposed to have a college degree, work multiple short shifts, develop curricula, and commit to the entire school year. I mean, really? $12 an hour with no benefits for those kind of qualifications?
 I get paid by the city but need food stamps from the state to feed my family. I love my work. I wish it weren't making me poor. I'm classified as a seasonal worker, though I've been working at the front desk nearly full-time hours for 12 years. None of our customers would ever think that I'm seasonal. I've seen a lot of them grow up.
 Hold on, seasonal workers? There are over a thousand so-called seasonal employees on payroll at the rec centers. Some of them truly work a season. A lot of them work year-round. These seasonals teach courses, plan events and set up rentals, do marketing and graphic design. Some of them oversee entire programs. Get out! There are at least some full-time people working there, right? Sure, there are about a hundred coordinators, but they have the workload of at least two times as many people.
 So seasonal folks without benefits or job security are running these programs. Nobody, not the part or full-timers, are happy with this. It's just not fair. I'm shocked. What can I do to help? When the community backs up the rec workers, then we have a fair shot. Whoa, did you hear that, baby? Yeah!
 Wouldn't it be great if Parks and Rec worked together like a team too? Visit our campaign page on the Laborers Local 483 website where you'll find more ways to support us. Thank you. That was made by one of our members. Thank you. Well done. Welcome. Hi. My name is Eric Dash. I'm a...
 permanent and full-time what you're calling a permanent and full-time employee this is my 28th year working for portland parks and recreation in fact as a permanent full-time employee and there were seven years before that um and um and as such i've i've met a lot of the other employees for parks over the years and uh in trainings and at other centers and in meetings and so on and as well as my own center which is multnomah art center where i work now um in fact where i've been working the whole time um
 And I work cooperatively with this so-called, what I've been hearing, Bandit, about the seasonal and casual employees. And neither word could be further from the truth with these people. They don't take their jobs casually at all. They take their jobs just as seriously as I take my job. And as far as seasonal goes, there's been people who've worked there for decades. There's nothing seasonal about them at all. And...
 Most of them work year-round. In fact, pretty much all of them work year-round, and they've done it for many years. They are people who support their families, pay their expenses, make their way through their lives, just like the rest of us full-timers do.
 This is their primary or their only source of income, just like the full-timers, permanent ones. And they're vital, completely vital for the success of our programs. It shouldn't be thought in any way that they're extra or lesser at all. They work at least as hard as those of us who work more behind their scenes. They're on the front lines. They're serving the citizens of Portly directly every day.
 And more than anyone else, they are the face of Portland Parks and Recreation. Those with whom I work, they serve with dedication, hard work, and enthusiasm all the time. In addition, as you just heard in this video...
 many of them are given particular responsibilities. These are people who do payroll. They handle the promotion of our programs. They hire teachers. They build programs. They even do training of the other workers, including training some of the full-time permanent workers. They're extremely crucial, and it would be a big mistake to underestimate how crucial they are. And I think it would also be a big mistake to somehow separate them
 I can't see any reason for separating them from this $15 an hour proposal. They're workers just like the rest of us with somehow different names, this seasonal name. And they deserve no less respect than the permanent workers. They already have virtually no benefits compared to the permanent workers. Their hours are restricted. They will make noticeably less per hour even if they come to make that minimum of $15 an hour.
 It's already, in my opinion, a shame and an embarrassment for the city of Portland to have them on payroll the way they are. I think most of us here are proud to live in a city like Portland. And I believe we should take away this blot. And it's a big injustice. And it is in your power to change that and to make it right.
 It may be, in some sense, a little bit innovative, but not much anymore. This sort of thing is sweeping the country, and innovative is not something that's ever scared us before here. It also is smart and the financially responsible thing to do. I spent over 15 of my years at Multnomah Arts Center in charge of hiring our office staff, and I can tell you to attract and keep the best, and the best is what the people, the citizens of Portland want to have serving them,
 It's important to be able to offer a reasonable pay, and we haven't been able to do that. It's been very difficult. $8 an hour is not reasonable. $11 an hour is not reasonable. And it's a travesty that some of our hard workers, working just as hard as everyone else, the so-called permanent workers, still must be on food stamps. I've gotten to know the work of all of you slightly through my years of service to the city and as a citizen.
 And I know you to be people of courage and conscience who are in the position you are primarily because you care about people and you care about our city. You are not people who easily shy away from doing the right thing, especially if it is coincidentally the morally right thing as well. So please take that step here. Please don't put it off.
 I know that we can't always do everything immediately, but there's no reason to separate this group of workers out from the so-called permanent full-time workers.
 Please let your basic sense of fairness and decency lead you, and please be sure the minimum pay applies to permanent and seasonal workers alike. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. You're welcome. Hello. My name is Evan Pullman. I am going to read a statement from John Talbott. John Talbott is a member of Ask Me Local 8-8, which I'm a representative of. He unfortunately had to return to work.
 My name is John Talbot, and I'm a proud member of Ask Me Local 88, and even prouder member of Ask Me Local 88-1, representing workers at Central City Concern. I applaud you, Mayor Hills, in opening the discussion for a living wage of $15 an hour to be offered to city workers and employees of certain contractors.
 Recently, the members of AFSCME Local 3135 at Home Forward signed off on a wage on November 1st, 2014, and then members of AFSCME Local 8 settled a contract with the county for a more livable wage at $15 an hour. Now it's your turn, Mr. Mayor and City Council Members, to show the same consideration to AFSCME members and Local 189 and to all other city workers. I look to city leadership as a guide to what is needed of me as a productive member of the community.
 much as my employer will look to this move as a way of following suit. As you okay the wage for city workers, I ask that you not forget us at Local 88.1. As I'm sure you're aware, Central City Concern is a wraparound agency that provides many services that save the city both money and reputation 24-7. Central City Concern Management is a great employer that offers all that they can for my sisters and brothers. They depend upon donations, grants, and funding to balance the need of their clients and workers.
 I know the central city would like nothing better than to follow the lead of the city when you okay the $15 an hour wage. I also know that this cannot be a reality unless funding to the company is increased. The city needs to look further down the road of the $15 an hour wage by expanding the coverage of their wage policy to other groups that receive substantial funding from the city and county. Without the city providing additional funding to nonprofits like Central City,
 The wage is only a drink for 165 taxpaying and voting sisters and brothers of Local 88-1. The only way CCC can provide a living wage without a reduction in services is for this to happen. I hear the member has to decide between diapers or dinner, and she wants the wage. I have heard the member that tells me of providing food boxes for clients while wondering when they would be getting theirs and wants the wage.
 I hear the member that while making enough for health insurance for themselves, is unable to provide it for a family member and wants the wage to protect themselves, both them and their family. City workers, contracted employees for workers and nonprofits that get funding from the city are all doing the same work of the city and supporting the people.
 however we can. We are fighting poverty, addiction, mental illness, homelessness, shoulder to shoulder with you. I ask that you help in assuring all of our my sisters and brothers will not have to live in poverty today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much. One thing I forgot was to thank you. Thank you all. The next four are Linda Sponer, Father Jack Mossbrooker, Joe Rastatter, and Icarus Jacoby-Smith.
 And they will be followed by Anne McDonald, Tim Norgren, Nick Caleb, and Chris Ferlazzo. Welcome. Who would like to be first? I'll go. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners, for listening. My name is Icarus Smith. I work as a facilities maintenance tech and class instructor at Mount Scott Community Center for the city's Bureau of Parks and Recreation, which I'm told is one of the best park systems in the U.S.,
 I love working for Parks. It gives me the opportunity to serve my community in a variety of different ways, and working in a positive and health-conscious environment has helped me improve my own life immensely. Unfortunately, working in this position also comes with a great many difficulties. My hourly wage is only $10 an hour and will top out at $11. I am allowed to work only 1,200 hours in the year, and I receive no benefits. No health insurance, not a single day of paid vacation leave, not even a discounted bus pass.
 However, some of the responsibilities required of me are not what I'd consider entry-level responsibilities. I've had to do everything from creating class curriculums to event promotion, teen mentoring and drug counseling, to more dangerous jobs like picking up dirty needles and dealing with potentially dangerous park visitors. All of these duties are required of all parks employees, regardless of classification and pay grade, in order to maintain a safe and functioning community space.
 Many of our jobs are designed so that we are expected to be at the center five days a week. Even though we are only working 1,200 hours in a year, it feels like a full-time position because of the frequency in which we are required to be there.
 Some part-time employees will simply work 40 hours a week until their 1,200 annually allotted hours run out and then go on unemployment for the remainder of the year at the cost of the taxpayers, not to mention the cost of their coworkers who find themselves scrambling to cover shifts because some of the workforce suddenly disappears sometime around mid-October. This practice is commonplace and has even been recommended by some supervisors as a viable way to maintain an income for the duration of the year.
 This is the situation a lot of us so-called casual parks employees find ourselves in. We love our jobs and want to continue to help make Portland Parks one of the best park systems in the U.S., but we find ourselves increasingly floundering, financially speaking. I'd like to think that our patrons, Portland citizens that utilize and appreciate our parks and facilities, want to know that their city is taking care of their employees, that it is paying them a living wage. In fact, I think that a lot of people would be surprised if they knew exactly how impoverished some of us actually are.
 Part-time workers are an integral part of parks, and I think it's time our wages reflect that. Raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour would, if nothing else, allow for us low-wage workers to live with dignity and work with pride. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Smith, what do you do for health insurance? I am on Medicaid. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the work that you do. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Harrelson, Commissioner.
 my name is Linda Spohr and I have been a security officer at the Portland building for five years and I am also proud member of SEIU Local 49. I am literally here today because you and my union SEIU Local 49 I am currently undergoing chemotherapy before security officers organized SEIU Local 49 two years ago all my ages wages would go to cover medical expenses
 As minimum wage workers, security officers are accustomed to not expect any wage increases, let alone the dream of affordable health care coverage. Without the city's commitment to using union contractor and without the mayor and commissioner supporting security officers during our first union contract bargaining, and without my union, I would not have been able to afford the cost of my health care, and I would not be alive today.
 As the union security officer, after taxes, I currently take home $15.60 a month. My utilities, including gas, water, electricity, cable, phone, garbage service, cost me about $5.70 a month. Each month I pay $109 for car insurance, $150 for my medicine, and we pay $1,100 for rent. I want to point out that my husband and I only pay $1,100 for rent because my daughter is our landlord.
 Market value rent for my home could easily be upwards of $1,700 a month. After paying all my bills, I have a mere $439 left for food and other activities. I was renting a house. If I was renting a house at Portland's expensive rental prices, I would not have anything to eat.
 So, as you can see, I am very excited by the Mayor and the Commissioner's proposal. The extra income would mean I could afford to give gifts to my grandchild and I might be able to afford to pay my daughter a full rental price. The City has proven that time and time again they will step up for working class in our community. From passing mandatory sick days to standing with security officers as we organized our union to improve standards, I have no doubt that this initiative will also pass.
 I would like to thank the mayor for leading on this issue, the commissioners for supporting the raise, and everyone else who have worked on this initiative. I appreciate you having me here and letting me share my stories. This raise is going to make an immediate, real, and meaningful impact on my family, my coworkers, and myself. Thank you. Thank you. Hope you're doing well. I'm doing well. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Joe Rastadter. I'm a member of St. Francis of Assisi Church. I'm a member of Unite Here Local 8. I'm a co-chair of the Jobs of Justice Faith Labor Committee. And this Sunday, I'm scheduled to sell beer at the Timbers game, and it will be my 49th year working by commission at Civic Stadium. I'm not doing very well these days. I've lost my smile. I've turned again to practicing my faith. Father Jack, please pray for me.
 And according to Catholic social teaching, before I speak to you, what I'm required to do is to ask what I'm going to say. Is it kind? Is it true? Is it necessary? Well, the kind and true is to let you know I believe in you and your desire to be useful and just. If our sense of justice is for government to not keep adding to the abundance of the 1%, but rather to lift up and protect those who have little, it is necessary to say we have a long way to go.
 Yes, I support the 15 now plan, but I fear it will be too gradual and not inclusive enough. The private-public partnership at Civic Stadium started 15 years ago, and it has a fair wage ordinance, but it became unfair a year later when the concessionaire workers, or the majority by the way, who worked there were separated from the deal, and when the temp workers were brought in.
 There's an incredible provision in it that allows the operator to pay minimum wage while this fair wage part is subsidized by the city.
 Any customer of Moda or Providence Health System, and my family was one, who had a necessary procedure denied or delayed must be outraged to know that millions of dollars from these companies go directly into the pockets of the billionaire families of Allen and Paulson for naming rights. These billionaires pay Walmart wages as they operate their sports facilities on our city property.
 So I say we have a long way to go. We have a long way to go in dealing with climate devastation and in creating living wage green jobs. We have a long way to go in dealing with housing and real estate development. With our growing population, you know that's where the money is, and that's where justice needs to be. Enough for now. Thank you. Thank you. Father, welcome.
 Thank you. My name is Jack Mossbrook. Push the little button on the base of that. There you go. My name is Jack Mossbrook. I'm a priest of the Archdiocese of Portland and also a member of the Gilesville Justice Faith Labor Committee. And I've lived in Portland most of my life. Back when I haven't been here, it's still been my home. And over those some 70 years, I've seen many changes in this city. Some of them very, very good.
 One of the changes that I applaud is that Portland's been called a livable community. But I think too often we have thought of it as a livable community by pointing to bike paths and green spaces and accessibility and certain things like that. And that's true, but it's also difficult, a difficult city, a difficult city for those who struggle with economic insecurity.
 I don't, the stories that I've heard from so many people are stories about economic difficulty that they experience. Simply put, they don't have enough money. That's the bottom line. They don't have enough money not only for food, they don't have enough money for housing, for paying perhaps their college debt, let alone enough money for the opportunity for a future. A future that says you can have a family,
 You can maybe have a home. That's tragic. People come to the job market, and what do they have? They have the talents and skills of their hands and their head. That's all they have. And if they can't make enough money out of those talents and skills that they have, if they aren't adequately compensated for them, that's a way of society simply rejecting them as persons.
 That's the only, that's the bottom line. That's the only way I can say it. And often, if they're at a poverty level, they are being devalued as useful members of society, which, as I say, is an indignity for them as persons. For these people, Portland is not livable if they're constantly on the economic edge. Portland's not livable if they have to work two to three jobs to survive economically and can't even enjoy the other livable things.
 Portland's not livable if there's no economic future and so the foundation of Portland is really That community the community of people the people are Portland the people who are create stable Secure families who are who are here and building something there that they are creating that livable Portland and your opportunity is
 is to enable that to move forward, to enable them to have a more livable future, a more livable city, so that they can have some kind of security and move on. And so I think that opportunity is in your hands today. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good to see you. Thanks. Thank you all. The next four are Anne McDonald, Tim Norgren, Nick Caleb, and Chris Ferlazzo.
 And they will be followed by Toby Green, Seamus Cook, Robbie Shaw, and Maddie Mimi Ellison. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. Thank you. Thank you for having this hearing today. My name is Anne McDonald. I am a member of Laborers Local 483, and I work at the Oregon Zoo. Thank you.
 I was going to come here and speak to you as a low-wage worker, but after seven years at the Oregon Zoo, I've found a new position in the horticulture department, which I absolutely love.
 I was making less than $15 an hour, and now I'm making more than $15 an hour. And the difference there is incredible. I feel it immediately. I haven't even gotten my first paycheck yet, but when I –
 wake up and get out of bed at 5 o'clock in the morning for my 6 o'clock shift. I know that I'm exhausted, but I'm going to be able to pay rent this month. I don't have to – I'm not worried about paying rent this month. I can't tell you what that feels like. I know I'm going to have enough left over for bills and then groceries afterwards after this paycheck, which is unusual for me.
 When I get my next paycheck, I'm going to get my first new pair of shoes in over a year. I'm going to go to a local salon and get my first haircut in over a year. I'm going to take my dog to the vet. These are simple day-to-day things that anyone who's making a living wage takes for granted, but most of us really struggle with. Okay.
 I'm going to be able to put some aside for savings. I'm going to pay off my credit card pretty soon, and I'm going to be able to visit my family. It's really great. And I'm working full-time now. It's still a temporary position. I could be at my other position at the zoo. Either one pays $12, the other pays $13. This one is over $19. And...
 So once my hours run out, I'm not scared because I'll have enough to put aside for savings. Just really quickly, when I'm so excited and I see my peers at the zoo and I tell them how great it is, I feel really guilty because I know how hard they work. I've been there with them in the trenches. Food people, we have janitors at the zoo, security guards.
 And I know how hard they work, and they deserve it too. They're temporary, they're hours capped, they're seasonal, all of this terminology that kind of holds people down. And I know that they deserve better. And so even though I've gotten my step up a little bit, I want to see the people around me who I know are working hard, who've earned it too, to actually be seeing that and enjoying those benefits as well.
 Thank you. So let me get this straight. You said that you still are limited to the number of hours you can work a year? Yes, I'm still classified as temporary. So it's really great to hear your joy in earning more than $15 an hour, and still Metro needs to step up too and do the same lock at the so-called seasonals at the zoo, because you shouldn't have to worry about...
 saving on $19 an hour for those months where your hours have run out. Thank you very much for coming today. Absolutely. Thank you. And I know Metro sees you as leaders because our union was able to bargain, earn sick days, thanks to the work that you've done. And it made them look bad. But the city can do it. Metro can do it too.
 And that's good that you got that. Of course, we're now lobbying at the state level for earned sick leave for everybody, which then would be a right. Because you're employed by Metro, they weren't governed by the local law, even though you work in the city of Portland. So hopefully that will be another benefit. So it's something else you won't have to worry about. We're good trendsetters. Thank you. Thanks very much. Yes, please, welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Chris Ferlazzo. I'm the Acting Director of Portland Jobs with Justice. As you heard Justin describe earlier, we've been working on these issues, but this issue in particular for a long time. We were instrumental in getting your predecessors to pass this ordinance.
 And I guess I'm a little sad that it hasn't kept up. That was certainly not the intention, but I applaud the efforts. Thank you for taking this up today. And I'm, I guess, mostly glad to hear you all saying that this is just a start, because I very much agree that
 Workers need more than $15 an hour. They need health care. They need decent schedules. They need the right to form a union. They need a lot of things to be able to get by. And so I'm glad that you all see this as a first start. And I also am glad to hear a lot of talk about
 expanding this to cover the seasonal or part-time at the parks, but I especially want to lift up the, I think they're called grantees at Central City Concern and TPI. It sounds like those folks will not be covered by this, and I don't think that's any of your intentions. We...
 We're excited about this national movement to raise wages to 15 now, and glad to see Portland leading. So thanks again. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Nick Caleb, thanks for having this hearing today, especially Commissioner Saltzman and Charlie Hales for making this happen. It's a really important issue to get to start talking about this. And also, thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for advocating so much for park employees. I know that they really appreciate it. And making these two issues come together, paying people the right wages and having full-time jobs is very important, so we want to support that. Also, thanks for laying the groundwork so well at the beginning of this hearing, because Portland is really in crisis right now, especially for young people. Yeah.
 I'm 31. I work two part-time jobs right now. One of them is an adjunct professor. I'm also an attorney. I can barely afford to live in the city and I'm now going on my second year without health care. And it's, I'm lucky actually in the wages that I make here. People are suffering greatly. And part of the reason is what you laid at the beginning. The housing market is going insane right now.
 The city is partially responsible for that as well. We've been drawing people to this community for a long time on this sort of Portland is weird brand. It's an affordable, livable community. And because we've been so successful at that, we've drawn so many people in that it's not an affordable community for people anymore. So there's a responsibility at City Hall that we have to start addressing affordable housing issues as well.
 Of course, the state makes our job a little bit difficult with preempting us on minimum wage issues, rent control, if that was even an option to be used, and also inclusionary zoning. But that doesn't mean that we don't have policy options. Actually, around the country, there's quite a few really innovative attempts at city councils making policy to address these sorts of things.
 Jackson, Mississippi was a community to look at very closely, and also Richmond, California. I've been looking at some really impressive things to do. So please be aware that this is a crisis. People feel it really, really hard and deep, and we need you to act very strongly on policy to protect people that are really vulnerable in this community. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks. Welcome.
 Hi, my name's Tim Norgren. I work with Delaborers 320, although I don't represent them per se here. I hear they're backing this up in spirit anyway. I'm here on my own volition because I believe that raising the minimum wage and skipping that benefit cliff is a wise idea basically. I think about minimum wage workplaces. I think of that photo that went viral at the Walmart table where they were collecting donations so that Walmart associates could have a good Thanksgiving because they couldn't afford
 Similar note, I worked in the Dalles at a minimum wage warehouse as a temporary worker when the economy went down. I was laid off for a while. And there was people stealing food out of other people's lunch boxes even though we were getting full. It was Christmas time. We got overtime and the whole bit. There's still people stealing food and I noticed my boss wasn't as upset when I
 about the stealing is she was when I came and made this kind of announcement that, hey everybody, you can get food stamps if you're working 40 hours a week at minimum wage, you're eligible for food stamps, sign up for them. She hushed that up, she didn't like it, she was embarrassed, I mean she really seemed embarrassed, it was kind of a dirty little secret and it really is a dirty little secret because companies don't like to admit this, that they're being subsidized because it just shouldn't happen.
 The thing is, companies aren't people. They're not embarrassed. They're institutions, and they don't really have to have any integrity. They just have to have their bottom line covered. So it's kind of up to the institutions to impose that integrity on them. One good way to do that is going to be to raise the minimum wage not just here, but all around. I think this is a great first step.
 With the city contracts, the opportunity here is to show integrity as an employer and also to, you know, obviously you're going to improve the lives of the employees here. We're going to cut down dependence on social assistance. And we're going to provide an example for the corporations out there that aren't covering this. So a lot of times we give tax breaks to wealthy so we can win the business so we can even have bad jobs like Walmart. You know, we'll take the jobs we need them. We can't.
 accept these high-risk projects like the export facilities that, you know, they kill people, they jeopardize the economies down the gorge where I live, they further the globalization and the outsourcing that comes with that. Just so we can get some tax income, we can get a short-term fix on, we need the money. $15 standard would set a precedent that would allow us to move from desperate decisions like those.
 to sustaining ourselves from the bottom up. I think that we're doing a great thing if we take the first step on that, and I hope that we'll continue to move forward with it into the community. I'd like to see the whole community do kind of what CTAC did, take it on to the corporations and so forth. It takes a lot, yeah. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Next four are Toby Green, Seamus Cook, Robbie Shaw, and Maddie Mimi Ellison.
 And they'll be followed by Matt Marino, Jerry Moore, Mark Vorpaul, and Lori King. Afternoon and welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Toby Green, and I am a member of LIUNA 4A3 and a public employee organizer for the Northwest Regional Organizing Council. But today I speak for myself as a lifelong Portlander.
 I am speaking to the proposed raising of the minimum wage for contract workers and the creation of a contingent worker task force. To understand why I'm speaking in support of these two proposals, it must be understood how I view the Fight for 15 movement as a portlander.
 The fight for 15 has raised the fundamental question that the two pieces speak to. The question is, should people who work live in poverty? As we have heard in testimony today, it is quite clear the actual cost of people living in this poverty. In Portland over the last 20 years, the private sector has seen a high influx of young, educated workers migrate to Portland.
 They come from all over the United States. Peoria, Illinois, Houston, Texas, Tampa Bay, Florida. They come here with a hope and a dream of a new life. Quickly, they become submerged in low-paying jobs until the time comes for them to either pack up and go home, or they can accept their life here struggling to get by. Parks, as has been said, has greatly benefited from many workers working in these type of positions, specifically in Iraq.
 And for many years, this has been a known known, but it's been accepted norm. So it is with great pride that I champion support what I perceive as Commissioner Fritz's call to action in parks. To hear a City and Commissioner of Parks speak candidly of this issue and making sure that it isn't swept under the rug is refreshing and frankly it's above reproach.
 In parks, we see a chronic, long-standing problem of underfunding. My analogy about parks is that it's a $150 million bureau providing $300 million of service. It's time that we rethink parks. Instead of thinking of it as just places to go, things to do, we should think of it as the first level of public safety. Right now, as we have spoken, how many domestic disputes have been stopped?
 So I champion this council and the work that's going on, but let us look for new funding solutions. This has been an underfunded bureau for too long. And again, I support a contingent worker task force. Thank you. Thank you. Afternoon. Hey, my name is Seamus Cook. I'm a 15L volunteer. I'm also a social worker. I work for Child Welfare in East County. And as such, I've seen the effects of poverty on families and children, and it's devastating.
 But today we have a unique opportunity, Council does, to actually put the weight behind the movement for 15. And I think that is a great first step and hopefully not the last step Council takes towards this movement. But I really want to talk about the budget and the question is can the city afford to pay all of its workers seasonal, part-time, whatever, 15 an hour? And the answer is yes, but how? Mr. Novick showed us how.
 His office commissioned a poll that said the majority of people in Portland support taxing the wealthy. So there you go. You have a mandate. So with this mandate, we ask you to be creative and bold, innovative on how you tax the wealthy so we can fund services and pay fair wages. And lastly, I think about, I fantasize about how powerful it would be to have council go to Salem and support the statewide measure for a $15 minimum wage.
 And if you were public champions, it would make a huge impression on the movement, and we would thank you forever. Thank you. Thank you.
 i just want to address that without new revenue we do not have the money so it would be a little hypocritical office to go to salem to ask the state to do something that we actually couldn't do if they told us to do it tomorrow so i think i appreciate the sentiment and that we do need to look at revenue sources as well we already tax as much as we can under the property tax system and so there's
 You know, we've just had a fairly well-publicized discussion of how to pay for roads and didn't quite come up with an end point as yet as to how to go ahead and do that. So I appreciate the mayor leading on this. We all need to recognize that there's a set amount of money. We're not allowed to go into debt. We have to plan for the next five years. By being creative and raising revenue. That's what I'm asking you to do today. Well, that's my point is we can't just do that. You can be creative and put forth ideas. I hope the city would appreciate you doing that.
 Thank you. Thanks. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Robbie Shaw. I'm 35 years old. I'm currently an out-of-work seasonal maintenance worker. I've been with the city for seven years. I'm also a member of Laborers 483. I support the — I'm sorry. That's okay.
 I apologize. I don't usually speak in front of people. I work in a garden, actually. I work in the dirt. I work with plants. If you have any rose questions, I'm the one to ask. Not at this table, none of this. And I'm really speaking today because there's a lot of people that are seasonal maintenance workers, and they would be afraid to speak in a venue like this. They would be afraid to lose their jobs, or they would be afraid of repercussions and
 Though I'm afraid of those things too, I can deal through it a little bit better. I would like to see seasonal maintenance workers receive a livable wage to help them make it through the winter months, through their off-season, to give them peace of mind for expenses through the year and for self-respect that they're doing the best work they can and being better compensated for it.
 Um, I usually, uh, try to save up as much money as I can, um, for when I do get laid off and then I kind of float through those months. Um, it's, uh, it's a little difficult sometimes, but, um, I know that a lot of people are on unemployment and they have families to, um.
 to provide for and it's just it's difficult for them to to give up certain things so that's all i got i'm sorry thank you guys for listening so robbie thank you and thank you also for briefing me matt in my office and colleagues i will say that mr shaw was very eloquent in my office it is terrifying to be in front of folks like this thank you i feel that way too
 So thank you. You've got support in the back there. Could you just tell my colleagues, you said you work in the Rose Garden. That's our 100-year-old Rose Garden next year. You worked there for seven years. Yes. And what are the terms of your employment? You don't make $15 an hour. I make $14.18. After seven years. And you're only allowed to work 1,200 hours. Is that right? I believe it was moved to $14.00.
 100 hours. 1,400, right. And you don't get any benefits either, right? No, we do get benefits. I think it's after 28 hours of work per month, there's a cap. I would have to look at that again. But we do have medical benefits, vision and dental. And that's because you're members of Local 483? Yes. Yes, thank you for reminding me of that.
 You know, you said something else that I just want to – you obviously are courageous and willing to come speak, and we appreciate that. But one thing I'm always reassuring folks that work in the city to do, and I want to do it again on this moment just because you raised the issue, and that is you have five people here who want to hear from our workforce, and no one will ever be punished for speaking out.
 in this city i mean that's not the way we roll here whether it's at the council level or in our bureaus and i think we just have to every now and then just say that right out loud and frankly if you think it's um it's sometimes difficult to get people in the parks bureau to open up try getting police officers to do that
 But I even tell them that, because even though we've got a chain of command, it's always okay for the people that work in this organization to talk to those of us who are responsible for leading it. So if I can express that message here for the five of us, I hope you can express it when you have a chance to talk to your colleagues.
 and the Parks Bureau this summer and this spring and say, hey, you know, we got the message that it's always okay either through your union or as an individual to talk to the folks in charge about policy and budgets, and never should anyone feel intimidated. It may be hard to speak in public, but you should never be worried about repercussions. Mayor, can I just add one comment to that? I have the utility bureaus, and we're leading a search right now for a new director.
 So we invited a group of employees to come in and help us define what we were looking for, what the qualities we were looking for, how the job description should be structured. And I noticed about halfway through the exercise that a lot of the comments people were making could be construed as being critical of existing leadership or past leadership. And I...
 Then I realized that that was the magic of that gathering, that people felt confident and comfortable to say what they thought was missing. And if they thought what was missing was leadership at the commission level, they had the right to say that if they thought they were something else. But we specifically structured this so that employees of the Bureau had a say in the selection of a new leader. And I want to echo what the mayor has said, if possible.
 If anyone believes that because they've exercised their right to speak and comment on things before council that there's been retaliation, that should be brought directly to a commissioner or a mayor or to someone else, and that has no place in our city. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, council. I'm Maddie Mimi Ellison, a white middle-class trans woman and daughter of Quaker teacher parents. I'm a white middle-class trans woman and daughter of Quaker teacher parents.
 I started working at the Oregon Zoo four years ago. And when I got there, it was a rude awakening to realize just how the bubble of economic security that my teacher parents with union jobs had, just how out of reach that was for so many of my coworkers.
 And that definitely harm, poverty wages harm the ability of workers to perform as well as they'd like to. When a single mom has to jump through hoops of red tape to get rent assistance, that makes it hard.
 When I was working at the zoo and I first heard about the fight for 15, I was despairing and told one of my co-workers, it seems too good to be true. And he said, you know, we just have to sell one more hamburger per hour per employee and we'd make up the cost of that raise. Yes.
 15 could change the lives of a lot of workers a lot, and it wouldn't change your budget as much as you think. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. The next four are Matt Marino, Jerry Moore, Mark Borpal, and Lori King, and they'll be followed by Jamie Partridge, Melissa Volano, Alex Anderson, and Rob Wheaton. Thank you.
 Welcome. My name is Matt. I work as a canvasser in Portland. I've been a low-wage worker since I began working full-time a decade ago. In the mayor's State of the City speech, he called paying workers $15 an hour the right thing to do. But the mayor's plan leaves out many more workers than it will help. What's right for some workers is right for the Parks Department. Taxpayer dollars should not fund poverty wages. Thank you.
 Charlie Hales has attempted to take a whole heap of credit for doing next to nothing. If this is a cynical ploy to garner labor support for a re-election bid, then I'm here to say that activists in this community are not fooled. No working Oregonian should live in poverty. A city as affluent as Portland can find the means to provide a living wage for its workers if workers are given proper consideration.
 It is shameful that such an institution would exploit the same people it claims to represent. Today, we rally behind the banner for 15 and demand justice. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. My name is Jerry Moore. I'm a member of Socialist Alternative, and I'm a facility custodian here in Portland at a well-known nonprofit. I make, after two years there, $13.26 an hour.
 And I work 32 hours a week, plus Sunday mornings at a church where I make $10.50 an hour. So altogether, I'm cashing paychecks totaling around $1,400 or so every month. After rent and bills, I have about $100 a week to cover gas, food, and everything else. This is what a lot of us call making a living. This is doing a lot better than some of the city workers we've heard testimony from already.
 When we're underpaid for the kind of jobs that nobody else seems to want to do, when we're kept scheduled below certain numbers of hours to make a budget look better, we rightly feel chiseled. It's time to set an example and stop chiseling workers with low pay and schedules nobody can afford to live here on. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Hi. My name is Mark Vorpahl. I'm a proud member of SCIU Local 49, and I work over at Emanuel Legacy Hospital, where many of my co-workers are making under 15 and living in poverty. And if you know the work that these people do and you know the impact that it has on the community, I mean, these are people who are on the front lines of making sure our patients are safe, that rooms are clean, that things are sanitized. You don't want somebody doing this kind of...
 physically exhausting and mentally very stressful work, and they're living in poverty. That's just not right. Now, I want to thank the mayor and commissioners for putting forward this proposal for lifting the wage up to 15 for some of the city employees. And while it's not going to directly, immediately affect my coworkers, I think it's important
 Well, first of all, it really demonstrates that there has been a real grassroots effort, an ever-winding unity to start reversing what we're experiencing as part of a low-wage economy and start pushing it up to $15. And that's going to help my coworkers and that's going to help me as well.
 You know, and just some other things. I'm also very glad to hear that you're talking about, I don't know exactly how you're planning to do it, but addressing the issue of the casual workers and the parks and recreation, because it just wouldn't be right if they didn't get a raise, too. You know, they deserve it. They've been doing the work. They do the same work. They ought to get it. I'm glad that you're taking that seriously. Thank you.
 And I guess, you know, finally, you know, you've put some wind in the sails in terms of building a statewide $15 minimum wage movement. And I think that is the most important thing. I mean, it's wonderful what this is going to do in terms of improving people's lives, but we need this statewide. And that is great. And as we address more and more of these issues, I think that, you know, the thing to keep in mind is that,
 What we do is not just simply a question of, you know, a fixed budget or something. It's a question of what are political priorities. You know, who do we value? Do we value the health of our working class communities, you know, or are we going to put money elsewhere? I think hopefully this is demonstrating a swing in the right direction. That is supporting the people who actually do the labor to make this a livable city. Thank you. Malcolm. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Laurie King and I'm with Portland Jobs with Justice. It's good to be here today and I want to, I'm very happy that you're in the middle of a process that will raise wages for contracted workers in the City of Portland. I strongly support the position of 15 now articulated by Justin and articulated by many today.
 For Jobs with Justice, it's so encouraging to see that a nationwide movement is growing for a $15 minimum wage. This is only a beginning because $15 an hour isn't really that much of a wage, and it doesn't address health care, stable scheduling, involuntary part-time work.
 union rights, but it's a significant increase and it has grabbed the attention of low-wage workers, many people, and it has given hope to many that we can resist the economy's uber-race to the bottom.
 In the last 40 years, we've been living in a time, and I've lived through it, we've been living in a time where the power of the corporate elites has grown rapidly. And we're seeing new generations of workers, especially young people of color, just not able to make it, not able to afford to have a family, to have health care, to go to school, even to just get by.
 This is something, of course, not caused by the Portland City Council. It's a big trends happening. And knowing you, you're upset and saddened by these trends as well. But I simply want to say to you that we need you ever more to be strong advocates, problem solvers with us. Not ever gatekeepers, but problem solvers with us.
 to fight for $15 for all city workers, including seasonal and part-time workers, including the AFSCME workers, county workers. And we need you to think creatively and critically about the budget, the Portland budget, the city budget that sets 55% of the general fund for police.
 and has tax subsidies for real estate projects that may not be priorities. We need you to be critical and look at these things, and to think also, as Seamus said, about setting new progressive taxes in the city. We have to have as a priority and our passion changing around the direction that the economy is going in, and we need you as allies. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. The next four are Jamie Partridge, Melissa Bolognau,
 Alex Anderson and Rob Wheaton and they'll be followed by it's Ted Pyle Greg Wilkes Romeo Sosa and Bob Tackett Good afternoon mayor commissioners. Thank you so much for your proposal for the resolution I'm with Jamie Partridge with 15 now and I'm we're very excited about this step forward in
 producing a $15 wage for a number of workers contracted with the city and city workers. And we encourage you to step out and declare your support for the $15 movement
 Citywide statewide I would suggest that that was the bill before the state legislature Which has a three-year phase in that you can do this in 15 in three years You can you can you can praise the workers of the city to 15 in three years And that of course there have been several several different options suggested not only the 4.6 million ongoing surplus but a
 other creative ways of raising revenue and taxing wealth and taxing income is something that the city can do and is not doing. In any case, we're appreciative of the piece of the new amendments that would include a budget task force starting with the 2016-2017 budget process. I guess that would be October 1st.
 that would take into consideration the analysis of the casual and part-time workers, and including raising to 15 seasonal maintenance workers. That was another part of the resolution. And we're happy about that. We're happy to... Is that my time? You're going, James. Okay. Okay.
 We're not happy with the change to full-time only workers. Part-time workers need 15. They probably need 15 more than full-time workers because you can't live part-time on 15. And we're certainly supportive of including, as the folks from Central City Concern and Transition Projects,
 suggested those nonprofits would get grants from the city, be included in the fair wage policy, and that the workers at Civic Stadium and the Rose Quarter are not only included, but that there is an enforcement mechanism which hasn't been in place, as a couple of folks have suggested.
 and we're suggesting a Citizens Review Board that would help enforce the fair wage policy. And, again, we support the suggestion of a more effective neutrality toward union organizing in the ordinance or in the task force. I think that's everything I wanted to say. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Welcome. Hi, my name is Melissa Villano. I'm a branch organizer with Socialist Alternative here in Portland. Thank you for the chance to speak today. I hope the City Council and especially the Mayor realizes the truly historic opportunity that lies before them today and in the future. I
 Since Seattle City Council member Shama Sawan and Socialist Alternative first launched the 15 Now campaign in Seattle, this movement has had a transformative effect on the mood of the working class in this country. We have seen mass mobilization of working class people fighting for 15 from Portland to San Francisco to Mobile, Alabama to most recently Minneapolis, where this past Sunday night City Council member Alondra Cano, a Democrat, gave her full public endorsement for a $15 minimum wage.
 As the council has heard today, working people are suffering now. This is not some abstract notion that needs to be debated. You just had a city worker testify to the council that she requires food stamps in order to eat. If that's not a crisis, I don't know what is.
 This kind of dismal economic reality doesn't just impact the low-wage workers themselves. When workers are forced to go on social services, the repercussions are felt throughout the local economy, from an increase in the homeless population, to mental health issues, to the dismal condition of our city's streets, and by extension, a community that resists taxation as a matter of survival. We appreciate the City Council taking up this issue and hope that it continues to work fast and with the full resources at its disposal.
 And just on the subject of revenue that Commissioner Prince spoke about in response to Seamus Cook, if the present economic system requires working people to live in poverty, then maybe we need a new system. Afternoon. Hi. My name is Alex Anderson. I'm a graduated biologist. I am here to represent myself, Oregon State Licensed CNAs, and all city workers.
 While working the required clinical hours in order to be able to apply to graduate school as a physician assistant, I have discovered that CNAs must be working under the license of a registered nurse, which means there are no other options for work.
 One such agency in Portland, that is private sector, hires their CNAs with an estimated 20 CNAs to one nurse, registered nurse, whereas 70% of the wages go to the company and 30% to the worker.
 There are other agencies here in Portland that operate with 83% of the earnings going to the company and 16% to the worker. These conditions are poverty wages, and they put all CNAs at risk for homelessness monthly because there are no caps on rental costs. There are no guarantees that shifts are offered beyond a week's time out.
 Over 3,000 hours of work had been accumulated by myself before one hour of sick time was allowed. Did you get complaints in the city of Portland? Within the state. Okay.
 But mostly within the city, yes. So if that's the case, you're under the Portland Sick Time Ordinance, you accrue one hour per 30-hour worked. And if that's not been happening, you should contact the Bureau of Labor and Industry. Okay. Thank you for bringing that to my attention. Thank you. Thank you.
 The state, at previous meetings for a 15-hour Now project, has requested that the City of Portland lead the way. But three years' lead-in time is too long when we face monthly occurrences of possible homelessness. Mr. Mayor, City Council members, thank you for hearing us today.
 In less than two years, we have elections. There are qualified candidates poised to sit in those chairs and ready to work to make $15 an hour for all workers a reality. Our city workers know our value, know our capacity, and know our power. These conditions go beyond poverty. It demonstrates exploitation. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Wheaton?
 Well, thank you, Mayor. My name is Rob Wheaton. I'm with AFSCME Council 75. I would like to thank you for putting this forward. I think it's a great ordinance. We urge your support, and we think it's a great first step. I'm looking at a list of the people that it will impact, and I know it's going to make a huge difference for at least six of our members. So it's going to be big for them, and we really, really appreciate it.
 However, on the other hand, it is just a first step, and I appreciate that we're working on moving forward on these other employees that will be left out. This is the list of the people that will be left out, 1,800 employees. Yes.
 To give you an idea of who those employees are, I've heard several times from parks officials that, well, they're mostly lifeguards. They're young. First of all, we don't really think that carries any merit. I think people that are young deserve $15 an hour as well as anyone else. But also it's been borne out by the facts. According to the Office of Equity and Human Rights, 70% of the casual workforce is over 20 years old.
 Shockingly, 60% of the casual workforce is women, is composed of women, as opposed to the standard workforce. When you remove those casual employees, the workforce is actually 67% male. When you look at all of the regular employees and subtracting out the casual and the casual employees.
 Finally, there's one other group that it leaves out, and these are members of Local 88. They're members of AFSCME. They're people that we represent, and that is the people over at Central City Concern and Transition Projects and other grant-funded organizations. We can simply require as a condition of the grant that these employers follow the fair wage ordinance, and we would urge you to do this as soon as possible.
 These employees are doing hard work for the city of Portland. They're running the sobering station, so basically handling our drunks that come out of our bars. They're working in the detox facility at Hooper, dealing with people recovering from heroin addiction and other addiction services. They're janitors. They're female treatment assistants, helping people with young children that have been born to drug-addicted parents, as well as in transition projects...
 incorporated, they're really just taking care of our homeless people. These people really deserve this money, and there are 20 out of 27 positions at Central City Concern that start less than $15 an hour. Some of these positions, after 25 years of employment, never reach $15 an hour, 25 years. So we would encourage you to not only apply this ordinance to contractors, but also to anybody receiving public dollars.
 Thank you very much, and thank you for doing this. Mr. Wheaton, on that dashboard that you have from the Office of Equity and Human Rights, does it note how many of our so-called casual folks are of communities of color? Yes, it does, actually. And...
 It's easier to do it this way. It's 71% white, and the remaining is broken up, as opposed to the regular workforce, which is 81% white. So there's definitely a disproportionate representation of people of color in the casual workforce as compared to the regular workforce. I think we need improvement on those numbers, though. I want to underscore that. We're certainly working on that part, too. Thank you very much for bringing that up. Sorry.
 So let me call on you, Rob, and others too, but you in particular, because there's going to be subsequent phases of this work. I mean, obviously we're going to pass, I believe we're going to pass a version of this resolution, probably the one that we have in front of us right now. We're going to do what we can do in this first phase of the work. Okay.
 We've heard a lot of testimony today about how we should move faster and farther, and actually you have no one up here, I don't believe, who doesn't want to move faster and farther. But if I can take a phrase from you, in the present economic system that we're in, we can't deficit spend anymore.
 We can only spend money that we actually have. And as you know, I'm now working on my third budget. One of my jobs as mayor is to propose the budget each time, and then we as a community and as a council discuss it.
 In my first budget in 2013, we cut 155 full-time positions in the city budget because we had to balance our books. About 50 of those came from the police bureau. Twenty-six of them came from the fire bureau. We fortunately got a federal grant, a short-term federal grant, to cover those 26 firefighter positions for two years. And then we did cut some positions in parks.
 Last year's budget, we added back one position in the Police Bureau, none in the Fire Bureau, and a few in Parks. I don't remember the number, but it was a handful, right? Not a lot. In other words, we're still net. My point is we're still net less workers than we had in 2012, okay, on a balanced books basis. Now, Commissioner Fritz has quite rightly and very clearly raised this issue of,
 part-time workers and and it's come up here as well and again none of us is interested in going slowly for slowly's sake
 But I'm looking for ideas for how we move faster. They include new revenue. I heard that, and Commissioner Novick and I have been demonstrating how popular ideas for new revenue actually are. We're not going to stop talking about new revenue because we need it. But, you know, it doesn't exactly fall out of the sky politically when one brings up the subject. So I want to call on you and ask me and other organizations, Jamie, as well, to help us think through policy.
 along with the task force that Commissioner Fritz is going to be assembling, how do we keep going here? Part of the answer to that is going to be the better economy is giving us a better budget. The forecast says we're not going to have another year like 2013 anytime soon, and I'm really happy about that. But it's not getting better so fast that we're going to simply be able to solve the problem with cash flow.
 So, we're looking for creative ideas from the activist community as well as from our own budget folks like the folks we've heard from today about how we do this. But the rules of how we do this is that 90% or better, I think it's 93% of the general fund budget goes to police, fire and parks and most of the cost of those three bureaus budgets is payroll.
 So it's a difficult box that we're in. The box is getting bigger. I like that. But it isn't infinite. So your thoughts about how we get creative, not just that we should, but how, I'm very interested in hearing. I'm really happy that I get to preside over bigger budgets for as far as the eye can see. But they're not that much bigger.
 So for what it's worth, we want to, now and later, yes, please, now and later, we want to call on you for ideas. Has the city council ever reexamined the tax breaks that you give to businesses for coming here? We don't basically give tax breaks for businesses coming here. We use urban renewal money from tax increment districts that has to be spent in that district.
 on projects usually public works projects in that district the conventional wisdom is we write checks to business not true it almost never is the case the only time that the city is ever involved in a direct subsidy to businesses in what's called an enterprise zone and i don't think we've done one in at least three years so it's it's mostly money in and money out for personnel in our budget
 So urban renewal is another whole subject, and I don't want to take up time here, but it's not like we have a choice between paying people more or building the Pearl District. That's not a choice. We can decide not to build a Pearl District, but it doesn't give us any more money to pay people. And, in fact, what we're doing later this month is putting $800 million that used to go to urban renewal districts back into the tax bases of the city and the county and the schools so it pays for more workers.
 So, you know, we're happy about that, but, again, there's a conventional wisdom out there that what we're doing for business
 in the city budget costs workers. It's not. That may be the case at the federal level, but it's not the case here. And increasing taxes on the wealthy in this city? Well, that subject has come up in this chamber over the last year. And we brought that up as one of the options for how we could pay for taking care of our roads and streets because we actually did consider an income tax proposal as one of the options. And we're going to get back to that subject this June when the legislature gets done talking about transportation. Okay.
 Well, I would hope that the City Council would reach out to 15 now. There's a lot of really smart people, people that know what they're talking about and when you move forward with these ideas. No, we will. And that's the invitation I want to give you is that we really want your ideas and roll up your sleeves and work with us on those. Please. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you very much. And I would just add that it's not only just a question of revenue, and there have been some ideas about that.
 but also a question of priorities. And when you talk about police, fire, and parks, I think that you've been getting a lot of feedback from a number of Portlanders about the value of the police department, and you might consider cuts in the police department. Thank you.
 We did. Yeah? We did. And, you know, that folks have put forward a lot of evidence that the police department is not as helpful as...
 Not that I was more. We can talk more about those in our discussions. Actually, Mayor, if I may for a moment, Jamie, I personally proposed some cuts in the police bureau, but I want to underscore what the mayor said, which is those are jobs too. I mean, you might be able to make some cuts based on attrition, but it's still a matter of jobs. That subject's come up too. Thank you. Thank you.
 Somebody did the other day. That's an understatement. Come on up. Who are the next, please? Our Ted Pyle, Greg Wilkes, Romeo Sosa, and Bob Tackett. Okay. And they will be followed by Steve Shumate, Charles Johnson, and Bill Mickton was the last person who signed up. Okay. Bill. Bill, you're up. Okay.
 Last but not least. He's in the next group. Oh, Charles as well. Yeah. I thought I was in the next group. You were, but not everybody came out. I've got Ted, Greg, Romeo, and Bob right now. And Charles. And then I have Steve. Is Steve Schumate here? And then we'll go with Charles. Okay, Charles, come on up. Come on up. You're on. You get the last word. Come on up. Charles, you're on first. One, two, three.
 Go ahead, Charles. You're on first. Okay, great. Obviously, the problem has been fairly competently addressed. My name is Charles Johnson, for the record. However, in our hope to get $15 now for people who have jobs, we've overlooked a side issue that is part of that conversation about who's really earning what.
 Some of these people we're talking about giving $15 now to have zero health care, and some have valuable health care. And for some reason, Tina Kotek has not signed on to help us rectify the health care situation. So I hope that in the mayor's office, while we look at state issues that relate to 15 now and income tax that...
 Jackie Dinkfelder and Gail Shibley will also be in touch with Ms. Kotek about Senate Bill 631 and how we're going to make sure that people who aren't getting 15 now still have the same basic human right health care that people who manage to find jobs have. That would actually help this city. There's people you're paying hopefully more than $15 an hour to whose job is to figure out
 which city employees are going to be in uncovered groups to save the taxpayers a little money so that people can be sick. So when we talk about living wage, we're really talking about living, not dying, not staying home being sick. I'm glad that Commissioner Fritz, when we had the testimony that talked about people working in health care not getting proper accrual of their sick time, pointed out that the system is...
 Fifteen now is a resistance movement to a predatory system of exploiting labor. That's all there is to it. The testimony was out here from the beginning that if the minimum wage had kept track with equity from its origin, we wouldn't even be talking about 15 now. We'd be talking about 20 now. 22, 27. Where did I go, Novik? So let's...
 Remember that while we're passing this, as the mayor just noted, it's part of a real campaign for worker dignity so that sick workers and their families and children don't have to try and figure out how they're going to deal with pediatric cancer on $15 an hour because they only got a raise. They didn't get a real living wage. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Well, I want to focus on the message that's been sent to the... Just put your name in the record. Oh, Ted Pyle. Thanks. Being sent to the private sector that constantly plays the workers off against one another for lower and lower wages and no benefits, abuses all these...
 part-time things and other considerations, calling work entry-level, and people are doing it into their 50s and 60s. But mostly it's just that we're raising a whole generation of people who don't have health care, who don't have retirements, who are working these part-time jobs, and in the end it is the government, city, county, and federal, who will wind up having to support these people who don't have the benefits of the previous generation.
 So the best way to help the imbalance in wealth is to pay the bottom, because they'll spend the money and they'll use it immediately and immediately
 It goes right along with the fact that the feeding of the top hasn't helped the bottom. So $15 an hour minimum wage is a good start, and then eventually – but I believe all these things are going to have to be solved by legislation because there's only, what, 10%, 12% union representation. So the only people who can defend the working people against being abused further and having to be subsidized by the government in the future is the legal system, city, state, and federal. Yeah, good point. Thank you.
 Mr. Sosa, welcome. Yeah, thank you. Good afternoon, City Commissioner and Mayor. My name is Romel Sosa, and I work for VOSS, Worker Right Education Project, and also we operate the Martin Luther King Jr. Worker Center, which the city helped us to open in 2008. Since that, we have connected about 25,000 people with jobs.
 When we first opened the worker's center, we collectively established $10 an hour. Three years ago, we raised to $12 an hour, and we started the conversation to raise to $15 an hour. I hear that like...
 part-time workers or temporary workers, seasonal workers, we don't want to be excluded in that. If the city cannot do it, we will do it, but I think together we can do the City of Portland fair and like to create like a $15 an hour all together. And I'll be proud to see if you pass that resolution and also I can wait for other cities' follows and other states. We would like to see all works they want
 to be paid at least $15 an hour. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. I'm Bill Micdom. Lived here a long time.
 I come here and shoot my mouth off every so often. I wanted to start by recommending the Living Wage Calculator website. Very useful. Good data. Livingwage.mit.edu. I wanted to speak to a few things. First of all, the idea that there are starter jobs. Excuse me.
 A lot of people have talked about fast food jobs being all for teenagers, starter jobs, except only 30% of fast food jobs are held by people in their teens. Another 30% are people under 24, 20 to 24. Basically, in our economy, there are no starter jobs. People are living on starter jobs or trying to. Second,
 Nobody should, anybody who works should be getting $15 an hour, unless perhaps it's a 13-year-old doing babysitting. And even then.
 Two, our minimum wage now in this state, and we have one of the highest in the country, is $9.25. The lowest living wage for a single person in this city, thank you, MIT, is $9.42 an hour. So the idea that you can live on a minimum wage is obviously nonsense. It's more than nonsense. It's cruel nonsense. Two,
 Another thing, you know, we're talking about ideas. Actually, let me back up for a minute. One of the people who spoke earlier talked about getting $10 an hour now. I remember my first $10 an hour job. It was 1977. $10 an hour in 1977 is now $39. $39.
 So that affordable job of $10 an hour, which it was, should be $39 an hour now at our current cost of living. Finally, in terms of ideas for more money, more revenue.
 The city has to lobby Salem, and one of the things it does when it lobbies Salem is say, you need to go lobby the federal government. Fifty-five percent of our federal budget goes into killing people. This is not a good use of our resources, okay? And there are lots of other ideas I am sure that the people who have been before you can help you with. Lobbying is a really big one.
 put pressure on our congressional representatives, and let's get real money. And I just want to also follow up quickly by saying, let's stomp on private employers. They have to start paying a minimum wage, a living wage, I mean, a minimum living wage, which is barely $15 an hour. A single person with one child living
 needs to make over $19 an hour to have a living wage. Once again, thank you, MIT. And thank you, all of you, for listening. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else that wants to speak on this item that hasn't come up? Yes, please. Come on up. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I always wait until last because I, like, think that I always have to run off at some point in time. But there was a lot of very good points. Payment record. Oh, I'm sorry. Laquita Lanford.
 There were a lot of very good points that brought me here today.
 One, I returned back to Portland just about a year ago and I lived here for 10 years, from 19 to 28, and always thought this was a really great city to live in. My family lives here. My sister is raising my two-year-old niece here. My mom, who was on drugs in California for many years, she lives here and she's doing well. I really believe in a lot of the values that Portland has to offer for the people of Portland.
 And we're also talking about, you know, $15 an hour now, how we want to be creative. And I think is at this time that we are in lobbying session is, you know, band in the box because we're also talking about people of color and bringing. I sat in this room today and I looked around as I do always. And I'm like, I'm like kind of the only one, you know, and I'm going to speak about what I can. But it would be my first step would be like to band the box.
 also offer knowledge workshops to the community with going forward business-wise as we talk about community development and economic development in the construction sector and also not having that look like, well,
 you know, you're cleaning up as safety, as our safety environment auditors. There's just a bunch of different things that can lead into this, but also with apprenticeship programs and also giving kids the opportunity, teens that are going to jail at a year, going to detention halls, to have them be able to be responsible because they're having kids at a younger age to look at responsibility at such a young age and to be looked at as responsible
 that they want to be looked at and getting that opportunity at a really young age. And so I really do support the $15 an hour movement. And also at a period of time where you don't, for me, it would be an apprenticeship program that you don't just come in at $15, but you work your way up until a year and a half to two years, depending on what the position is and how you can move forward. And also as everything goes with the,
 affordability of homes and just teaching those responsibilities for our community. So that was one of the things that I wanted to talk about. Also, quickly, transitional project is how I'm being able to have rent today. Central Trifecta
 Central City Concern is where I am employed at today. Home Forward is where I sit on a board at. And so, like, all of these community opportunities have given me fruitfulness, given me opportunity to look at the fruitfulness of my life at 38 years old today. And so I'm really excited about being a part of any change in our community and to keep
 continue to be in that role model for our young people in the community and also share any ideas that I can. And I do have many more that I would like to share with you, Mayor and Ms. Amanda, if possible. Please do. Thank you. Good afternoon, City Council, Mayor. My name is Stephen Entwistle, former boxing champion, heavyweight division, Golden Gloves here at Regional. And also, I
 uh, Healing Man Sanctuary representing, and 100 million friends. Anyway, been here for 55, uh, years, not million years, but 55 years, and, uh, I've seen a lot of things come and go, and, uh, but what I've seen that stayed a lot is, uh, a lot of wealth. Um, there's a lot of wealth that comes to Portland and stays, and, uh,
 Not to disrespect any of it. I mean, I'm sure, you know, it's all legit. But I don't see the amount of wealth versus being able to get at least the printed amount of revenue in order to just get basic things done. These are hard times right now.
 This is no joke for people out there. There are 300 people jumping off of bridges every year in this town. That's crazy. That's nothing to be proud of. I don't see that you guys are working hard enough to stop that. Everything is a lifeline for homeless, everything, including the parks. And when you take that away, then you're going to see a real large jump in suicide rate, and that's not going to be good. I don't think you're trying hard enough.
 to find ways to get to the huge amounts of wealth that are in this city and to make it benefit those that really need it the most. I see a lot of protection of that, on the other hand. And it's only going to create injury in the long run.
 Thank you. Thank you. Afternoon. Just push the button on the base of that microphone there. There you go. Okay. Good afternoon. For the record, I'm Judith Pullman, and I also work for Parks. And I've been working there five and a half years. I make five different rates depending on what I do in my center.
 And now I currently make over $15 an hour for my main coordinating work that I do to coordinate a program. But if I move to a different position or help out in a different sector, I make $12.50 an hour. So, and then if I'm sick, I also make my lower rate
 $12.50 per hour, even if I'm scheduled to do my other coordinating job. Talk to me about that. Okay, I can talk to you about that. That doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense, yeah. Your schedule, I think you're eligible for the pay at the- Not correct. So I'll make- Okay. Thank you for bringing that to my attention. I'll make sure we fix that. Sure. And it's happened to a few other workers in my center. I will make sure that we fix that. Thank you for letting me know. Okay, yes. You don't default to a lower rate just because you're sick.
 If you're scheduled. That's what we said. What's your community center? I work at the Multnomah Arts Center as well. Okay. Yes. That's something to look into. Thank you. Yes. So I'm here in support of a lot of my fellow workers. There are three represented, actually four represented workers at my center. And there are three other people who coordinate large-scale programs who are not represented. Some people who do smaller projects.
 coordinating duties, but we all work really hard and we all feel bought into the system, but not taken care of by the system that we love. And I know our community really supports us and, you know, would love to see us being cared for by the work that we do. So thank you. This is very valuable.
 Your work makes a big difference and your attention. Thank you. Same to you, and we appreciate you bringing these issues to us as well. Yes. Is there a reason that you're not represented? Well, I've heard from my supervisor that that's due to budgetary concerns, that there's not room to add on. The reason that you're not represented in a union, you mean? Oh, we're trying. Okay. We're trying, but mainly because...
 I believe there are only so many represented positions that are available to have at each center. That's the logic, even though they're...
 more programs than represented positions. Right, that's the full-time and part-time issue that we will definitely look into. We did, I'm just saying, have a really good success when the Rangers organized and joined Local 483, but then there was a comparative study done so that the seasonal Rangers no longer make all that much less than the full-time Rangers, and so that's why I have a budget request in this year for $80,000, which...
 only $80,000 would move six seasonal positions into full-time positions because we've already closed that gap. So from my mind as a long-time and continued union member, I believe that organizing and being part of a union is a really good thing. Fabulous. So I hope that you can continue the work with Local 483, who have been doing great work within parks, and we appreciate the partnership. Thank you for coming to tell us today what you have. Thank you. And we also appreciate you guys making the statement that workers are safe
 A lot of people are very scared. Oh, good.
 Good. Hopefully we can change that. Yeah. I'm glad we got the chance to talk about that because people should feel that they can do what you and others have done here today anytime on any issue. So that's the rule here, and hopefully people will know that and be assured of that. Thank you. Not only safe, but delighting you, Commissioner, that everybody was here. I want to assure my colleagues that I did not organize all of these parks workers to come. I really appreciate the fact that you've made –
 Frankly, Erica Askin in 483 got ahead of me. So your email, the public records request for your emails will settle that question. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you.
 Actually, let's have a little moment for discussion here, but I think given that we've adopted the amendments, I'm not sure if there's any reason to wait on adopting the underlying resolution. Well, it's not that we wanted to wordsmith the full-time bid, and I think we do need to find out the monetary cost of the amendments that we've adopted plus. I don't think any of those, I mean, we're setting policy directions. I don't think any of those things stand in the way.
 Before now and when we adopt the budget. This is a resolution. I would say we vote on it. And I think if there's further modifications, I would entertain a subsequent resolution. But I think it would be a nice way to close this hearing to actually cast a vote. Once the sponsors want to come back and have another hearing on another issue,
 The advantage of not doing that, it's obvious that we are going to pass this or something very similar to this. The advantage of continuing the hearing or closing the public testimony and then moving the vote out is that we give our staff who were here four hours ago and are not here now the opportunity to wordsmith without then having another public hearing on the amendments. Yes.
 Well, let me offer another suggestion to that. I think this is a fairly discreet issue. We have other follow-on work to do. And I think I agree with Commissioner Salzman. I'd prefer to go ahead and vote on this today. And then if there's a need to make any amendments to our financial policy that includes this,
 Prior to doing the budget, I can come back to the council with another resolution that says we need to make these word changes in our fair wage policy and those word changes in some other council policy. But this is a resolution that directs policy. It's not appropriating money. It's going to obviously have a big influence on what I put in the budget. But because of the budget timeline, I think I'd like to get this done.
 today, again, with an understanding that if there's a word or two we need to change later on, we can do that, and also gives you the authority to proceed with the task force as soon as you're ready. So, again, I believe in measuring twice and cutting once, but...
 I don't think there's that much at issue here in terms of changing words later on. We've got the full-time, in other words, let me say this a little differently. We may make this ordinance more liberal over time, but I can't imagine that we need to
 In general, when Anna Kamwit tells me that there's an issue, a labor and other issue with wording, I tend to respect her. Let me see if Josh has an opinion about that. It's a non-binding resolution, so I suppose this.
 Right. It's a resolution crafting financial policy. So, Josh, is there any reason why we can't adopt it as amended today? What do you think? Obviously, there's no rush. We could do it later. Josh, you're an at-will employee if you're wrong on this. You're offering an opinion in a public setting. So tread lightly on this. I actually don't believe there's a reason not to do it with the caveat that there are a couple of tweaks, I think, that will need to get made.
 whether it's done on consent later, I think can be done. I talked briefly with Anna after when she left, and she's already hard at work trying to figure out some of those questions that came up earlier. I really do think it's a council decision. Mayor, you also have the prerogative, if it comes back for a technical fix,
 You do have the prerogative as a chair to remind people that the only testimony we're taking is on the technical fix, not on the whole issue. Yeah, I mean, we've had a lot of testimony on the substance of the issue. People know what we're doing, which is that we're addressing our full-time workers and our contractors, and we're setting up a process to deal with our part-time and seasonal workers. The substance of that isn't going to change. And you're right, if we have to wordsmith a couple of things in a resolution on consent later on to make our staff happy, I'm always happy to do that. Okay. Everyone content with that?
 good then let's take a roll call on the resolution please fritz well thank you to everybody uh who was here earlier and thank you to especially to those of you who remain here at this hour especially since we said we weren't going to work to vote on it um jobs with justice of which i've been a long time supporter and 15 now for pushing this livable wage and i agree that even 15 an hour is not enough to live and raise a family on
 Thanks to Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Hales for highlighting this issue, and to my colleagues for understanding that we collectively have a problem. And if there's one hesitation, yes, we need to do what we can when we can.
 One of my guiding principles since when I was on the Planning Commission, I learned from Ernie Bonner who was one of the great pioneers of Portland, one of the great leaders of Portland, and who was previously on the Cleveland Planning Commission. He taught me a principle that we should always make decisions to give more choices to people who have fewer choices.
 And so that has been always the principle, and in this case it really is the seasonal workers, the so-called part-time workers who have the fewest choices, who have the worst working conditions.
 So many of the people who will benefit from this who are custodians here at City Hall, many of them are my dear friends. I certainly appreciate the work that they do. The security staff have been tremendous. I have been a longtime supporter of SEIU and the other unions in the community. Those folks all deserve $15 an hour.
 the people who most need it are not getting it under this ordinance, under this resolution. And so as an employer who has just heard not only are my employees on food stamps, they are also on Medicaid, I hope that those of you who have previously been Parks Commissioner and those who will be in the future, Mr. Crown, because hopefully we all get a chance. And it's a great viewer to be a part of.
 Partly because of the wonderful workers, some of whom we heard from today, people who are totally dedicated to serving the public, who love their jobs, who make their points in such constructive manner. I'm just honored to lead the Bureau, and I'm also honored
 It's not okay with me that we do not support our workers in the manner that they deserve. So I know that Mayor Hales is very committed to that as a former Parks Commissioner himself, to redressing that wrong. And so since this is a step in the right direction, I will vote aye. In a former life, Mayor, I had the honor of representing health care workers. And health care workers in New York organized because
 they were working in hospitals in low-wage jobs, and they weren't eligible for health insurance. And so they couldn't afford to get health care in the place where they worked. And it took a great labor movement and coalition to change that and to change the whole industry of lower-wage workers in a hospital setting.
 I was thinking about our history in this area. Richard Nixon, that noted radical, once proposed a negative income tax where he wanted to create a floor, an income floor for Americans, and of course, that went nowhere. Hubert Humphrey once proposed a Full Employment Act, and we know that that didn't go very far. We've had eloquent testimony today about the diminishing power of the federal minimum wage and what it doesn't provide. Today, we're taking a modest first step
 but an important step, an important symbolic step. And I was very proud at the State of the City that the mayor declared this was a city priority. So let me begin by saying to the mayor and to Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for making this day possible and moving us forward. Bill, if you applaud one more time, you'll have to be removed. No, I'm kidding. I want to thank my friend Amanda Fritz for relentlessly focusing on the needs of seasonal contingent workers at the Parks Bureau.
 When a number of years ago, Mayor Adams asked me to create a new housing bureau, one of the things that I learned as we went through all the complexity of creating a housing bureau is that city workers who worked on housing were not represented. And people may forget that, but there was a time when the employees of the former Bureau of Housing and Community Development were not represented.
 And so there were a lot of thorny legal and labor issues that had to be resolved when we brought PDC workers over and we created a new unit. But the one thing I was very proud of is this city put no obstacle, no roadblock in the way of employees exercising their right of free choice. And today the employees of the Housing Bureau represent it because they chose to be represented and the city consistent with its policy did not interfere with that right. And Commissioner Fritz's
 wants us to work as a council to address an inequity at the Parks Bureau and raise the working conditions of people who are tireless public servants, who give great service but are not treated like full-time regular employees. And she has my full support, and I know she has the support of this council, and we've heard time and time again the principal barrier is a question of cost.
 Well, I've sat on this council when we had no way to pay for Portland-Milwaukee light rail, and we funded it. I've been on this council when we've taken on big, bold initiatives, and there was no clear way to fund it, and we found a way. The reason we will someday solve this challenge is because Commissioner Fritz will not let this issue go until it's resolved. So, Amanda, thank you.
 And by the way, there are four current and former parks commissioners on this dais, so I think you have a leg up. And the Mayor has also committed not to change bureau assignments for the foreseeable future. So you will – MR. Just hers. MR. I think it's likely that you – MS. Just that one. MR. I think it's likely that you – well, I've started two task force 15 minutes ago, so I'm going to claim the same privilege. One last thing.
 We're not here today because all of a sudden any of us woke up and said, let's take on the $15 crusade. We're here because a whole community coalition insisted that this happen. Let's be clear. And it started when Dan and I were running for reelection last year, a year and a half ago, and it was framed for that election cycle. It continued forever.
 with the lobbying of this mayor and this council, and Charlie spoke to that eloquently in an interview he did recently about the number of groups and coalitions that came and said, now is the time. So we're here because the community has spoken. And this is a first step. This is not solving the global problem. But it's an important symbolic step, and this council is committing to doing more work. So I thank everybody. And
 And finally, when we talk about a livable city, we often get caught up in the physical manifestations of a livable city. And it's what people talk about. It's our beautiful parks, it's nature, it's the beautiful downtown and everything. It's place. And I like place as much as anyone else. But when I think of a livable city, I think of affordable homes,
 quality schools, universal health care, and living wages. Now, that's a livable community, and that's what we should recommit to today and going forward. So thank you to the sponsors and to all my colleagues, and today I'm proud to cast an aye vote. Seltzman. Well, I want to thank Matt Grumman, my office, for helping us take up the challenge from Jobs for Justice and $15 an hour PDX now to have this hearing. Thank you.
 And I'm pleased to say, as a result of this hearing, we're about to pass into law an increase for our contract employees starting July 1st. And maybe down the road, our seasonal parks employees, too. It may take a little while to get there, a little longer, but I think there's a will, and when there's a will, there's a way. So I'm really happy that we are doing this today, and this is really a way of really supporting Portland families,
 and wage earners who work hard. I mean, our security, our janitorial, our parking attendants are in some of the lowest paid positions, and they're supporting families, as we heard today very eloquently, from many of our contract employees, and they deserve to have an effective wage increase of $15 an hour, effective July 1st. It may not be, 15 may not be the right number, but I'll tell you when you consider right now our federal wage is $1,
 less than $10 an hour, it seems $15 sounds pretty good from where most wage earners in this country are looking at for minimum wage. So it's a good start and it's a good day and I'm pleased to vote aye. No, thank you. Just a few comments. One is that
 We're today essentially committing to spend a significant portion of the limited additional ongoing funds that we'll have over the next five years to raise wages of people who aren't making enough money, and I'm very proud of that.
 I am also very disappointed that we don't have the resources at this point to raise the wages of every city employee part-time and full-time to $15 an hour. And I'm very much in agreement with those who said the fact that you're part-time doesn't mean you don't need to break $15 an hour. In fact, if you're trying to live on part-time work, you need to raise at least as much as somebody who's working full-time.
 I'm responding to Bill's comment about cutting, you know, getting the federal government to cut the defense budget.
 Unfortunately, with the current configuration of Congress, that's probably not realistic. However, I do sometimes wish that we were the federal government, because then we could just cut the V-22 Osprey or some other weapon system and use that to fund things like raising wages. Instead, we're a city where I'm reduced to doing things like proposing cutting the Mounted Patrol in order to raise a little bit more money. And although I'm not the biggest fan of the Mounted Patrol, they're a lot more appealing than the V-22 Osprey.
 Commissioner Fish said that he was here when we didn't have the money to fund Portland-Milwaukee light rail, and yet we did it.
 The problem is that we did it at the expense of money for transportation, maintenance, and safety projects. That's not the reason we're in a budget hole in transportation. It's a small fraction of the reason. But the truth is we didn't really find the money. And finding additional money is difficult.
 and we've heard some talk about taxing the rich, which I'm pretty much always for, but it's not the easiest thing to do, even in Portland. One idea that we might ask the legislature to consider, I think, is the property tax system, which provides a lot of our funding, is regressive.
 um both because of inequities from neighborhood to neighborhood that are caused by measure 4750 but also because the cost of housing is not proportional generally to income people who make 50 times as much as the median income don't normally live in houses that cost 50 times as much as people with median income
 Maybe we can get the legislature to consider sending something out to the voters to authorize some sort of luxury tax on houses that would cost more than $500,000, say. Another thing that I think that we should think about as a city is in Germany, wages are high and health care costs are much lower than they are here. We spend more on health care than any other industrialized nation.
 Maybe there's an opportunity for the city and its unions, we have very active labor management benefits committee, to sit down and plot a future where we manage to figure out a way to spend less on health care and more on wages.
 So I think I'm very proud of this council, which is committed to raising wages of its employees. It's difficult to see where we get the money now. We all need to work together to figure out creative ways, as people have said, of ensuring that we do get the additional money, because it pains me to think that we've got city employees that are working part-time, but that's their whole job, and they're making less than $15 an hour.
 So I'm very proud to be on this council today. I'm proud to take this action, but it is not nearly enough. Aye. Hales? Well, I just appreciate this hearing very much. The advocates here in the room and elsewhere in the community that have raised this issue, the people here in city government, including Josh Alpert, who, as usual, is sitting quietly in the background, but who has put a great deal of work into this discussion.
 and many other good ideas around here, and my council colleagues. You know, it's always interesting when you hear descriptions of Portland politics, sometimes in this room or sometimes in the community. I actually, in the course of a day, often hear us criticized as a liberal city and as a conservative city in the same day. And maybe that's a point of view of the –
 of the observers, but actually I think it's because those labels don't really fit all that well. And the words I use all the time in trying to describe Portland is that we practice localism and communitarianism.
 localism because we actually believe we're responsible for the people of this place and this place. And it's why we've put so much attention over the years into the quality of place in Portland. We didn't wait for somebody else to do that. In some cases, we actually had to battle other governments. No, we'll not build a freeway through southeast Portland.
 We know we'd prefer to build light rail instead. In some cases, we've had help from other governments, like we'd actually like an urban growth boundary, and we mean it, and we'll keep it, and we'll respect it. And then we're communitarian because we actually think about each other. One of the stories that I've told from when I was running for office is I kept running into people in old neighborhoods who said, you know, my sidewalk and street need a little work, but before you get to me, go take care of the people that don't have a street yet.
 You know, I love that about Portland, that people actually think about their neighbors, all of them here. And so I think what we're doing here today is an expression of those traits or rather that we as a city have a habit of trying to put our values into what we actually do.
 into how we spend money, into how we run our bureaus, into how we provide services, how we take care of our workers. And I think that those are really healthy things about us as a city. So while I hope that eventually there's forward motion on lots of things in Congress,
 I don't think we're going to wait for it here in Portland. We're going to keep trying to do things locally. We hope and expect that the good and progressive legislature that we have in Salem will help us on some of these issues, not just wages, but also sick leave and transportation and a lot of other things that need mental health, that need state help for what we want to try to do here locally.
 But again, I think we think about our community, we think locally, and then we actually try to put our values into action. And we're doing that here today. And I'm very proud of that. There is a lot more work to do. Commissioner Fritz has run straight at the problem of the part-time and seasonal workers in Parks Bureau.
 That problem has been around a long time, probably as long as any of us who have served as parks commissioners. I think it's probably gotten bigger over time because the number and diversity of services that the Park Bureau provides has gotten greater, and we have more community centers and places in which those services are offered. So we've got a big issue there to take on, and I appreciate you, Amanda, for raising it up. And as Commissioner Fish said, I don't think you'll let us stop talking about it, even if we wanted to.
 So this is a very good start to a body of work that's going to continue. It's going to continue on the Parks Bureau. It's going to continue for how we get this finished in our own workforce and then try to express those same values into how the private sector operates in this city. And I've encouraged private sector folks to follow our lead. I hope some of them start to do that.
 As somebody who worked in the private sector for 10 years, I happened to stumble into working for a company that had this belief that if we took care of our workers, we would prosper.
 And it turned out to be true. And it's not just true in the private sector. It's true here as well. And our workers in the city and our contractors that provide these services are our most valuable asset. So this is a way to recognize that, to start putting those values into practice with dollar signs behind them. I'm very proud of the work. I know we have a lot more work to do, and I look forward to doing it with all of you. Thank you very much. And we're adjourned. Recess until tomorrow at 2 o'clock. Thank you. Good job.