Carla, are you ready? Yes. All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the February 21st, 2019 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Fish? Here. Hardesty? I'm going to say here. Say here. Here. Oh, sorry. You, Daly? Here. Wheeler? Boy, this is starting early. Here. Here.
 Good afternoon. Somebody's happy to see me, Mayor. Good to see you. Yeah. It is good to see you. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, and respected and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. Carly, could you please read the first item, item 158? Thank you.
 Extend the state of housing emergency operational efficiencies and identify council powers. Specify a 24-month duration and waive portions of the Portland Zoning Code. Colleagues, steep rent increases, very low vacancy rates, and housing demand that far outpaces supply precipitated an affordable housing crisis in Portland.
 To address the tremendous suffering of unsheltered people and households on the brink of homelessness, the City Council declared a homelessness state of emergency back in 2015. We're still very much in this state of emergency and continue to work in multiple ways to mitigate emergency conditions. And today our presenters are going to walk us through these actions. Administratively, first of all, I want to...
 note that Commissioner Udeli is here today and we are more than happy to see her back with us today. Our thoughts have certainly been with you in the last several days and we're glad to see you back.
 Her presence also gives us the opportunity to amend this to put the emergency clause back on, which I'd like to move. So moved. So we have a motion. Second. And a second. We'll make that a motion for Commissioner Hardesty and a second for Commissioner Fish. That is to restore the emergency clause on item 158. Please call the roll. Do we have the language for that? Do we need language for that? Legal counsel. Okay.
 Yes, we need some language. We can – was there language on a preexisting version of it? Not that I have in my hand. This wasn't an original emergency as submitted. I don't – Oh, do you have something, Rebecca? We usually have Commissioner Fritz. I know the crowd. So you can add emergency language from – Thank you. We just need to declare a reason why the emergency exists, and then we can –
 The reason for the emergency clause, and just to be clear, the purpose of the clause is so that the ordinance takes effect immediately after passage as opposed to 30 days after the second reading, given that this is a very important issue.
 given that the passage of this ordinance immediately will allow us to continue the flexibility that's provided for the expedited permitting of affordable housing, that this gives us the flexibility we need in the community to site both emergency shelter and alternative shelter, and given that this allows us to continue to site storage facilities,
 What do you call them? Storage lockers. Storage lockers across the city of Portland. The city council, therefore, finds it's in the public interest to declare an emergency on item 158. How's that? That sounds good. Thank you. Not as good as Commissioner Fritz would have done, but passable. Please call the roll. Fish. Here. Excuse me. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Here. Aye. The amendment's on the table. Aye.
 Colleagues, we will now hear from our panel, Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau, Joe Zender from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and Rebecca Esau from the Bureau of Development Services, and Joshua Bates from the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here.
 Good afternoon, Mayor. Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. Our presentation this afternoon will provide an overview of the city's declarations regarding a housing emergency, actions the city and our partners have taken directly related to the declarations of emergency, as well as next steps related to this requested extension. Thank you.
 In October of 2015, City Council first established a housing state of emergency. This declaration of emergency gave the city expanded authority, as the mayor has said, to site day storage units, expeditiously issue permits for shelter and alternative shelters, and in 2016, established an expedited design review process for new affordable housing developments.
 When the city first declared the emergency, we were experiencing some of the highest rent increases in the nation, coupled with an extremely low vacancy rate for housing, which unsurprisingly increased the number of people experiencing homelessness and needing shelter and permanent housing.
 In the intervening time, while rent growth has slowed and vacancy rates have increased, we have simultaneously doubled the number of people we are assisting with shelter and permanent housing, though the need in our community persists, and the need to continue the powers we were granted under the Declaration of Emergency continue.
 As a result of the emergency, the city's increased funding for housing and homelessness created new policies and programs to help us solve the crisis. Since the time of the declaration, we have stepped up our investments in both housing and services. Last year, we opened 800 new units of permanently affordable housing, providing stable quality homes throughout our community for more than 1,800 people. And this year, we expect to open the doors to 1,000 more new units.
 Since the initial declaration, the city has adopted a comprehensive inclusionary zoning program, ensuring that new developments are part of the solution to the crisis, not contributing to the problem. By requiring all the new developments, over 20 units include affordable housing. As a result, we already have over 362 units in process or in operation today.
 I'd now like to turn it over to Joshua Bates who's joining us from the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Thank you. Greeting Mayor and Council Members. My name is Joshua Bates. I'm the new Equity Manager for the Joint Office of Homeless Services. I've actually been in the role for about two months now. So this is my first large public meeting. I'm here today on behalf of our Director Mark Jolin and our Deputy Director Patricia Rojas who are both unfortunately not able to attend and are out of town.
 The Joint Office of Homeless Services is very supportive of the proposal before you to extend the state of emergency for an additional two years. As Shannon pointed out, underneath the state of emergency, the city and the county have significantly increased investments in homeless services.
 And with these investments, we've been able to respond to the crisis in unprecedented ways. As tens of thousands of people have lost their homes, we've been able to respond by dramatically increasing our prevention, housing placement, and sheltering efforts. And I meant to say housing, as tens of thousands of people have lost their housing.
 As you can see here, since 2015, we've nearly doubled from just under 3,000 to nearly 6,000 people per year who we are helping escape homelessness through placement into permanent housing. During the same period of time, we've more than doubled from 4,000 to over 8,000 the number of people served in emergency shelter each year.
 And over the last two years, we've started to see real increases in the number of people we're able to help keep the housing they already are in through prevention investments. Over 6,300 people last year, a more than 30% increase over 2016.
 These increases have allowed us to respond to the emergency, but they haven't ended it. We continue to have more than 2,000 highly vulnerable people on our waiting list for permanent supportive housing and more than 1,300 families with children on the waiting list for help finding permanent housing. And shelter stays continue to grow, now averaging around three months. Thank you.
 In addition to expanding investments in overall system capacity, the Joint Office of Homeless Services has used the state of emergency to expand the number of emergency shelters in our community at the fastest rate in decades. We have used the declaration of the state of emergency to help us open more than 650 new beds of year-round shelter for men, women, couples, families with children, veterans, and domestic violence survivors.
 We've distributed those shelters geographically, and we've removed the barriers that traditionally kept many of the most vulnerable people out of our shelters. We've also used the state of emergency to launch new alternative shelter, the Kenton Woman's Village, to help relocate Right to Dream 2 and to begin the process of relocating Hazelnut Grove.
 That work has led to more than doubling the number of people who have access to shelter each year in our community. And it helped lead to a reduction in unsheltered homelessness and a reduction in unsheltered chronic homelessness between 2015 and 2017. That work has also led to national recognition for the transformation of how we provide shelter in our community.
 But our shelter system expansion and transformation is not complete. A number of shelters have not yet transitioned from temporary to permanent facilities. We are in the midst of creating new, service-enriched shelters in east and downtown Portland. And importantly, we continue to work to stabilize our alternative shelters, to put them on sound footing, and create the possibility for the creation of additional community-led alternative shelter sites.
 Continuing the state of emergency allows us to complete this work, to partner with our partners at BPS and BDS, to modernize the shelter and temporary housing codes to ensure that they are well aligned with what we are learning about the best, most cost-effective practices and the provision of emergency shelter in terms of shelter types, locations, sizes, and programming. Thank you. Thank you. Well done. I appreciate it. That was my first time. Well done. Bravo. Thank you.
 As Joshua mentioned, making sure that we're transitioning folks out of shelter is really a critical part of this, which is why the city and county's shared goal of supportive housing creation is so critical. It focuses on finding permanent solutions for individuals and families who've experienced chronic homelessness and provides them with affordable quality housing and services they need to be successful in their housing and in the community.
 Within one year of operation, we already have brought on 162 new units of supportive housing and have more than a quarter of our goal in progress or planned. We also are bringing innovative solutions to our work with new funding from the state, county, and city to create low-cost innovative models, including 78 new units we recently announced and two new developments with Do Good Multnomah and Central City Concern.
 That brings us actually to the portion of the presentation for Rebecca.
 Rebecca Esaw, BDS Director. The zoning code has several types of review procedures and assigns projects to those procedures, not to get too much in the weeds. But one of the features of the housing emergency ordinance allows the use of a faster review procedure, a type 2X instead of a type 3 procedure. The difference in those procedures is that the 2X still allows for public comment, but it skips the steps and time involved with a mandatory public hearing for a design review.
 Instead, it's a staff-level decision, so it can be done much more quickly. An example where we used this faster review procedure was the Gateway Park project in the Gateway District. This helped expedite the production of 75 units, 40 of which were affordable units.
 The declaration of emergency has also allowed us to cite two day storage units that provide secure dry storage facilities for folks' personal belongings during the daytime. One of those facilities is located under the steel bridge and has space for 60 users to store their belongings as well as 24-7 restroom access and storage.
 safe disposal of biohazards. The other day storage unit is currently located within Hazelnut Grove and is staffed by Hazelnut Grove residents. So I think the next piece is mine. I'm Joe Zender with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. So part of why we're recommending the extension of the emergency is to complete our work on some code provisions that, as you have heard, will help...
 legitimize on an ongoing basis and actually create more opportunities for the storage units, for temporary housing, and for this accelerated review process. Throughout the emergency, the life of the emergency, we've had a number of zoning code change packages that we've brought forward through city council. Thank you.
 We increased the number of sites and the size possible for shelters across the city. That was a discrete package. We addressed the protections for manufactured home communities. That was under the rubric or under the –
 umbrella of the emergency. Inclusionary housing and some of the other programs to increase the housing production have been part of that. With this, we will take some of the things that we've learned and been working on with the Joint Office and with the Bureau of Development Services and make them an ongoing part of our zoning code and our programs, our tools to address the shelter issues.
 So that concludes our panel overview, and I know that you have some invited panels from a number of different providers who are working on the state of emergency. Yes, we do. Are there any more questions for this panel before we send them back to their seats? Mayor, I just have a question. Commissioner Fish. My agenda says that we've set aside a particular amount of time for both items 158 and 159.
 We've not yet read 159. Do you intend to take that up separately? Yes. I was advised just prior to this hearing that we need to have that one read separately. Okay. All right. Thank you. So we do have one panel of invited guests, Rose Bach from the Catholic Charities of Oregon, Paul Susie from Transition Projects, Rich Flam from Do Good Multnomah, and Liz Weber from Joy. Come on up. Thank you for being here. Appreciate your being here today. Thank you.
 You can start, Mayor. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. My name is Rose Bach. I'm the Director of Housing and Homeless Services at Catholic Charities of Oregon. I'd like to take just a moment to thank you all for your commitment and the work that you have done over the years to help people who are experiencing homelessness and to serve the most needy in our community.
 And I appreciate you considering this resolution today. Catholic Charities of Oregon urges you to extend the state of emergency. The flexibility that it allows has been invaluable to homeless providers around the region. One of the best examples of this is our Kenton Women's Village, which you're likely familiar with. It provides safe sleeping pods with a locking door for women who have experienced long-term homelessness.
 Some women have been homeless for up to 10 years and do not feel safe in shelters before they come into the Kenton Women's Village. We have placed 21 of these women into permanent housing over the last 18 months or so. And I'm pleased to tell you the last three women from our original site have all been accepted into housing and will be moving into permanent housing in the next couple weeks, which will bring our number up to 24. Thank you.
 It's very exciting. Catholic Charities really appreciates the flexibility and the innovation that the state of emergency has allowed us to try new things like Kenton. I think without innovation and without flexibility, we cannot solve this crisis. We need to be able to look at things in a new way. Due to the work that's been happening in the city and in Multnomah County, Catholic Charities has been announced as one of five organizations
 partners for a nationwide initiative through Catholic Charities USA, the Federal Reserve, and several national partners where we will be working to repurpose church properties to create 250 units of permanent supportive housing over the next five years.
 We just announced it this morning. We're quite excited about it. And when we had our national site visit, we talked to them at length about the flexibility that we had received through the state of emergency, the work that we've done with the city and the county and the joint office and with all our homeless service providers. And they expressed to us how impressed they were with the work that we're doing in this community. And that's one of the reasons they chose to partner with this community for this exciting new initiative.
 As we move forward, we'll be looking forward to using some of the flexibility of the state of emergency as we create these 250 units. We will be able to use the state of emergency to accelerate the development and the repurposing of church property and the building of new buildings.
 it will help us as we look for new alternative models like Kenton Women's Village, and we hope to create another village in the next year or two. And most importantly, it will allow us to move people off the streets. I think we all agree even one night on the street is too much, and any flexibility that we can have to help move folks off the street, help them access services if they need it, and help them get into permanent housing is the best for us and for our community. So I thank you so much for your partnership on this and urge you to support this. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Paul Soucy. I am the manager of one of the newest emergency shelters for transition projects, the Walnut Park Shelter located on MLK and Killingsworth in northeast Portland. We have 80 beds for men, women, and couples, and we're open every night.
 Prior to managing Walnut Park, I've also had the opportunity to work at almost every shelter authorized under the state of emergency. Peace One, Columbia One, Columbia Two, Peace Two, Fifth Avenue, Willamette Center, Y East, and now Walnut Park.
 Each night I see firsthand the value of shelter services for folks struggling to regain stability and their homelessness and move forward with their lives. I'm therefore here today to urge that the state of emergency be extended so that our community can further strengthen our shelter services and ensure that they link up more efficiently to the one thing that truly ends someone's homelessness, housing, affordable housing.
 Over the past three years, the state of emergency has allowed transition projects to significantly expand emergency shelter options in our community. And at present, more than 700 men, women, and couples shelter with us each night across our eight different locations. I'm immensely proud of that on a personal level and on a civic level. I'm proud of this community for doing that.
 The state of emergency has enabled us to pilot low-barrier shelters that welcome people as they are and thereby overcome the reluctance many folks have living on the streets that have traditionally felt about coming inside. We welcome partners, we welcome pets, we welcome possessions, and these facilities have made shelter services significantly more accessible to folks with nowhere else to turn.
 And yet we know that the demand for shelter still far exceeds capacity, as evidenced by the roughly 1,700 people still living unsheltered in our community each night.
 Under the state emergency, Transition Projects has been able to open new shelters located across the Portland area that cater to the needs of specific populations. The Walnut Park Shelter, which I manage, which serves 80 men, women, and couples in North Portland, is an area of this city that has traditionally lacked shelter services.
 And I'm proud that we're attempting to redress some of the historic inequities of this city that I'm a native to, that that area, that neighborhood has experienced for generations.
 The Y East Shelter in East County, which serves over 100 men with priority for those over 55, veterans and those living with disabilities. And the Willamette Center in Southeast is the first shelter in the county specifically designed to serve single women and couples. These are all innovative facilities.
 All of our shelters are full every night. They're filled with people who need deeply affordable housing, and many also need wraparound support services to be successful in that housing to begin with.
 So along those lines, Transition Projects is proud to be working with Oregon Housing and Community Services, Metro, and the Meyer Memorial Trust to help develop LISA, the low-income single adult housing project that will bring 72 units of innovative, deeply affordable housing to the Kenton neighborhood in North Portland by the end of this year.
 The continuation of the state of emergency is critical to ensuring that affordable housing developments like Lisa move through the system as quickly as possible, and that we are able to make progress on this community's commitment to permanent supportive housing. Thank you for this opportunity to speak in support of this. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Richard Flam. I am the Director of Outreach and Engagement for Dugan Multnomah. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, and colleagues for allowing me to speak to this important issue that we're facing.
 In 2015, the state of emergency helped Dugan Multnomah establish the first ever veteran-specific shelter in a church in downtown Portland. We have since moved to a larger church in the Hollywood neighborhood due to the great need. That same shelter is also hosting an additional 40 people a night for the duration of the winter months. Dugan Multnomah is also operating a 50-bed winter shelter in partnership with Portsmouth Union Church in St. John's.
 Like transition projects, we have taken advantage of the state of emergency to expand emergency shelter capacity, but also want to see code changes that stabilize and allow us to make permanent the system's shelter capacity. That's especially true as we partner with Hazelnut Grove to assist in their transition and serve as an organizational partner. We currently operate a veterans village in Clackamas County, and we know this model works. However, the codes need to be clear so that we can operate the villages appropriately.
 Do Good Multnomah is also embarking on a range of permanent housing projects focused on serving veterans. We have recently taken over the operations at Sandy Studios, which is 50 units of supported housing for veterans in the Hollywood neighborhood. We were also just awarded funding by the Portland Housing Bureau to develop a new affordable housing project, which includes a mixture of one-bedroom apartments and SRO units on a piece of church land that will focus on housing and supporting veterans. While we've made a lot of progress serving veterans in our community,
 Dugan Multnomah shelters operate with a wait list because we're full every single night. And there are more than 400 veterans in the city of Portland who we know are in need of permanent housing. The crisis for our veterans experiencing homelessness is not over. In the country they enlisted to protect, we can honor their service by ensuring they have access to basic emergency shelters and, more importantly, quality affordable housing.
 By defending this country, veterans have invested in creating a place that ensures basic human rights, perhaps none more important than affordable housing for themselves and for the people that they served. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Appreciate your being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Liz Weber, and I'm the program coordinator of a multi-agency in-reach housing team led by JOIN. This team was created with new funding introduced in response to the state of emergency.
 The InReach team brings housing placement services to people staying in two shelters, one day space, and two alternative shelter communities, Right to Dream 2 and Dignity Village. JOIN also provides on-site organizational and services support to Dignity Village.
 The funding that came through the state of emergency helped us meet some of the growing need that we see on the streets and in alternative shelter sites, and critically has helped to expand the reach of three culturally specific organizations, NARA, El Programa Hispano, and the Urban League of Portland. Their work with communities that are significantly overrepresented in the population experiencing homelessness is so important in addressing disparities and outcomes for these communities. Thank you.
 Along with our other in-reach partners, Catholic Charities, TPI, and the YWCA, as well as JOIN's outreach team, hundreds of people make the transition from homelessness to permanent housing each year. We know that traditional shelter doesn't work for everyone, and groups like Right to Dream 2 and Dignity Village have organized in response to the need for more safe spaces to rest at night and more options to find consistency, stability, and community—
 We should support the efforts of people experiencing homelessness to organize and create alternative options. At the same time, we should also provide meaningful routes to permanent housing, meaning deeply affordable and supportive housing to the people staying in these sites. There are three gentlemen from Dignity Village who recently have had the opportunity to move into permanent housing with the help of the InReach team. Each had been living in the village for five years or more, and each one has significant health issues.
 Two used wheelchairs, and one was waiting to move into housing to schedule surgery on both his knees. All have Social Security disability income, but none were able to afford private market rent.
 Permanent supportive housing through other joint program coupled with long-term rent assistance vouchers provided opportunities for two of the men. The PSH retention services attached to these vouchers have meant that they're getting the support they need to improve their health, connect with community, and keep their housing.
 Flexible in-reach funding provided a longer-term shallow subsidy for the third gentleman. He was on many subsidized housing lists but might not have survived the wait because his health issues are so severe and his care depends on electricity.
 We encourage the city to take whatever steps it can during a continued state of emergency to support the efforts of the homeless community to explore alternative shelter opportunities and to facilitate the creation of deeply affordable housing, especially supportive housing.
 We know that when we make the right resources available to people, they are successful in ending their homelessness. A continued state of emergency would help make those tools available. Thank you. Mayor, I have a question. Thank you. Commissioner Fish, you bet. Thank you for an excellent panel discussion. I want to ask the gentleman from Duguid. So you focused on the need to provide housing for 400 veterans who continue to be homeless.
 Under the Obama administration, when President Obama made a commitment to end homelessness among our veterans, we had a superb tool called the VASH voucher, which allowed us to provide services and housing for our veterans. How are we doing under this administration in terms of getting VASH vouchers? Thank you, Commissioner, for the question.
 I see that particularly at our permanent housing in Sandy Studios, that a majority of the individuals are utilizing the HUD-VASH voucher. And indeed, we try to use that as much as possible in terms of supportive housing. So I do see it continuing. Okay. Thank you.
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I'm sorry, the gentleman next to Duguid, what was your name again? My name is Paul Soucy. Paul, I had a question for you. You spoke so passionately about all the shelters that you worked in, and so you probably have more expertise than most folks about what is being experienced on the ground every single day. Can you give me some sense of what's been different?
 now that you're managing this new shelter in North Portland? How is that different than the other shelters that you've worked at? Yes. I wouldn't necessarily ascribe this to North Portland, but what I'm experiencing, so I first started as a residential host for transition projects in the fall of 2015. I advanced from frontline staff to management, which is one reason why I'm proud of the organization, that they're open to that. And I don't even have a college degree. Right.
 But what I've seen since 2015 is a massive escalation in mental health crises and substance abuse issues. The emergency shelters, the low barrier shelters are dealing with this every night.
 And we work with the police non-emergency line. We work with Project Respond. We work with Unity. We work with Cascadia, all of our community partners. And everybody is understaffed. Everybody is hungry for more resources.
 And it can be very dehumanizing for someone to experience a mental health crisis and be told, I'm sorry, you're going to have to wait six months or, you know, there's just no room at Unity tonight or, you know, what have you. Thank you. Could I ask a question related to that? Because that's a provocative question. And we certainly hear at least anecdotally and our last point in time count, not the one we just completed where the data is still outstanding,
 but there was a significant increase in self-reporting of health issues, particularly mental health issues and alcohol and drug addiction. You're telling us that the resources that are available to address those issues are currently under-resourced. They are overworked. Are there other strategies that you would suggest we take in the meanwhile to help reverse this tide? No.
 I'm afraid I don't have a comprehensive strategy to suggest. All I can continue to urge is what I tell my staff and what I tell community partners is treat people like human beings because every story is unique and different, and everybody's challenges are multifaceted and unique to that person. And so coming up with one-size-all solutions –
 can, in my experience, has caused almost as much trauma as the original trauma itself. Thank you. I can certainly see why you were promoted because, you know, I like your style. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all four of you. Any other questions for this panel? Thank you very much. Carla, do we have people signed up for public testimony? Yes, we have one person, a lightning. Very good. Come on up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superhumanity. I do agree with this. I would like to have an understanding that we do not... My understanding, we do not call it the state of emergency. We are the city of Portland. We are not the state. I don't see how we can declare a state of emergency. That's my opinion, and that was brought up in the past, that that would change by the governor. Moving on is that I think...
 As the gentleman spoke on the shelters, it's been one of the most beneficial things in the city that we didn't really have before. And I think they're beginning to really refine the shelters into an experience that people actually want to go there, use the services, and then again, as stated, move up in some type of affordable permanent housing.
 So I do commend you on that. And again, I commend the thinking behind it to spread these shelters out, farther out, in different locations to give the people the ability to stay in maybe the neighborhoods they're homeless in. And I think that's really been effective. From my opinion on the affordable housing bond,
 That's been the best thing that's ever happened to this city. And as you know, with Metro combining, the dollar amounts and the resources are there to get that housing implemented. That was the key. I'd also like to follow in the footsteps of Bill and Melinda Gates. I'd like to see a $500 million initiative put together for the city of Portland to offer low-interest loans to the developers to be paid back.
 and then continuously keep funding that out. And I'd like more research on the Bill and Melinda Gates initiative that they did in Seattle and the Puget Sound area and try to get that put into place here. Also, I want more of a focus on those 8,000 units at the baseball stadium.
 There's no reason why these investors can't begin to commit those units before they do their stadium, before they do anything else. I'd like to see them commit to more of the 0% to 30% units, supportive housing, start bringing in money from Seattle, other locations, and show that you're also here to take care of the homeless even if that stadium doesn't happen.
 Build those 8,000 units. Start now and show the city that you really are here to take care of the people and then possibly get your stadium put into place. So, again, everything is looking good. The machine is looking good. It's moving forward in a positive manner. And, again, I think Portland is...
 place to look at and say, they're doing something right, but it's a very difficult situation. And again, just real fast, my focus is on the heroin addicts, the meth addicts, the opioid addicts,
 The people laying on the sidewalks, that is torture under a tarp. It is torture in my mind. We need to offer them treatment into shelters with services into housing. It is torture in this city to allow that to take place with people who have addictions that could lead to suicide. And there's no reason to allow that anymore to happen. Get them into housing or shelters. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony.
 Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Wait a minute. I'm sorry. Commissioner Udaily has amendments. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't get them. Okay. Commissioner Udaily. Thank you, Mayor. As you know, I've been out for several days, as you referenced earlier. I'm scrambling to get up to speed on these items, and I just –
 I want to offer some amendments really for the sake of discussion. I've heard from the mayor's office that they don't feel that these are the right place to stick these amendments, but I think they warrant conversation. So first I will start by saying that four years ago this month, I stepped into the housing justice arena and it changed the course of my life.
 I ended up here. I was also a part of a large contingent of advocates and activists, including my director of policy, Jamie Duhamel, who were called in the city in 2015 to declare a housing state of emergency. We were somewhat gratified by the recognition of that emergency, but we certainly weren't satisfied yet.
 with the measures that the city took, and we're still not satisfied. And in saying that, I don't mean to dismiss the hard work that many people in this room have done. We need to acknowledge our accomplishments, but we obviously can't celebrate when we've got thousands of people still suffering, either on the streets, in our shelters, or...
 under burdensome housing costs. So I appreciate the specific directives in this ordinance to make sure we're permanently changing the way we address housing and homelessness beyond the parameters of a temporary housing crisis. Myself and my office have been working pretty much nonstop on these issues since the day we arrived in City Hall.
 In addition to our work around tenant protections, I also co-chair the Joint Office on Homeless Services. We participate in the All-In City's Anti-Displacement Network through PolicyLink. We're currently identifying PBOT-owned right-of-ways to cite more alternative shelters.
 And we, as a team, have invested hundreds of hours researching, discussing, and drafting policies that could help mitigate the damages of this crisis, as well as help prevent displacement from creating new crises in the future.
 Yet we continue to face the ever-present obstacle of a lack of funding. And that's what I want to talk about today because it's really not addressed in the existing declaration or in what we're passing today.
 So, as an example, we spent months with community members, housing providers, and real estate representatives drafting a policy to allow tenants the opportunity to purchase rentals when owners choose to sell. This is a program that's worked really well in Washington, D.C., and has resulted in considerable investment in permanent affordable housing and home ownership opportunities for low-income households.
 However, without financial assistance for low-income renters to purchase and rehabilitate the properties, it would be a mostly empty gesture that would fail to benefit the people we are trying to assist. Commissioner? Yes. Could you yield for one second? Sure.
 I was not aware that we were going to have amendments today, and perhaps my colleagues were, but there is a procedural challenge to raising amendments at this stage, which is an amendment would then be subject to public testimony in favor or against and would, in effect, reopen the hearing for that purpose. Is your intent, and I'm asking this sincerely because I was not aware that amendments were being offered,
 Is your intent to highlight some tenant protection issues and some funding issues at the sort of beginning of our budget process to focus our attention, or is it to substantively amend this particular ordinance?
 As I said at the outset, my intent is to offer these amendments for the sake of discussion. I want to have them on public record. I want to hear, I want everyone in the room and who's watching today to hear what I have to say. I'd like to have an opportunity to deliberate with my colleagues. I won't be disappointed if we don't ultimately advance them.
 But if we feel that they're worthwhile, then I don't think it would take up a lot more of our time to open it back up to public testimony, given that chambers are half full right now. So I'm going to continue with my comments. Thank you.
 Another example of something that we would like to see is universal eviction defense. We know through a large study done in New York that it saves money and externalized costs when cities fund lawyers for tenants facing evictions.
 This anti-displacement strategy is highly effective for both the tenants and for city budgets. However, as 80% of evictions are due to non-payment of rents, the program can only be successful, like it is in New York, if funds are available to help cover those gaps. On average, we could spend a few hundred dollars to prevent an eviction instead of the thousands in services to families that we spend after they have lost their housing. Okay.
 When reviewing this ordinance, I noticed that there's no language around identifying ongoing revenue sources that can help solve these problems. Our office has submitted a directive to develop in this budget cycle to identify the feasibility of a vacancy tax. And so I'm just going to read the amendments into the record. And if anyone has comments or questions, I'd welcome them.
 Excuse me, may I? Commissioner Hardesty. Are you going to move your amendments or is this just for the public record? For sake of discussion, yeah. So number one, well, and I'm not even going to read them as amendments. This is what I want us to consider today in moving forward. We don't have revenue sources specifically identified to fund solutions to homelessness, displacements, and housing affordability issues.
 so many housing-related policies and programs cannot be implemented or expanded. It makes perfect sense to me that today, as we reconsider the housing state of emergency, that we'd be talking about how we're going to pay for all of these things.
 Funding for policies and programs such as tenant opportunity to purchase, universal eviction defense, rent subsidies, alternative shelter resources, hygiene resources, and stabilizing and expanding the funding for the Joint Office on Homeless Services is critical to further our goals of minimizing the impacts of the housing crisis.
 So what I would like to see is the Revenue Division, in coordination with PHB and others as necessary, identify potential new revenue sources, such as a vacancy tax, other taxes, or fees, that would bring in at least $50 million annually to the city's general fund that can be specifically allocated to fund housing services and housing policies and programs and report back to council on their findings within a year.
 It's been suggested that I should advance these during the budget conversation, but I really didn't feel like letting this conversation go by about the housing state of emergency without raising these issues. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. First of all, I want to thank our colleague who was genuinely missed this week, although thank you for giving us regular updates to us and to the community on your son's well-being.
 I appreciate that you have placed these issues before us. I had a conversation with Chair Khafre recently where she indicated to me that she's part of some broader conversations about how to get a dedicated revenue source for the services side of supportive housing, and there is some interesting work being done in thinking about that. We have also, as a council, discussed
 clearly indicated our desire to allocate a small portion of our tourist taxes to cover services. Again, a part of our strategy, which currently is unfunded. And I appreciate that you are framing these issues as issues of concern. I commit that.
 to work with you during the budget process to identify new revenue sources. One of the things I'm concerned about is I read the numbers, including the available one-time and ongoing resources. If we simply fund the Joint Office of Homeless Services at last year's level, we may be in a situation where we actually have no money to carve up.
 And that's not sustainable, even though if I had to take one last dollar that was available, I would invest it in addressing homelessness and the crisis on our streets. That's not sustainable. So building on the momentum we had, particularly with the Metro Housing Bond, and I think the appetite and willingness of coalition partners to be helpful, I appreciate you flagging this issue, and I think it's something that we should sincerely address during the budget process and beyond.
 And so I appreciate that you have placed this in the record.
 Thank you. And I'll just say I'm painfully aware that it's unlikely that we will have any money to carve up to dedicate to the kinds of additional policies and programs I'm talking about, which is why I wanted to raise the issue of a vacancy tax. As my chief of staff loves to say, we can't solve a dollar's worth of problems with a dime. And we have to start talking about other –
 revenue sources. I would like to chime in here if I could for just a minute. First of all, thank you for bringing this forward. And I concur with the sentiment that you've described. Almost coincidentally, every meeting I've had today has been about substance abuse or mental health issues, other public health issues that are clearly impacting people on the streets. Yes.
 We are constantly looking for resources to address the homeless crisis, which I think most people would acknowledge is the issue. It is the number one issue that we're facing right now in this city, and it's something I hear about every day. I am wondering if there is a way to compromise here to both agree to the intentions that you put here on the record
 and have that seriously looked at during the budget process. And I know there was the directive to develop that was put into the record for the budget process, but it's somewhat narrower than the scope of this. So I'm wondering if there is a way we could sort of do a friendly amendment on that directive to develop to include this broader sentiment. Okay.
 Would that be an acceptable compromise? That's really more than I expected, Mayor, and it's very appreciated. Could I hear from somebody from – is there somebody from the Revenue Bureau here? I thought I saw Jennifer floating around somewhere, or CFO. No.
 Well, why don't we do this? You'll have my personal and very public commitment that we will address this, and we will look at this in the context of the budget process. And I look forward to working with you and all of our colleagues on this. And I agree with what Commissioner Fish said. I think there are multiple tables where these conversations are taking place. Let's see if we can lead them all into one cohesive conversation. But I agree with the sentiment that you put on the table there. Thank you, Mayor. And I'm appreciative of it.
 Please call the roll. Fish? Well, I think we have to begin our comments by squarely addressing the concern that Lightning has put on the table. And Lightning is one of my favorite people who regularly participates in our deliberations because he always has something interesting to add, and he wondered why we're calling this a state of emergency when we're, after all, a lowly city.
 And it occurred to me that if I had my phone, I could solve this problem by just Googling the word state and come up with all the various definitions. But I think that we are all...
 agreed that when we talk about state of emergency, we're talking about a circumstance and not a geographic boundary. We are talking about a situation that has evolved, and we're not impermissibly treading on boundaries established under the state constitution. That said, I just want to go back in time 10 years ago.
 which happens to be when I first joined this city council. And it's an important perspective, I think, to recall our past as we chart our path forward. There were cranes in the air 10 years ago, but the only cranes in the air that I remember were for affordable housing development, which is actually pretty extraordinary because given the collapse of the tax credit market and given all the funding challenges, it's amazing that anything got built 10 years ago.
 But we did not have hotels and commercial buildings and market rate residential buildings going up on every street corner. Ten years ago, we had affordable housing, maybe. And we were grateful in those days for the Obama stimulus money. And we were also grateful for an incredibly resilient community that was skilled, particularly our nonprofit partners, at weathering all the odds and getting product built.
 What happened is we had a recovery from the worst recession in our lifetime, and that recovery hit Portland with a vengeance, and it produced one of the great sustained periods of growth. Our economy has done wonderfully well during this time. Many of the plans that people have put in place over the last 20 years came to fruition. We started seeing jobs moving here, and the unemployment rate come down to very enviable rates.
 But there was a price to be paid for that prosperity, and that was we ended up bidding up the price of land, and market forces kicked in. And as a result, too many people started to be able, too many people found themselves unable to afford to live here. And that is what ultimately triggered a state of emergency. It was a recognition that too many of our neighbors couldn't make their rent payments, couldn't find an affordable place to call home,
 and that the market was, in effect, too robust, leaving too many people in its wake. I was very pleased that Director Callahan gave us the PowerPoint because the numbers tell an important story. The combination of the impacts of inclusionary housing, of focused and sustained investment of urban renewal resources and other resources in affordable housing development,
 The commitment that we made to 2,000 new units of supportive housing, the reduced barriers to siting shelters, and the renewed conversation about asking every neighborhood to come forward with a creative way to do their fair share of addressing this crisis is bearing fruit. What we've learned is that this crisis is not over and will continue for some time. Today's proposal is to extend the state of emergency for two years.
 That may or may not be enough. My guess is it won't be enough. But it is important that we give clarity to decision makers that we are going to be operating under these rules. And as Joe Zender pointed out, it's important that we bake into our code some of these changes to really get some efficiencies in how we do our development going forward. I have visited most of the West Coast cities that are dealing with the same crisis that we are dealing with.
 In Los Angeles, the city of Los Angeles is spending literally billions of dollars to address this crisis, and yet per capita they have over two times the number of homeless individuals as we have in the city of Portland.
 The city of San Francisco is dealing with, on a much grander scale, this contradiction between being a city with an enormously productive economy, on the one hand, with high-tech millionaires being minted every day, and a huge problem with homelessness and a lack of affordability. The city of Seattle, which I visited recently, has a huge problem, and it seems, in my view, harsher.
 It seems harsher and more prevalent than the crisis that we're experiencing. Why do I say this? I say this because we are not alone. But where we are different, in my opinion, and where I have seen a difference over my service on this council, is the capacity of community partners to step up and address the problem in a collaborative way. That really is what makes Portland different. And it is what I've heard from leaders in cities up and down the West Coast,
 that there is a level of collaboration here and effectiveness and cohesion. It's different. So we celebrate that, and we thank today all of our nonprofit partners who are well represented in the panel for the good work they're doing. We extend this state of emergency because we continue to need to have these new tools. And as Commissioner Udaly has reminded us, this challenge that we face goes well beyond what's in this ordinance.
 and is reflected in many other parts of our code, and there are many other opportunities for us to do more and be better and be more strategic. So, Mayor, thank you for bringing this forward. Director Callahan and all the directors who spoke earlier, thank you for your testimony to our community partners. Thank you for your inspiring stories about what you're doing in the field.
 And this council is fully committed to your work. And today I'm pleased to vote. Bye. Hardesty. Thank you. I also want to thank the panel and director, Shannon Callahan, for an extremely important conversation and information that was shared.
 I want to also say that I guess I share Commissioner Udaly's concern about whether or not we're moving.
 the goalposts. With all due respect to all the people who are working their hearts out to try to do the best they can with the limited resources that they have, the reality is even the term affordable housing is an oxymoron because I can't tell you what's affordable for you, just like you can't tell me what's affordable for me.
 And we have a lot of housing that's posing as affordable housing that working people simply cannot afford to live in. And so we have to do a better job. We the city.
 of really being able to identify really what does an affordable housing, what does a unit that people can afford to live in look like? What does it cost? What are the services or supports that they need in order to be able to productively live in that property? And so as the newest member of this council, I know people are working their hearts out on this issue. I know that we're throwing all the resources at it that we possibly can at this moment.
 But I just have to tell you, I'm concerned that if at the end of the day, we still have people who work 40, 50, 60 hours a week and cannot afford to live in the city of Portland, we got a problem. And today, that's the problem that we have.
 Yes, are there people on the street who need mental health services? No question. Are there people that need alcohol and drug treatment? No question. But most of the people that I interact with, those are not their issues. Their issue is they're working two full-time jobs and cannot afford to live in the city that they were born in, that they grew up in, that their families own property in.
 I hope that whether it's through the budget process or some other mechanism that we get real about really what are we doing? Because when I see apartments that are being sold as affordable that are $1,200 for a studio, I'm like, are you kidding me? Who's that affordable for?
 we must do better and we must really make sure that we're holding developers accountable. When Lightning said give developers money, I was like, are you kidding me? I think they've made enough money. I think what we should be doing is trying to figure out
 how we can capture some of the federal tax money breaks that these big-time investors are getting to use the Opportunity Zone downtown Portland so they can make a bucket load of more money.
 If we as a council can't figure out how do we capture some of that money? Because all they're going to do is come in and build more expensive stuff that none of us can afford to use. And so, yes, we do have an emergency. Yes, we must do more. And yes, I vote yes on this particular measure. Thank you. You daily.
 Well, thank you again, Mayor, and thank you to my colleagues for entertaining my proposed amendments. I look forward to further discussion. Thank you to Director Callahan and ESA and city staff and panelists today.
 I want to go back to the state of emergency. What we were calling for was a rent freeze. We were calling on the city to recognize that we were dealing with a man-made disaster. And while we could not advance that particular cause, I am somewhat gratified by the actions in the state legislature to place a cap on rents.
 although I think it's too high, as I think everyone knows. And I would really... You know, we were also calling for the legislature to stop holding our regulatory tools hostage and give them back to us so municipalities could manage their unique challenges. And that includes rent control as well as setting just-cause standards for no-cause evictions. Um...
 Commissioner Fish, thank you for that walk down memory lane, but I want to take us back more than 30 years when a group of powerful lobby interests in the landlord, real estate, and home building arenas
 pushed our legislature to ban rent control at a time when rents were relatively low and vacancy was high in Portland, setting the stage for what became open season on Oregon renters. Portland currently has the highest number of cost-burdened households among, let's see...
 Six or seven different cities. It's higher than Seattle, Austin, Salt Lake City, Nashville, and Indianapolis. So it is particularly bad here, and I believe it's because in no small part we have not been allowed to regulate. It seems that most of my job is making up for the failures of capitalism, right?
 It is very frustrating that we rarely get around to the conversation of actually fixing the system. And most of our conversations are focused on policies that really serve as band-aids to a flawed and broken system. So I'm also looking forward to some of those conversations. You know, as a housing, a tenant advocate...
 The most frequent response I heard from people, other than if you can't afford it, just move, was, it's economics 101. It's all about supply and demand. Well, newsflash, we have a supply. We have 16,000, an estimated 16,000 vacant apartments in the city of Portland.
 But we also have a gross product mismatch between the housing that was supplied and the demand that exists. So it's not economics 101 friends. It's actually a lot more complicated than that. And that is one of the many reasons that I really hope that we pursue the possibility of a vacancy tax.
 I can think of few other scenarios where we have people suffering on the streets and we have people hoarding a resource that is a basic need and a human right and we don't see those people as, I want to choose my words very carefully right now, if you were sitting on a pile of food or medicine that people needed that was otherwise going to waste,
 you would be seen as a monster. If you are sitting on a pile of housing that people desperately need that is otherwise going to waste, it's just business. And I don't buy that. I think I'll leave it at that. It's been a really long couple weeks, friends. And I vote aye. Wheeler.
 Well, as you've heard today, there continues to be a shortage of workforce and affordable housing units in the city. There are, of course, stark disparities in economic prosperity, and that was highlighted by a report that was released last week by the Portland Business Alliance. And far too many people continue to live in unsheltered conditions on our streets. Thank you.
 During the state of housing emergency, we've been able to provide basic and emergency services expeditiously and fast-track affordable housing projects without compromising quality. Since there continues to be an urgent need for services and shelter that cater to basic human needs, I believe it's imperative that we continue to support these services through this appropriate legislative solution.
 Given the dependency of these actions on a formal state of emergency, the current housing state of emergency should obviously be extended for another two years.
 This extension from a practical sense gives us the means to continue to provide a necessary safety net where city boroughs begin work on more sustainable long-term solutions, including but not limited to the legislative proposals that would amend Title 33 under this code to allow for the permanent siting of day storage units.
 expeditiously allowing for temporary housing in the issuance of permits related to shelter siting, and creating an expeditious process for design review of affordable housing projects. And therefore, I support this ordinance.
 I also just want to be crystal clear, this ordinance is very narrow in its scope. This is one of many tools that the City of Portland has brought to bear to address both the housing issue as well as the homeless issue. In addition to the great work that we're collectively doing with the county through the Joint Office of Homeless Services,
 which is providing prevention services and important shelter services for those who are currently on the street, including services around behavioral health or substance abuse.
 and providing, of course, the transition into housing, we at the city have been working very hard. I've worked alongside my colleagues on reforms to both planning and zoning throughout the city to be able to increase the supply of units.
 We have been very busily reforming our permitting process. We've been expediting targeted affordable housing units. We've supported renter protections. We have developed a record number of workforce and affordable housing units through the Housing Bureau.
 During 2018 and 2019, we're on track to again deliver record results. And, of course, we're working with our colleagues in the state legislature to support other ideas and concepts like Senate Bill 608 that could even further the supply of housing in our community. So this is one step. It's a necessary step. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. And let's see. It is 310. Why don't we go ahead and read item 159, please?
 authorize a subrecipient contract with the Urban League of Portland for $214,000 for services in support of fair housing and renter protection. Director Callahan, why don't you go ahead and introduce the ordinance and your invited list of speakers.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Shannon Callahan, once again, of the Portland Housing Bureau. I'm joined this afternoon by Kim McCarty, our Render Services Office Program Coordinator, and Danetta Monk of the Urban League. We will be followed by Yesenia Delgado of El Programa Hispano-Catalica, Christina Dirks of Legal Aid Services, Alan Lazo of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon,
 So with that, I'm going to kick off the presentation. So the Portland Housing Bureau has sponsored an annual fair housing audit testing since 2013. We've tested based on a variety of different protected classes, including race, national origin, familial status, and disability.
 During our latest testing between March of 2016 and February 2018, we tested specifically on race and national origin.
 Testing showed evidence that differing information about rental terms and conditions, rent prices, move-in specials, deposits, application freeze, and screening criteria were given to testers in protected classes, meaning that testers who presented as white were treated more favorably than testers who were of color or of a different national origin.
 And we also found in this testing, I think Alan Lazo can talk to you a little bit more about that, that agents continued to make statements as one would consider possible steering or discouragement of protected class testers from renting or even applying. These results, of course, just reinforce the lived experience that we continue to hear from members in our community that discrimination based on race and national origin persists.
 When reporting the findings on the recent audit testing, Fair Housing Council of Oregon also presented us with a comprehensive report and a series of recommendations, including increasing access to legal services, culturally sensitive services, and providing incentives for private attorneys to accept fair housing cases. The contract you have before you this afternoon is part of our response.
 to the most recent audit testing and those recommendations. And with that, I'd like to introduce Kim McCarty of our renter services office. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Kim McCarty of the Portland Housing Bureau. I'm the contract manager for this new subrecipient contract for fair housing enforcement and education with the Urban League of Portland.
 This contract for services tries a new approach of working with culturally specific provider to provide offer advocacy and support to renters who believe that they may be facing housing discrimination. Through a competitive solicitation process, the Urban League of Portland was selected and one of the strengths of their proposal
 is that they have a partnership with El Programa Hispano-Catolica, Legal Aid Services of Oregon, and the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. The goal is to reach currently underserved black and Hispanic families. Fifty-five households that have experienced housing discrimination
 will receive a suite of services, including fair housing enforcement, education and counseling, and rent assistance to ensure their long-term housing stability. Danetta Monk, here today from the Urban League of Portland, will further explain the Urban League's concept for the program structure and offer insights into the fair housing issues that their clients experience. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Can you guys hear me good? Yes. Okay. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm happy to be here today. Again, my name is Danetta. I'm from the Urban League of Portland, and I manage our outreach and housing programs. We're really excited to be in partnership with Legal Aid Services of Oregon, El Programa, and the Fair Housing Council to kick off our Tenant Protections Collaborative.
 Elected officials in the community should support this collaborative because based on the Fair Housing Audit results, Portlanders experience housing discrimination based on race and national origin more so than any other factors. This audit is a result and reason why PHB created a grant and our collaborative is a direct response to the most common types of housing discrimination for black and Latin families.
 It will allow more tenants to understand how to use the legal process to fight housing discrimination and signal the large housing provider market that Portland is not a place that they can get away with unfair rental screening and treatment of residents.
 The collaborative will work with black and Latinx participants who are seeking support related to housing discrimination. We will work with the community members who may not otherwise feel empowered to take legal action or seek advice, and we will host Know Your Rights trainings for community members to become more knowledgeable about renter's protections.
 The Urban League has operated housing programs and served the community for over 40 years, and with recent expansions to our housing and homelessness outreach programs, we hope to meet the needs of community members. With this collaborative, we will all, as a part of the collaborative legal aid services, Fair Housing Council, Urban League, and L Programma host a biweekly meeting and staff each case.
 Each client who accesses this collaborative will have access to an attorney and legal representation if discrimination is founded and legal action is recommended. Clients will also have access to wraparound services at El Programma or Urban League of Portland.
 We and our partners are committed to end discrimination, displacement, and segregation of black and Latinx communities. This investment, emphasizing the enforcement of laws that Urban League has been working towards for years, is a small but critical step towards the promise of fair housing for all Oregonians. We believe that this pilot will function as a catalyst to empower our own communities to realize their rights. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty, then Commissioner Fishman.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you so much for your presentation. Director Callahan, I believe, and I want to check my own knowledge, that for the whole 30 years I've lived here in Oregon, African Americans and Latinos have been discriminated against in trying to obtain housing in Portland. Am I wrong? No.
 Not to my knowledge, Commissioner. I hope I did not mean to imply that in any way. But no, definitely. There has been no downturn in discrimination. And so thank you for that. I thought, well, maybe it's just me. Maybe I just don't have my facts straight. And so we are in a housing crisis.
 It is really, really difficult for working people to find a house that they can afford to live in. Right. And so I appreciate this proposal to provide legal assistance, but I'm looking at it from the other shoe. If I've got kids and I need a place, right? What's the incentive for me as a community member to go jump through all the hoops by
 right, to actually hold this place accountable because, you know, I'm probably not going to live there anyway because I had to actually find a house why they weren't letting me move into that one.
 You know, I would love to also ask you to ask that to the partners who are working directly in the field with folks who are facing discrimination every day. But I will tell you, without an ability to enforce rules on the books, you know, what's the point? I mean, I think we have fair housing rules. We've had them for over 50 years in this country. Right.
 We've seen less resources actually go to enforcement. The only real process, I mean, there are some attorneys who will take these cases, but the only real process to enforce is really through a HUD or a BOLI administrative process, and primarily right now, HUD. And so when folks do have situations that they are willing to take the next step,
 and they do want to say, yes, I was discriminated against, and yes, I need recourse, we want to be able to provide an avenue for that. These cases also help establish precedent, frankly, and make it clear that these actions that people are seeing are actually violations of the Fair Housing Act that can warn and educate future landlords that those actions are not acceptable. Thank you.
 So, you know, I think it is a broader way of addressing one facet of the problem. And I know truly, yes, we have access issues and we need more affordable housing, but we need to make sure that people are actually having the opportunity to get in that housing. And let me just say, I'm sorry if my presentation implied that there was any difference. These testings are moment-in-time snapshots.
 and they're meant to help us guide with future education and other program activities. So thank you for the question, though. Thank you. Mayor. Commissioner Fish, then Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. You daily, I'm sorry. Commissioner Fish, then Commissioner, you daily. Okay. It's a common mistake. I have, I think, three main questions. Two are clarifications, and then the third is actually related to what Commissioner Hardesty mentioned because it's a way of magnifying the impact.
 of testing. In the briefing materials that I got for this, it says the Urban League is getting $214,000. It says that the three partners are getting $137,000, but says the program budget is $301,500. So where am I misreading this? I'm looking up the budget right now.
 And my presumption is that some of the additional money is coming from other sources?
 Additional money beyond the $214,000? Yes. So that would be the likeliest answer, that there's another stream of funding. I can speak to that in the fact that we're leveraging some of our rental assistance through our home forward and joint office funds to support clients with rent assistance and emergency sort of deposits utility assistance. And this grant specifically is going to focus more on the staffing of the case manager who's going to work on the collaborative. Okay.
 Okay, so there are other resources being brought in. Yes. Director Callahan, is that correct? Yes, that's my understanding. I think as Danetta is saying, we want to make sure there's a full suite of services to folks who are facing housing discrimination. So it's just not the legal issues, but they're actually able to move folks into housing as well. Absolutely. My second question has to do with the amount that's actually going to the partners. The fair housing cases are expensive.
 pursuing people's legal rights through the courts is expensive. What is your expectation of what that $137,000 of investment will mean in terms of the number of clients served? Thank you.
 I think, Commissioner, as we discussed, we are planning on serving, making sure that there are 55 households that are being served with navigation and support services. And then also 300 hours of direct representation to 30 clients and 100 hours of technical assistance is what the contract calls for. Okay. So we're getting a very good legal deal from our partners. I'll say.
 And then here's my third point, and I think I see Alan Lazo is here, and he would, I think, amplify this. Commissioner Hardesty raised the question of why would someone go through this process and what is the ultimate goal? Well, one of the reasons why you go through this process with a competent lawyer is you want to make a very public case about,
 around someone's unlawful discrimination, and you hope through that that there's a change in business practices that impact other people that don't have to go through a lengthy and burdensome legal proceeding. But what we have found is that for that to be truly effective, we need to coordinate our activities as the Fair Housing Council of Oregon does with the U.S. Attorney's Office,
 with the Department of Labor, and with others. So if we really want to bring the hammer down, there are other partners and tools. To what extent does this anticipate that those kinds of robust partnerships with federal law enforcement will be pursued? Thank you.
 Commissioner, there is obviously a collaboration with all of those partners. And I think Alan and the team at Fair Housing Council can tell you a little bit more about recent experiences. I think they have shared with us a history of some of their cases and cases that they believe should have a determination made but are not clear-cut cases and folks are not willing to advance. Good. So this will augment.
 the already available services that they have at their disposal. But I just want to be clear. For some people, this will mean that they get an offer of tenancy. That's the ultimate outcome. They will get to live in the building that they were unlawfully denied access to. For others, the great weight of the legal system plus the federal government coming down on business practices that we reject as a community –
 will change the way that they implement their business practices. And I want to give Alan, when he comes up, a chance to talk about that because in some ways that's the bigger club. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. I just wanted to take this opportunity to thank you for being here and to thank Urban League for their participation in and support of my office's work on our upcoming projects.
 fair access in renting proposals, which aim to decrease barriers to housing as well as eliminate or substantially reduce opportunities for housing discrimination. And so I think our work goes hand in hand. Yes. I just appreciate you being here today. Thank you so much. Very good. Thank you. Public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes.
 Yes, we have. Oh, we've got another panel. Oh, I'm sorry. We have another panel. I apologize. Come on up. If you could just state your name for the record, go ahead and give your testimony. Thank you for being here, Janelle. Appreciate it.
 Buenas tardes, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I just wanted to do a quick follow-up to the work that has already been discussed. I am the Housing Services Program Manager with the Program Hispano, and the Program Hispano is really committed and thankful that the city is taking on this work to try and mitigate some of the issues that have come about due to housing discrimination.
 This is extremely, extremely important and very delicate work for us because for years now we have heard stories of participants that are coming into our office sharing their stories around housing discrimination. And what we do know is that the lack of a regulatory body to be able to enforce these fair housing rules...
 is only the issues that that presents only is exasperated when talking about communities of color.
 And so, like I said, for years now, we have heard these really egregious stories. In one instance, particularly, a mother who really needed a place to stay had to sit through microaggressions and racist comments from a landlord just because she needed the apartment. And that was the only apartment available.
 um, that was quote unquote affordable for her. But those were the circumstances that she had to, to deal with in order to stay housed. Um, and this is, um, even a more particular situation, um, given that we are a culturally specific agency for the Latinx community. And as you all might know, due to the current political environment that has, um, uh,
 with issues like public charge that has already made it very difficult for the Latinx community to trust government and law enforcement individuals. This would make them
 Latinx individuals who are experiencing this housing discriminations even more hesitant to be willing to come out and speak against it so I think that this is why it's crucial that el programa hispano Latinx culturally specific agency that is in the community for the community and due to all the trust that we built that we are that we have positioned ourselves really really well to be
 the navigators who kind of screen participants, provide trauma-informed and culturally specific case management wraparound services for these participants who then can seek mitigation with the attorneys that we're working with. So we just thank you for your support. We are very committed to this work because we deeply believe that it advances racial equity and housing justice in all of our communities.
 Thank you for working with us. We appreciate it very much.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, and thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for having us here today. I'm glad to see you here, Commissioner Udailey, and I hope that's a positive sign for you and your family that you're here today. My name is Alan Lazo. I'm the Executive Director at the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. I've heard your questions, and I'll address those at the end of our presentations, but I spent time writing this, so I'm going to go ahead and read it. So thank you also to Director Callahan and all the staff at the Housing Bureau for
 for their informed response to support these communities that have been impacted and targeted by housing discrimination. And thank you especially to our partners at the Urban League and El Programa Hispano for the trusted collaboration that we are building together. This catalyst to new relationships that will help ensure equitable and just treatment in this very difficult housing market that you all have been addressing all afternoon that extends even more so to those members of our community and our communities of color.
 Through this project, we, the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, will be training advocates in these organizations to recognize and bring forward fair housing violations that have been impacting their community members, as you've heard from both Isania and Danetta. We'll also be providing direct Know Your Rights trainings to these community members and also working, importantly, to connect those community members with the private civil rights attorneys that we work with to move fair housing cases forward.
 We as an organization are proud to be here at this table with this specific set of community organizations. As you know, I was here just a couple of weeks ago talking about the work that we do with other community organizations with Portland United Against Hate Coalition. And for our organization, this fair housing legal services project represents yet another step in our continuing efforts to best serve communities that, again, have been targeted and impacted, especially in that housing market context.
 You've heard me talk previously about the history of racial discrimination, segregation, and displacement here and in many places. So you know that we have a history in this institution of housing that we should not be particularly proud of, a history that has targeted and impacted communities of color and many others. So we need to be intentional now about rebuilding that trust of these communities in what historically have been institutions that have not served them well.
 These intentions move us closer to creating that truly inclusive community and opening access to opportunities for all, those values that I know we all share so dearly as a city and as a community. We also know that there are many other targeted and impacted communities that aren't here at this table today. We know, for example, that today members of our LGBT community are under attack from hate groups in our city.
 We want communities to know that these same protections in housing extend to members of all protected classes, not just those that are with us here today. We're looking forward to the successes of this project with these specific partners at this table. We also are really looking forward beyond this initial pilot project to creating intentional collaborations that serve all of the targeted and impacted communities of protected classes in our city.
 So thank you all for the commitments that you continue to make to end housing discrimination and ensuring equal access to housing in our city and in our community. So I'm happy to answer those questions that you had earlier about this project and about the work that we're doing together. Maybe, Christina, do you want to go first before we discuss some of the other pieces? I have a question. Please. Go ahead.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Christina Dirks. I'm an attorney with Legal Aid, and I'm also thrilled to be part of this collaboration with the Urban Legal Program for Housing Council.
 You know, the results of the audit testing showed how far reaching discrimination is in our rental market for black and Latinx renters. The results didn't come as a surprise to us, as we know racism in the rental market, both overt and subtle, is pervasive. We also know that the housing crisis is not just one of affordability but of racialized gentrification. And as a result of this...
 As the market gets tighter, housing providers are pushing out communities of color for the benefit of middle-class white renters through discriminatory tactics. And despite the audit results, we also know that individuals are not coming forward to assert their rights, as we might expect. There's both obviously institutional and structural reasons for that and some of the reasons that Commissioner Hardesty mentioned. We are hoping that this project will help to address some of that disconnect.
 In general, the unmet need for civil legal services related to rental housing is vast. Housing legal assistance is now the most requested civil legal need from our office in Portland, making up about 40 percent of the callers. Our office receives thousands of calls a year seeking legal assistance with housing matters, and we are currently unable to meet the vast need for our services.
 Through this collaboration and funding from the city, we will be able to extend the temporary employment of one of our housing attorneys who was working on the eviction pilot project that was also through Portland Housing Bureau. Providing redress for victims of housing discrimination has always been a high-priority work for our office. However, we recognize the barriers that both Black and Latinx individuals face when attempting to access both the legal system generally and legal aid specifically.
 The need for culturally specific, trauma-informed skills is critical. Urban League and El Programa are uniquely positioned to shape the priorities and the contours of this collaboration based on their relationships with the community members most impacted by discriminatory housing practices. And we are eager to listen to these partners on how to best serve clients in a manner that removes as many barriers as possible for people of color to enforce their rights and seek redress.
 We anticipate that through this collaboration, Legal Aid will provide community education workshops, technical assistance as requested by our partners, receive guided referrals, and provide legal representation in a range of cases from direct advocacy, negotiated settlements to larger discrete impact litigation that could result in policy changes for large-scale housing providers. Thank you.
 Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions for this panel? Alan, just would you care to address the question of partnering with the federal government on enforcement? Sure. I'll start there. And I think you're right, Commissioner Fish. There are sort of a natural set of partners that we have in the fair housing legal enforcement world, including the U.S. Department of Justice, the State Attorneys General, Boley, and other folks.
 But there are specifics around those partnerships that we have to achieve to some degree, right? We're not going to move anything through the U.S. Attorney's Office unless it's pattern and practice. But we also aren't going to find pattern and practice cases if we don't have good community partners. So there's two sides to this. Both that answer – let me jump to another piece of that answer, though. If you're not aware, Boley, the Bureau of Labor and Industries, who is charged with –
 civil rights in the state of Oregon is no longer substantially equivalent with regard to HUD and fair housing. And so that is not a pathway that we have any longer for enforcement. That is an issue that's been ongoing since 2015 now and hasn't been resolved.
 So it's an issue that we need to potentially look at. We've talked with the city about it. So our only recourse with regard to that enforcement, with the complaints that move forward, is at the federal level with HUD. So hopefully that answers some of those questions. Thank you. And then, you know, the other piece of that in the same way is, you know, back to what you said, Commissioner,
 This work, and I think I'm glad that we are here publicly to be talking about this project because there are two pieces of it. One, I think we should send a public signal that this work is happening, that if there are bad actors out there, that we intend to work with these community groups who are experiencing their impacts to root that out.
 But it also should send a signal to these communities that this is a different way of doing business along this work around housing discrimination. And so, again, I think it's the great credit of Director Callahan and the Housing Bureau to address the recommendations that we brought forward out of the testing. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. We appreciate it very much. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? One person, Shedrick Wilkins. Very good. Come on up.
 Good afternoon. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I think housing depends on income and salary and on discrimination. How many women governors have we had? Two? How many African-American marriers have we had? None? Right? I personally like the fact that we have an African-American woman police chief. How many of those have we ever had? We've had one. We had one woman police chief called Penny Harrington who lasted a year and a half.
 And she had some issues with her husband or something. I don't know. I got out of the Army. Bud Clark. I like Bud. I used to drink beer with him over in his tavern. When he was mayor, it was fun to be around, but he put her in there under pressure for some reason. She was held accountable for her husband. So she lasted a year and a half. I can tell you now that...
 Police chief. Shedrick. Shedrick. We've got a lot of people waiting. Police chief Daniel Outlaw has lasted a year and a half, and I hope she's still police chief. And if you ever can her because she's a woman or she's not macho, I'm going to come here and tell you, keep her there. You come up with some intelligent reason to get rid of her. That's upset. And like I say, housing depends on income. I don't want to see her going back to San Francisco and Oakland because we're a bunch of racist or sexist people here.
 All right. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. I'm just speechless, so I'll say aye. Wheeler. I've got a few brief closing remarks I'd like to make. The Fair Housing Act serves everyone, but the law was created in response to the profound injustice of discrimination faced by people of color seeking housing and specifically racial segregation experienced by the black community. Okay.
 Today, demographic housing data shows racial segregation and disparate access to housing is still present. But the recent Fair Housing Audit report suggests complaint and audit testing data does not fully explain the demographic patterns of racial segregation and its harmful impacts. The Fair Housing Enforcement tools are typically successful when acts of discrimination are blatant and intentional.
 But if racial discrimination is subtle, unintended, or intentionally hidden, the current tools just aren't having the intended impact. Because of the subtle forms of housing discrimination that are difficult to prosecute, we know many people of color just aren't reporting. They're not seeking help, and they're not even aware at times that they've experienced racial discrimination.
 This contract for service is designed to overcome the historic mistrust of the legal system, support the people who are experiencing real harm, and find better ways to enforce current fair housing law. I want to thank our partners who testified today for their leadership on this matter. I want to thank Shannon and the Housing Bureau for their exceptional work on this. I think this is a great new model.
 and I'm really proud that we're doing this here in Portland, Oregon. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Time certain items 160 and 161. Please read them together. 160, amend city code related to the administration of the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Initiative and other housekeeping amendments. And 161, create the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund.
 Colleagues, as you know, the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Initiative is the result of ballot measure 26201, which was passed by the Portland voters at the November 6th general election with a 65% yes vote. Together, these two ordinances codify the ballot measure into the city's codes.
 City staff and members of the community coalition that created and led the ballot measure have been working together since late last year after the passage of the measure to figure out what needs to be done to successfully implement the program. These ordinances are some of the first steps, but the process will continue over the next year. We'll hear more about that work during the staff presentation and invited testimony.
 I'd now like to turn this over to my colleague, Commissioner Hardesty, to give opening remarks before staff will present the two ordinances. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, and thank you. It's wonderful to see this chamber filled with many of the people that helped get us to the day that we are at.
 I am so proud of the work that was done to create the Portland Clean Energy Fund initiative. And I want to take us, before I turn it over to staff, just down a little memory lane kind of thing. I remember having this crazy conversation with this lawyer guy named Brent Foster who said –
 I think we could work together and figure out how to develop an initiative that would actually do three things. It would address climate change. It would address economic opportunity for those who have been left out of our economic workforce. And three, it would address the racial disparate outcomes that communities of color continue to experience in Portland, Oregon.
 and I was just like crazy enough to say, okay, let's sit down and try to figure out how we could make that happen. And we did. But what we did was something that I've never seen happen before in Portland and certainly not in Oregon. And quite frankly, I don't think I've seen it anywhere else. What we did was create a coalition, a coalition that included, that started with the NAACP Portland branch, Sierra Club,
 350 PDX, Verde, the Oregon chapter of Sierra Club, I said that, Coalition of Communities of Color, Native America Youth and Family Center, the Asian Pacific Network of Oregon, and Organic Consumer Association.
 That group spent almost two years refining a ballot measure that would go to the voters that we would have to make the case to publicly as to why this is so. Why was this important? Well, because Oregon, actually the city of Portland, the city council, passed a resolution that said by 2050 we would be energy independent.
 um, as a city. And I was really excited about that. Yay. We're going to make this happen. Um, but then it was like, okay, how do we get there? And who are we going to be energy independent from? And who's going to benefit from that?
 So the more research we did, the more we found that everybody in the city of Portland pays into a fund called a public purpose fund on your utility bill, if you're fortunate enough to have a house. But what you may not know is that only people who have a nice house and good standing have the opportunity to actually get those energy efficiency improvements for their home.
 We did a lot of research. We ended up going to Salem. We wrote reports. And what we found out was, is that everybody pays into it, but only people who are upper middle class had the opportunity to benefit from that. And so this measure was about creating an equitable opportunity for low-income people and people of color to be able to get energy efficiency improvements, to get workforce training. Because as we started hearing about this new climate industry,
 What we saw were white men at the forefront. And what we would say, well, where are the people of color? Where are the women? What's happening with this new industry? And we were told, we'll get to that. We'll get to that. Right?
 And we've been so successful at getting to that so far that community groups decided that we would take the reins of this activity and we would develop the measure. We would make the case for why the city should either adopt it, send it to voters, or we would go out and collect signatures. I am so proud of my coalition partners because within five weeks they collected 35,000 signatures and it made the Portland ballot.
 This is the first time in a history that people of color developed a ballot initiative, led the organizing effort, and three, ran the campaign to make it happen. So this initiative, what does it do? I think most of the people in this room probably know, but for the listeners, I will say it increases the business income tax by 1%.
 for retail operations with $1 billion, and that's with a B, billion dollars in national sales and a half million dollar sales in the city of Portland. And it gives us the opportunity as a city to do some really innovative developments.
 including addressing issues of workforce development, weatherization, energy efficiency improvements, prioritizing people of color and low-income communities. I love that this passed by a vote of 66% of the voters who participated in last year's election.
 Because I think what that says is that we're ready to move beyond our racist history and we're ready to move and lockstep with communities of color, with them in a leadership position, actually leading the way in how we as a community live up to our potential.
 And so I will have more to say when we get to the end of this, but I will leave it there. And I want to appreciate the staff because I had the opportunity to meet with Michelle and Thomas yesterday to get some of my additional questions answered. And Thomas Landham, who is our Revenue Division Director, I just wanted to thank you very much. I've never seen a city process that tracked public comments so well.
 And you did an excellent job of actually letting us know who participated, what their comments were, and which ones you accepted and didn't. And I promise I put it on the record. I'm putting it on the record. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. And so without further ado, I will turn it over to our esteemed panel and have them take it away. Thank you.
 Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. So thank you very much. My name's Michelle Krim. I'm the Chief Sustainability Officer for the city. And today what we're going to do is present to you two ordinances that help to get some of the early pieces of work needed in place in order for us to create this fund. Portland is known nationally and internationally for...
 Our accomplishments in tackling climate change, we were the first city in the United States to create a climate action plan 25 years ago in 1993. We have adopted some of the most aggressive climate goals in the world, including reducing carbon emissions 80% and having 100% renewable energy by 2050. Okay.
 And we've made some real progress in reaching those goals. We've reduced community-wide emissions 19%, and today Portlanders produce 42%, fewer emissions per person than they did in 1990. But those carbon emissions are getting harder and harder to come by, and the runaway trajectory of global carbon
 carbon emissions mean that we face a future, a more likely future that we will be facing big impacts such as heat waves and flooding and wildfires.
 And not only will those impacts disproportionately affect communities on the front lines of climate change, including Portland's communities of color and low-income populations, but those same communities also have not benefited equitably from the past climate actions that the city has taken, and they also have not been always at the table to help us shape climate-related programs and policies.
 We know that reaching our aggressive climate goals and to address the challenges of creating a healthy, resilient, prosperous community for all requires that our climate work evolve. And the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund provides an outstanding model for how to do that. Where equity and racial justice is the beating heart of our climate work, it's not an add-on or nice-to-have that we have around the margins. Thank you.
 Centering our work around a climate justice frame shouldn't be done because it's the right thing to do. In fact, it must be done because it offers the transformational solutions that we need to achieve our aggressive climate goals and to deliver on the city's economic, social, and environmental priorities.
 This fund promises to deliver all of that in spades. As you know, and as Commissioner Hardesty just shared, the measure was passed by a margin of 65%, making it Oregon's first ever environmental initiative created and led by communities of color. And it's also the first clean energy financing program in a city of its kind in the country.
 I want to take a moment to both acknowledge and to celebrate the community vision and leadership that led us to being here today to make this program a reality. From conceiving of the idea, building a diverse and powerful coalition, crafting the legislation, gathering the signatures, and building a groundswell of support.
 These community leaders and advocates, many of whom are in the room here today, have created a new paradigm for how we can go from incremental to transformational in our climate work. BPS is honored to play a role in stewarding and shepherding the design and development of the fund, and we're committed to creating a granting program that delivers on the community-led vision, both in the outcome and in the process to get there.
 So with that, Commissioner Hardesty shared a little bit about how the program works. And so again, it's a program that's funded with a 1% surcharge on retail sales of certain large retailers in Portland. And the revenue staff here will describe that in detail in a moment. And it's currently estimated to generate between $54 and $71 million a year.
 Commissioner Hardesty reviewed the priorities of the fund related to clean energy projects, clean job training, as well as programs that both reduce carbon emissions and promote economic, social, and environmental benefits. Half of the fund's projects must benefit Portland's underserved populations and neighborhoods, specifically communities of color and low-income populations.
 The fund is overseen by a nine-member oversight and advisory committee that make recommendations, funding recommendations for city councils, consideration and adoption. In addition to annual financial audits and every other year performance audits, this oversight committee is responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of the fund in achieving the goals of the initiative. Okay.
 So in the coming months, each of you will appoint one member of this committee, and then the initial five committee members that you see will make recommendations to you for your approval.
 So we're currently working with the community coalition that led the ballot initiative to outline the details of that recruitment and the expectations of that advisory and oversight committee members in terms of time commitment, meeting schedule, conflicts of interest, stipends, etc. And we'll be working with the Office of Community and Civic Life as well as your staff as we gear up to begin that recruitment and selection process.
 Lastly, I just want to talk a little bit about staffing. Staff from across the city have been working hard to identify the steps that need to be taken to get the fund off the ground. In addition to BPS and your chiefs of staff, the revenue division, the city attorney's office, human resources, and the budget office have all played important roles in getting us to where we're at today.
 The ballot measure identifies the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability as having the primary responsibility for assisting the Community Advisory and Oversight Committee in initiating and beginning the implementation of the ballot measure. We expect the work will take approximately 18 months with the goal of being ready to launch the fund and make grant awards in July of 2020, if not sooner.
 Once the program is up and running, the Community Oversight and Granting Committee may decide to either continue utilizing the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability in this fashion, or decide to move the program and its staff to be housed elsewhere. BPS is taking our role in helping to create a successful program very seriously, and we're actively engaged with and following the continued leadership of the community coalition that created the ballot initiative.
 So the ordinance, one of the ordinances in front of you today, item 160 I believe, does three things. The first thing it does is it actually creates the fund by amending city code 5.04 and adds the fund to the city's financial system.
 The second thing it does is it authorizes four new staff positions to design, oversee, and manage the program. We've worked with the community coalition to identify the priority bodies of work that need to get underway immediately, and these staff positions are focused on meeting those needs. One of the positions is a program manager. The second position is focused on coordinating the funds oversight and advisory committee.
 The third position is focused on community outreach and capacity building so that local nonprofits are well positioned to submit successful proposals at the time that the fund launches. And the fourth position is focused on performance metrics, reporting, and communications.
 So provided that City Council authorizes the creation of these positions today through this ordinance, we're ready to begin recruiting the program manager position this coming Monday of February 25th. And the following three positions will follow soon thereafter.
 The third thing that this ordinance does is it directs the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to bring forth a budget request in the spring bump to equal what we believe the Bureau will spend in staffing materials and services by the end of this fiscal year, 18-19.
 and to request that amount from the general fund contingency. It also affirms that all reasonably necessary program expenses covered by BPS or the general fund are to be reimbursed by the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund when revenues are available in mid-2020. Thank you.
 So with that, I would also say we just published a website related to the fund on BPS's website. And so there's more information there for people who are interested in learning more or want to get directly involved. And with that, I'll turn it over to Thomas. Thank you very much. I'm Thomas Lanham. Thomas, your mic's not on. Oh, okay. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi. I'm Thomas Lanham. I'm the Revenue Division Director. Joining me is Tyler Wallace, who's here to answer any questions. Tyler is our Tax Division Manager. Commissioner Hardesty and Michelle, I think, covered this very well, so I'm not going to dive into any detail about it.
 the measure itself, just highlighting kind of what we're here to do. So, again, to reiterate, item number 160 implements the measure. Item number 161 creates the funds and the positions within BPS. Okay.
 Just to be really clear about what the changes are from the measure, we are making some changes, and our philosophy was to cleave as closely as possible to the intent of the voters, working very closely with the committee and with the petitioners to make sure that we didn't violate the spirit of the measure. And so there was some clarity around definitions.
 around filing requirements and aligning the measure with standard practices in taxation, such as looking to the current year sales measures rather than the prior year, and aligning to current definitions rather than creating new definitions whenever possible. So with respect to our next steps implementing this, following council action today, we will begin an administrative rulemaking process today
 where we will publicly post some proposed administrative rules that largely will get into a little more detail about some of the definitions, providing some examples for taxpayers so they understand what we believe would be included and not included in terms of the tax.
 That process will begin again very shortly, probably in March. We will publish a date in the Daily Journal of Commerce for a public hearing in the revenue offices for anyone that wants to provide feedback. And then following that feedback, we will either amend the administrative rules or adopt them.
 And so with that, I'll wrap up, unless there are questions. I guess I would also add. Thomas, before you disappear, there are three technical amendments. Yes, sir. That's right. Thank you. Can you walk us through those, please? I put that in bold caps and still read past it for some reason. I had it sitting right in front of me. I wasn't going to let you go. So do you all have a copy of Exhibit C? Yes.
 So there are three technical amendments to the ordinance. The first is in Council Finding Number 11, just updating the fiscal year from 2020-2021 to 2019-2020 in terms of when the senior revenue auditor positions would need to be added to revenue. Amendment Number 2 says,
 is an amendment that is completely unrelated to the measure, but it was an action that we felt made a lot of sense in terms of getting our code up to date around intentional database hacking. So it simply increases the penalties for that if anyone were to intentionally hack into the business license information system. And then the third amendment corrects two legacy code references that were not gender neutral, and I want to thank Michelle Krim and her staff for pointing those out,
 to us. I'm happy to read those in the record, but I think the written record suffices for Exhibit C. And then, now my final comments would be, first, I'd like to thank the Clean Energy Committee and the coalition. They have been absolutely wonderful to work with.
 I also want to thank the business community and Portland Business Alliance. We had some very frank and, I think, fruitful discussions about some changes they felt should be made. And then lastly, Revenue Division staff, if you could stand up in the back there and take a bow or otherwise. Thank you very much for all the help that you've given in terms of getting this thing stood up. Mayor? Mayor?
 Commissioner Fish. Do you want us to move the package of amendments? Yes. So I move the amendments as a package. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. We have a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Any further discussion on the amendments? Call the roll on the amendments. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendments are on the table. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it.
 All right, we have an invited testimony panel as well. Reverend Edie Mondanay is here today. Jenny Lee from the Coalition of Communities of Color. And I forgot to mention that Reverend Mondanay is the president of the NAACP Portland branch and the chief petitioner of Measure 26-201, the Portland Clean Energy Initiative. Jenny Lee is the advocacy director of the Coalition of Communities of Color.
 And I hope I'm pronouncing this gentleman's name correctly. Ranthi Villatoro? Close? Thumbs up? Good. Excellent. Oregon State Policy Director, Blue-Green Alliance, and Nate McCoy, the Executive Director of the National Association of Minority Contractors of Oregon. Come on up. Thank you for being here.
 Reverend, you know that this is your second time in testifying within 24 hours. Yes. If you can fit in a third time, you know we're legally obligated to provide you with office space. Well, today is my birthday, and I wouldn't want to be anywhere else. Happy birthday. That's great. Hey, Nate, let's bring another chair up. Just grab that chair. Thank you.
 Reverend, I didn't recognize you in your street clothes. I'm sorry? I didn't recognize you in your street clothes. Well, you know, I sometimes wear jeans. Me too. Now, would you like to go ahead and start us off since it's your birthday? Yes, I'm E.D. Mondinay. I'm president of the NAACP, and I'm my grandchildren's grandfather, most importantly. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I want to take this time to express my gratitude to the mayor and our city's board of commissioners for your role in making Portland history by lending your support to the communities that led the victory in passing ballot measure 26-01, the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Initiative. I am especially grateful for the foresight of Commissioner Hardesty
 to be one of the first to bring to light this initiative and invite other partners of the communities of color to come on board. My heart breathed a sigh of hope as I have witnessed the power in the call of collective voices of our citizens. Combined with the feverishly hard work of Portland's communities of color, we took the lead in advancing an environmental initiative to victory. Together,
 We were able to bring an initiative, bring innovative reasoning to battle the necessary war on environmental injustice and economic inequality. We have taken giant steps in the fight of justice by moving forward a vision for a clean energy future. We look forward to workers with living wage jobs, suitable housing that is energy efficient,
 and renewable energy that matches the renewed hope that advancement in sustainability yields. The people of Portland said yes to this vision. It suffered intense skepticism from the press, but 65% of this city voted for large retailers to pay their fair share to build climate resilience for frontline communities. Our naysayers.
 will be eager to publicize even minor missteps. They will expect the city to faithfully implement the initiative they approved. Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, we have an expectation as well. We expect you to defend this initiative from those who would seek to weaken it, ensuring that communities of color and low-income folk
 are prioritized so that they receive needed mitigation and resilience to climate change. The people of Portland spoke loud and very clearly on election night, and our hope is that you will echo their voices. It is imperative to note that this initiative has captured the attention of the nation.
 Progressive cities, advocates for justice, and those who know that it is right now time to address the climate crisis. They are looking and waiting to see to Portland successfully implementing this initiative. In my closing, I caution you to exercise patience.
 This is a brand new initiative, and we are building skills for contractors, workers, organizations, and more so that they can better utilize this fund. We look forward to continued collaboration to support a strong implementation to this historic measure. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Hardesty, and Commissioner Fish.
 Thank you so much for the opportunity to testify here today on this ordinance adopting the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Initiative into the City Code. My name is Jenny Lee. I am the advocacy director at the Coalition of Communities of Color. I'm here today on behalf of the Portland Clean Energy Fund Coalition's implementation committee.
 The amendments before you today will help improve the initiative's language with the city code, make it easier for the Revenue Division to collect the clean energy surcharge efficiently and effectively. We greatly appreciate the diligence of Revenue Division Director Lanham and his team. These technical amendments will improve and clarify the city code, and we are grateful for their strong engagement with us throughout this process.
 We look forward next to the administrative rulemaking process. With the passage of this initiative, the city of Portland's voters clearly recognize the urgent need for corporations to pay their fair share to address climate change and economic inequality. And we expect that this intent will be achieved.
 We also look forward to the next steps in hiring the program staff at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and establishing a diverse and representative grant committee who will develop the program framework in fidelity to the vision of this initiative. We are truly inspired by the potential that the Portland Clean Energy Fund has to transform our city.
 The implementation process so far has aligned well with our mission of community-centered leadership, and we expect this approach to continue throughout the development and ongoing operation of the fund.
 We would like to thank the mayor and each commissioner for your engagement in implementing this measure, as well as your dedicated staff, with special acknowledgement to Commissioner Hardesty, who has been there since the beginning. We also thank, again, the Revenue Division, Director Lanham and his team.
 As well as Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Michelle Krim, and her staff, they have been an outstanding partner in recognizing the importance of implementing this measure swiftly and with the due diligence needed to make sure that this program is off to a strong start.
 Since the election, I personally have been amazed at the number of people that we have been able to get in the same room so quickly across so many city offices and bureaus. And that truly is a testament to our shared commitment to making this program a success. We know that the eyes of the nation will be on us, and I think that we truly have put in that effort and commitment thus far.
 Again, thank you for your work and for the opportunity to testify today. We are genuinely excited to continue on this journey together to create a more just and equitable Portland for all of us who call this city our home. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Udailey, Commissioner Hardesty, Commissioner Fish. My name is Rain Feast, and I am the Oregon State Policy Coordinator with Blue Green Alliance, which is a coalition of labor environmental organizations working together to solve today's environmental challenges in a way that creates and maintains good quality jobs in a stronger, fairer economy.
 We're guided by the principle that we can no longer choose between good jobs and a clean economy environment. That the actions we take to create quality jobs and protect working people in the environment must go hand in hand. And that together we can build a clean, thriving, and fair economy. We believe that this initiative has the opportunity to do just that and be a beacon of hope, not just for the city, but the state as well.
 and his country. I want to take this time to recognize the many PSF leaders and volunteers who helped DREAM and push this initiative, many of whom pushed this forward are descendants of a generation that were asked to wait, and not now, around issues of social justice, economic justice, and racial justice. Many of us still hear that today, and many of those leaders were able to stand, just like the generations before us, to answer the proverbial questions.
 If not now, when? Yeah. If not us, who? The time to act boldly and constructively is limited, and it is our belief at BGA that a just and inclusive future can and will be built by communities of color, environmental and labor organizations, and visionaries working together. It will require a diverse and skilled, trained workforce working on renewable and energy efficiency projects.
 It would require the creation of good paying jobs and access to health care and pensions. It would require a system that rewards diverse high road developers and contractors and employers. It would require a robust public sector to administer and steward and enforce our laws and provisions.
 And most importantly, it will require us to continue to work with multiple stakeholders and impact communities to continue to strive a more just and inclusive future. Again, collectively, we need to work together to ensure no person, no community is left behind in our energy transition. As Reverend Dr. King once observed, all labor is not just a matter of time.
 that uplifts humanity has dignity and importance and should be undertaken with painstaking excellence. This day is for the PSAF Coalition and the collective wisdom of Portland voters who continue to shoot for the moon for a more just and more inclusive clean energy future. We do this not because it is easy,
 We do this because of this true measure of who we are as a city and what we strive to be. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. I'm pleased to be here. Mayor, Commissioners, thank you for having me today. For the record, my name is Nate McCoy, Executive Director of the Oregon Chapter of the National Association of Minority Contractors. I can vividly remember a year and a half ago, Joanne actually calling me at NAMAC and telling me a lot about this initiative. And I can tell you as a 501c6 chapter, we don't tend to endorse campaigns often.
 But her case was so compelling, and when I took it to our board and our members, it was almost a no-brainer for us to jump in and support this initiative. What I wanted to also say, just for the record, as a side note, is that you see us all in green today, minus me. I'm an Oregon Duck alumni, and I should be ashamed that I don't own a green shirt. Shut up.
 So I am unified with my group today, but in spirit more than in clothing. So thank you for that. I have a couple key points that really set this initiative apart from all the conversation today. Four key points. For the first time ever in my history, in 37 years of being alive, I have never seen such an initiative which, one, was led solely by the community,
 Two, was environmentally sound, which is all about the climate today and how much we need to do to be ready for the future. Three, socially connected from a community, from an agency, and from those who really benefit from the work that we will create.
 And then four, selfishly for NAMAC, we care about pipeline of work. We cannot afford to wait for major projects that don't always include our members to create the pipeline of contracting capacity as well as diversity within the workforce. And I think this blends all four of those by far more than I've seen anywhere. Nick mentioned in the last segment that communities of color
 Our by far leading capacity and the level of collaboration at this city nationally and locally is being recognized for. And that's great for us all to be a part of that. I've also heard the mayor say in the past that a good plan is only as good as the resources that follow it. $54 to $71 million a year. If we can't work with that, we are all in the wrong business.
 So I think that's a great initiative. I just have a couple key themes because this will become sticking points when we start to talk about funding. We are eagerly looking to be ambitious with goal setting around these dollars to ensure, not to say, but ensure that communities of color benefit.
 We are discussing 300 to 500 plus jobs yearly that would become green sector jobs that not only contractors who already do some of this work, but for those workers who actually can start to work on new avenues in the workforce. There is national presidents of the green sector movement all across the nation and port.
 Portland is one of the leaders in it. So what a great opportunity to not be chasing our tails, but to be in front of something that we create the outcomes on.
 What I also want to discuss, because we talked about housing, as some of you as commissioners know, I'm on the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. What I really, truly appreciate about this discussion is that when you think about affordable housing, we all know that the construction costs are skyrocketing. And I can remember as a construction manager, we had to make decisions based on are we putting solar and weatherization on this project and can we make it penciled?
 This fund has the opportunity to help subsidize some of these projects to ensure that the tenants and the owners can benefit from these savings and from the affordable housing that's being produced. We also talked in the last segment about homeless housing.
 This is the opportunity for some of those folks facing homelessness, facing the rising housing rents, to not only be able to live in their city, but to be able to have the income levels to sustain living wherever they choose. So I mean, I'm already seeing the housing connection, the employment connection, and the community connection. And lastly, I would be in trouble with my grandma who has passed, who taught me this very long ago.
 She always told me if communities were able to control the narrative, they could control the outcomes to benefit who they live and break bread with in the community. And what that always taught me was, you know, be visible about what's going on. Communities of color who have always been underrepresented are usually the closest to the solution. So the fact that we put those folks in the solution-based process first instead of last shows
 you get something like the outcomes we have today. So with that said, I just want to applaud the commission, everybody behind me, everybody on this panel, and the work is just starting, and we are excited about this opportunity, so thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks, all four of you, for being here today. We appreciate it. Reverend, happy birthday. Thank you. Happy birthday. Carla, how many people do we have signed up for public testimony? We have ten people. Very good. Please call the first three. Our Shedrick Wilkins, Jay Singh, and Maria Hernandez-Segaviano, and they'll be followed by Anissa Pemberton, Anana McGuire, I believe is the last name, and Deneen O'Rourke.
 I'm Cedric. People of lower income tend to be, and young people, tend to be resourceful. When I was getting my electrical engineering degree, I saw in North Portland, people, I think one was a scanner magazine, had solar cells across the building. The Allaby Bar and Grill had passive solar on the roof.
 right? People of lower income don't want to spend money and they want to save money and they're more likely to use alternative forms of energy. Before my father died in the 90s, he wasted money. He retired from Nabisco cookies and just let natural gas go out the window. And I'm sorry to say it's probably because he's dying and he's getting old and it's like, I don't care. You know, and he had the money and it's almost like he was
 His pension plus Social Security, he was blowing Social Security right out the window in heating costs. He wanted the house to be like Venus. But anyway, on energy, I tend to side with energy north to west, living off the grid, natural gas, solar cells on your roof, passive solar, be off the grid. I'm sorry, PGE tends to push centralized power. They own the power lines.
 And so they want you to still be into the power grid. I'm not sure I like that. Sometimes I think when PGE talks about solar and wind farms, I'm not too sure. I mean, we get a lot of natural gas, and it comes from Canada. But the idea is to try to use less of the grid as possible. And cable television is a great way. Instead of driving somewhere, get a video phone or video conference or whatever.
 text somebody instead of physically having to move, which takes energy. Alright, my thoughts. My dad was the worst offender, and maybe I'm talking here, but actually, like I say, low-income people are the best. They're the ones that hit them in the pocket. Younger people. And they're the ones that are most likely to do things like solar cells on the roof, like in North Portland, or passive solar, and use natural gas as least as possible, and make sure it doesn't go out the window. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Ted Wheeler, Commissioner John Howard, State Commissioner Fish, and Commissioner Udaly. My name is Maria Hernandez-Segoviano. I am the Policy and Advocacy Manager at Opal Environmental Justice Oregon. We organize people and people of color to achieve a safer, healthier environment in the place we live, work, learn, practice, spirituality, and play.
 Thank you again for the opportunity to testify. I urge the city to implement, maintain, and strengthen the Portland Clean Energy Fund today. This initiative has changed the story about who makes decisions in Portland. Our communities have advanced a clear mandate to act on climate change and invest in justice. This policy is one of the best examples of how local governments can address inequality while taking bold steps.
 I say bold climate action. Global and national allies are rooting for us to do this right. As a part of the organizing committee of the International Frontline-Led Climate Justice Alliance, OPAL traveled to Washington, D.C. to talk about this policy with Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez when frontline communities lead and when mainstream allies follow, justice is the result.
 We are up against wealthy, powerful interests who wish to see us fail to preserve their profits. They're willing to sacrifice the needs of our community and of the very ecosystems upon which our lives depend. We can't allow them to stop this particular momentum. You cannot let them weaken this policy. We urge you to not let them weaken this policy.
 The people who want to undermine this initiative didn't win 65% of the ballot. They lost handily. Their scarce tactics didn't work on voters, and they should not work on city councilors or yourselves today, or unelected bureaucrats who may seek to weaken this policy. For too long, decision makers have failed to act on the crises we face. That's why we took matters into our own hands.
 Portland workers or low-income households or beautiful and diverse people of color or frontline communities in the fight against climate change are the leaders now and always have been.
 This is the new political alignment. Follow us. And together, we all win for a better world and for a better city. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jay Singh. I'm a field organizer at APANO, the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon.
 I'm speaking here today to urge the city to, of course, vote to make this groundbreaking initiative into city code, but also to defend this initiative and do everything in your power to make sure it is strong, effective, and able to be a model for the nation about what it looks like to take climate action and create good jobs while addressing social inequity. Climate change is already harming the Asian and Pacific Islander communities that APANO works with.
 For example, in the Punjab region of India, where my family is from, most people are farmers. After years of prolonged drought, many farmers are committing suicide because of their inability to provide for their families. Others are forced to migrate to other cities in India and also outside the country. If our country and the rest of the world don't take action, we're looking at massive migration at an unprecedented scale.
 At the same time, we need to make sure that immigrants and people of color who are here have access to good-paying jobs in the green economy so that they have the resources they need to be resilient to the impacts of climate change. At APANO, our members have repeated loud and clear that as Portland's cost of living goes higher and higher, they need living wage jobs to be able to stay here and keep their kids in school here.
 They are excited for the opportunity to be trained as solar installers to start companies and home energy retrofits. APANO was proud to knock on thousands of doors to talk about Portland Clean Energy Initiative because we know what it means.
 more solar power for homes, schools, businesses, job training for low-income workers to transition to good-paying jobs, and energy efficiency projects and reduced utility bills for our communities. As you listen and watch me today, and as I sit here before you today, I want you to see thousands of Asian and Pacific Islander families who are depending on you all to make sure that this groundbreaking initiative succeeds. Thank you.
 We urge you to vote the Portland Clean Energy Initiative into city ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, both of you. Commissioner Hardesty. Excuse me. Just for the record, that's okay. I just wanted to say that there is absolutely no intent to weaken the voters' will. So I just want that to be on the public record. Anybody else who's worried about that, you don't have to worry about it because there's no way we're going to let
 it get weakened. If anything, we are looking to make it stronger. Next three, please, Carla. Next three are Anissa Pemberton, Deneen O'Rourke, and we'll go with Dr. Andy Harris. And then the last two will be Nikki Dobay and Bob Sollinger. Very good.
 Good afternoon. Would you like to start, please? Yeah. Thank you. Hello. My name is Anissa Pemberton, and I'm the Just Space Transition and Equity Organizer at 350 PDX. It is an honor to speak with you all today about the Portland Clean Energy Fund, especially knowing that the collaboration with frontline communities has been so meaningful so far. I grew up in rural Illinois as a Latinx person in a community impacted by industrial agriculture.
 And I have felt firsthand the toxic effects of greenhouse gas emissions on public health, environmental degradation, and how these impact people of color and low-income communities before they become obvious to more privileged folks.
 I moved to Portland because of the opportunities to create significant progressive change that will emanate to a national stage. It was so incredible to join the campaign as a field organizer to pass the Portland Clean Energy Initiative, in which communities of color took the lead in advancing an environmental initiative to victory for the first time in Oregon. Our field team organizers and volunteers worked tirelessly to build momentum and knowledge in our community, but it was not hard to advocate for this bill.
 In November 2018, I walked into the campaign party after being on the phones until 8 p.m. to hear that we won by a landslide. And 65% of this city wants large retailers to pay their fair share to build climate resilience for frontline communities.
 I continue to live in a low-income community of people of color, and frontline communities and our allies know that you will defend this initiative against deniers of a dress transition to a green economy, deniers of empowering historically marginalized communities, and deniers of corporate accountability. They will be eager to undermine this initiative.
 We are standing in solidarity with one another today to let it be known that we expect you to stand up to these forces. We look forward to implementing this brand new initiative and that by collaborating, we know we can assure a grant program that builds skills and resources for workers and organizations so that they can use this fund to grow a local green economy.
 As a representative of 350 PDX, I hear regularly from progressive cities and justice advocates that they are looking to Portland to successfully implement this initiative. It's time to address the climate crisis, and it's time to center communities of color and low-income folks so that they can receive needed mitigation and resilience to climate change. Maybe someday there will be an Illinois Clean Energy Fund.
 that can support the community in which I grew up in. Ultimately, that long view of climate justice should be ever-present in this implementation. Thank you so much for your continued advocacy and collaboration with frontline communities. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Deneen O'Rourke, and I'm here with the Oregon chapter of the Sierra Club.
 I am 23 years old, and in my senior year of high school, Superstorm Sandy hit my community on eastern Long Island. And that forever changed my neighborhood, my dad's job as a lineman for the local utility, and my own perception of my future and the future of my home.
 Fighting for climate justice, as we've heard from people before me this afternoon, is personal, as is the implementation of this measure.
 On the field team for this campaign, we talked to thousands upon thousands of members of our communities to pass this measure. And as many in this room can attest, the moment voters heard our first sentence at the door and understood what this measure was about, our work was mostly done. They were convinced. Thank you.
 Then on election night, this campaign rose out of the ashes of the lost environmental ballot initiatives across the country, like those in Arizona, Washington, and Colorado. Why? Portland succeeded because we followed the visionary leadership of those who are most impacted by climate change, who know what solutions their communities need.
 And now as news outlets buzz in every direction about the federal Green New Deal House resolution, our own city has also captured the attention of the nation, passing a city version of the Green New Deal. Transforming our economy, providing living wage jobs to those who need them the most, and tackling the climate crisis. This is what it looks like to be on the cutting edge of a major unprecedented transition.
 I, too, regularly hear from Sierra Club chapters across the country who are eager for updates on this measure's implementation and also advice on how they can create a similar measure in their communities. And as we embark on this historic moment of signing this law into implementation, let us not forget that the spotlight is truly on us.
 So thank you to the mayor and to the commissioners for their collaboration, for following the leadership of the frontline communities who led the Portland Clean Energy Fund from the idea to the implementation. It's truly an honor to be here to see the dedicated work of this frontline grassroots campaign become written into law. Let us not dismiss.
 the enormity of this victory, and the power of grassroots organizing in making it happen. We'll be here every step of the way to support a strong implementation. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, I'm Dr. Andy Harris. I'm on the Board of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. You're now hearing from all ages, from 23 to 76. I am somebody that has benefited by white male privilege over the years, and I'm absolutely thrilled that this measure passed, started by Joanne Hardesty, with a strong support from the communities of color.
 For the first time in Oregon's history, communities of color really took the lead on this measure. It advanced environmental initiatives and will benefit both the environment and those who are living in low-income communities. Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility was pleased to be part of the grassroots coalition of support that helped pass the Clean Energy Fund to that record 65% vote.
 We're also pleased that Portland will take leadership in climate disruption through the weatherization of homes, solar panel installation, decreasing energy costs to low-income folks. And we're particularly pleased that the measure seeks to give training and employment to those that have been economically marginalized. The number of people in poverty in Portland has increased dramatically over the last two to three decades, and
 and the Portland Clean Energy Fund addresses the economic disparities at a local level. It provides for increased skills for contractors, workers, organizations, and others who will utilize this fund.
 So once again, we do expect you to defend this initiative, and I appreciated Joanne's reassurance that you will defend it from those we know that will seek to weaken it, ensuring that communities of color and low-income folks are prioritized in receiving the benefits. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Appreciate it. And the last two are Nikki Dobay and Bob Sollinger.
 Welcome. Thank you for being here. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. My name is Nikki Dobay. I am senior tax counsel with the Council on State Taxation. We are a nonprofit trade association that represents our members, our large multinational corporations,
 And our mission is to promote fair and efficient state and local taxation for multi-jurisdictional taxpayers. As background, I am a state and local tax attorney. I am a resident of Portland as well, and I've been working in this area for over 12 years. I'm going to change the conversation a little bit because I'm going to get really technical into the tax issues that are included in this ordinance. Okay.
 We are opposed, cost is opposed to two specific deletions within the proposed changes by the Revenue Division. Specifically to the deletion of references to U.S. and national sales as it pertains to the $1 billion threshold. And then also to the deletion of the prior year for purposes of determining who is subject to this tax.
 We understand the challenges with administering this tax that the Revenue Division is facing. This is a completely new tax type. And at the end of the day, this tax is much more akin to a sales tax than an income tax or a surcharge on an income tax.
 So we understand there are significant challenges with trying to administer the tax in the way that the Revenue Division would like to do that, which is by making it part of the business license tax form and linking it to the apportionment information that is included on that form.
 We see the changes that the city is proposing as an attempt to really put a square peg into a round hole. And this really does not have anything to do with opposing this measure. It's just how to administer it in a way that our members can actually comply, which they do want to do.
 The changes could significantly broaden the taxpayers that are subject to this tax and the base that is included. So we see this as a significant expansion of the tax that was passed by the voters, which we do not believe that the city council has the authority to approve without voter approval. In the case City of Portland versus HomeAway, which was decided in 2017 here in the U.S. District Court,
 the council attempted to approve by vote within the council of an expansion of a definition, which was found to be invalid. By removing these terms, this is a significant expansion of the tax. So we would very much encourage you to reconsider those deletions from the ballot measure that was approved by the voters. I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Willer and members of City Council. My name is Bob Sollinger, and I'm here testifying on behalf of Audubon Society of Portland today. It was an incredible honor to work with so many amazing groups on this ballot measure. It truly is historic.
 And I've worked on many campaigns over the last 20 odd years. I've never seen one like this in terms of its depth, its breadth, its inclusivity, its leadership, its diversity, its dedication to getting to the places in the city that are often just ignored in campaigns, particularly to get to those places, to go to those places first.
 and make sure that voices that are so often are left out, out of convenience or out of worse motivation, were put in the front. This city's done a lot of historic things for the environment over the years. We've been a leader. But this one is different, in that we're not only raising up the environment, we're raising up the community with the environment. And those two things have to go hand in hand if we're going to have a sustainable future.
 And that's what makes this so powerful is we can put solar panels on buildings and windmills on buildings and plant trees, but are we bringing everybody along in the community when we do that? And particularly, are we bringing along the people who so often are not included in the benefits of these endeavors that we do?
 You've heard today about the concerns of people trying to undermine this effort, and I appreciate the comments and the dedication and the work that's already being done and is going to be done going forward. I don't doubt City Council's commitment to implementing this. I'm frankly less worried about the enemies of this measure because they're going to be very visible. We're going to know them when they're in the room, and we can get over that. I think the bigger challenge is actually –
 The institutional impediments that are in place, how do we think outside the box? Because that's what this demands. This demands that we go outside of the things that we've done for a long time, the structures we have, the comfort zones we've been in, and really have to think differently about the structures that we use to implement it so that we do truly reach the people that this is intended to reach. Okay.
 I think that's going to be the bigger challenge, and that's something we really look forward to working with you on. I've been really excited to be part of the campaign and also in the follow-on work as people have been sort of flooding in and realizing that something historic is happening, that landscape change is coming, and that our community is going to be lifted up. So thank you for your work on this, and we look forward to working with you and everyone else to get it done. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony.
 Does that complete public testimony? Yes, that's all. Colleagues, any further discussion? Carla, on item 160, please call the roll. Fish? Well, first of all, let me thank city staff and invited guests for their testimony, and thanks to everyone who took time out of their busy day today to be with us. It's been a long week. Actually, it's been kind of a historic week in some regards. We've done a lot of important and interesting work.
 To the point that Bob just closed out on, the voters have spoken. Our job is to defend this fund, to strengthen it where appropriate, and then to implement it. And I think by virtue of the presentation we received today, we're starting on the right foot. I vote aye. Hardesty? It's amazing how much has been accomplished since Election Day. When I got here on January 2nd, I was like, oh, man, is this going to take a while?
 So I am very, very impressed with the work that's been done by city staff to get us to where we are today. It's absolutely fabulous that they were able to do so much detailed work in such a short period of time. And a special thanks to the finance director for making that happen. Really appreciate that.
 I have a list of people that I want to thank and many of them aren't in the room, but these were the frontline folks from very early on. And so I want to personally thank Con Palm from , Maggie Talmadge, who is now in graduate school somewhere. Alan Hippolito, I thought I saw him come in. Hey, Alan.
 Brent Foster, Lenny D., Adriana Voss, Andrea, and Reverend E.D. Montaner, who stepped in when I went and did that crazy thing like running for public office. I want you to know that this was a labor of love, and this was a labor of love based on outcomes that we have achieved in the city of Portland over the last hundred years or more.
 This was a different way to do business and I hope the message that people learn from this process is that we could actually have equitable outcomes, but we have to start them in a totally different way. This measure actually gives us kind of a roadmap to how you center communities of color first, those frontline communities, and then you bring the big boys in to be your partners.
 I think what I loved most about this initiative was the hundreds of people that were waiting to go, when can I start collecting signatures? When can I start collecting signatures? It was absolutely phenomenal. I've never seen that in the city of Portland. And so I just want to thank everyone who had a little, a medium, or a big role in making this happen and give you my promise that I will be watching it like a heart to make sure that it's implemented just as we intended. I vote aye. Udaily?
 Well, the cynic in me is tempted to tell my new colleague, Commissioner Hardesty, not to get used to items like this moving swiftly forward. I, too, had an early win.
 in the first month or so of my seat on city council and it's been a rude awakening how long it's taken to get my next steps moved forward but I'm going to check my inner cynic and I'm going to say let's keep this train rolling
 Thank you everyone for being here today, for your hard work and for your support. I was proud to be an early supporter of the Portland Clean Energy Fund and endorser. And I have a confession to make.
 the Portland Clean Energy Fund was the first measure I ever canvassed for because while I am not exactly a wallflower, I hate knocking on people's doors. And I didn't even knock on people's doors for my own campaign. I just swiftly snuck up to their porches and hung my door hanger on their knobs and ran away and hoped not to be yelled at.
 But I learned a really valuable lesson, and I'm not going to volunteer for every campaign, but I have overcome my deep-seated fear, and I'm willing to go out and do that for the right causes.
 I was prepared to read a long list of thank yous to community partners who successfully advanced this initiative, but Commissioner Hardesty has already done me that favor. So you all know who you are. Suffice to say, it was just an impressive coalition of communities of color, environmental advocates, community and faith leaders, businesses, nonprofits, neighborhood associations, and numerous elected representatives.
 I want to take a minute to illuminate the not very catchy or intuitive term, just transitions, which we've heard in this room a few times. I'm sure that most, if not all of you, know what it means, but for the benefit of our listeners and viewers, I just want to take a moment to talk about it. Just transitions is an international movement devoted to climate and economic justice. It advances the critical move...
 from an extractive economy to a regenerative economy while benefiting those who have been most harmed by redressing past wrongs and creating new opportunities, economic opportunities.
 Van Jones, I think, said it best. You all know that Van Jones is a fan of Portland Clean Energy Fund. He described the fund as a beautiful idea that takes 1% from the 1% to benefit the 100%, which...
 conjures up for me the poetic, if not entirely fair, moment in time we're at where we see the people who have been most harmed, most disadvantaged, poised to be the ones who may very well save this country from itself. So I want to thank you all for that.
 Today, I promise to you that I will do everything in my power to ensure that we make the most of this incredible opportunity that the community and the voters delivered to our doorstep. I most happily vote aye. Wheeler?
 Well, I want to thank everybody who came out today to share their support of this important and historic initiative. I want to particularly thank Reverend Mondanay, who came here on his birthday, Jenny Lee, Nate McCoy, and Ramfi Viatoro for your remarks about the historic nature of this and the important way that this advances both equity and economic prosperity for everyone in this community.
 I particularly want to thank Commissioner Hardesty for her leadership on this important initiative.
 The shared goals that were described earlier today are extremely important goals for this community, and I want to publicly commit my administration to working well with the frontline communities who led this ballot measure to make sure that the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund is successful and that it delivers on the promised goal. That is my pledge to you.
 There's a lot at stake, as has been said, to make sure that we get this right. And I concur with those who say that people are watching how this unfolds. And it will require our constant vigilance to make sure that this is implemented correctly.
 Why is it so important? I have said and I believe, and I'll say it again right now, that climate change, I believe, is the most significant issue facing this planet today. It is the largest crisis of our era. And as you know, Portland has been said, has taken a leadership role in ambitious planning around reducing carbon emissions and addressing the impacts of climate change. But there is always more work that we can be doing.
 And addressing the needs of the most vulnerable and historically underserved communities is a worthy goal. And this initiative gets to that goal.
 It was mentioned that the concept of the Green New Deal is being discussed in Washington and elsewhere around the country. And there's no question in my mind that people will not only look historically at what the city of Portland has done around climate action, but they will look to this specific initiative.
 as an example of a new way of organizing the community in a new way, as was said so eloquently by people testifying, a way to lift the community while also achieving our climate action goals. This is about ensuring a more sustainable future for all.
 The strength of the community support for this initiative and the leadership of frontline communities, both of which we've heard from today, was not only critical in the success of the ballot measure, it will remain equally critical to the successful implementation.
 of this initiative. And so hearing people come to the dais and commit to that partnership going forward was very, very well received, I know, by all of us on the Portland City Council. Again, I want to thank everybody from the Portland Clean Energy Fund Coalition Steering Committee for working diligently with city staff from literally the day that this passed.
 At the polls, the city staff has committed to making sure that this is implemented effectively. I want to particularly thank Thomas Lanham from the Revenue Division and Michelle Crimm and Vin Mason from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for your dedication and hard work to make sure that this gets done right.
 In conclusion, I want to say I look forward to the city and the community continuing to work together on the successful implementation of the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund to deliver on the goals of building a more resilient, sustainable, equitable, and prosperous city for all. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item. And I promise I won't give a long speech on this one at all. Item 161. Please.
 Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And guess what? We are adjourned.