Good morning. Happy Black History Month. Happy Black History Month. Thank you.
 I call this meeting Wednesday, February 22, 2017, meeting of the Portland City Council to order. Carla, please call the roll. Prince? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Wheeler? Udaly? Here. Okay, we're going to start with communications. Before we begin, I want to say a few words regarding council proceedings and maintaining decorum.
 The purpose of council meetings is to engage with and hear recommendations from the community on the public's business. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, both those here and those watching on their computers or TVs, I want to quickly review some public testimony guidelines. Thank you.
 My hope is that these details help everyone to feel comfortable and included, and also ensure that decorum is maintained.
 During the meeting there are two opportunities for public participation communications, which is what we're about to do now and Communication items are an opportunity to briefly speak about any subject these items must be scheduled in advance with the council clerk's office First readings of reports resolutions and ordinances public testimony of these items must address the matter being considered at the time Please state your name for the record and we don't need your address. I
 If you are a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you are here representing an organization, please disclose that as well. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated at the meeting. When you have 30 seconds left, you'll hear a beep and a yellow light will flash on the box before you. When your time is up, you'll hear four beeps and the red light will flash. I'll need you to conclude your testimony at that time.
 If you have handouts for us, please give them to the council clerk and she will distribute them to council members. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example shouting or interrupting other people's testimonies or during council deliberations, will not be allowed. If that behavior is seen, this guidance serves as a warning that anyone disrupting this proceeding may be escorted from council chambers and excluded from city hall.
 If folks would like to show your support or displeasure for a particular item or comment, please do so with a thumbs up or down so that no one is disrupted, but we can see your expression. Carla, please call up the first. You don't have to use the gobble any time. You don't have to do it after each one of us. Just do it. Yes, you should just be getting ordered. Let me know when you're ready, Carla. Natalie, you've dragged this out now for an hour, so I mean, I've never seen more buildup for one presentation. Thank you.
 Thank you. Okay, we are back in session. Welcome back, everyone. We were just about to start the communications portion of council, and as we had suggested to Carla, since all of the people signed up for communications are testifying about open signal, we thought we could have them come up as a group, or at least in threes.
 The first three, 161, request of Justin Harn to address council regarding introduce OpenSignal's new brand and services provided to the community. 162, request of Becca Burrell to address council regarding OpenSignal, a media arts center. And 163, request of Lisa Faust to address council regarding OpenSignal's recent growth and history with Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. Hi.
 Carl, let's take a sec just to make sure that PowerPoint is up and running because it's been up. Okay. They're professionals, Commissioner Fish. A minor miracle. Yeah. The name for the record is Justin Harn, Executive Director, OpenSignal. I'm Rebecca Burrell, the Director of Strategy and Development at OpenSignal. I'm Lisa Faust, Board President at OpenSignal.
 So thank you all for the opportunity to speak in front of you today. My name is Justin Harn, the Executive Director at OpenSignal, formerly Portland Community Media. It's an honor and privilege to be here. And before I start, I just want to take a moment and have everybody from OpenSignal please stand up.
 I'd also like to acknowledge Janelle Neal. Janelle is a key part of the production crew at OpenSignal, works odd hours every week to broadcast meetings throughout the county to bring civic engagement and leadership to the broader Portland community. Can we switch to our cameras up into the booth for a moment? Wow, that's a first. Hi, Janelle. There she is. Thank you so much, Janelle, and to everyone for all of your hard work. Thank you.
 While Open Signal is at every one of these council meetings, we're here today to show you our plans for the future and how much more we do outside the walls of City Hall. Open Signal builds upon the 35-year legacy of Portland Community Media, an organization that began with a vision of amplifying voices of those underrepresented in the mainstream media. While our building on MLK and our name may look different, our creativity, technology, and social engagement remain steadfast and stronger than ever. In my previous life at the Hollywood Theater,
 I saw the potential of organizations that have been dormant or struggling to find a second life and about the power of nonprofits to engage and support communities. We are not just giving people cameras and equipment, we are now helping them tell their own story and broadcast those stories to 400,000 homes on five channels across the Portland metro area in English, Spanish, Russian, and Farsi. We partner with Wisdom of the Elders, Vanport Mosaic, Lentz Youth Initiative,
 Media Institute for Social Change, and Sista Sista, among others. We've also launched school programming with Open School North, an alternative middle school for students who have not been successful in the public school system. Each term, we offer courses and $650,000 in media equipment and state-of-the-art production studios that we check out to the community free of charge. In the past year, we've tripled our number of workshops, added artist talks, and pop-up exhibitions, including a public art series with the Regional Arts and Culture Council.
 In the past fiscal year, we've generated over 35,000 hours of television programming with over 9,000 hours of brand new broadcast content. As we move forward, we would love to partner and find ways to work together. We welcome the opportunity to collaborate and help you realize your vision to move Portland forward. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name again is Rebecca Burrell. I'm the Director of Strategy and Development for OpenSignal. I'm here just to introduce to you today a brand new video that we've put together through the incredible generosity and collaboration of a local film studio called Juliet Zulu located in Southeast Portland. This video features OpenSignal staff, students, and community producers. It's about the power of providing Portlanders with unmitigated access to produce and broadcast their stories.
 my voice my voice is quiet my voice has never been louder my voice is my own my voice comes from the life of a dreamer a writer an animal illustrator a gamer a filmmaker a community organizer a cinematographer a dude an artist a photographer a gay man a father my voice comes from a life of an oregonian and i speak for myself
 My voice is learning how to rise above the chatter of a crowded room to share my perspective and show the beauty that exists within my own community. My voice is learning how to join a conversation and listen to her and him and them. My voice, his voice, our voice grew here. It floated through an open door and soaked in the salt of shared wisdom. My hands on the gears of new possibilities liberated my voice to build.
 The next one. My voice. Our voice. Wants to say something beautiful. It wants to ripple. Inspire. Inform. Influence. Celebrate. Organize. Grow. And nurture. Together our voices harmonize. May have been initiated into the fold. Finding footing and resilience. Mentoring each other. Introducing new ideas. Maintaining our position. And driving the conversation. Our voices are vital. Our voices are vital.
 I built. I found. I discovered. I refined. I strengthened. I scripted. I learned. I shouted. I taught. I shared. I revealed. I understood. I crafted. I narrated. I trained. I developed. I mentored. I grew. I amplified my voice. At Open Signal. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Lisa Faust, and I'm the board president of Open Signal. I've served on this board for over three years, primarily as board treasurer. And I can tell you today that when I started at Portland Community Media, I wasn't sure how long I would last.
 Now under Justin's new leadership, I'm proud to say that we are stronger than we've ever been and more ready to realize a vision that's been brewing for a decade. In my job as Senior Vice President at Pacific Continental Bank, I help lead the growth of our nonprofit sector. With over 1,400 nonprofit clients, I develop products, services, and educational opportunities that help these organizations succeed. Many of these I have shared with OpenSignal.
 When I was initially appointed to the board by Commissioner Saltzman, PCM was in a difficult financial position and in dire help. We embarked on a nationwide search for a former ED's replacement, and I told myself I would commit to just one more year through that search. We received an overwhelming response to our call for applications, but what Justin brought to the organization we felt would take PCM into a new era.
 He is a community builder, innovator, and able to invigorate spaces and programs that excite and enliven the community. With new initiatives like digital inclusion and facility renovations, we are embarking upon a vision that perhaps we've always had but have never fully realized. I'm proud to say after hard work and careful planning, we are in a stable and secure place with a strong path forward. We own our own building on Northeast Samuel K. Boulevard. We have paid off all of our debts.
 Needless to say, there is a reason I'm still on the board. It's truly exciting to see the growth and direction of OpenSignal. As the daughter of Cuban immigrants, I witnessed the barriers to advancement that some face in this country, now perhaps more than ever. We are living in a time when our administration has delegitimized the media and threatens the very constitutional provisions that gave individuals like my mother and father a path to citizenship.
 I'm proud to be part of OpenSignal because our commitment to inclusion and equity and providing a safe space for all individuals in a time when our community needs it most. Being a part of this organization and seeing its growth over the past few years has been an incredibly rewarding and eye-opening experience. Giving a voice and amplifying that message continues to be our ultimate goal. And I do believe at OpenSignal we finally have the power and opportunity to do that. Thank you. Thank you.
 164 and 165 request of Laura Loforti to address council regarding partnership and growth opportunities with Open Signal in the community 165 request of Kalima Abioto to address council regarding Open Signal Hello, thank you for having us um
 I'm Laura Loforte. I'm the co-founder and co-director of Vemple Mosaic. And the city has been already incredibly generous and kind in supporting our effort. So I don't need to tell you what we do because you all look familiar with it. But I'm here to tell you how...
 Open Signal Portland Community Media has been an incredible partner for us and I would say that these stories wouldn't have been possible without this partnership. These stories are told by community members. They are captured and edited by community members and as many of you have seen during our screenings, they are cherished by hundreds of people. And since we started three years ago, it
 We've been overwhelmed by the amount of people who want to tell these stories. These are stories that are kind of forgotten, left out by history books.
 And so we have a waiting list of people who want to share their experience in 1940s, 1950s in Vanport and then in Albina, North Portland. And we're also being overwhelmed by people who want to help in this effort and being trained and help capturing these stories before we lose the opportunity. The narrators are in their 80s and 90s, so it's a pretty urgent effort.
 And it's been a struggle to meet this demand, which is a great problem to have for a community-based organization. So thanks to this partnership, we've been able to give access to anyone who wants to help, and they have access to incredible media equipment, and we are able to offer free workshops using the space. Thank you.
 And as we speak, actually, we took advantage of this little break to continue the planning on the next workshop in March. And among the many people who will be able to train, there is an eight-year-old boy who loves history and wants to interview someone who was his age when he was during the vampire flood.
 There is also a lady who is going to interview her mom. She's 88, and she's been in Vanport, and she became then a community activist and then went to fund the Portland Black United Front.
 So these are the stories that need to be told. There is another initiative I'm excited to share that's been possible because of Open Signal. During this year's festival at the end of May, we'll be able to have an Airstream with a recording studio inside and park it in front of different venues during the festival and invite people to share their experience in terms of home displacement and a sense of community.
 So these are the stories that need to be told, and we are able to do it thanks to OpenSignal. And we need more of these opportunities. Never, like today, I would say, we need an opportunity to acknowledge everyone's history in this city. Thank you for the opportunity.
 Hello, my name is Kalima Abioto. Thank you for your time today. I'm currently an artist in residence through Open Signal's Nightlight Program in collaboration with the Regional Arts and Culture Council. So first of all, I've been deeply inspired and moved by the incredible people on staff and the growing community. Having been involved with Portland Community Media more than six years ago, I've seen its amazing transition.
 There is noticeably more community engagement and many more people reaching out. In a critical time in our society, it's important that we use the media to address cultural and social issues and bridge this growing divide. I see this happening daily at Open Signal.
 Through my grant and residency, I was able to attend a video art conference in Mali, West Africa last year. As filmmakers, there can be many barriers to entry, many of them being financial. The leadership team at the organization allowed me to pursue this grant and this program, providing an unprecedented opportunity which continues to influence my artwork to this day.
 The film that I captured through using open signal equipment overseas infused the project I'm working on now through the residency. It's been a great blessing in my life.
 In light of the election, many people are looking for ways to utilize their skills to creatively address the problems we face in our society. Media and film is a natural organism for this kind of work. You need a sound engineer. You need a camera operator. You need a director. We all play a part in creating solutions.
 At a time when we are so insulated, bridging our divides to do something together, to do something greater, is how we will move forward. And we can with safe, excuse me, supportive spaces like OpenSignal. Anyone can have access to high-quality equipment and collaborate with people who know how to use it. Through film, OpenSignal is a medium of social change.
 This Saturday, I would like to invite everyone to attend our inaugural open house at Open Signal from 4 to 10 p.m. I will be on site along with many other artists. There will be food and interactive art pieces from artists and students and community members. We would love to see everyone there. Thank you for your time and for your support. I'll move on to the consent agenda. Okay. I understand item 171 has been pulled.
 so we will move on to the next item oh what oh we just do a blanket yeah oh okay all right well so we're just we're gonna take a vote right hi fish hi saltzman hi you daily hi i feel like we've never made it okay now we're on there now we're on to the regular agenda
 Thanks, guys. Carla, please call out the next agenda item. Item 166, Portland Streetcar Annual Report for 2016. Welcome. Thank you, Madam President. If you don't mind, I'll take it away. Okay. This is the third annual report to the City Council on the status of the Portland streetcar operations. And my first is the commissioner in charge of the Bureau of Transportation and ultimately the Portland streetcar.
 Ridership on the streetcar reached a great milestone of 50 million riders in 2016, with streetcar ridership among the top 10 transit lines in the region, comparing favorably with light rail and with frequent service buses. And this service is provided using 100 percent renewable energy through the city's purchase of renewable energy credits to meet our climate change goals. While we focus on transit operations 15 years after the streetcar line began,
 We continue to see the influence those fixed lines have had in changing our city and how people get around. Part of what we'll hear today relates the research linking the growth of streetcar ridership to the growth of housing units in the central city and how many of those are affordable units. So we're pleased to have with us today the Streetcar Board Chair, Jim Mark, Executive Director, Dan Bauer, and Portland Transportation Division Manager, Catherine Levine. Take it away, Catherine. Thank you, Jim.
 thank you good morning commissioners thank you for your time this morning we are here to update you on streetcar operations and provide a view towards the future as well i'd like to take a few moments just to talk about the system as it is today and note that under our 2015 to 2020 strategic plan vision streetcar exists to continue to encourage growth in the central city
 and provide convenient connections to destinations in the downtown. Currently, Streetcar operates seven days a week, between 5.40 a.m. and nearly midnight on weekdays. Of the fleet of 17 vehicles, 14 are scheduled in regular weekday service. The folks who run Streetcar are a partnership of three organizations, City of Portland, TriMet, and Portland Streetcar, Inc.,
 There are currently 24 full-time city employees in operations, maintenance, and enforcement, 68 TriMet employees, 56 operators, 12 mechanics and maintenance of way specialists, and there are employees from Portland Street Car, Inc., PSI, which leads the private sector engagement, strategic service planning, sponsorship development, as well as other service areas.
 Together, we have over 100 people from these organizations partnering to operate an urban railroad. Currently, the annual budget is over $13 million, of which 78% is for the cost of the people. These are the folks who work days, evenings, weekends, and holidays to help other people get where they need to be.
 Based on the data collected by PSI in 2015, we know a bit more about our passengers. We know that 66% of the trips originate at home, 25% of the riders have an income of $20,000 or less, 17% of the travelers are headed to a college class, and 38% of our riders come from households without cars.
 We also know that mobility ramps are crucial to providing service with operators deploying mobility ramps approximately 30 times an hour. We looked to fair revenue and sponsorship to offset operating costs, and in 2015, fair revenue provided 11% of the operating budget.
 In 2016, we saw a decrease in that to 7%, one relevant factor being the work on the Broadway Bridge to remove lead paint, which required a shutdown of streetcar for some weeks. In the long run, though, in the strategic plan, we pointed out that by 2020, our target is to have 20% of the fair revenue cover operating budget costs.
 Crucial to that is the implementation later this year of the regional e-fair hop fast pass by TriMet. So Streetcar participates along with C-TRAN and TriMet, and that will result in revenue sharing, which will be to our benefit. Sponsorship has been increasing, with Portland Streetcar exceeding our initial contract target for the first year.
 Other streetcar agencies regularly contact PSI for guidance on how to develop and implement a sponsorship program. Today, you'll see cars sponsored by local organizations like Portland State University and Bridgeport, but you'll also see, after a lot of dogged and determined work on PSI's part, a car sponsored by Target as well.
 the chair of psi jim marx is here along with psi's executive director dan bauer to present the annual report thank you thank you thanks for the opportunity to come before council again this year and it's my privilege and i've just enjoyed so much being chair of portland streetcar the last couple few years and i'm celebrating my 10th year on the board so we've seen a lot of progress over the years and this first annual published annual report was on
 It was obviously in response to questions that we had on what was going on in streetcar, and we're proud to present it. We made some copies. It is available online on our website. So if you have an opportunity, I think it leads to a lot of great information.
 It was a great year with all of our partners working with the city, working with TriMet and others. And we continue to focus on streetcar being cost effective and looking at how our product is serving our customers, whether in the city and around as an intermodal connector.
 We spent a lot of time in 2016 working on the system to make it faster and more reliable. That included some permanent closures around the city where we looked at, again, trying to get the system to speed up and also be mindful of the traffic flow and what's going on in the city.
 I ended up having the pleasure of going to Kansas City with Dan last year, and it was really interesting when people come up and ask you about Streetcar and how we were really the leader in Streetcar and how we can make it relevant.
 And one of the things I tell them every time, it was a public-private partnership from day one, and the city really committed to making the system a system that would serve the whole inner city. So it's something that Kansas City, when they looked at their line, I had the privilege of being able to see some areas that hadn't been developed in Kansas City in the warehouse district.
 that they had pioneers going in like we did 25 years ago into different districts and really making those areas livable within their inner city. And if you've spent time in Kansas City, it's difficult in some of those areas, and it's an example that I'm very proud to be from the city of Portland.
 Our customers are also asking for increased travel time, frequency of trains, and they expect the system to grow with the city as time goes by. So we're ever mindful of looking at where we're serving the city, where we aren't serving the city. And I think Dan's going to lay out some of the plans that we've got for future line expansions. And obviously that has to be aired not only to the city council but to the city at large. Okay.
 So with that, I think I'll turn it over to Dan. And again, I've enjoyed working with Streetcar, and I think it's an amazing example of Portland unique.
 Thanks, Jim. My name is Dan Bauer. I'm the director of Portland Streetcar, Inc. I'm happy to be here for a third year. I just want to touch real quick on the map in front of you here today. Catherine talked a lot about the system itself, and I want to flag that if February continues the way it has for the first three weeks, we'll have the highest ridership month ever with Portland Streetcar. We had the highest ever in October with 15,900 riders, and we're on pace for just over 16,000 in February. All right.
 And a lot of that has to do with just being able to run and working with our partners when we have bridge closures and construction projects and other major things going on in the city. We want to make sure people understand that we're carrying a lot of people. And our ability to actually operate has a lot to do with our ability to perform to our metrics. Okay.
 So, again, as Catherine said, we had a great summer. We actually celebrated our 15-year anniversary here at Portland Streetcar and our 50 millionth rider. We hosted an art contest in our office in the Pearl District and had community members bring in streetcar-related art. And here's just a couple of examples that came in, actually some really, really nice stuff. Okay.
 We had the public vote on it via Twitter. And what we learned there is that that is purely a popularity contest. The winner was a fantastic piece of art, but also had a very engaged social media following. But really nice to be able to celebrate that and be able to talk about the growth in the system over 15 years.
 And then we also talked about growing our community partnerships in the city. And what we've been trying to do with our sponsorship program is to not just have sponsors that are bringing in revenue for the city, but also be direct partnerships with Portland Streetcar. And last year we had two examples of those. One here that I'm showing is Wave G. They sponsor free rides on first Thursdays for Streetcar.
 And then we also partnered a lot with Portland Center Stage. They had a show called Streetcar Named Desire, and we were able to partner with them to get a sponsorship opportunity with the streetcar, hand out tickets to our riders, and kind of have a play on words there with the streetcar named Desire out on the system for a little while.
 Much like Jim said, growing the community here in Portland has been mirrored nationally. The national streetcar movement is moving along very, very rapidly. Just last year, we saw openings in D.C. You see pictured here Cincinnati in September in Kansas City. Seattle and Tacoma are expanding their systems today.
 Do we expect Detroit to open up this coming year? Oklahoma City just broke ground on a streetcar system. So again, there's a lot happening nationally. And for me, what it is is a reminder of how we have a very mature and maturing system. And we have streetcars on the road today that are now 15, 16 years old, and they are going to be in need of refurbishment and overhauls here in the next couple of years.
 Some of them are looking like they've been out on the system for 16 years. And we're thinking about how that's going to play out in terms of service. If we're deploying 14 of our streetcars every day and we have to start taking some of those cars out of service to refurbish them, we're going to have a service problem.
 And the other thing that we're recognizing here is as the city is growing and the demand for streetcar service is growing, we need to be able to respond to that. And this chart here on the left shows an interesting stat that we published earlier this year. This is in blue the total number of housing units built within a quarter mile of a streetcar over 15 years. And in green is the average weekday ridership on the Portland streetcar. So very, very – oops, hang on a second – very, very direct connection to housing,
 affordable housing and investment on the streetcar system with our ridership. And again, what we know from the ridership surveys that we've done is the people who are using the system are the people who live right on the system. Sixty-six percent of our trips are people coming or going from home. So interesting connection there.
 what concerns me is the chart on the right which is the the it looks like the bar graph got cut off there but that far right bar is the number of housing units we're expected to be built on the streetcar line in the next two years we have a very very crowded system today particularly on the west side if we add six thousand housing units to the system in the next two years and our in our ridership projections stay on the same track we're going to have an issue with overcrowding and not being able to serve our customers
 At the same time, as our city grows, we see congestion growing. We run in traffic. For the most part, we've done a very, very good job of managing that system. We have good signal timing. We've got priority where we need it. But there are places in our system, and one I'm showing here is at Northeast Grand and Davis, where every single day –
 We get stuck in traffic trying to get on the I-84. And this is a big, big problem. I'm sorry, there seems to be a timer on my slides here. This is a major issue for us. Every day during p.m. peak, a $250 million investment in rail comes to a complete standstill because of our inability to manage the traffic in that three-block section. So this is something we're working on. We have some ideas. But it's an issue that we need to be thinking about in terms of streetcar moving forward. Can I just address that for a second? Sure.
 I think one of the challenges you face is that with all the construction going on in that three-block area, what can happen on any given day is a number of lanes of traffic are taken out of service to allow for delivery, let's say, which then impacts congestion. And you can be backed up, you know, six, seven, eight, ten blocks just in an automobile. So...
 I wonder how we can do a better job of coordinating. One thing that I notice is that sometimes there will be a lane taken up, and I'm talking particularly around Burnside Bridgehead,
 there's a lane taken away for delivery but there are no deliveries being made or whether that might cause us to reflect on a more time specific permit for taking out a lane also when you're taking out a lane that's just ahead of the only left turn that you've got to get on the on the bridge you know you're creating it has massive uh impacts
 And I know we're a growing city and there's a lot going on, but until you just said that, I'm aware of being stuck in that traffic in a car, but now I have a better sense of how it impacts your system. So perhaps we can coordinate better just in terms of taking lanes out of service? Good point.
 I will say, over the last year, the city council invested a little bit of money in trying to speed the streetcar up, and we were able to do quite a bit with that. Signal timing, some paint, just simple fixes. The station closures are one example where we've actually been able to realize fairly significant time savings, but we haven't been able to incorporate them into our schedules yet because there's still other places in the system where we're struggling. So over time, we're going to keep looking at that.
 As Catherine mentioned, we're very excited about launching HOP in partnership with TriMet and C-Tran. And specifically the reason that we should be excited about this for streetcar, a couple of reasons. One is that right now 70% of our passengers board with a prepaid TriMet fare, and Portland Streetcar does not receive any revenue for that, which is why our fare box recovery rate and our ability to pay for operations with fares is down in the 10% rather than closer to the 20% or 25% that we'd like to get to.
 So our ability to use HOP to manage money behind the scenes, so when a customer is paying, it's not really their problem that the money goes to TriMet or Streetcar. That's our problem. So HOP is going to allow us to manage that process with TriMet and with C-TRAN. So when a person buys a TriMet ticket and boards a Streetcar system, we're actually going to be receiving that revenue. So that's a very good benefit for us.
 The other is the fare capping mechanism here that allows you to buy fares one fare at a time up to the point where you've spent the equivalent of a monthly pass, and then you no longer get charged. So rather than laying out, say, $100 a month for a pass for TriMet, you'll pay per ride and build up to that so you don't have that first initial outlay at the beginning of the month. Those are both going to be great things for our community, I think. Can I ask a question about that? Sure.
 Earlier you said that it's most used a lot by people going from home somewhere else. And so those people are presumably right now paying for a streetcar pass only, but they don't pay the more expensive TriMet option. Will that still be the case when it's hot? No. Well, we don't expect the makeup of tickets to change a lot. Most of those people are coming from places where they have a pass, a TriMet pass provided to them by their job through their employer program.
 or they have a pass-through school or some other institution? Well, we have a lot of seniors, though, that live downtown and might be taking the streetcar to get in particular places. Will there still be the option of using money to buy a streetcar pass? Yeah, we'll have the cash machines and we'll have the credit card machines at the platforms. You can walk in our office today and buy with anything you want. What we see in the senior population is they're using the...
 actually using the mobile app quite a bit. We have a monthly pass that's available for $20, and we sell quite a few of those to seniors. So just in summarizing here, I want to just talk about where we're headed for the future, and I see really four bodies of work in the next year. They're all somewhat related, and one of them has to do with making our existing fleet work better. We are making investments in security cameras on the streetcars. Today we do not have cameras on the cars anymore.
 We're investing in putting automatic passenger counters on our entire fleet. Right now we have passenger counters on six of our cars. We'd like to get them on all 17. We would like to begin the conversation and really set up a timeline for buying more cars. We need these. There's no question about it.
 We have opportunities to do that in the near future, and we're trying to get to a place where we can present to you an option that makes a lot of sense for the community in terms of increasing our ridership and also just meeting demand, but also being able to just manage the overhauls that we talked about earlier with the trains becoming a little bit older. We're going to have to start taking trains out of service, and if we don't buy new trains, we're going to be in a bit of a pickle. Okay.
 The third investment area for us is things happening in and around our system. As you said, there's a lot of construction happening. There's also a lot of road projects happening, and they're directly on our system. We need to be able to position Streetcar for the future in terms of knowing where we want to be and how those construction projects are lining up. Some of that has to do with, for example, the projects happening in South Waterfront with Zydel and OHSU, the South Portal project, which we've labored over several times, and the South Portal project.
 ODOT's project on the Rose Quarter to widen I-5, we're talking about closing down Broadway and Wydler for 450 days during that time. We need to be able to respond to that and emerge from those projects in a way that makes sense. Part of that for me is looking at the future and trying to figure out where we want to be and how we want to use those opportunities to put our tracks in the right places so we can advance on projects.
 And then the fourth piece is actually thinking about expansion. We are in a position now where Metro is calling for projects for the 2040 regional transportation plan. PSI and the city and TriMet have been doing a lot of work trying to prioritize those investments. And so we look forward to being able to share some of those ideas with you in the coming weeks. I can give you a quick snapshot is that we want to get more cars and have more service, and we want to have an expansion lined up that makes sense for the community. And we look forward to being able to bring that forward.
 So with that, I think I'll stop there and open up for any more questions. I have a comment and a question. First, to Jim, please give your father our regards. Oh, thank you. So I think this is an excellent report, but I'm struck by –
 It occurs to me that it could be even stronger if we added a page that just showed your revenues and expenditures. And there is an indirect reference to that under your performance section. Number four, efficient cost-effective operations alludes to your fair box recovery targets. But I think without a pie chart showing all your revenues, you're not going to be able
 and your cost, it's hard to actually put that in context. Is there any reason that that's not part of your annual report right now? No. The budget and the revenue sources are published in the city's adopted budget every year, so it's available.
 No, nothing to hide there. Well, I would strongly recommend, just so it's a complete document, because it has useful information about economic impact and service and your strategic plan and future. But I think a self-contained document that showed your revenue sources from the city, TriMet grants, as well as –
 private contributions, and then some corresponding pie charges about your overall expenses. I think that tells an important part of the story, the public-private piece, and I would urge you to consider that in your next annual report.
 we can definitely provide that level of information i think what would jump out at you if we were to have that pie chart today is that trimet is both a significant funding partner as well as a significant expense so uh this being a a three-party partnership if you will the city actually has less operating revenue involved in managing this system
 Thank you. I was struck when you said that the Rose Quarter, the ODOT Transportation Improvement Project, would close Broadway-Widler for 450 days. That's a long time. Allow me not to speak for ODOT, but the I-5 Rose Quarter project envisions the widening of I-5 to three lanes through that area. It necessitates the removal of Broadway and Widler structures for a significant period of time.
 and there are there does that mean the streetcar will not be able to operate there are options for us to be able to operate on a temporary basis yeah but i i might genuinely think that it's the city needs to be coming out fairly strongly saying that we we would need transit during that period because um the conversations are happening now
 and it's impacting i mean just like dan talked about the broadway project i mean closing broadway a series of time has really impacted our ridership numbers we start building it we get people used to the line and then you shut it down and divert it and it's the reliability of the system and the predictability so and i just wanted the question why does the street car come to a complete stop on the broadway bridge it doesn't come to a complete stop it slows to 10 miles an hour at the two yellow gates and then five miles an hour in the middle
 which seems slow. The reason is if you ride over it every time or the next time you drive over, look at the center of the span and it comes together like this. As our vehicle goes over, the span literally just flaps around like this. If we hit that going too fast, it can damage our overhead wires because the bridge is not actually lined up properly. Does that make sense? So our
 When we hit that center span going more than five miles an hour, there's so much give in the way the spans come together. We've in the past had issues with our pantographs not lining up properly with the overhead wire. You look baffled by it. It answers it. I've often wondered why that was, so thank you. Any other questions? Carla, has anyone signed up for public testimony? I didn't have a sign-up sheet, but I know we have people who want to testify. Okay, great.
 Anyone who didn't sign up. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Come on up. Debbie Hayes. Welcome. Please state your name for the record. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh, represent Individuals for Justice. I love this streetcar. I really do. The last time I was on it, I took my wife, Patty.
 and we went to the tram, and we went off the tram. We went to lunch, rode the streetcar. It was really kind of nice. There's another story I'll tell you. Now, when I was working at Long Beach Naval Shipyard, sometimes Patty and I, on a Friday afternoon, I would pick her up in a limo just as a surprise and take her to Vegas. And we would spend the weekend in Vegas. And then when we came back from Vegas, the limo would pick us up. I really loved that limo.
 I really like the streetcar. However, it's expensive. And there's a couple of things that you talked about that you really should think more and more about. Because the last time I testified on a streetcar, that's what we talked about. We talked about the fact that this pass, TriMet pass, will get me on a streetcar. Nobody knows I'm there. There's no record. You are one-third part in a streetcar. You get no money for that.
 The only person that gets money from this pass is TriMet. So you're getting ripped off. It would be really easy to do some kind of data. When you get on the bus, they give you a little ticket. That means there's a machine, and the machine keeps track of people getting on the bus. Why can't they do that on the streetcar? Have a little buck. I come in and show them my pass, and I go, boom! TriMet reimburses you something.
 One-third is fair, whatever. We talked about this about a year ago. Why is it with government, it's always going to be good? It never is good. It's always going to be. Remind me of a guy sitting on the edge of the bed saying, it's going to be wonderful. It's going to be wonderful. And that's it. That's the end. That's the way government is. You talk about these things, but you don't put them into practice. The streetcar is not paying for itself.
 Let me go out on a limb on that. Streetcar is not paying for itself, and it should, because it's nice. It's kind of nice. So you guys have something that is nice, wonderful, warm, fuzzy, but not necessary. Because if you ride the streetcar along Wren, you will see, if you look out the left side of the streetcar, the number six bus runs the whole route.
 So you got TriMet running the same route the streetcar is running. Is that stupid? Yes, it is.
 I don't know how you fixed that one, but we talked about that a year ago, too. And I'll bet you, if I'm still alive, I will be here looking at you, talking about the same two items. Because you will do nothing. Thank you, Joe. Mr. Walsh, I think you had stepped out of the room when they discussed about the hot pass that is going to be able to give them the streetcar money from TriMet. I didn't understand that. That's all.
 So you had stepped out of the room. When TriMet comes in with their new system with the hop pass, where you're going to touch it to a receptacle, you've seen them around, then you'll touch it to the receptacle in the streetcar, and then they'll be able to get some money from TriMet. It's always they will be able to.
 See what I'm saying? So it's in the future. Well, they're coming in. It's actually launching this year. Why? Okay. After 15 years, Commissioner, wouldn't you do something like this? Okay. You know? Next, please state your name for the record. I'm sorry. I was answering her question. Do not interrupt me when I'm answering her question. Joe. Joe.
 Don't call me Joe. You call me Mr. Walsh. Okay, Mr. Walsh, your time is up. And if a commissioner asks me a question, I will answer it. You've answered it? You have to interrupt me. Okay. Because I'll close it down. Please state your name for the record. I'm Mr. Shedrick Wilkins. I want to compliment the streetcar. In fact, in 1907, there was a plaque saying,
 So this is leading Portland to have a county general hospital like most major cities have. And what blocked the whole thing, there was a railroad scandal in which they put OHSU up on the hill, and there's been a movement slowly to bring it down to the waterfront thanks to Mayor Hales. We can now have a medical school where there's surgical residency. You can be a doctor at the waterfront, go to school at PSU.
 uh go to omsi uh there's housing on the east side bunch of housing stuff they're making on the east side near the lloyd center just take the uh streetcar i look at the streetcar more than the south side of the situation not the north side over the broadway but i see a lot of stuff with this new bridge when i go to omsi sometimes i stare out the window in the cafeteria and i think i'm looking at the golden gate bridge
 And it's like a little miniature Golden Gate Bridge, you know. And there's another thing, too, that should be complemented. Given light rail and the trolley system, in 1973 and 1979, there was an oil crisis, shortage,
 Because of light rail and the streetcars, I think Portland could still function. The hospitals would still be open. And that's entirely electrical, which would be the power comes from the dams. So we've achieved a state where we're like a European city, where the city will not be immobilized. People get on streetcars, go and move around and stuff like that.
 I know the history of the Oregon Ironworks that built the streetcars. They're the first streetcars built for 50 years. Oregon Ironworks also makes tidal wave generating equipment. It's possible someday that...
 Oregon may have the distinction that Newport will be the first city to be – there's a tidal wave generating farm south of Newport, and the whole city will be powered lights, streetcars at Newport, and hospitals, X-ray machines will all be powered by renewable tidal energy. Think about that one. And the Oregon AeroWorks is out near Clackamas on the east side of Cholet's district. It's a great company. They're doing a lot of stuff with generators.
 streetcars and this is a resurgence for America to actually make things again. And so this only happened in the last five years. And I was at OMSI when the circle ring was dedicated by Mayor Sam Adams and all the city council was there. It was a great time at OMSI. I think it was four years ago. Good afternoon. I'm trying to.
 For the record, my name is R.A. Fonts. I share Commissioner Fish's concern with the lack of data provided in the report. I'll go beyond that. It's very hard to get a lot of particular data. It would be important for you folks and also for the general public to exercise oversight or streetcar. If you would look at your handout, the second page, I have highlighted middle on the left side,
 The operating expense, total operating expense for fiscal 15, $13,500,000. Fair revenues, $500,000. And annual unlinked trips, $4,625,000. Notice if you do the simple arithmetic that your fair revenue is not 10% or 11%. It's just 4%.
 It's not necessarily nefarious, it's just that the stuff that this National Transit Database is highly formatted, very strict about what goes in. No opportunity for spin, there's absolutely no fluff or anything like that. So it makes it possible to see how you're doing relative to other systems.
 highlighted in blue and aligned below that, operating expenses for vehicle revenue hour. Again, the NTD has $235, whereas PSI says it's $180. Nothing nefarious. They're just looking at different things. Now, using that $180...
 The comparison for a TriMet bus is about $100. In other words, streetcar costs more than half again as much to run as a TriMet bus. So you could get a 60-foot TriMet bus, which has more capacity than a streetcar, according to a recent Southwest Corridor project. It's 86 versus 81, and you could get it for less than 65% of the cost. Back to the front page.
 PSI has dropped important governance, expenditure, and sponsorship information from its website. It's getting worse, not better. The auditor's report that came out two years ago says there's a problem with transparency, with disclosing data. It is getting worse, not better. There's absolutely no discussion whatsoever anywhere on the potential effects of autonomous vehicles on streetcars' future.
 And I'm going to talk about this for a second here. These things are coming. Oh, boy. Look, just to wrap it up, AVs probably will take streetcars out of the commission entirely. And the reason being is because streetcars are so slow, the trips are so short, that there's just no reason for people to pay a streetcar fare.
 And the final two thoughts, since AVs are expected to save tens of thousands of lives every year in this country alone, any public policy which delays, restricts, or taxes their use will cost lives.
 And without adding a single new resident or job, we can expect AVs to dramatically increase travel demand. And this can be mitigated by sharing, sharing vehicles, sharing trips. Public policy must not discourage sharing or the use of fleet-based AVs across the internal borders of the state of Oregon. This is extremely important, and thank you. Thank you. You can have mine. Thank you.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Super... Is Lightning your full name, or do you have a government name, your first and last? Again, I'll do my own speech. Thank you so much. Yeah, but it says right here you've got to state your name. I am stating my name. Please state your name for the record. And I'll do this again so people can hear. My name is Lightning, and I represent Super Lightning Watchdog PDX, Malt Co., and PDC. And if you'd like to check my name...
 Madam President. Okay, again, I will... I need you to stop interjecting. Are you going to give testimony on the streetcar, ma'am? My opinions are... Then I need you to take a seat back in the audience, please. My opinions are on behalf of Super Lightning Watchdog, PDX, Malt Co., and PDC. Again, very good presentation on the overall costs of what the streetcar costs.
 As far as on revenue, it's generating currently overall expenses for labor. Numbers don't look real good when you look at it from that position. Again, what I do like about streetcar is it does appear to create development along where the streetcar goes at a rapid pace, which is...
 It's very clear on why people would want to do that. They have good transportation there. They want to move the people around to different locations, so it makes a lot of sense. I do want to see more affordable housings in the plan, not just a quarter, but up to 50% of affordable housing on the streetcar lanes.
 There's no reason why that can't be requested and implemented and create more workforce housing where corporations can come in and pay for that cost for that type of housing. Another issue I have is that, as the gentleman referred to, is my position is on the central city location downtown. I want to see Portland become the first vision emission zero location to do that.
 Street car obviously is going that direction. He stated bus, we go electric. Forget those diesel killing machines. Get them off the roads. And again, autonomous vehicles. If we look at the electric side of this and go that direction and have a designated area downtown where we have and focus on clean air for the highest population base...
 Thank you.
 Many studies have been done on diesel, and any fool who thinks diesel is good for young kids to breathe shouldn't even be an elected official and should be removed out of office immediately. Any fool that supports anything to do with diesel downtown where young kids and family breathe that all day long is a fool and should make that change for their health. And again, like I've stated, I think streetcar drivers
 It's been efficient. Expanding that at this time, again, I agree with this gentleman. Don't go that direction. Too much cost, not enough return, can't cover your expenses, doesn't make any economic sense overall. But to look at these other directions at this time, again, for clean air, zero emissions output, the protection of the young children, we need to look in those directions. Thank you.
 Move checks out the report. Second. I think we have one more person to testify. Oh, one more person. Okay. On this report, Dan? Yes. Thank you.
 I'm sorry. Yeah, good morning. I'm sorry about that. My name is Dan Handelman. I'm not representing any group with this testimony, which is unusual, but I just saw something in the presentation that bothered me about the hop pass where you kind of have to have a smartphone in order for your multiple trips over to add up to a day pass or to add up to a monthly pass out over time and for people who's create together money to use this
 The public transportation, it seems like that's kind of an elitist thing if you have to have a smartphone and be able to use digital money. And if you choose not to use digital money and don't choose to own a smartphone, it's very elitist in that sense. So I just wanted to put that forward. I also, while I'm up here, want to mention I've been a producer at Portland Community Media for 26 years, and I appreciated their presentation earlier. We wish they had used the words Portland Community Media for their new name, but that's another issue.
 And my last point I want to make is that the officer upstairs who's videotaping this is, in my opinion, a violation of an Oregon revised statute, what used to be numbered 181.575, gathering information on people's social, religious, and political affiliations without any suspicion of criminal conduct. And I would like to find out why the officer is videotaping the audience. Thank you. Moved and seconded. Sorry, who moved? Who seconded? Commissioner Fritz moved, and I seconded. Thank you.
 I'd like to speak on this. Do a roll call. Roll call. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Thank you for an excellent report. I'd like to speak on this. We already did. We already did. I'd like to speak on this. You already gave testimony on this item. Sorry. You guys are not going to continue with cops out there arresting people. I call recess. You're not going to do this.
 We will do this every week. Do we need to close the door? Okay. We were at roll call on the streetcar report. I think I was in midstream. Yes, thank you for the report. I look forward to the additional information next year around revenues and expenditures.
 And congratulations on two milestones of 50 million riders and the prospect this year of being 100% renewable energy driven. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Carla, could you introduce the next item? Item 167, assess benefited properties for massed-arm traffic signal and utility undergrounding improvements in the North Vancouver Avenue and Cook Street Local Improvement District. Aye.
 Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Madam President. This item really is all about thanking folks that we finally have this local improvement district. And I want to thank the Boise and Elliott neighborhoods for waiting 42 years for this new signal at North Vancouver and North Cook and the left turn signal at North Vancouver and Fremont. Neighborhood advocacy made these possible, as did apparently in the...
 Dialogue we just had before we reconvene Commissioner fish was also an inspiration for this Stop light too. So I'll turn it over with to Andrew Abbey I did I did want particularly want to thank a Pacific power and Red Cross and I believe I
 Legacy, probably, also? Legacy and also Ben Kaiser. Ben Kaiser, for their stepping up to make sure this happened. With that, I'll turn it over to Andrew Abbey. Thank you, Commissioner Salzman. I know it's been a long day, so I'll move this through quickly. We moved this LID forward with 100% petition support, so everybody was participating in the LID voluntarily, and this is a list of all the folks that helped contribute to the LID, either financially or otherwise.
 In addition to the stakeholders that Commissioner Salzman mentioned, we also had New Seasons Market who participated in the LID as well.
 So I particularly wanted to recognize Red Cross. They came to the, they were the last partners that stepped up to help us with the LID. You can see they do a lot for our community here between disaster relief, CPR, first aid preparedness training, blood collection, service to the armed forces and the many things that their volunteers do in the communities. They help us with home fires, floods, wild flood fires, explosions like the one we recently had in northwest Portland.
 And Red Cross has always been there to help people in Portland affected by disasters, big and small. And Red Cross accomplishes that through their volunteers and their donations that they get from the community. So one of the things that Cell ID wanted to – one of the objectives of the Cell ID was to make it safer and easier for people to access the Red Cross to donate blood and blood.
 go to the Red Cross headquarters with all the gridlock we had before this traffic signal went in. And this is an example on this next slide. You know, we had a fire at the Hotel Alder recently, and Red Cross stepped up and helped those residents who were displaced by that fire, and within hours they had people there at the Hotel Alder to help some of our most vulnerable citizens in Portland. So we really appreciate the partnership with Red Cross on many facets. So
 So Commissioner Sossman mentioned there was a 42-year wait for this traffic signal to be installed when
 ODOT opened up the Fremont Bridge in 1973. They didn't fund the traffic signals at the east end of the bridge, and so it was up to the city of Portland to come up with that funding. So we have gotten complaints about lack of a signal there for many, many years, and we were finally able to turn it on in 2015. There was also a fair amount of discussion at council about utility undergrounding, and we were able to, at LID formation, we were able to get that done as well. So this
 This next slide is a picture of what Vancouver and Cook used to look like before the signal went in. So you can see that white car on the left side of the photo. You would come off of the Fremont Bridge. You'd be trying to look around cars turning onto the Fremont Bridge. You'd be trying to keep your eye out for bikes and then you'd be trying to monitor the oncoming traffic to figure out whether they're going straight on the bridge or making a left turn.
 And this was one of the top 10 right angle crash locations in the city. So this was definitely a safety initiative. So this was the day that we turned on the traffic signal. We did something quirky, very Portland, but we had a little party and invited the neighborhood to show up. In the top right corner there is Ben Kaiser, who provided the largest share of the funding for the LID, and he had the honors of turning on the traffic signal after our director, Treat, cut the ribbon on the new traffic signal. Thank you.
 And you can just see the looks on everybody's faces there in the lower picture, just a lot of relief that we finally had a safe way to cross that intersection. So the woman sitting there on the left on her bicycle was the very first person to ever wait for a red light at Vancouver and Cook. So we caught that moment for posterity. The woman on the right there crossing the street owns a hair salon down the street and cooks.
 The new signal plus the combination of the left turn signal will really improve access to her business. I'm sorry we lost Sheila Holden from Pacific Power, but she was a great partner on this project. Pacific Power dropped all the power lines just in time for our new traffic signals to be operational, and they also removed the overhead power lines so that they wouldn't be in the way of the development that was coming in. So...
 Vancouver and Fremont, excuse me, Williams and Fremont used to be a food desert. You had to drive a long way to get groceries. And now it's anchored by New Seasons Grocery Store there on the corner. And I was able to talk to Sheila during one of the breaks and she expressed her regret.
 wasn't able to stay, and also her great appreciation for you, Andrew. So thank you very much for your coordination of this. Thank you very much, Commissioner Fritz. And this is the second-to-last slide, but this showed the day that we took down the old span wire signals at Vancouver and Fremont and turned on the new signal.
 And the last slide here shows, thanks to the advocacy of Commissioner Fish, we were able to scrounge around and find the money to pay the difference of upgrading this signal to include a left turn signal. So you can look at all these neighborhoods here, that whether they're on transit riding the number 24 bus line in this area or whether they're driving, these are all the neighborhoods whose residents travel through this intersection to get to other places in the city.
 So we're very happy that we're able to deliver that. This is the first traffic signal project that I've managed. One of the things that I learned is if you want a left turn signal, you better budget for it up front because you can't come in later and just hang a left turn signal on. You have to tear out half of the hardware and what we absolutely didn't want to do is to further disrupt businesses.
 To wrap this up, we started out with the cell ID replacing one traffic signal. It grew. We came back to council five times, kept expanding the partnership. We expanded it to replacing three traffic signals. We got 25% economies of scale on the core project, and that is money that PBOT can now use to rebuild more traffic signals in other areas of the city. So we're very pleased with the partnership and just wanted to recognize our community partners in this effort. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Any questions from the council? I know that we have a couple. We have Monique and Kathy here from Red Cross that just want to briefly speak. So, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Council, for having us, and thank you for your support. My name is Cassie McQueen, and I'm the Chief Operating Officer of your local Red Cross. I've had the privilege of working for our organization for over five years now, and I'm proud to say that we are doing amazing humanitarian work in this community. The Red Cross accomplishes our services every single day, every single month, every single year.
 In 2016 alone, we responded to over 630 local disasters and helped over 2,700 people in need in Oregon and southwest Washington. Now, these are big numbers, but I felt like it would be best represented in a quote from one of our most recent clients, who was displaced by the Hotel Alder fire in January. His name was Eric, and this is what he said. Thank you.
 I have no one here in my town, no one to check on me. There is no other help. The Red Cross is my help. The compassion of volunteers is kind of rubbing off on me. This is a whole other level of love that I have learned, and I'm going to use it. I owe it to the Red Cross and myself to give back. So on behalf of Eric and myself, thank you for empowering the Red Cross to continue to do our service work here in Oregon.
 And thank you, Cassie. My name is Monique Dugas, and I'm the Regional Director of Communications for the Red Cross. And thank you for this opportunity to speak with you. We are able to go to work safely, cross the street safely because of this partnership, and we do appreciate it. With all the services that the Red Cross provides in our community, we each have what we call a mission moment. And our mission moments are when we felt the impact personally of the Red Cross in our life.
 And my personal mission moment came when I suffered serious injuries from a car accident and needed to have 60% of my blood replaced. And because of the Red Cross and generous donors in our community, the blood was there at the hospital when I needed it. That's my mission moment. And the Red Cross is the nation's largest blood supplier. In fact, we supplied more than 182,000 units of blood just in this area alone.
 so that hospitals and patients in need, just like me, were able to get the blood when they needed it. I'm sure many of you have a mission moment, and when the Red Cross services have touched you personally or someone that you love, and we would simply ask that you remember, think of the Red Cross, and that your mission moment was sponsored by the Red Cross. So thank you very much for your time. Thank you for making it safer for us to get to our facility, for our workers, volunteers, and donors.
 Thank you. Any questions from council? Any public testimony? Do you have a sign-up sheet? No. Okay. Call the roll, please. Is it a non-emergency? I'm sorry. My bad. It's a non-emergency. If I could just say for the benefit of our friends on the Red Cross, you know,
 Over the years that I've been on the council, I've watched the Red Cross step up during winter weather emergencies. I've watched them step up when people are displaced, when we've had all kinds of challenges. And we almost take for granted that the Red Cross is always there. But I also want to thank you for the work you do around blood. And because I have an unusual – I have a rare blood type.
 I get a phone call almost every night at dinner. You're almost as persistent as the AARP is with the solicitations I get in the mail. But what that reminds me is that the blood is vitally important and can save a life. Your story, Monique, underscores that. And thank you for all the wonderful things that Red Cross does for our community. Next item, please. Yes.
 Item 168, reappoint Adam Green, Kate Von Terstegi, and Steve Yarosh to a pool of community volunteers to be available to serve on the Police Review Board for terms to end February 21, 2020. Welcome. Good morning. My name is Anika Bent-Alber, Assistant Director of the Independent Police Review. I'm appearing on behalf of Director Sevier.
 Rachel Mortimer, the other assistant director, also at Independent Police Review. Irene Konev, community outreach coordinator, Independent Police Review.
 So we are here this morning to seek the reappointments of community members Steve Yarosh, Kate Montersteg, and Adam Green to the Police Review Board. The Police Review Board is an advisory board to the Chief of Police. The Review Board makes recommendation as to findings and proposed officer discipline to the Chief of Police. Mr. Yarosh, Ms. Montersteg, and Mr. Green have previously served on the Review Board and have been recommended by the auditor.
 for reappointment following the expiration of their terms on February 19, 2017. These members reapplied for their positions, and their reappointment was recommended by a selection committee consisting of IPR staff, member of the CRC, the Citizens Review Committee, and former Police Review Board members. If confirmed by council, their term begins today and will end February 21, 2020.
 We are very grateful for their continued interest in serving on the Police Review Board as they have been invaluable in the Police Review Board process. Thank you. Questions? I thought the other two might be okay. What did you think was going to take 30 minutes? We appreciate your succinctness. Thank you very much for your work and for your outreach. Thank you. Thank you.
 Is there a public testimony? We have a sign-up sheet. I'm not sure if everybody is still here. Star Stauffer, Jeff Singer, I believe his last name, Alex DeBlas, Mylena Petrovic, Suryan James, Charles Bridgetrain Johnson, Dan Handelman, Red Hamilton, Nita Kelly, and Jesse Sponberg.
 It's my understanding that there's overflow set up in the Portland building, so it might take a few – no, there's not. I understand nobody's over there. No, anymore. Okay, sorry. My apologies. Thank you.
 Welcome. Please state your name for the record. Good morning. I'm Dan Handelman. I am in this instance representing Portland Cop Watch, and we have been following to the extent that we could the Exploits of the Police Review Board since it was created in 2004. It's become more and more open to the public, but there's still many problems, including that the meetings themselves of the board aren't open to the public, and the board itself never meets in a public place, so the community doesn't know who's representing them when the –
 Most serious kinds of police conduct, including the shooting that the people were trying to protest about this morning, are being discussed behind closed doors. The victims of the shootings at this point aren't even allowed, if they live, to testify, or the people who have the complaints about the police can't come to the police review board. There are five people who were appointed to the board in February of 2014 whose terms weren't renewed. It's not clear if they dropped off or if they didn't ask to be renewed or what happened. Okay.
 We have no objection to the three people that you're contemplating putting back on. The total number by our count of people on the board will be 16 now with 10 females and 6 males, and 8 of them are current or former attorneys. No offense, but that doesn't really show a broad variety of the number.
 the diversity of Portland when that many attorneys are part of the same body. And the only time that more than one civilian sits on the panel, the second seat is filled by a citizen review committee member, and that's something that council changed as part of the DOJ grant.
 So we've been advocating, and I hope you all saw the final report from John Campbell of the stakeholder group that was put together about how to change the CRC system. I'm going to hand it to the Council Clerk when I'm done with my testimony. But we recommended, Portland Copwatch recommended it. We got in there as a kind of a footnote.
 that members of the Police Review Board be asked to sit with the Citizen Review Committee to consider appeal hearings, like the one you're going to hear this afternoon, when they're backed up. The whole reason we rushed into trying to change the CRC system was that they had this huge backlog of appeals, and at the last meeting when some of the information wasn't available to the board and they had to cancel the hearing – thank you, Carla –
 The director announced that this was the last appeal that they have pending. So apparently when there were all these appeals that were stacked up all the way until May of this year, that all disappeared and there's no big rush. So we think that our idea of involving the PRB on the citizen review committee is an idea that the council should consider.
 Just a few other things about the Police Review Board. The reports are supposed to come out twice a year. We sent an email to the Bureau on February 14 asking where the January report was. It was published on the 16th and it was sent out for the first time on a flash alert to the media. We didn't get an individual email back from the Bureau. This is part of the communication problem we have with the Bureau that it would have been in common courtesy to say, Mr. Handelman, thanks for reminding us. We've published it now. We found out by reading in the press that it had been released.
 And, you know, I really appreciate the opportunity to speak about the police reboard because, as I said, very little of it is dealt with in a public forum. Thank you. I move the report. Roll call. Roll call. Ritz. Thank you very much for the report. Thank you to those volunteers serving. And thank you, Mr. Handelman, as usual, for your observations. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Thank you, Trigley.
 Help me to read these two together. Yes, please. Item 169, improve land use and other city regulations through the regulatory improvement code amendment package 8, technical amendments. And 170, improve city tree regulations through the regulatory improvement code amendment package 8, technical amendments. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you.
 My name is Sandra Wood. I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you for having us again. We were here last Wednesday with the hearing for the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment Package No. 8, and there were seven amendments that were proposed, and they were moved and seconded last week, and we've had a written testimony open for another week on those amendments.
 If I may recommend, would you like me to walk you through those? Would that be an easier way to go about this? Okay, great. You should have two pieces of information in front of you. One is a memo from Mayor Wheeler to city commissioners.
 dated February 6th, and the other one is three more amendments. So Mayor Wheeler's amendment included four amendments that, as I said, were moved and seconded last week. And so I believe the plan was that we vote on these amendments today, on all seven of them, and then you will do the second reading next week. That was my understanding. So starting with the mayor's amendment, again,
 So we need to call the roll, Carla. So we'll be calling seven rolls. Yeah, we're ready? Okay, so the first amendment number one is to item number three about regular lot lines. You got roll call on number one? And that's on page 95 of the handout you just gave. So we're going to do each of them individually? Individually is what I understand we need to do because they were all moved individually. I see. Okay. We'll call on number one. Fritz?
 This is to make it easier to do lot lines, and it's almost a technical fix. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Great. Amendment number two is item 33, which has to do with the definitions of stream on page 113 of the document. Basically, it removes the amendment to the stream definition in the zoning code. Wolcott. Ritz. Ritz.
 And just to clarify, under the hazardous substance, which is underlined in front of that, that's because we're also changing hazardous substances, but nobody had an amendment on that one. Is that correct? On page 113. I'll check that.
 I think, again, those... So that references the list of lists, which is a federal document, and that was updated, and the old reference was still in the code. Yes, so this is another technical part of it, right? And that's what we've already got in the main thing. So now we're talking about redefining Seaboard Spring to be an area where groundwater is discharged onto the land surface, creating either saturated soil conditions or visible flow at the land surface. And I vote aye. Aye. Fish, Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Okay.
 Great. The Amendment 3 is about Title 11. Title 11 is the tree code, and the city auditor identified several minor typos and errors. So this is a list of errata that she wanted to have corrected during this process. Local? Very much appreciate the council and the staff working on some of the tree issues. Obviously, we've got many more to go. This is a start. Aye. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Amendment 4, and the final one in the Mayor's Memo, is regarding inclusionary housing parking in the vote that Council did in...
 In December, I guess it was. What council intended was to waive the parking requirements for projects that provided on-site or off-site affordable housing, but not to waive the parking requirements for projects that paid a fee in lieu. I believe Commissioner Fish, this was your amendment at that time, the code amendment.
 it wasn't aligned with that intent. And so this amendment is technical to bring it into alignment with council's intent. So to be clear, this would have the effect of discouraging, in effect, someone to do a fee-in-lieu because they would not be getting out from under the minimum parking requirement. That's exactly right. Thank you. Roll call. Well, thanks to everybody for working on this. This is what we came to in late last year. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Great. Now moving on to the other document that you have, Amendment 5 was introduced by Commissioner Saltzman and seconded by Commissioner Fritz last week. It's on page 115 of the document. This changes the measurements chapter and changes how Florida area ratio is measured. The Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendation is to measure Florida area ratio based on post-dedication site area, so a smaller site area after...
 land has been dedicated, Commissioner Saltzman's amendment would measure it pre-dedication prior to the applicant dedicating public right-of-way on a street that's been winded. So just, I missed this discussion. I might have missed this discussion. What's the net effect of that?
 The net effect is, so the way the process works is an applicant comes in with a building permit and all the service bureaus are reviewing it and PBOT would take a look at it and ask the applicant for dedication of right of way.
 The request, I believe, is that that penalizes the applicant because then it makes the site area smaller, and thus they would lose Florida area ratio. So this amendment ensures that they can count that site area before the dedication occurs towards their Florida area ratio calculations. For how long have we been using the current rule? For as long as we've had zoning. Okay.
 Since 1924. This has the net effect of allowing more development on a site, not massively more. It means that they're not getting penalised for giving a larger right-of-way, which could include wider sidewalks or some of the other things that we require now that we didn't necessarily require 20, 30 years ago. Thank you. Will Cole? Thank you to Commissioner Salzman, Bureau of Planning Staff and Bureau of Development Services, as well as Transportation, for figuring out this one. Hi. Hi.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Thank you. So then Amendment 6 was introduced by Commissioner Udaly last week, or your staff, and this has to do with a correction to the design review thresholds. As you can see, the design review threshold table is two pages long, and there was a circumstance where a property and...
 The testimony last week was Cully, where the old Sugar Shack property is. It has a design overlay. It is not in a design district, which is a subset, and I won't get into that. But the table inadvertently sends that property through a Type 3 design review instead of a Type 2 design review, which is always the intent outside of Central City for a project of that size to go through a Type 2 review.
 Any questions? She tried to sneak this by Eagle Eye, you daily. I'm glad she caught this. Well, I do have to give a little credit to my Chief of Staff, Marshall Runkle, for that one. Roll call.
 Right. Good spot. For those who weren't watching last week, I was very impressed when staff knew the answer to why do we have this number, which is 2,188,650. And the answer was it started off as a more rational and rounded number, but then it gets changed by inflation each year. So it'll continue to look. March 1st, it'll change. Yes. So thank you for explaining that. Aye. Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 And our final amendment is Amendment 7 that was introduced by Commissioner Fritz last week and moved. And actually, I would like to amend my amendment, if that's all right with everybody. I had offered a rather convoluted suggestion, which is down here in your packet, about when we can extend members' terms because there's a vacancy. After due consideration, I believe it would be better to just remove the planning committee
 cynlluniau cynaliadwy o ran rhoi cymdeithas ar unrhyw gyfrifiad arall, os nad yw'r cyfrifiadwr, fy mod neu unrhyw un, wedi gallu cymryd cyfrifiad newydd. Felly, rwyf wedi llwyddo'r
 ychydig o ffyrdd o'r ffyrdd sydd gennych chi. Ac, byddwn i'n strychu... Wel, nid oes gennym yr un arall. Ie, felly rwy'n credu y byddwch chi'n gwneud yw symud i'r ffyrdd arbennig i'w ffyrdd, i ddelytu'r ffyrdd i'r section honno, sy'n 33 710 030. Allwch chi ddod o hyd i beth oedd y nifer? Mae'n ddrwg iawn am hyn. Beth... O, beth oedd y nifer o bwnc? Ie.
 Felly, yn y bôn, roedd y staff a chydweithwyr cynaliadau wedi dweud, gadewch i ni gael un a ddylai ei ddewis i ddewis arall i ddewis arall arall os nad oes unrhyw un yn barod i llenwi'r llawr. Gyda 600,000 o bobl yn y ddewis, rwy'n credu, os ydym yn dechrau'n gynharach, rydyn ni, y cyngorion cyngor sy'n gwneud y cyngorion cyngor i'r Cyfrifol, ddylai eu gallu dod i'r trafod pan fydd yna llawr yn ymwneud â'r llawr yn ystod y llawr.
 Felly, mae eich cymysgedd i symud i ddelytio'r amgylcheddau i fnod 15? 1515. 1515. Felly, fe wna i ddod â'r cymryd y cymryd y cymryd y 15.
 Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna... Felly, yna...
 Mae'n ddiddordeb yn y cyngor am bwrddau a chymisiynau a'r adnoddau o'n gyffredinol. Felly mae hyn yn ddiddordeb iawn i'r cyrffiau. Y cyrffiau. A oes unrhyw gwestiwn neu sylwad? Rôl cwrdd. Diolch, Comisiynydd Ffitch. Dyna un o'r cymorthau hynny.
 oherwydd rydych chi'n ymwneud â'r hyn a'i edrych arno, felly dydyn ni ddim yn ddewis y rheolau ar gyfer y cymiteithiau a'r bwrdd arbennig y mae'r bost yn ei ddweud ac felly rydym wedi gwneud y gwirionedd i'r gwaith. Felly rwy'n gwneud yn ymwneud â'r amgylch. Bish. A. Saltzman. A. E. E. E. A. Let's start. Roedd yna ddewis a chyfweliad ar... Roedd yna ddewis, roedd yna gyfweliad ar y cyfweliad a yna gyfweliad ar y
 Felly nawr mae angen i ni roi'r holl paket, y drafodaeth arbennig 8, fel y dywedwch chi, i ddod i ddarllen ail y flwyddyn nesaf. Iawn. Yn ymwneud â'r cyfeiriad? Nid. Nid yn ymwneud â'r cyfeiriad. Rydym yn symud i'r flwyddyn ail. Iawn, rydym yn symud i'r flwyddyn ail. Yn fy mhrofiad cyntaf i wneud hyn. Diolch.
 Thank you very much to staff for, A, sitting here all morning or in and out all morning, and then your wonderful clarity in the presentation. Sure. Thank you. Thank you. We don't have to set a time, right, Lauren? No, you do not. Thank you. All right. On to the next item. The item pulled from consent. What? I think the next one is, are we going to do the item pulled from consent? Oh. Oh.
 Let's do that. Okay. We said we'd put that at the end. Yeah. Why? Is that too teed up? Mr. Lightning and Mr. Walsh pulled that one. I think they're both gone. Okay. Do you want to do 171 then or all to the end? Let's go to regular agenda. Regular agenda then? Regular agenda. Item 178. Okay.
 apply for and accept a grant in the amount of $45,000 and appropriate $22,500 for fiscal year 2016-17 from the Oregon Department of Transportation Traffic Safety Division fiscal year 2017 Safety Belt Grant Program for sworn personnel overtime reimbursement. They may not have been sure what time to be here.
 Looks like a fairly straightforward grant. Should we ask if there's any public testimony? I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Does anyone want to testify to this? Any public testimony on applying for and accepting a grant? Okay. Roll call. We take a roll call, please. Prince. It's an emergency item. Obviously, it's a good thing to be getting money for these kinds of important duties. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Aye.
 All right, next item. 179, accept bid of Raymoor Construction, Inc. for the Lentz Park Playground Improvement Project for $843,821. Christine Moody is supposed to be here. Okay. So do you want to wait? It's really a procurement item, and Parks is working with Christine Moody. Perhaps we could start with your presentation, and then as Ms. Moody gets here, we can do the more formal part. Thank you.
 And so I'm proud to announce Lauren McGuire from Portland Parks and Recreation to give a very short presentation on this project. Hello, members of council. As Commissioner Fritz said, I'm Lauren McGuire, Parks Development Program Manager. Lauren, can you get closer to the mic there? Oh, sure. One more challenge. There we go. Should be taller, too. And here's Miss Moody as well. Lauren McGuire. Oh, good. Do you want to start? Sure.
 Thanks for rushing down. You can catch your breath. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Raymoor Construction. The engineer's estimate on this project was $907,128 with a confidence level of medium.
 On January 5, 2017, three bids were received and Raymoor Construction is a low bidder at $843,821, which is 7.5% under the engineer's estimate. Portland Parks and Recreation has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing as good. The city put forward an aspirational goal for DMWESB subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction costs for this project.
 Raymoor Construction identified five divisions of work for DMW ESB opportunities with subcontracting participation at 10.1%, with work being performed in survey, disposal, and playground equipment installation. Raymoor Construction is a certified minority firm, so the combined prime and subcontracting participation on this project is at 85.4%.
 I wanted to note to council that we just opened up Tier 4 of the Prime Contractor Development Program, in which the city-owned construction projects up to $1 million are bid to contractors in the program. As part of the social equity contracting strategy, this is the first time ever that projects of this size have been bid to minority and women contractors as part of our program.
 This is also the first project that we have bid in. We just opened the tier a couple months ago. And so this is the first project that you will see coming forward to you. I will turn this over to Lauren for more information about the project. Thank you. Again, Lauren McGuire, Development Program Manager for Portland Parks. We're here today to tell you a little bit about the Lentz project itself, too. Lentz Park is located at 4700 Southeast 88th, just west of I-205.
 The bond repair project for Lentz Park is made possible through the support of the Portland community, as is funded by the 2014 Parks Replacement Bond. We're very grateful that the Portlanders have historically helped the city repair and maintain our much-loved parks, from the very first levy of the historical record in 1901 to the work we're talking about today. In November of 2014, voters passed a $68 million bond measure to address the critical needs of
 without increasing tax rates because the 2014 bond replaced an expiring bond. The bond funding goes towards parks' most urgent needs, like replacing failing playgrounds, pools, and other facilities. The seven repair priority areas that we identified as part of the bond effort were playgrounds, trails and bridges, pools, facilities to protect workers, Pioneer Courthouse Square repairs, accessibility repairs, and restroom and other urgent repairs.
 Portland's playgrounds, of course, are one of our most popular attractions. The bond language promised in this category that we would do at least $5 million worth of work, and we would do 10 to 20 play areas. So far in Phase 1, we will be renovating seven playgrounds, and we'll have spent $9.7 million. Okay.
 So Lentz Park, the renovation project today, will update the play area with safe and imaginative play opportunities, replacing outdated equipment from the 1970s. It will also add inclusive play features like swings, slides, boulder transfer opportunities, and music and sensory elements. It will add rubberized and synthetic safety surfacing. It will improve the circulation between the upper and lower levels of play areas.
 It will replace the pavement serving the play area and restroom to make it more ADA accessible. And we'll also improve an existing pathway that goes from the parking area to the play area and provide ADA accessible parking. We'll also be replacing some picnic tables, benches, and a drinking fountain and making sure that those are all ADA accessible as well. The timeline is as follows. We're in for permits since June.
 We're here today to accept the bid from Raymoor Construction, and that's, as Christine said, $843,821. We anticipate we'll start in the spring, and we hope to be finished by fall of 2017.
 On your screen right now is a list of projects that were substantially finished with the construction of. So we had Grant Pool, Part 1, Matt Dishman Pool and Spa, Wilkes Park Lane Loo, Selwood Pool Roof House, and then under construction shortly will be the Argate Tennis Courts, the Cooch Park Playground, Forest Park Bridges, Grant Pool Part 2, the North Park Playground, Rickey Field Renovation, Ventura Park Playground and Loo, and the Washington Park Rose Garden.
 So that concludes the presentation. We'd be happy to answer any questions at this time. Questions? Do we have anyone signed up to give testimony? No, we do not. No one signed up. Okay. Did you want to talk, Mr. Wilkins?
 Mr. Wilkins would like to speak on this item. Okay. Because we are two hours behind, I'm going to ask you to limit your testimony to two minutes. I can make it two minutes. Okay. Or less. Feel free to do that. Or less. On Sunday, I went to the Lentz Baptist Church, and when I went to the church, it looks very bleak. People are very depressed. They want to have faith in something. That area needs a lot of attention. Thank you. So I move the report. Second. We'll call. Thank you.
 Well, congratulations, Ms Moody, for all the work that you've been doing regarding encouraging and helping minority businesses to succeed in our city. I'm very pleased that the first one is the parks partnership. Well done all around, and I'm very happy that all these improvements are going to be made in a wonderful area of the city that is just waiting to continue growing and being even more wonderful. Thank you.
 Fish. Congratulations, Commissioner Fritz, who led the Parks Bond effort, Christine, for this innovation, and look forward to being there for the ribbon-cutting. Aye. Saltzman. Well, it's good news on both the procurement front in terms of our prime contractor development company, our program, excuse me, and also for Lentz Park. Very good improvements coming. Thank you. Aye. E. Daly. Nice work, everyone. Aye. Okay.
 Next item. Item 180, approve the designation of seven trees as City of Portland Heritage Trees and remove the Heritage Tree designation from five trees. Commissioner Fritz. That is the second reading. And if anybody has any questions. Questions? Yes.
 So do a roll call in the second meeting. Roll call, please. Great. Thank you, everybody. Thank you especially, Commissioner Saltzman. I really enjoy watching how much you enjoy and get very interested in this, and I am too. Let's all work on getting more heritage trees designated. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Well, apparently there isn't a single heritage tree designated in my neighborhood, so I will be working on that.
 Next item. 181, authorize a contract with Parametrics, Inc. for professional services for the Broadway and 94th Pump Station Upgrade Project number E10783 in the amount of $423,629. Great. This is a second reading, so we just do roll call. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Next item, please. Yes.
 182. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Woodlawn King Street Sewer Rehabilitation Project number E10331 for $4,700,000. All right. This is also a second reading. Roll call, please. Prince. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Next item, please.
 Item 183, authorize a contract with CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc. for professional services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Outfall 3, improvements for $674,612, project number E06923. Second reading. Roll call, please. All right. Aye. Aye.
 Just to note that with the record rains, we've had record flow at Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. So I want to thank all the folks who are working hard to keep our systems running in spite of torrential rains. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Next item, please. Yes.
 Item 184, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the construction of the Middle Hillsdale Rainfall Derived Inflow and Infiltration Pilot Project Laterals, Project number E10617, for an estimated cost of $3,400,000.
 That was quite a mouthful. Roll call, please. Middle Hillsdale continues to be one of my favorite titles of any part of the city. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Next item, please.
 185. Authorize a contract with Brown and Caldwell for professional services in development of the Bureau of Environmental Services Resiliency Master Plan for an estimated cost of $499,299. Roll call.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Next item please. 186. Vacate a portion of Multnomah County Public Road known as the Hawthorne Bridge West Approach Ramp pursuant to ORS 368.2613. Aye.
 commissioner saltzman uh thank you madam president i will just say that this vacation is critically important to multnomah county and its uh efforts to construct a new courthouse and i'll turn it over to d walker if you had anything you want to add or thank you
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. Dee Walker with Right-of-Way Acquisition for the Bureau of Transportation. So before you is a resolution to vacate the West Approach ramp of the Hawthorne Bridge. Basically, to summarize real quickly, last summer Multnomah County took a resolution through their Board of Commissioners to vacate the ramp in support of the new county courthouse. The ramp, which was actually removed last week, and the land is owned and fee-titled by Multnomah County,
 It was never dedicated as public right-of-way, but because of the use, that there was kind of a layer of transportation use with the public using it for so many decades. And part of ORS 368.361, this resolution is before you for the city to remove its interest in that property.
 And in order for Multnomah County's vacation to be effective, this also on the city side needs to happen. I would like to draw your attention to the community impacts and community involvement section of the impact statement. It states that the city auditor published and posted the notice. This was stated in error.
 After speaking with the city attorney's office and the auditor's office, there is no statutory requirement to do this. And since the county held its own open house for the public, as well as having a public website based solely for the courthouse, the auditor's office, it was their decision. They decided not to publish the hearing and post it since it wasn't necessary. Okay.
 Commissioner Fritz, I know that you had questions over how it affects the pedestrian and cyclist, and I got your answers for you. So I spoke with Transportation Planning, and you'll be happy to know that just recently it was approved to put in a ped and bicycle crossing at Jefferson and Nato. This actually takes care of the movement –
 For the old ramp, and so now actually people aren't going to have to go out of their way at all because they'll be able to cross the street and use the other ramp on the east side. So it was great timing, so I was happy to be able to report that back to you. Thank you for finding that out. I appreciate it. Sure, no problem. That's all I have, so if you have any other questions. Just looking at the packet, have we received any objections to this application? No, none. Mm-mm.
 Any public testimony on this? I don't believe anybody signed up. No? So, can we go to a vote? Motion to... Oh, it's a resolution. I'm sorry. It's a resolution, right? It is a resolution, yeah. Yes. Yeah. Teamwork here. Fritz. Thank you very much. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you, Ms. Walker, for your report and for finding out that additional information for Commissioner Fritz.
 and this is as I said at my outset this is vitally important for the county to build a new courthouse which will serve all of us very well hi you daily hi okay no thank you thank you can we do the item that was pulled from the consent agenda next we have a for fist item Oh Ellen's coming down from the city attorney's office now so you could do the item that was pulled first and then she'll be here for the four-fifths if that works certainly
 Item 171, appoint 25 members to the new Portlander Policy Commission for two and three-year terms. Do we know who pulled this item? Mr. Lightney and Mr. Walsh both pulled it. Neither of them are here, right? That's correct. Okay.
 This was something that Commissioner Daly and I worked on before the new year and she afterwards, so it's a relatively routine appointment, except it's not because it's the new Portland Policy, New Portlanders Policy Commission, which is the first time it's getting established after being supported by council last year. So I guess I move the report. Thank you. Okay. Great. So just...
 So just a question. It says in my notes that the recommended appointments are for two- or three-year terms, and the committee will determine term length. What does that mean? We took our cue from you, Commissioner Fish, when you formed the Portland Utility Board, that we would leave it up to the commission to decide who was going to get the initial longer or shorter terms because we don't want, in the future, we don't want everybody terming out at the same time.
 I see. And then any vacancies that arise in the future would be filled by the council? Correct. Oh, yeah. I mean, we're approving the commission for right now, following on from the ordinance that we passed before. But it will run the same process that all of our other boards and commissions do. Any other questions or comments? We do a roll call? Did I move the report? You moved it. You did? Thank you.
 Very exciting, Commissioner Udaily. Thank you. Aye. Fish? Aye. Smith? Aye. Udaily? Aye. And our last remaining item is the fourth agenda item. Is Ellen here? Fantastic. Item 186-1. Authorize the city attorney to appear amicus curiae, supporting gender equality on behalf of City of Portland and Portland Police Chiefs.
 oh ellen osnak i am a senior deputy city attorney in your city attorney's office i'd like first to thank you all for putting this on the agenda with such late notice the briefing schedule in the case that we're
 asking you all to authorize us to appear as amicus curiae is moving quickly, and the folks that had asked us to sign on as amicus need to get their filings in place by February 27th, and so hence the rush today. The resolution and its announcement was sent out to a committee
 a small but wide listserv and so i wanted to acknowledge for you all today that i did receive feedback as i believe you all did in support of the resolution and i also wanted to let you know that several folks had indicated that they were watching streaming today so there are likely people that are here participating remotely to watch this so i think the resolution speaks for itself i know that you all have had a long day so i will just um
 Briefly summarize the resolution. There is a case currently pending before the Supreme Court in which a transgender boy was denied access to the bathroom facility in his school that corresponded to his gender identity. Okay.
 It's an important case because it involves the application of Title IX, and the Obama administration had sent guidance to schools throughout our nation saying that they believed that there is a constitutional right to access facilities.
 consistent with one's gender identity, and that is what is being currently litigated before the Supreme Court. I also wanted to note that the Trump administration has signaled its intent within the coming weeks to rescind that particular interpretation of Title IX, so I think that adds some
 importance and urgency to the resolution that you all are considering here today. I would also like to note that this resolution that would authorize the city attorney to appear on your behalf as the city is consistent and amplifies the work that this
 Commission and the city has done over the years to support gender equality, including the work that I know was amplified and even spearheaded by Commissioner Fish with regard to all-user bathrooms. So it is certainly consistent with city policy. And then, as the resolution states, Chief Mike Marshman, who was not able to be here but wished to testify, is also seeking your permission to join another important brief
 on behalf of law enforcement nationwide, police chiefs, and other law enforcement leaders to submit a brief that provides important context about the fears and myths around all-user bathrooms and to put important context that the crime that certain people fear and which amicus testifying on behalf of the county and against access for
 equal access for gender identity, there were two public safety professionals that submitted an affidavit saying that there was an undue public safety risk posed by these type of policies. And so the brief that Chief Marshman would like to sign on to is an important counterpoint to that brief and is supported already by many chiefs nationwide and provides that really important factual context that, in fact, these equality access policies
 initiatives promote public safety and, in fact, do not undermine public safety efforts to hold folks accountable who are committing primarily what has been feared as predatory sexual offenses. That is not the experience of law enforcement here or, in fact, nationwide, that it creates an undue safety risk.
 So when I have just a couple of questions, and I'm going to support this. So the case that we would be filing a friend of the court brief in is going to the United States Supreme Court? Yes. And is the issue that the court would then have the option of either deciding a constitutional or a statutory question? That's correct.
 And it could be, so one argument is that Title IX interpreted the way we view it provides this right. Or alternatively, the court could, unlikely with this court, but a Supreme Court could clarify the scope of a constitutional right. That's correct. And good. Thank you. Any further comments or questions? I've never had a four-fifths agenda item. Do we take public comment? Any public comment on this item? No.
 I'll say this fast. I have talked about this issue in front of Mayor Wilkins. Mayor Hale is about the fact I have to clean bathrooms at a Target store. I suggested one time that I dress up like a woman and clean the bathrooms, and that was refused. There is this issue about gender equality, but there are men who would go in the bathrooms and spy on women.
 And the decision by my store was, I cannot do that. I tend to agree with the president on this. It's fine that public buildings and schools have a third bathroom. But to make this kind of like a general thing, I'm sorry to say, it's one of the reasons why probably Trump was elected. All right. Let's take a vote. Thank you, Ms. Osner, for all your work on this. And I'm very proud to be joining this suit. Hi.
 Well, we're going to be busy this year following Friends of the Court briefs and a host of legal proceedings, actions challenging executive orders or joining with other parties, cities, and other parties upholding basic rights in this country.
 It's going to put a lot of strains on our crack legal team, but I appreciate that they have been and are rising to the occasion. I will preview from my colleagues just on the question of all-user restrooms. The city has had a successful transition with 600 residents.
 single stall restrooms being converted to all user commissioner Fritz was a key partner in making this happen and it has gone very smoothly the next phase of this will be the city will issue a challenge to the private sector to match
 some goals that we're going to establish. We will not be mandating this. We will be encouraging people to join us. And I'm happy to report that the initial reaction we've received from business and trade associations is extremely positive. And the next time you are in your favorite coffee bar, restaurant, bookstore, whatever, I think you'll be pleasantly surprised how many
 single-stall restrooms have already been converted to all-user based on the common sense principle that they are now open to more people and provide more options to their customers. So thank you, Ellen. I'm pleased to support this application. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Very pleased that our city can lend any kind of support to this hopefully historic Supreme Court ruling. Aye.
 So, with that, we are adjourned until 2. All right. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council. We have one item up. Carla, could you start by calling the roll, please? Ritz? Here. Fish? Here. Feltzman? Here. Udaly? Here. Wheeler? Here. Could you please read the first and last item?
 Agenda item 187, appeal of the Citizen Review Committee against Portland Police Bureau's finding regarding independent police review internal affairs case number 2015-C-0104, appeal number 2015-X0002.
 Very good. Thank you. And I have a rather lengthy script that I'm required to read as part of these proceedings, so bear with me. The Council will now take up Agenda Item 187, scheduled for a time certain to consider the appeal from the Citizen Review Committee of the Portland Police Bureau's finding regarding Independent Police Review Internal Affairs Case No. 2015-C-104, Appeal No. 2015-X-0002.
 This matter is being heard by counsel pursuant to Portland City Code section 3.21.160. This is not a public hearing with public testimony. Rather, counsel is reviewing a decision of the Portland Police Bureau
 which the CRC has appealed to the Council. The Council must decide if the PPB decision is or is not supported by the evidence in the record. The Council will not hear new evidence, and it will not take public testimony.
 I want to note that members of the Council have received emails from the complainant in this matter. These emails are not part of the record and will not be considered, although the complainant will have an opportunity to address this here today. The hearing is going to be conducted as follows. First, IPR will present the case and the procedural history. Second, CRC will outline the basis for its appeal and its areas of disagreement with the PPB decision.
 3. The complainant or representative will have 10 minutes to present. 4. The Portland Police Bureau will have 10 minutes to present. 5. The involved officer or representative may elect to make a voluntary statement of up to 10 minutes.
 Council will then have an opportunity to ask questions of any of the presenters. Council is asked to hold all questions until the presentations of the IPR, the CRC, the complainant, the police bureau, and the involved officer are all concluded. Council will then have a discussion. Council may elect to move into executive session for its discussion.
 Executive session would be authorized under one or both of the following statutes, ORS 192.6602B or ORS 192.6602F. If the Council decides to hold its discussion in executive session, an announcement of the executive session and the grounds for going into executive session will be made before the Council goes into executive session. Thank you.
 Eight, following council discussion, I will entertain a motion in second and will vote on whether the Police Bureau finding is supported by the evidence. The Police Bureau finding was, quote, exonerated with a debriefing, unquote. Portland City Code Section 3.21.020S defines supported by the evidence as, quote,
 A finding regarding a complaint is supported by the evidence when a reasonable person could make the finding in light of the evidence, whether or not the reviewing body agrees with the finding, unquote.
 9. If counsel determines that the police bureau finding of exonerated with debriefing is supported by the evidence, the complaint will be closed. 10. If counsel determines that the police bureau finding of exonerated with a debriefing is not supported by the evidence, counsel will need to decide on the appropriate finding in this case. Counsel needs to select from the following alternative findings. Unfounded. Unfounded.
 The allegation, meaning the allegation was false or devoid of fact or there was not a credible basis for a possible violation of policy procedure. Exonerated, exonerated. That means the act occurred but was lawful and within policy, not sustained. That means the evidence was insufficient to prove a violation of policy or procedure procedure.
 Sustained, meaning the evidence was sufficient to prove a violation of policy or procedure. A finding of exonerated, not sustained, or sustained is based on a preponderance of the evidence. That is, the facts and circumstances indicated it is more likely than not that the violation of policy or procedure either occurred or did not occur.
 Debriefings may be recommended for unfounded, exonerated, or not sustained findings when it's believed the subject employee would benefit from a discussion and critique of the incident. Pursuant to Portland City Code section 3.21.160 , no new evidence may be introduced at this hearing.
 Twelve, to help protect the identity and the privacy of the individuals involved, during public hearing, counsel will not refer to them by name, but will refer to them generically as Complaintant, Witness A, Sergeant A, Officer B, and so forth. Thirteen, to help protect the identity and the privacy of the individuals involved, during public hearing, counsel will not refer to them by name, but will refer to them generically as Complaintant, Witness A, Sergeant A, Officer B, and so forth.
 Since Portland City Code provides that no new evidence may be introduced at the hearing, and because this matter involves Council's review of a community member complaint that potentially could result in discipline, public comment or testimony regarding this matter will not be solicited or received.
 So with that, we will now begin. We'll start with IPR, who will present the case and the procedural history. Thank you for your patience. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Anika Bentalber, Assistant Director of the Independent Police Review. I will provide a brief incident overview and summary of the procedural history of this case before you want to appeal today.
 On September 17, 2014, Sergeant A observed a woman calling for help. The woman told Sergeant A that appellant had just circled her car and was punching her windows. Sergeant A contacted appellant. Police reports indicated appellant was verbally aggressive and kept putting his hands in his pockets, though appellant indicated later when interviewed that he had his hands up.
 and attempted to deescalate the encounter. The police reports further indicated Sergeant A turned appellant around and pushed him up against a wall to try to handcuff him, but was unable to do so due to appellant's level of resistance. Officer B arrived, warned appellant that he would be tased if he did not comply with orders, and then deployed his taser in drive-stun mode on appellant. Appellant went to the ground but continued to resist.
 Officer B then deployed a second drive stun taser in an attempt to handcuff. Officer B then used his taser in probe mode, and the officers were able to handcuff appellant. Appellant complains that the officers used excessive force and excessive number of taser cycle rounds from the electronic control weapon. Now for the summary of the procedural history.
 I was the assigned IPR director to review this case. This complaint did not originate through the IPR intake process. It was referred by the city's risk management office after they received a federal complaint filed by appellant on March 17, 2015. The federal complaint stemmed from an encounter with Portland Police Bureau officers on the date of September 17, 2014.
 Portland Police Bureau's Internal Affairs initiated an administrative investigation on May 5, 2015, as part of the routine tort review process. IPR requested that Internal Affairs open an investigation due to the nature of the allegation of excessive force.
 After the investigation was completed and findings were made, disposition of the investigation was sent to appellant. Appellant was provided with the option to appeal to the Citizens Review Committee, CRC, if dissatisfied with the results of the findings. Thank you.
 IPR received appellant's appeal of the Bureau's findings, and the CRC held the case file review of the case on October 7, 2015. At the conclusion of the case file review, the investigation was sent back to Internal Affairs for additional investigation.
 After additional investigation was obtained, the first appeal hearing was scheduled for April 20, 2016, but was subsequently canceled because viewer members were ordered not to appear per order from former Acting Chief Henderson. On May 4, 2016, the CRC conducted the second appeal hearing in which they voted 8-0 to challenge the first allegation findings. From exonerated to exonerated with debriefing, the CRC voted 7-1 to affirm the second allegation.
 finding of exonerated with debriefing. On May 6th, IPR received notification from Internal Affairs that allegation number two would be sent back to Internal Affairs for new findings due to the incorrect version of the Police Bureau directive being used in the findings process. The Bureau accepted the CRC recommendation regarding allegation number one.
 On September 7, 2016, the CRC conducted a third appeal hearing for allegation number two, this time with the correct directive, and they voted six in favor, with two members abstaining, to challenge allegation number two from exonerated with debriefing to sustained.
 On December 7, 2016, the CRC held a conference hearing with Portland Police Bureau Chief Michael Marshman, and the CRC voted for and in favor, one abstain to continue with their original challenge motion of sustained on allegation number two. That all leads us to today, as no agreement could be reached between the CRC and the police bureau during the conference hearing. An appeal hearing was set before city council.
 At the conclusion of this hearing, the City Council must decide whether a reasonable person could conclude that a finding of exonerated with debriefing is supported by the evidence with regards to allegation officer B use inappropriate force while taking appellant into custody. That's what I have. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, CRC will address the basis for its appeal in the areas of disagreement with the PBB decision. Good afternoon.
 my name is kristin malone i am the chair of the citizen review committee i know most of you are familiar with the committee but for the new faces on the council and in the community the crc is a volunteer body comprised of 11 community members we have several responsibilities including hearing appeals concerning allegations that members of the portland police bureau have violated city policy as we review the conclusions reached by the bureau's initial decision makers we have the authority to challenge findings that are not supported by the evidence
 When that happens, we have an opportunity to resolve these differences through dialogue with the Bureau. In the rare case that the CRC and the Bureau are unable to agree on the proper finding on an allegation, City Codes provides that you all have the final say. This is so rare that I believe this is only the second such hearing in the past decade. So if this procedure is foreign to you, we're all in the same boat. Okay.
 I prepared a short presentation that I hope will give you the most insight. I would have invited questions, but I just heard that we're saving them until the end, so I'm happy to answer them if you are banking them in your mind. For a quick summary of the facts giving rise to the case, which I'm sure you've had a chance to review in detail in the case file,
 On September 17, 2014, several PPB members dispatched to a northwest Portland intersection following a report that a cyclist, the appellant, had struck the window of a motorist while stopped at a traffic light. Sergeant A contacted the appellant first, followed by Officers B and D. After the appellant began shouting and emptying his pockets on the ground, the officers took steps to restrain him. The three officers worked together to push the appellant up to a wall and try to handcuff him, while the appellant struggled against the officers.
 During this time, Officer B issued a taser warning and discharged his taser three times in rapid succession in the appellant's back. After these initial discharges, the appellant fell to the ground. Sergeant A and Officer D were on top of the appellant's upper body, and Officer B worked to stop the movement of the appellant's legs, which at one point knocked Officer B to the ground. While the appellant was on the ground, Officer B placed the taser directly onto the appellant's calf and released a fourth charge of electricity.
 As the Bureau members continued to work to handcuff the appellant, Officer B fired the taser's probes into the appellant's back, issuing a fifth activation of the taser. Some time later, Officer B again discharged the taser, this time apparently by accident. The probes were still attached to the appellant, and the taser log registered an activation of up to one second. The Bureau investigated several alleged policy violations relating to this encounter, but the only one remaining for consideration today is allegation 2,
 which charges that Officer B used inappropriate force in taking a pellet into custody. The Bureau found that Officer B's uses of the taser in this incident were lawful and within policy. However, it recommended a debriefing to Counsel Officer B on the design differences found in the new X2 taser model he was using, which the Bureau believes led to the last accidental activation. The CRC reviewed the record and held a public hearing to determine whether the Bureau's finding was supported by the evidence.
 In other words, we, like you, evaluated whether a reasonable person reviewing the evidence in the case file could have concluded that Officer B's uses of force were lawful and within policy. The particular policy we evaluated was a December 2013 executive order regarding Directive 1051.00, which provides rules for the use of electronic control weapons or tasers. At an appeal hearing, the CRC concluded that the evidence did not support the Bureau's finding and voted to challenge it.
 The CRC recommended a finding of sustained and continued to do so after a conference with Chief Marshman. All of the CRC members who voted and did not abstain agreed that Officer B's conduct was not in line with the directive. There were three main areas of disagreement with the Bureau. First, CRC members felt that the first three uses of the taser were not supported by the directive because appellant's conduct did not meet the definition of active aggression.
 Although Officer B and only Officer B reported a feeling that the appellant might punch Sergeant A, CRC members found that the evidence showed that the appellant was merely resisting the officer's attempts to restrain him. Three officers had the appellant pinned against a wall and had hold of his arms and torso. Therefore, a reasonable person would have determined that there was no, quote, threat or overt act of assault coupled with the present ability to carry out the threat or assault, unquote.
 Further, some members found that the directive did not permit the fourth and fifth taser deployments, which occurred after the appellant had been brought to the ground and had three bureau members on top of them. Section 3.2 of the directive states that, quote, "...members will not use an ECW on a handcuffed or otherwise restrained subject, for example, a subject being held to the ground by multiple officers."
 unless the subject is actively engaged in behavior that creates a substantial risk of injury to the subject, members, or others, and no other reasonable force options exist. The video in the record showed that the drive stun to appellant's calf occurred while the appellant was on his right side. Officer B had gotten hold of the appellant's left leg and was kneeling on his right leg, while Officer D pressed on appellant's torso and Sergeant A straddled across his shoulders and held his left arm.
 Seconds later, when Officer B deployed the probes, appellant had been placed prone on his stomach and appeared well-controlled, with Officer B straddling both legs with a knee on appellant's buttocks, while Sergeant A was seated straddling the appellant's lower back. Sergeant A was holding the appellant's left arm, and Officer D was holding his right arm. CRC members felt that Section 3.2 specifically prohibited the use of the taser in these circumstances because appellant was well-restrained.
 The circumstances in this case directly track the example in the directive of a subject being held to the ground by multiple officers. DRC members disagreed with the Bureau's conclusion that the taser activations were justified because the appellant was kicking his legs immediately after being taken to the ground and trying to roll over. Some felt that these acts did not rise to the level of active aggression. In any event, the video showed that the appellant was manually restrained and no longer kicking at the time of the activation on his calf, and that he was prone and largely immobile when Officer B deployed the probes.
 Therefore, with respect to the fourth and fifth cycles of the TASER, CRC members found that the evidence did not support a finding that the appellant posed a substantial risk of injury to himself or others, or that the Bureau members lacked other reasonable force options. Finally, the CRC took issue with the final TASER deployment, which occurred after the officers believed the appellant to be effectively restrained. This activation was recorded in the TASER log, but was not reported by Officer B because he was unaware that it took place.
 The Bureau believes that this accidental activation occurred because the taser's activation button is placed along the side of the weapon in a similar location to where officers are trained to rest or index their fingers on their firearms. The Bureau has noted that the taser Officer B was using was not the Bureau's standard-issued taser, but instead a new model called the X-2, which the Bureau was trying out at the time and which has now been formally adopted.
 The Bureau has suggested that the officer's instinct to index his finger instead caused him to tap the activation button, sending another charge of electricity down the attached wires. The CRC found this information useful in understanding how this accident occurred. However, Directive 1051.00 is agnostic as to the particular device being used. It applies to electronic control weapons generally, including the one being used on duty by Officer B.
 The CRC is not aware of any rule that would suspend the general force guidelines when new weapons are being tested in the field and used on civilians, and rightfully so. Community members have a right to expect that officers are properly trained on any weapons used outside of the training facility and that in all cases weapons use will be governed by the Bureau's force and ECW directive. The Bureau has also contended that Officer B should be exonerated with respect to the sixth activation because it lasted only a short time or because it may not have had an effect on the appellant. On the second point,
 The Bureau characterizes the appellant as not remembering that discharge, but in his IA interview conducted nearly eight months after the incident, the appellant reported feeling more than three charges of electricity during the incident, and he was not asked any follow-up questions on the precise timing of those shocks. In any event, there's no language in the directive allowing otherwise impermissible uses of force based on the duration or amount of pain felt by the citizen. Thank you.
 Therefore, CRC members found that the sixth discharge was not justified by the directive and that evidence did not exist to support this use of force. In conclusion, while I've outlined a number of explanations that animated the CRC's challenge, counsel has the opportunity to adopt any, all, or none of them in answering the same question using the same standard, which is whether a reasonable person could conclude, based on the evidence, that the force Officer B used when taking the appellant into custody was lawful and within policy.
 thank you all right thank you next up the complainant has ten minutes to present or if I understand the rule the complainants representative good afternoon afternoon it pleases the council a couple things I've heard so for so forth first we need your name I'm sorry my name is Matthew Kluge if it pleases the council
 To start with, I saw it piqued your interest. I did file the tort on the 13th of March. That was a Friday the 13th, so it's within the two years or within the six months, 180 days that it needed to be filed. The date was given wrong. Also, there was no dispatch to the officers. So just to be clear that you can go and look at the paperwork, it says self-dispatched, handwritten on the paperwork. There was no 911 call either.
 So this has been mischaracterized yet again in the stuff you just received yesterday or the day before. There was no nominal call. The word call was used in the paperwork, but that was supposedly a verbal call with her, excuse me, with the alleged victim with her arms out the window saying, help, help. That's what this is going off of. Okay, just to start it.
 It took about three minutes between when that happened and when I was in handcuffs. Thirty seconds of it is the video. Literally three minutes. This has been characterized as this big thing. It's been 890 days since that occurred until today. The tort review board asked for a review on April 28, 2015. It's now been 667 days since that occurred.
 The target is supposed to be 180 days. So just to put this in perspective, I'm talking about a lot of big issues, but really it's down to the policy at 1051 that I provided. They tried to, at a hearing, present one that was prior and an older version. And on the way out of the hearing when they won that,
 apparently won that. They, excuse me, I mean, down to the commander at the time, Bob Day, and some other people. They were high-fiving Daryl Turner on the way out the door. This has just been, I mean, you've got to kind of look at the way they've behaved, guys. Okay? This is going on still. They're trying to mischaracterize this still. And I'm wasting my time talking about it. So I'll get to what I need to say here. My name is Matthew Klug, and I'm a resident of Portland.
 I'm an epileptic, I'm a survivor of a traumatic brain injury from a long time ago, and I'm a coma survivor, and I suffer mental illness. I'm not a lawyer, but I'll explain what happened to me to the best of my ability. These things kept coming to decision points, and decisions were made that kept making this compoundedly worse over and over and over again. This has been 890 days, and I'm still shaking about it now. Really, I have a press release.
 from the auditor's office and i gave copies to the uh the clerk this is from january 27th wanting to get to the bottom of how the portland police deals with brady material i've got an example right here after i sued the the city in the county it turns out there was no complainant but they never put that in the discovery packet nick that's that's a big deal
 and uh scares the hell out of me this is a 1963 supreme court decision and no one's paying any attention over at the courthouse i'm calling out to the judges somebody pay attention in their name they tried to arraign me in absentia one of the judges put her foot down thank god okay they tried to arraign me on a bunch of felony counts seven counts they late they left me in jail they didn't do it by closed circuit they didn't do it by video feed they left me in jail
 Now, it's a good thing my parents showed up and a family friend who's an attorney, because if probably the, you know, if I'd had a different judge or didn't have anyone there on my behalf, I might have been arraigned on seven felony counts at that point in time. I went home 12 hours after I had the charges dismissed. So you know, I was never read my Miranda rights and I was put into general population. You know what kind of searches they do before they put you in general population. So I've searched in different ways.
 before I was put in, but I was never read my rights. They kept me in jail for another 12 hours after the charges were dismissed by the judge. What's going on there, guys? These are big issues. I'm sorry to just lop this on you. To cover up for some kind of little accidental taser thing, they just kept making really bad decisions. And this just kept piling on and piling on and piling on to the point where I literally...
 was given another set of charges 43 days later. I don't know where that origin came from, and I spent $9,000 on a criminal defense attorney to try to keep me out of jail long enough to file this case that I did file on Friday the 13th, and that's just one of the oddities of this case. The evidence that there was no complainant wasn't in the packet, okay? Okay.
 So there was discussion of the charges, but there was no ability to find out the origin of the charges. They were just there 43 days. They must have refiled them. I'm not a lawyer. How did this occur? So I know when they no-complaint things, they can go refile them later if they want to. But...
 Was there some kind of other something in the decision-making, a risk management decision? I'm not sure, along the way, what contributed to refiling the charges. And at some point, I know it's not double jeopardy, but it comes right up to the line.
 And now they're going to go after me, and they're probably going to try to arraign me or, you know, try me in the court of public opinion. And wow, you know, so this is their third attempt at it. And I hope he takes that with a grain of salt. And I know you've read this, and here's the 1051 if you need a copy. I got one for you. Here is my lawsuit with the general allegations, and I'm sure you've all read this.
 I don't know what I might have left out. But trying to arraign someone in absentia is just crazy in the United States of America. Take that and, you know, I'm just sitting there in jail. I knew I was supposed to go at 8.30. I never came with any medication. A nurse came every four hours. They knew I was epileptic and I required medication. Didn't get any medication for 24 hours. You know, had to go. They took my $17 and had to go, you know,
 Get $20 out of the bank because they give me some debit card instead of my cash back. And get a bus ride home, and I have a seizure before I even get in the door. So this stuff is a big deal. They have some kind of agreement with Rite Aid. All they had to do was send someone down there. I know it's the county, and this isn't your... But at some point, this is intersectional in that when you hand people over, you've got to have some faith that they're not going to be mistreated.
 Again and again and again. And so the sergeant who pulled me over, Sergeant A, pulled me over. I pulled over a block after I heard a boop boop. So, you know, I turned left at a light. I had the green left arrow and it must have been red for him because I heard the thing. I looked back, there were lights. A block later, I pulled over. Where I pulled over, which is the campus of Northwest College of Art or whatever it is. And the old federal building.
 I have a post office box across the street that I've had since 2005. You know, I mean, over 10 years I've had a post office box there. So it's not like I'm a stranger to Portland or downtown. That's where you used to get your tax forms, guys. You know, it's Portland, right? What's going on? So I'm just out for a bike ride. It's a little heavy-handed. He came out of the car, reached in, unbuckled his holster, and slid back to cover. Okay.
 Now, that should scare them out of anyone. And it did me. I put my hands up in the air, and I said, and the witnesses in the paperwork heard me say verbally, what did I do? What did I do? I didn't know what his animus towards me was, so I said, I didn't. Maybe I'm close to the bus station, so I said, I'm not homeless. I don't know why I said that. I thought that perhaps he'd lighten up.
 And the officers came right after that in the old gold unmarked car. I believe those are the enhanced crisis intervention team members. They did not de-escalate the first thing they said to me was, turn around, turn around. I turned around, and the sergeant did not try to cuff me. They all came at me at the same time. Thank you very much. The rest is on the video. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
 By the way, you're probably wondering who am I. My name is Eric Terrell, and I'm the appeal process advisor. Basically, I assist the appellant in any way possible. So that's why I was sitting with the appellant. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. You're welcome. Thank you both. Next up, the Portland Police Bureau will make its presentation. They also have ten minutes. Good afternoon.
 Please state your name for the record. Afternoon, Mayor. Council Member is Mike Marshman, Chief of Police. And I'm Jeff Bell, Captain of Internal Affairs. So thank you for the opportunity today. I will try very hard to get my presentation completed within 10 minutes. Captain Bell is going to help along. Part of the slides I think you'll be able to view as we go through this.
 are going to be a little bit redundant, as other folks have testified and spoken to them, so I'll just skip through those as we go. So we shall begin. So as stated earlier, the taser policy in question today is Directive 1051, act of aggression, I believe is what we're talking about today, and that is a threat or overt act of an assault through physical or verbal means.
 coupled with the present ability to carry out the threat or assault, which reasonably indicates that an assault or injury to any person is imminent. For the next slide, when reasonable under the circumstances, members are authorized to use the ECW or TASER in the following. In response to active aggression...
 And second, in drive-stone mode, in the event that the probes are insufficient spread or dislodged, in close quarters, like you'll see in the video, to protect a member, create safe distance, or avoid the use of a higher level of force. And to avoid the higher use of force, I think, is appropriate in this instance.
 Members will not use a taser on a handcuffed or otherwise restrained subject, and in our policy, we give the example of a subject being held to the ground by multiple officers unless the subject is, again, actively engaged in behavior that creates a substantial risk of injury to the subject themselves, member or others, and no other reasonable force is available.
 So the reasonableness standard, as was said earlier, the CRC may find the outcome of an administrative investigation like this unreasonable if the committee finds that the findings are not supported by the evidence.
 I think it's important to note here that the RU manager who wrote the finding, their standard is the preponderance of the evidence or like a greater weight of the evidence. And that standard that the RU manager uses is a little bit different than CRC's reasonable person standard.
 so i went to that pretty quick i wanted to get to the video for you and during the presentation we'll show the video a couple times so if you're ready we can uh we can show you this encounter and hopefully technology will work it's a short video um throughout the presentation we'll come to it a couple times one thing to note and you'll see it in some videos you'll be able to see it a couple times
 The TASER, you see that little flash. That's like the TASER going off. In the DRIVESTEM mode, if it's raised up higher, it registers a cycle. The computer chip in the TASER registers that, but doesn't register that it's making contact or if it's effective. So in the DRIVESTEM mode, my assertion is if it's up in the air and you'll see in the successive videos, it's going, but it's not contacting anything.
 And then, again, not to get too technical, but that new TASER, the Bureau has since adopted it. The officer, Officer B, was testing that, which we do with a lot of tools we deploy on the street. When you index your finger, which we train to, there's a button right there, which –
 is how you activate that in drive-stun mode. One of my assertions is when you're struggling, like in that video, when he's getting kicked and rolled over, he's by default clenching because you're getting knocked over. I think he's hitting that button. That's when you can see the flashes going off. Hopefully, as we proceed further, that will be a little more clear. So the next slide's background to the call. I think we've been over that from other testimony.
 Officer B's statement, it's what he observed. Sergeant A was being yelled at. Complaint's hands were moving rapidly. Officer B believed that the complaint was about to engage Sergeant A in physical altercation. That's what led Officer B to move in and start taking some action. The next statement as I approached, he said,
 This is all quotes from Officer B. He notated that complaint was intensely focused on Sergeant A, continually yelling at him, thrusting his hands in his pockets, lowering his head. And from Officer B's training experience, he believes this behavior indicates a person is initiating physical altercation with Sergeant A. And then again, here's clip, what we call clip one. So you get to see this again. This is the initial contact.
 So Officer B goes on with his statements. He believes Sergeant A was struggling with the complainant. The complainant was arching him back and pushing against Sergeant A. He thought he was going to try to punch him. So that's when he gives the taser a warning. Officer B believes the complainant was violent, and it continued to escalate. Officer B says the taser was initially effective in deterring the aggressive behavior. The complainant drops to his knees and begins kicking his feet.
 And seeing the officer get kicked over to me is active aggression The officer officer B says he got kicked multiple times by complainant causes him fall to the ground and he believes the complaint still struggling and
 So the last video you saw shows that, and what I believe is to be active aggression by the complainant in the first five seconds of the taser. And again, that taser button is pushed three times for three seconds, one second, and one second. I believe not all those were having contact with the complainant, but the officer, rightly so, was holding on to that because you don't want to lose that taser. So yes, it does register those, but I don't believe all three of those had contact with the complainant. And again...
 I have another video for you to watch. In the video, I'll get to that in a second. I'm just sorry. I'm just kind of watching the time here for you. The video shows Officer B gets up after being kicked, employs the taser in drive stun mode again for the three seconds, complains still kicking and struggling. Basically, they were just trying to get the complainant into custody. I have one more video clip for you.
 I'll get to the CRC's concerns. Thanks. Good work. Okay. So the next slide, the taser probe. Officer C, the second bullet point, she would be on the complainant's right side. She believes the complainant's overpowering her, and she can't get control of his arm. And as you watch this next video, you can see the complainant try to do a push-up. It's a little bit hard to see his right arm. She's struggling. She just can't get his arm behind him.
 So he's not in control. While I'm running out of time, I'm going to skip towards CRC concerns. CRC concern number one, Officer B's use of taser was unreasonable because his use was not in response to active aggression. Essentially, my assertion is during the video, I believe the complainant is in active aggression with punching or attempting to punch Sergeant A, kicking the officer and having the officer fall to the ground.
 Mercy RC concern number two, being restrained since he was held down to the ground by officers during a taser application. Yes, we were holding him down, but he wasn't restrained. He continued to fight and kick. The sergeant was struggling to get his right arm. In one of the videos, you could almost see him start to do a push-up with the officers on him. And again, Officer C wasn't able to get control of his right arm.
 And CRC concern number three, they didn't believe the last discharge of the taser was supported by the evidence. After the complaint was handcuffed, he was still struggling. You have to take control, maintain control of that taser. He's still struggling even though he's handcuffed. Again, my assertion is, though nobody recalls it, I believe that taser application, it's due to trying to control that taser. So for PBB findings...
 Well, you've read that. I'll just finish up with seconds left. Again, when that taser light goes off in a video, it's not necessarily in contact with a complainant, though it does register in the taser download. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next up, the involved officer or a representative make a voluntary statement of up to 10 minutes if they choose to do so. Next up.
 Then the council may now ask questions of any of the presenters here. How do you want to do this? Do you want to invite the presenters to come back just so we can do it as one panel? Why don't we do it this way? Why don't we find out what the nature of the questions are and then we can invite? panelists up individually I have a number of clarifying questions. I'd like to ask the chief chief can come on up. I
 and I have a couple of procedural questions about CRC that I think I'd address to the Chair afterwards. Chief, thank you for your presentation. And we were given a very thick folder with a lot of information. And my understanding from a prior conversation I had with Mr. Handelman is this is the first time Council has had an appeal like this since 2003. So no one, with the exception perhaps of Commissioner Saltzman,
 has been through this before, so the rest of us are learning on the fly. So I have just some basic questions. From the moment the officers had contact with the – should we call him the complainant at this point? The complainant. How long did it take to get the complainant into custody?
 I don't have a specific time frame, but I believe that video that you saw, it's obviously towards the beginning. He wasn't handcuffed at the end of that. I assume he was handcuffed fairly quickly after that, so 15, 20 seconds. So this entire encounter lasted how long? I'm guessing, and I can pull up the video, maybe 15, 20 seconds. It's fairly brief. Okay. Is it relevant to your analysis that there were three officers involved?
 Excuse me, three police officers that were engaging the complainant. Yes, sir. Very relevant. And at what point would the number of officers involved begin to change the way in which you view restraint or whether other kind of force was warranted?
 I guess the point I'm trying to get at is the difference between having a single officer trying to subdue someone and a large number of officers. How does that change the analysis? If it's just one officer in one subject, I think the probability for either party to get injured is greater. With two subjects, two officers in one subject, rather, it's going to diminish. We actually train, if possible, with three officers.
 uh because i believe with three officers in one subject again the probability for any of those involved to get injured uh lessons with um one like in this encounter you could have one officer trying to control one arm another officer another arm and a third officer trying to control the legs that's actually how we train i do believe to a point more officers uh
 correlates into safety for all the parties. That's common sense, right? I mean, you have a number of officers trying to subdue someone, then it changes the balance of force, if you will. Correct. Is an officer required to give an oral warning before discharging a taser? Yes, if time allows. So there is a little caveat there, but generally speaking, yes, they are.
 I'm just picking up on this because it was part of what you testified to counsel. And your understanding is that a warning was given? That's correct. And is that in dispute in this hearing? Not to my knowledge, no. And under what circumstances, again, could someone be relieved of the obligate duty to give a warning? For...
 Safety reasons, if it's simply if no time allows, obviously not in this case, but if somebody pulls a knife and starts running at you, and if you think a taser is going to be effective, you're not going to take the time to, say, drop the knife from when it tases you if they're actively advancing on you as a hypothetical. Chief, one of the terms that you've called out in the directive that's before us is the meaning of the phrase active aggression. Yes. And...
 I guess just in terms of interpreting that and applying that concept to the facts in this case, how much of that is an objective standard and how much is a subjective standard? And what guidance do you have for us in terms of the interpretation? Because to me there's an objective and a subjective component, but I don't have a clear sense of either. Okay. Okay.
 Well, in this specific case, Officer B, when he's down by the legs of the complainant and the complainant's kicking hard enough to knock the officer over, to me, I think that's a clear example of active aggression. He's struggling. He's fighting. Later on in the video, when he's trying to do a push-up, and you can see it better on his left arm,
 To me, that's active aggression of you're not allowing the officers to put you in handcuffs. You're obviously not complying, and you're trying to get up and get away. What would an example of not active aggression mean? If you're intoxicated, let's say, and you're stumbling, and you're just pulling away from the officer, but not too hard. I mean, it's a little bit of a sliding scale. There's some resistance there. I wouldn't say that's.
 act of aggression. I mean, to me, I think watching that video the first time I saw it, when the officer gets kicked towards the wall, frankly surprised me. I mean, that's a pretty good kick to do that to that officer. You talked a little bit about the duty to avoid a higher use of force. Now, in this particular instance, what would have, give us an example of a higher use of force beyond the use of a taser? Um...
 A couple of uses of force that in my mind would be a higher use of force would be strikes or punches to the complainant. Higher likelihood of complainant being injured and or the officer or the use of the aspiton, you know, striking the subject with a metal stick, I think would be a higher use of force. And more again, more likely assault.
 for the complainant to get injured by that. With a taser, there's no residual. It changes the person's... It can, when appropriate, changes their...
 Their active aggression stance at times, instead of trying to get away, it gives the officers a few seconds to handcuff the subject. I have been tased. It hurts. Yes, it does. But once the taser charges over, there's no residual impact. I believe that is a lesser amount of force and less likely to injure the complainant versus punches or strikes or stabs.
 with the ASPATON. Chief, is that hierarchy of use of force clearly set forth in the rules? Yes, it is, and in training. And in training, and it makes clear that the use of a taser is a...
 that there's a higher use of force that follows that. It includes punching and use of a baton and other tools. Yeah, we've moved away from the levels of continuum, but that is correct. Actually, to me, the drive stun mode is –
 even more minor, if you will, than shooting the taser probes. That wasn't effective the first couple of times. So then the officer, because each time you use it, you have to assess whether or not it's effective. After two times it's not being effective, this officer tries to use the probes because that greater spread has a, if done correctly, has a greater impact on a subject. So the officer, in their mind, is working up that scale.
 If I have one other question, then I'll come back after my colleagues. So we are being asked to apply a reasonable person standard. And a reasonable person, when confronted with the facts in this case, I think would ask a basic question, which is why did it require six different uses of a taser to subdue a person, particularly when there were three officers and one person?
 That on its face, I think, is a question that people would ask in this case. What's your response? Yeah.
 Two points. One, yeah, I think it's a very reasonable question. The officer thought they activated the taser three times, though the computer chip in the taser when you do the taser download indicates six. So the officer thinks, in his mind, he has to use it three times. Again, in the video, when he's holding on, they're struggling.
 my assertion is he's hitting that button on that taser he was testing and it's going off without having contact with the complainant the officer simply doesn't know it that's in my mind where you have the discrepancy of the officer thinks it's three but in reality it's activated six times but again it's not six times in the way i read the reports and view the video it's not six times on the complainant um to your other point about the reasonable person standard
 I believe it was already mentioned, but if not, the Assistant Chief of Operations, the person who wrote the finding, the Internal Affairs Captain, and the IPR Director or their designee at the time all concurred with the original finding, which is the higher level that they have to review this at, where CRC views it at the reasonable person standard. So you made two points there.
 Yeah, you lost me on that last point there. So you're saying the IPR director believed the higher standard than the reasonable person standard? Well, at the time, all those folks I listed, they have a different level of review, a different standard, and they all affirmed exonerated or exonerated with debriefing before it went to CRC. Okay.
 I'm a little confused trying to follow how many people were involved in this. Obviously, Sergeant A started it, but then Officer B and Witness Officer C arrived, and then there's a Witness Officer D and a Sergeant. So what would be described as a Witness Officer? Someone who just viewed and didn't have any physical interaction with the subject. But then it says that...
 Witness Officer D positioned herself on the left side. So is there a protocol that you always call in other officers who are just going to be witnesses? No, no. And so if the issue was three people not being able to restrain the complainant, why were there then two witnesses just taking notes rather than helping to secure the person? Yeah.
 So I can explain real quickly. In the context of these cases, the involved members are the members who actually have allegations of misconduct against them, and officers that don't have allegations of misconduct are called witness officers. So in this case, there was no allegation of misconduct against Officer C, even though she was involved with the incident. She's called a witness because she is a witness to the allegations of misconduct on the part of Officer B and Sergeant A.
 Yes, I guess my concern is I'm having trouble following who's what. So if a person is having an altercation like this, it might be difficult to recognize who's been hands-on and who has not. And it seems like the CRC focused a lot on the use of the taser and how much that was used. Was there consideration of the initial...
 putting the subjects against the wall and basically going towards him when it started with the traffic argument. Yes, so Sergeant A had allegations against him, but all those allegations were, I believe, exonerated. And the CRC affirmed that. All right, I'll ask them when I get back up again. Thank you. I just want to make sure I'm understanding the sequence of events. So...
 He was followed down the street. The lights went on. He dismounted his bike. The police car pulled up. He pulled the bike onto the curb, and then he was ordered to do something. His hands up, or turn around, turn around. And at that point, the taser's deployed for the first time. Is he standing or not standing?
 No, anyone trust that? Yeah, sure. You could walk me through. Yeah, so you've got a pretty decent just kind of general description. So once they tell him to turn around, their objective is to kind of use the wall to push him up against the wall and then take him into custody with his hands behind his back. And that is the point where Officer B, who is actually riding in the car with Officer C, when they come up is –
 right when the video starts. They're engaged with them up against the wall. And Officer B says in his report and in his statements that he saw one of the complainant's hands back in a fist, and based on his observations of what he described as...
 kind of violent behavior and aggressive speech, shoulders rolled forward. He took that, and actually in answer to Commissioner Fish's earlier question, those are kind of the objective things that he took in. His subjective belief was that the complainant was about ready to strike Sergeant A, and that's what caused the first application of the taser. But there was no violent behavior?
 Behavior, there was aggressive behavior, right? I mean, he didn't punch anyone or... With the officers, not at that point, no. So the first taser... Activation. Activation. Is he still standing? Yes. Okay. And then he falls to the ground? Yes. Okay. And then there's a struggle, arms and legs, but there's two more...
 one in the calf and one in the back, and those are the two I'm confused about because he does seem subdued at that point. So I just want to make sure, because the video is hard to tell what's going on in the video. It is hard, and I apologize. I probably have like 30 hours in review in this case, and to give you a fairly detailed presentation in 10 minutes is a little bit of a struggle.
 So the kicking on the ground, the pushing up off the ground, he's not compliant in being placed in handcuffs. The actions that he's doing, not obeying commands, not obeying orders, and all the physical movements with that, again, it's my assertion and others as well that that is still active aggression. Okay.
 Okay. Can I just follow up on Chris Shue Daly? It says in the record, though, that people were actually sitting on him at that point while he was face down. We could watch the video again. I mean, at one point, Officer B tries to get on his legs after he was kicked. So one way to safely do that is you could trap somebody's legs and sit on them to avoid getting kicked.
 Sergeant A is trying to get his left arm behind his back, and Officer B, she never really got control during the video. She's trying to get his right arm behind his back. So Sergeant A, Officer C are not sitting on him. Officer B is on his legs trying to keep from getting kicked again. May I ask a question here? Because it's germane to this. So there was some discussion of the definition of restraint. Right.
 Yes. And it sounds to me like there's a dispute here between the police and the CRC about whether or not this individual was restrained. Correct. What's your view, again, and where do you see the difference between the CRC having heard their testimonies?
 Um, and having listened to CRC that night, I get, I have, I have no, no faith that if either Sergeant A or Officer C let go of the compliance, either compliance arm, that he was just going to put his arm behind his back and, and.
 calmly be taken into custody for the incident in question. I believe he would have tried to either punch, based on previous actions of the complainant seconds earlier, either try to push up, get away, and still punch, or I think he would, if he could, try to get away from the officers. So I think he's taking steps forward to accomplish his task versus obeying commands and being taken into custody.
 I saw no indication that he was complying with the officers. And you said this took place over a fairly quick period. I think you said 15-ish seconds, something. A little bit longer than the whole length of the video you saw. So what should I expect if I am being tased some number of times greater than three? What's my state of mind? Am I in a position where I'm hearing what you're saying? I've never been tased, so I'm just asking the question, what state?
 what would you expect in terms of compliance? Sure. So when I was actually working the street, I have tased folks. Every time you activate the taser cycle, the officer has to reassess the effectiveness of that taser.
 After two drive-thru modes, if it's not working, you shouldn't do a third. You've got some other tool needs to happen or different use of the taser. I've talked to – I have been tased. I've talked to many folks. As I am trying to take them in custody, they're able to hear and comply if they so choose to. You testified that the officer believed he used the taser three times, but the facts show it was deployed six times. Yes.
 Does that interfere with the argument you're making that there is a waiting period between those tasings to reassess the situation? Michael Nouri- Yeah. The main issue with the number of tasings and where the discrepancy comes in, the first three tasings were three-second, one-second, and one-second. They all occurred in a five-second span of time. The way the taser measures, just to get a little bit technical, it won't measure anything less than one second. So if you have two,
 two half-second taser activations, they will both show as one second, and both of the one-second taser activations happened during the same second, which I think it's fairly reasonable to assume that the officer is applying one, but his finger is kind of bouncing on the button a little bit as he is applying it for approximately five seconds. Does that meet the standard, then, one second, one second, three seconds? Does that meet the standard you're laying out in terms of reassessing before reapplying?
 I think in this case, based on what the officer said, I think it's fair to assume that the officer did believe that this was only one activation. And during the struggle, like I said, his finger was coming off the button. This was a new piece of equipment, and I don't believe he knew that there were those gaps in there, thus believing that it was one single activation. And you raised this testimony, so I'm asking it even though it may not be true.
 especially germane, is there training prior to sending new equipment out into the field? Yes, there is. What happened? Well, one, I think in my mind it's a poor design of that button on a taser when you use –
 a firearm and a taser shaped like a firearm you keep your finger out of the trigger guard that's just basic weapon safety it just so happens they call it indexing your finger when you index your finger it just so happens on this taser that's where that button is so
 During the video, when you see that flash go off and that drive stem go up, but the taser is not on to complain it, if you're struggling, you have a natural instinct to kind of clench your hands during that struggle. My assertion is when you do that, your fingers move in and you're bumping that taser. That's why I don't think the officer realized he was hitting that for a second at a time. That's why I think there's a discrepancy between the six things.
 activations, though again, doesn't necessarily mean they're effective or on a complainant, and the officer's mind that he thought he activated it and applied it three times. But surely not using a weapon in compliance with its instructions, that's a problem, isn't it? Well, when you're trying to hold on to it, and if by holding on to it you're actually hitting that button, again, that's where I default back to the design.
 So when I took this position and when this case came to me, because it's gone through a couple of different administrations and different people, I asked the training division, let's review this taser at large because I think it's potentially problematic. And surely even using it in a situation where that might happen is problematic. Yes.
 If you're struggling, because the CRC brief actually does say, Officer D, Sergeant A, restrained appellant's arms, knelt on his back, Officer B straddled appellant's legs. I think that's what I saw in the video. Why would you then be using a taser in close quarters about that? Because I think he was still struggling. They did not have control of him.
 And then I believe it was Commissioner Fish said, what other options would there be? I would rather have the officers use the taser with no residual effect versus any kind of a strike with their hands or knees or pulling out the aspiton and hitting them with a metal stick. I think that's problematic. If they punched them or used a metal stick, my question would be, why wouldn't you have used a taser? So I think the tasers are...
 a lesser uh probability of of harm to anybody involved can i pick back up on the question of the taser um in terms of um a piece of equipment chief how many times can it be discharged that specific taste i mean that the taser itself so this new taser like the one used in this incident it has two separate probe cartridges the so-called x2 taser yes so it has two cartridges
 with two cartridges and each cartridge has two probes. So you can fire the two cartridges independently of one another. But for the drive stun mode where you're not discharging anything, it's just a contact mode. There's a number of times there is, you know, you could just cycle and cycle and cycle. So it's two different ways to use that electronic control device. Okay.
 And do we currently have any guidelines that deal with the frequency of use? Yes, in our patrol tactics, if you use that, well, since that weapon specifically is what we're talking about, if you use it in drive-thru mode a couple times and you're not getting the desired effect, the officer should be thinking through each one and realize what they're trying to do isn't working.
 and reassess on what they could do to, in this case, effectively take somebody into custody. So they need to always kind of assessing and reassessing what they're trying to accomplish and whatever tactic they're using, is it effective? If it isn't, they better be thinking differently on how to do something that will be effective. Can you explain the two different modes of use with probes and without? I also have never been tased, so...
 So I apologize up front if it's a little technical. So you have two modes. You have a drive stun mode. So the end of it's maybe an inch by two inches roughly. And it's just a contact. So if I place it against somebody's arm and touch that little button for a second, they'll have that contact for a second. It's going to hurt their arm. You pull it away. Zero residual. Zero residual.
 impact of that. Doesn't affect the rest of their body at all. So it's lesser level of control, if you will. The second way to use it is if you have some distance, you can discharge two probes and actually make contact with you. So I could hypothetically shoot something, you know, hit like a forearm and an upper arm.
 Those two probes where that contact is is where you get that electricity through. That effectively isolates the larger muscles just in the arm, and it's harder to use your arm. But the rest of you is still free to do what you choose. And, yes, it hurts. I mean, I've been tased.
 As soon as electricity stops, you have no residual, full motion, game on again. Excuse me, what you just said is not in the record, right? That's not part of the evidence for this hearing? He was, the officer did use probes. The description of how a taser works. Because I know that there are people who would dispute that, as to it's possible for residual effects, and that it's not as benign as you just characterized, but that's not what, in either case, it's not what we're discussing today, is it?
 Yeah, a whole detail account of how the taser works and the whole taser training. Yeah, none of that's in an internal affairs review. That's correct. I just was wanting to understand the difference between the two because of the escalation. It sounds like an escalation to deploy probes. Yes. So there was a choice to escalate in the final application, I guess. Is the probes. Is the probes. Correct. And...
 The complainant, he was being apprehended because of his perceived aggressive behavior, not necessarily what may or may not have transpired with the driver earlier. Is that? Yes, his interactions with the driver initially. But, I mean, if he had just not seemed aggressive at all, would he still have been taken into custody? Yes.
 Well, if he wasn't aggressive at all, I mean, I'd still expect the sergeant and the officers to contact him and try to figure out what happened, if anything, between the complainant, well, the person in the car, and the complainant in this case, try to figure out what happened. And then if he was, in my opinion, not resistive and we think it had a conversation, who knows how it would have ended up. Okay. Thank you. Mayor, I have one more question, and then I hope we have a chance to bring the chair of the CRC back. Absolutely. You bet. Chief, I...
 Could you provide just a little more description for us of what you believe is the critical distinction between active aggression and resisting arrest? So where's that line? And help us understand the differences.
 Well, the way we teach officers, and I'll just read it for you again, so out of our directive at the time that this case occurred. So it's active aggression is a threat or overt act of an assault, and again through physical or verbal means, coupled with a present ability to carry out a threat or assault, which reasonably indicates an assault or injury is imminent. So active aggression. So somebody – I'm trying to think of a hypothetical for you –
 If somebody has clenched fists or sweating, they're running away, and I say, hey, I need to talk to you, and they don't, but they turn, and they're clenched, and they're looking for different ways of escape. And they might verbally say, get away from me. I'm not going to be taken into custody. And they're tense and clenched. Approaching that person is a whole lot different than running.
 I've talked to other folks, you know, hey, you're under arrest, and they go, okay, and they actually turn around and put their hands behind their back. I mean, they're two wholly different scenarios to where, based on their verbal comments, if any, their body stance, if any, the situation at hand,
 you know, what the person in the car stated happened. You have all those together, and that builds up to where, you know, in your mind, would this person potentially be violent or not? And if they, like the directive states that we train people, if you think they would be actively aggressive, you know,
 you can go up to that level. My assertion in this case, though, with the video is on the ground kicking an officer off him to me is actively aggressive or pushing up, trying to not be taken into custody and trying to get away from the officers. To me, that's an overt act that you're not complying. I apologize that it's not a
 you know, a bright line on or off. I mean, there is a sliding scale, if you will, in there. But I think on this case, getting kicked as an example, to me, that's clear cut. I'd like to ask a question about the police bureau's finding. Exonerated, but with a debriefing. Can you explain that in layman's terms? What does that mean exactly?
 Sure. I think it's on one of the footnotes I sent with my statement. But exonerated, so unfounded would be just didn't even happen. Exonerated is it happened, but debriefing is these kinds of cases I would always suggest debriefing. I think you can always learn from everything. So debriefing is a discussion. Sit down with all the parties and discuss everything.
 Why did you do what you do at what time and go through it and relive it and debrief it? What could you have done better? Other options you could have used? So just saying, yes, your actions were within policy. I think it's always beneficial to have a debriefing of what I just stated. Even on all days, frankly, I always think it's good to sit down and reassess things.
 actions, uh, on any incident of this nature. So that, that, excuse me, added a notation of with debriefing is, is just as that the officer, the sergeant and their command sitting down and essentially kind of going over what we're doing here today. So, um, without bias, I'm just going to ask the following question. Would it be fair to say that the finding is from your perspective, he acted within bureau policy, but it was sloppy.
 Uh, no, I would say it's, uh, he acted within policy, but it's good for all three of those members and, and their command to sit down and go. And with each one, why'd you do what you did? Could you approach it differently? You know, that was a tool being tested at the time. What, what can you learn from that? There's, you know, I can't think of any situation to where you can't learn and, and, and, uh, do a better job.
 Even if it goes well, you can always do better, right? And that's kind of my philosophy. So it doesn't hurt to sit down and debrief. So I wouldn't say in policy, but sloppy. Would you say that it was within policy but not textbook? That's more subjective. I mean, in policy but not in textbook. I think, well, I think Sergeant B, all his actions were exonerated. I think he did what he was trained to do.
 Having him try to take control of the complainant with three people, I think that's appropriate, and that's textbook. When you get kicked, you go back and help the other officers and try to trap his leg so he doesn't kick you again. I think that's textbook. So bear with me for one more question, colleagues. I appreciate this. I'm just trying to make sure I understand the note. There's a lot to this. We're talking about a 15-second period, and it is –
 Your contention that this individual, you know, we're really talking about Officer B, that Officer B used their judgment over that 15-second period and was within Bureau policy? Yes, I believe he was. Thank you. Thank you. And the act of tasing produced the reflex that you, or was perceived as aggression on behalf of the complainant? No, it would not.
 So the involuntary kicking or anything like that would not be a reaction to being tased? No. One of the big issues, and I saw it on TV last night, TV movies, somebody gets tased and they pass out. I mean, it's just horrific. It's just not what happens. I've been tased where I went through my whole body, and your large muscle groups lock up, and you don't move. Once it's stopped...
 Again, zero residual. I can get up and go instantly. So the involuntary motor motions of kicking like you saw in the video would not occur. Again, I do think that could have other elements. I don't see anywhere in the taser policy where it says how often it may be discharged in a minute or in five minutes. Is it in a different part than the...
 Oh, how often a person could? Well, yeah, I've got policy 105.1.00, electronic control weapon system. And it says when it may be used, but it doesn't say anything about how often. Is there another policy that says you should not use it more than X times in a minute? No. Well, no, there's not a policy that says you shouldn't use it more than X times in a minute.
 But the current policy is if you use it three times like was used in this case, the new policy states that triggers a whole other set of protocols. But we don't have for our various tools, we have how many times per minute an officer can use them. We just don't approach it that way. Again, on this one, if you try the drive stun twice, it's not effective twice.
 I mean, you should be thinking something different, whether that takes 30 seconds or three minutes or three seconds. Which really goes to the mayor's point in that it was fused many times, more than three. Well, again, my assertion is even though it was recorded, the computer chip and the taser was recorded, I believe that, again, if you watch the video and you see that bright light and that taser's up in the air, that's that drive stun mode.
 I believe the officer is inadvertently hitting that button because that's where his figure is out of the trigger guard. Yes, it's being activated, but I don't think it's necessarily, in my opinion, it's not a contact with a complainant. That's why I believe the officer thinks he did it three times instead of what the taser download computer chip reads as six activations. He has six activations.
 but the officer was thinking he actually had contact with a subject three times and that seems to conflict with some of the witnesses not the police witnesses but the civilian witnesses report more than three maybe i can clarify that with the crc thank you any further questions for the chief thank you sir thank you can we invite the chair of the crc up for a minute mayor yes please come on up and while we're while we're waiting for the chair i have a question for council
 Mayor read some instructions at the beginning of the hearing and analogized this to a land use hearing. And I guess we're all waiting for him to say, does anyone have any ex parte contacts to disclose? Does that not apply to this proceeding? I'll refer to Heidi, but I believe the answer is no in this case. Heidi? She's checking. Oh, thanks. That's part of the instructions we get in land use, so I just want to make sure we understand what the rules are. Thank you.
 Could you speak into the microphone, please? So the advice from council is that you need to push the button. Just push it and let it go. Yeah. All right. Oh, good. You got the one that doesn't work. There it goes. Sorry, I thought green was going.
 So then the question regarding ex parte communication would be that if you had ex parte communication regarding this matter, you would disclose the fact of such ex parte communication, not the details thereof, and then you would disregard any of that information and state that you will disregard that information for purposes of consideration of your ruling and decision. And when do we do that? At the end of the hearing?
 Yes, I think that would be appropriate at the end of the hearing to do that. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner. Prior to making your decision on it. Very good. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have a couple of questions. There are 11 members of the CRC, correct? Yes. Under your bylaws, what is a quorum? Five. And so the four-to-one vote would then meet the quorum requirement? Correct. Is that a sufficient quorum in your judgment, five out of 11? No.
 I don't know that it's ideal, but for 11 volunteers, I think that's probably the lowest possible number that would seem. But wasn't this heard when you only had nine? We've recently increased it to 10.
 We had nine several years ago before I joined. We've been at 11 since I joined, but for a period of time we were short a couple members while we awaited recruitment. Sorry, that means you're drunk. Thank you. The second question I have for you is in reviewing the voluminous record that we got on this, one of the things that struck me was the number of times this came back to the CRC and the
 number of sort of procedural hiccups along the way. I wanted to give you a chance to respond to that because this has taken a very long time to come to us. There were some back and forth about what's the right directive and was it being applied.
 Could you offer some advice and guidance to us about the procedural history of this case and what we can learn from that? Sure. Sure.
 I think this case has become kind of the poster child for delays with the CRC process. Not long ago, City Council commissioned a focus group to work on expediting CRC appeals, and the complainant was actually part of that group and provided some of his own opinions. But I think that this case is a really good example from the CRC's perspective of how much of that timing is out of the CRC's control.
 I think if you will look at the reasons this came back and back again, the Bureau, in our opinion, and I think rightly so, didn't complete an investigation. We had additional questions about the taser log as well as witnesses that weren't interviewed that the Bureau did then go back and re-interview. But they're supposed to have 10 days to do that, and it took much longer than that.
 Then we convened for an appeal, and it was the Bureau who didn't show. The volunteers were present and ready to hear the appeal, but the Bureau members were under instructions not to attend.
 And then we went through a whole appeal hearing under the wrong directive, which was selected and evaluated by the Bureau. And although there was some complaint about that during that appeal hearing, the kind of verdict we received from the city attorney and the Bureau was that it was the right directive, only several days later to discover that the appellant was correct and that the case had originally been evaluated under the wrong directive. Okay.
 And then additional time is taken when we disagree with the Bureau because there is a kind of procedure for us to meet again with Chief Marchman and see if through dialogue we can agree on a disposition that would prevent us from coming here. And you did, in fact, on one of the two issues get to a disposition. We did. But on this final complaint...
 It preceded you, and that kind of conference process of having another meeting to talk with the chief about it after we've already made our decision elongates the time as well. Well, I would say that these kinds of cases don't come to the council very often, and I was struck by the procedural history, and I think we have to be very careful about the –
 that we make on citizen members of committees like this and the amount of time and energy that goes into these cases. And we have to find a way to do this in a more expedited way and in a way that I think is...
 It just has more common sense. I felt your pain as I was going through the record of the procedural history of the case. The chief was just before us, and I guess probably a number of us are now a little confused about what is the standard of review. We have now been told there might be a difference of opinion on that. What's your view? My understanding, and I think my understanding of what the chief was trying to get at was that
 Our committee and you all are supposed to be fairly deferential to the finding reached by the Bureau. They get a preponderance of the evidence standard, so they're kind of a more probable than not, was this within policy? Whereas you and I have to evaluate on whether that finding was a reasonable one, which is...
 it gives you less license to insert your own opinion. And I think what Chief Marshman was talking about was pointing out that there were several other players in the review process who, using the more generous standard of review, had also concurred with what the Bureau's finding was. So I think it's fairly well settled that
 supported by the evidence or the reasonable person standard is what you all are supposed to be using. Even if we were to disagree with the ultimate judgment? Yes. Could I ask a question related to that, Commissioner, unless you had other questions? So the chief showed us a number of very grainy videos, and it is the contention of the police bureau in their findings that the individual was guilty
 not restrained, and was engaged in active aggression. And he pointed out some points in the video where he said the individual was actively avoiding being arrested. He'd knocked an officer over. He was trying to do push-ups or whatever. What's your comeback to that? I think that the...
 We had an interesting insight into this particular directive because we reviewed the wrong directive first. And when we reviewed under the wrong directive, we agreed with the Bureau, mostly because we felt that that directive allowed the taser to be used in the case where someone was trying to flee or resist or be...
 somewhere less than what it is now, which active aggression, I think we need to focus on the definition in the directive, which is a threat or overt act of assault. And I think that listening to the chief say it, there is to him restrained, meaning completely passive and calm. The officers could have gotten up off of him and he would have laid there passively.
 and assaulting somebody. And in between that, I think, is where the CRC found that he was resisting, but that that resisting was not active aggression. And I think when you look at the kicking, in light of the video that you all watched, the kicking occurs right as he falls to the ground. He's been tased, and he's kind of flailing. But then in order to apply the drive stun to the calf of the appellant,
 Officer B has to get hold of his legs, and he's holding the one leg down, which is kind of crossing over his body in a way that is really pinning him to the ground. And he goes into the calf, and then...
 When he goes to deploy the probes, at that point he's straddling and he's got a knee on him and Sergeant A is straddling and it looks like he's almost asking the other officers to make sure they move out of the way so that he can deploy the probes and not hit them. That to me is what appears on the video. So after several years of reviewing this, it sounds like you're saying, yes, he was resisting arrest, but he was not engaged in active aggression.
 And what we're hearing from the officer involved is he felt there was a threat. I think the police chief said it looked to him like somebody might throw a punch. There's some grainy videos. Yes.
 It would probably make the worst hits of YouTube if they were put out there under a standard. What advice would you give this body, given that the standard that we are required to act under is could a reasonable individual have made this decision based on the evidence that's available? What advice would you give us as the CRC chair? I would say first that...
 I think the community especially has been concerned locally and nationally over officers' subjective accounts of fears or threats of assault. And when you see the video here, I think that that's very good evidence that the subject was, in fact, restrained at the time.
 And I personally would look to the last discharge of the taser. I think we heard Chief Marchman talk a lot about discharges in the air and maybe some of the activations in the middle didn't come into contact with the appellant. But we know that the sixth discharge occurred after he had deployed the probes.
 So anything that's coming from that taser is going directly down these wires and into the appellant. And it seems pretty undisputed to me that he had no justification for that activation, that it was simply an accident resulting from...
 the design of this new taser that caused him to flick the button completely inadvertently. So the video does appear to show some flashes. What do you think that means? The chief gave one thought in terms of what he thought that meant. What does it mean to you, if anything? And it doesn't have to be anything. I don't know.
 From my perspective that it changes the analysis much we know that there was a drive stun when he was standing and that he fell We know that there was a drive stun in the calf when he was on the ground. We know that there was a probe Deployed into his back and those three Activations are not disputed. We know that they occurred and we know that they made contact with the appellant and at least before this hearing I
 We had not heard the Bureau dispute that the last activation occurred while the probes were still attached before the medical personnel came and removed them from his back. So he was, according to you, resisting arrest. Fifteen seconds go by where some number...
 of charges are deployed directly to the complainant. I think in his testimony he said at least three times. So we're disputing the number of times, aren't we? I think it's, to me it's clear that there's a minimum of four. There are the three that the officer reported and the one while the wires were attached that showed up on the taser log. So whether or not those two were in the air, four to six I think is probably what we can say from the log in the video. Thank you. I appreciate that.
 Do you have any other comments on any of the questions that have come forward and maybe things that the CRC discussed? I can clarify for you, Witness Officer C and D. Witness Officer D is actually the partner of Officer B. For some reason, the order got swapped. Witness Officer C was the officer who contacted the driver of the vehicle. So that officer statement concerned him.
 her report of what happened around the car. That was not an officer that was standing around watching the incident on the video transpire. And was there any discussion in the CRC of the initial use of force attempting to put this person in handcuffs? I believe there was, related to another allegation, but I didn't refresh on that for this meeting. And I would suspect that if it did come up that...
 There was significant evidence that the appellant was putting his hands into his pockets and throwing things on the ground. I think the appellant said that he wanted to show his driver's license to prove who he was and that he wasn't homeless. But Sergeant A was worried that there was a weapon or something like that in the pockets and there wasn't a response.
 And we've heard a lot of discussion about the standard of review and the reasonable person versus preponderance of the evidence. Based on that knowledge, how often does the CRC have a majority saying that, yes, a reasonable person would not have done that or concluded that? I wouldn't say it happens terribly often. There have been times where we have tried to add a debriefing where –
 Something happened maybe in line with what Mayor Wheeler was saying, where this was within policy, but it was sloppy. This was not the ideal way that we would like to handle this. And then we've had a couple occasions where we have challenged, and the Bureau has accepted our challenge, either without a conference hearing or after some dialogue with the Bureau. We've come to see eye to eye. I guess I had just one follow-up. Since we've never had a hearing like this before, I just want to say that,
 I appreciate that you and your role as the chair of the CRC are playing an invaluable role in helping the council understand the CRC's position and walk us through it. We're sort of making this up as we go along, but I appreciate very much your presentation. The chief, toward the end of his presentation, talked a little bit about the higher use of force. And I guess as I understand the argument is that –
 It may have been, in the context of what was going on, it might have been a different case if someone had used a baton or a fist. In fact, it was just a taser. And I want to think about that, but what was your reaction to that? Yeah.
 Well, I would say six of the new CRC members two years ago had an opportunity to attend the Citizens Police Academy. And the officers there who had been tased during their training, I think they can voluntarily elect to be tased to see what it's like, almost all said it's an experience they would never want to repeat. And...
 I am not sure I am as persuaded by the concept of it being brief or it not leaving a mark when talking about the amount of pain experienced or the kind of trauma it can leave behind. But I'm not sure that from the evidence we saw that an escalation in force was needed. It seemed like, especially once a subject was on the ground...
 The officers were in the process of getting the appellant under control. I think perhaps time would have been the best remedy there. I wonder if the Officer B had evaluated the situation before he deployed the probes. He might have seen that there wasn't much of an out for the appellant anymore at that point in time, and it was just a matter of time before they got his hands together and could proceed. Thank you.
 I apologize. I'm not sure if you are the right person to address this question to, but the complainant has indicated that he's a traumatic brain injury survivor and that he experiences mental illness. And in the last several years, I know police policy and training has changed around interacting with individuals experiencing mental illness. Yes.
 The situation escalated quickly, clearly. The complainant appeared to be afraid and perhaps panicked, based on emptying his pockets, asking what he had done, saying he wasn't homeless. I can imagine why he said that. Can you comment at all on what we would...
 hope or expect an officer to do when encountering someone who may be experiencing some kind of crisis or just ongoing mental illness? The CRC has convened a work group and had voted recently to support a report that would prioritize de-escalation whenever possible. I think that the concept of de-escalation we've seen has kind of
 appears sporadically through police policy, but cities like Seattle have an overarching policy emphasizing de-escalation, and I would hope that with a more de-escalation-based policy, you would not see the officers escalating the situation so quickly. I think that there might have been a better way to back off instead of advance and go immediately to force. Thank you.
 I don't think that that decision at the time was out of policy, but there's policy that we wish we had and the policy that we have. Thank you. Are there any further questions of this panel or anybody else? So, colleagues, we have had at least one commissioner ask questions
 that we go into executive session to meet with legal counsel. And I set a standard earlier that if anybody felt that that was an important thing, that we would do that. We will come back into open session, obviously. But for the time being, did you have a question? No.
 I believe your city attorney, David Landrum, needs to disclose ex parte the petition. So why don't we do this now? Okay, sir, why don't we do this now so we take care of this council, which is the decision-making body? He didn't give advice, and he didn't...
 You can call me personally. I will ask legal counsel, if you'll give me a moment. Legal counsel, we are going to, in a moment, disclose any ex parte contacts we have had. Is there a commensurate requirement that city attorney disclose their ex parte contacts? Yes.
 My understanding of what I hear Mr. Klug talking about would be an interaction that happened related to the civil case. That matter is not before this council and is not part of your consideration for this issue of whether you find evidence to support the chief's finding in this situation. So that particular would be a separate issue unrelated to what's before you today. All right. Thank you. I'll kick it off. Yeah, please. I am.
 We received a couple of emails relating to this matter. I believe one was from the complainant, and I did not review that email. I just forwarded it on to my staff person. And I had a brief conversation with Dan Handelman, who is something of a historian of police accountability matters, and he reminded me we've not had such a hearing since 2003.
 That was largely the extent of it. I received the email also from the complainant, which I did read. Excuse me, sir. You're out of order. No, let us finish this order of business, because you are the complainant, I will let you address the council. But for the time being, let us do our business here. I have no ex parte contacts except the email that was referenced earlier. I did read the email.
 Same. I received the email. I read the first paragraph and realised it was relating to this, and so I waited until I could ask the city attorney as to whether I was supposed to be reading it. I also meet regularly with Julie Ramos, who's the co-chair of the CRC. I haven't been meeting with her since I knew this was going to be on the council agenda, so we certainly haven't discussed the specifics in this case, although when it first came through, it may have been one of the ones that she talked to me about in general. Commissioner, you're daily. I...
 Received the email that did not read it and have had no other communications about this case very good So the City Council has made its disclosure sure if you wanted to come up Could you please reintroduce yourself my name is Matthew clue Thank you And I'm just curious if you guys have any clue about the communication I sent because if you didn't read it There's a big problem the tort review board wanted to get to the bottom of my complaint in federal court District Court of Oregon and
 And inside the District Court of Oregon complaint was the video that I received from a civil rights attorney here in town. And I've got the video with audio. So it would be beneficial to look at the copy the tort review board was interested in and get to the bottom of. So here's the problem, sir, with regard to this hearing. We are not allowed to entertain new evidence. Okay.
 We are unable to do that. No, that was the evidence. Well, I will ask the city attorney whether or not we are allowed to consider new evidence.
 You are not allowed to consider new evidence. You are allowed to consider the evidence that was in the record at the time. Correct. The video was in the record. The video is in the record. The copy of the video that's in the record is running on the Internet at klug.pw. It is very visible. It's not cloudy and choppy like the copy they have. It has audio. It would be beneficial to look at the copy that the tort review board was interested in reviewing. Okay.
 at the Internal Affairs and Independent Police Review. Otherwise, you know, I mean, we've got the policy. And to answer Amanda's question, the number is in 2.4. It's on the second page. And then the first charge of the taser at 3.8 was up in my face. So in the written report from the cop in the narrative, it says warning arc. There's nothing in training about a warning arc.
 And then you see me fall to the ground. And if you watch the video and my good copy on the internet, I cover my face. And this is all in the record. I don't mean to be disrespectful, but I have to give everybody. It's 30 seconds long, too. And so six charges of the taser go off. They're limited to five seconds each. So that's 30 seconds. I can't allow you to continue. I'm sorry. But that's the video. I'm sorry. It's the basis of the whole thing. Secretary Attorney, that version of the video is in the record.
 I'm not sure of what Mr. Plug is referencing. There is a version of the video that is in the record that I'm sure we could get and make available to you. I don't know what Mr. Plug is referring to, and I haven't seen it, so I can't. So I think that is germane to what we have to decide. We have to decide whether a reasonable person considering the evidence could comment.
 make a decision. The one with the audio. So that's part of the evidence. And thank you, Mr. Cliff, for telling me. In fact, yes, in 2.4, it does say members should evaluate their false options and give consideration to other false options if ECW is not effective after two cycles on the same person. Okay. And so we gave the complainant approximately two extra minutes. And for that reason, if the Portland Police Bureau would like two extra minutes in the interest of fairness, I will offer that. Okay.
 Back to the ex parte thing, though. Excuse me, sir. May I address the council? Sir, you're out of order. No, you may not. In the packet of materials that we were given –
 In advance of this hearing, we were given a DVD. And that, as I understand it, is the DVD of the video in question. Is that correct? I believe that's right, but I think IPR put the package together, and we could double-check with them. But I believe that is correct, that that is the CD that has the video in it with everything on it that was considered as part of the records.
 Okay. The police bureau has declined the extra two minutes. Is that correct? Okay, good. So we will now adjourn into executive session. We will be back. So we are in recess. Mayor, you need to read the script regarding going in. I'm sorry. I forgot a script that I'm supposed to read. Thank you. What about a random calling me, though, personally? I mean, I'd love to discuss that. Okay. So here is the script.
 The City Council will now adjourn to the Mayor's Conference Room to meet in Executive Session pursuant to ORS 192.6602B, which allows City Council to meet in Ex...
 prior to the script or after the script. Oh, very good. So let me just wallow through this, which allows the city council to meet in executive session to consider the dismissal or disciplining of or to hear complaints or charges brought against a public employee who has not requested an open hearing and pursuant to ORS 192.6602F, which allows the city council to meet in executive session to consider information or records exempt by law from public inspection. Okay.
 Representatives of the news media and designated staff shall be allowed to attend the executive session. Representatives of the news media are specifically directed not to report on or otherwise disclose any of the deliberations or anything said about these subjects during the executive session, except to state the general subject of the session as previously announced. No decision may be made in executive session.
 At the end of the executive session, the council will return to the open session in council chambers. The city attorney wanted to speak? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Please introduce your name for yourself. Mark Amber with the city attorney's office. Thank you. The procedural point ORS 192.6602B, one of the bases for going into executive session, allows the involved employee, the officer in this case, to speak.
 to request that the executive session be held in open session. And I've had a communication with the representative for the officer, and the officer does not want to have the matter deliberated in open session. Very good. I need to state that further. Okay. Thank you. So we are in recess. Can we get that DVD in place? I don't know.
 All right. Good afternoon, everybody. We are now out of executive session. We're back into regular session. I've had a request if we could have legal counsel once again come up and walk the counsel through our options. Thank you, Mayor and counsel. Again, Mark Amber of the City Attorney's Office. The –
 When council is ready to take this matter up on a vote, it's potentially a two-step process. The first step, first vote the council has to consider is whether to accept or reject the finding by the Bureau. And, again, that's based on the reasonableness standard, whether a reasonable decision,
 A reasonable person in the RU manager's situation, the RU manager who came up with the finding of exonerated with a debriefing, could come to that finding based on the evidence. That's the first step. If council votes to affirm the Bureau's finding, that's the end of the council's session, and that's the end of the case. That decision or that finding of the Bureau would be upheld.
 If counsel votes to reject the Bureau's finding, then you go to the second step of the process. And the second step of the process is counsel has to determine the finding in the case. Again, the four options for counsel would be unfounded, technically exonerated without a debriefing. Counsel could come to that conclusion. Not sustained or sustained.
 Does counsel want me to explain again what those four standards are? Why don't you quickly do that for everybody's benefit? So unfounded basically means that there's no basis in fact that the event occurred. I look at that as the allegation is Portland Officer Smith did X, when in fact it was Officer Jones from Gresham. Well, that's an unfounded finding where there's no basis in fact for the allegation.
 Exonerated means the act occurred with the claim that what the officers claimed to have done happened, but it was lawful and it was in policy. It didn't violate the Constitution, didn't violate other law, and it was also within the police bureau's policy. For not sustained or sustained finding, those are...
 Again, the counsel will weigh those findings, if we get to that point, on a preponderance of the evidence on a more likely than not basis. And for sustained or not sustained, counsel would need to make a determination whether it's more likely than not that the officer's actions either did not violate policy, in which case it would be a not sustained,
 or that the officer's actions on a more likely than not basis violated policy, in which case it would be a sustained finding. That's not right. That's not right. Okay. Any further questions of legal counsel? I'm ready for motions. Just to try to clarify that last point, the –
 Again, sustained means the evidence was sufficient to prove a violation of policy or procedure based on the preponderance of the evidence standard. Not sustained is the evidence was insufficient to prove a violation of policy or procedure, again, based on the preponderance of the evidence standard. Commissioner Udaly, did you have a question? No, I was just going to ask. Okay, good. So at this time, I will ask if any of my colleagues have a motion. I have a motion. Okay.
 I will move to uphold the chief's finding to exonerate with debriefing so moved all second for discussion Commissioner salts or anybody else have any comments on this? You know I just don't have I can look at the video all day long and I can't tell what's going on But I know it's a very brief episode I you know, I believe the complainant and his account and
 But I do believe that there was, I do tend to agree with the chief in terms of perhaps not misfiring of the taser, but too rapid of a firing while the taser was a distance from the complainant's body. So the taser, if it cycled four, five, and six times, it didn't necessarily hit the complainant, or I should say three, four, and five times perhaps. But I guess long and short is I feel I'm listening to different accounts of the same thing.
 Same incident, and I don't draw any conclusions from the video. I just can't, and so I'm going to err on the side of exoneration with debrief. Mayor, may I be heard? Yes, Commissioner. I'm going to oppose the motion, and then I'm going to recommend an alternative approach if the motion fails. This is the first hearing of its kind that I've participated in,
 And I spent quite a lot of time wrestling with the materials that I was given prior to this hearing, but I found the hearing itself very helpful and very clarifying. We are admittedly applying a very deferential standard, and we are being asked to determine whether the judgment of the Bureau fits within a reasonable person's standard. And I believe the law is clear that we have to be very deferential, and I –
 I think the chief has come very close to making out that standard. But there are too many unique circumstances in this case that trouble me that I think need to be aired out and discussed. And I don't think the council can have that proper discussion if we simply accept the findings. So I will oppose the motion, and then if it fails, if this motion fails, I will make a substitute motion. Very good. If there's no further comment, I'll ask Carly to call the roll.
 Yeah, I can't support the motion either. It's very clear that Policy 3.2 and 2.4, the analysis by the CRC, I believe is supported and that a reasonable person would not exonerate. So, no. Fish? No. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? No. Wheeler? Aye.
 Yes, and I want to explain my vote, even though the motion fails. The standard, as has been discussed here by my colleagues on both sides of this issue, is a difficult standard. The question is, could a reasonable person have made the call that they made, given the evidence that's been provided? And the evidence that's been provided is not rock solid. Unfortunately, what we have, as I mentioned, are...
 different accounts, grainy video, judgment calls that were made over a 15-second span, and differing questions around standards such as was the individual restrained or not? And again, we're relying on both testimony as well as a grainy video. And the question...
 of active aggression? Was the individual engaged in active aggression? He says he wasn't. I have no reason to doubt his opinion on that. But on the other hand, I likewise have no basis to doubt the opinion of those who made an alternative judgment. So for that reason, I support it, but the motion fails. Commissioner Fish, I think, was going to make an alternative motion. Thank you, Mayor.
 We are now free, based on the preponderance of the evidence, to recommend an alternate finding. For many of the same reasons, Mayor, that you've just articulated in support of your earlier vote, I am very torn by the evidence before us. I am troubled by the documentation of six different tasers,
 I am concerned about the mental state of the suspect who appeared to be in crisis, and frankly, reviewing the video makes that a little more clear. And I am, frankly, struggling with where that line is between active aggression and resisting arrest.
 and the sort of objective and subjective standards that you could apply to resolve that question. At the same time, as you note, Mayor, this happened during a very quick time frame. It unfolded quickly. And I think the Chief has made a point in reminding us that this encounter did not lead to a higher use of force, which would have led to an entirely different investigation and proceeding. Because...
 I find it difficult to resolve the two competing versions. While I could not support an exoneration with debrief, I will make a motion to have this matter not sustained. Commissioner Fish moves to have the issue not sustained. Is there a second? Second. There's a second from Commissioner Udaly for their discussion. Carla, please call the roll.
 I appreciate the attempt for a compromise. I still support the CRC's report, and I'm very troubled by many of the other things that I'm reading in the record, which are not part of this case but which I'd like to follow up on. No. Ish. There are a number of things that have been brought forth in this record and in this hearing that concern me and others. I am loathe to second-guess officers who are making split-second decisions.
 in these kinds of circumstances. I'm reminded of advice that Commissioner Fritz often gives us in land use proceedings about the requirement that we follow the law and the directions and that we are scrupulous in adhering to the standard of review that we're supposed to apply. Because we're now operating, I believe, under preponderance of the evidence standard, I just find it
 almost impossible to reconcile the two accounts and to adequately address this question. So I will use this opportunity again to just state the concerns that I have. I believe that with three officers attempting to subdue an individual who in this case gave some evidence of being in distress, I think that in our protocols and our training, we should continue to emphasize de-escalation.
 And while I appreciate that the chief has drawn a distinction between using a baton or a fist or, God forbid, something else, to a taser, I don't want to minimize the impact of using a taser on another human being. And the fact that it was used six times, whether accidentally or not, troubles me greatly.
 And I must say, I think this distinction between active aggression, which the tape I don't think really adequately resolves, versus resisting arrest is a very fine line. In fact, I think you're likely to get different outcomes depending on whether you use an objective or a subjective standard. Thank you.
 So I mean no disrespect to either the complainant or to the Bureau, but under the circumstances, I cannot get to a preponderance of the evidence, and therefore I must support a not sustained. Okay. Aye. Thank you. Saltzman. No. E. Bailey. I agree with Commissioner Fish on this matter. It's problematic to me that the evidence doesn't constitute evidence
 clear violation of policy and procedure that's something that we have to deal with down the line and Just agree that while I can't I can't I can't clearly but one way or another not sustained seems like the only course of action I for the same reasons as previously I vote no the motion fails Colleagues are there any more?
 motions that anybody would like to make before we open the windows and see that there's 36 inches of snow outside I wouldn't be surprised
 Well, if we can't reach a consensus, that's it, isn't it? If we don't come to a consensus to be clear and legal counsel can confirm this, then the finding is effectively upheld by default, is it not? The findings of that CRC or the findings of the U.S. But I thought we voted to reject the findings. Could you come up here and clarify this since we're now in new territory? We need to be in limbo. Yes, we're in new territory again. Okay.
 Ben Wolters with the city attorney's office. So at this point, you still have the other three options that you could consider that were described by... Ben, we understand that. What's the effect of what happened? What if nobody has a motion? There's no other path forward, as I can see. So what's the effect of the last vote? Well, the effect of the last vote is your motion, of course, fails. If you can't come up with a...
 a majority, then effectively you have no – the decision of the chief stands. But I thought the earlier motion overturned that. I understand that, but you're unable to find a pathway forward to another finding at this point in time. So that's the case. I think I was in the majority with that motion because it failed. So I'll move to reconsider. Second. Second.
 So we need to vote on reconsidering it, and then I will change my vote. Please call the vote. This is a vote to whether to reconsider. To reconsider the vote on the finding of matter not sustained. I would give Commissioner Fritz a chance to vote again on this motion. Correct. Carla, could you please call the roll on the reconsideration?
 So for those struggling at home, that motion failed. I voted no, so I was in the majority. So that means I can move to reconsider, which is what we're doing here, is basically taking that vote again, doing a do-over. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? No. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? No. The motion passes. So now I move, again, Commissioner Fish's motion if not sustained.
 Is there a second? Second. Commissioner Fritz moves. Commissioner Fish seconds. Carla, please call the roll. I think what we have to remember here is that there's a lot of people who are trying to do the right thing here. There's the person whose car was banged into. There's the appellant. There's the officers involved. It seems like many of them got kicked and otherwise hurt, unfortunately.
 There's the passers-by. There's a lot of people. And then there's the review bodies and the Citizens Review Committee who have put a lot of time into trying to figure out the best way forward on this. So I'm changing my vote because I don't think we should just...
 allow the Chief's decision to stand. I do think there are a lot of... I know there are a lot of other issues that need to be considered in connection with this case. I'm particularly pleased, as part of the evidence here, I've been given the actual timeline of how this case took so long to get to the appeal, and that's an issue that we have to deal with with Department of Justice settlement. So I'm glad to have a specific example. And as I say, there were many people who were hurt by this...
 And there's many follow-up things that we need to do. I do think that the officers should be counselled. I can hardly wait to see what the latest use of Taser policy is. It isn't even in the record here. So that's something else that we should be looking at. And so a not sustained seems to be better than allowing the Chief's decision to stand without further conversation. Aye. Aye.
 I've already spoken to this motion. I'll just add one other thing just to be clear on the record. Some may leave this hearing today wondering what is the practical difference between exonerated with debrief and not sustained. And so I will just provide, again, my interpretation of the difference is that as we have struggled to apply a standard review, which is very restrictive,
 and to reconcile facts that are sharply at odds and to consider broader policy questions. This, I believe, is a principled way that a majority of us can express concern, concern with aspects of this case, and I would hope that those concerns would be reflected in future training and protocols. Aye. Solzman? One thing I will agree with, Commissioner Fritz, this case has taken entirely too long. It's ridiculous. Okay.
 I vote no. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? So I'm going to stick with my first statement, but I want to add a few comments as well. First of all, I want to thank the members of the CRC. They spent a tremendous amount of time reviewing lots of evidence. Grainy videos came to a principled decision, and
 I want to thank everybody here who testified today. I also have to say this. While I support all of the broader principles that have been discussed here today, how the police interact with our public, how we treat people who are potentially vulnerable in the community, including those with mental health issues, and how we treat people who are potentially vulnerable in the community,
 I raised some concerns around training standards that are still of interest to me. But when it comes back to what this hearing actually is about and the facts of this particular case and the standard by which I am being asked to judge it,
 which is could a reasonable person with these facts have come to the conclusion that they did, though inelegant? For me personally, I have to answer that question in the affirmative. So I vote no again, but the motion does pass. And with that, I believe we are adjourned. Thank you.