How are you today? I'm good, thank you. Keelan, how are you today? Good. In case it turns out. All right, good morning, everybody. This is the February 20th, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Wheeler? Here. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. And before we get to communications, I just want to make a couple of announcements. There's a number of items that are being withdrawn from today's agenda.
 And if people are waiting for that, I don't want them to wait through the whole meeting just to find out that we're not going to be talking about the issue that's important to them. As you're aware, Commissioner Udaly is absent on an important family matter, and therefore we don't have the ability to hear everything today. So these are items I want people to be aware of. Item number 143, we are not going to hear that today. Okay.
 None of the consent agenda will be taken up today. On the regular agenda, items number 155 and 156 from the Bureau of Transportation will also not be heard today, just for the record. So with that, we'll get to communications, Carl. First individual, please. Thank you.
 Item 136, request of Mark Bradley to address council regarding leaking heating oil tanks. Good morning. Hey, good morning, folks. This is my seventh house.
 To the clerk over here. If anybody has handouts, just give it over to the clerk and she'll make sure we all get a copy. Thank you for having me here. This is my third time speaking. In 2012, I talked to Sam Adams. I was a little sad. I'm really sorry. Could I ask you to state your name for the record? Maybe if you're going to stand, could you slide the mic a little closer just so everybody at home can hear you? Sure. Thank you.
 My name is Mark Bradley. I'm here as a citizen of Portland. I work for Xavier Environmental, and we do environmental cleanup work for radon and heating oil tanks. Thank you.
 So in 2012, I spoke to Sam Adams and didn't seem to get through to anybody on the panel. In 2014, I spoke to Charlie Hales, and same thing, didn't get a lot of receptive people. But my concern is that we're allowing oil companies to pump oil into the ground in our city, and they're pumping it into tanks that are 30 to 70 years old.
 or past their lifespan. Their tanks are only good for 20 to 25 years. They were failed the minute they were put in. We have Portland Maps permits that shows that every single tank has an electrical current hooked up to it. Electricity causes steel to rust. Our policymakers at the federal and state level have changed laws for commercial people, and they've made decisions.
 underground tanks have secondary containment, and they've made underground tanks have cathodic protection. But we leave all the homeowners in our city in the dark, and nobody knows this information, that when they let an oil company come to their house and pump oil into the ground, they're pumping benzene, ethyl benzene, and naphthalene, which are cancer-causing agents. And we're doing that now at a rapid rate, faster than I've ever seen. And
 Over half of the active tanks that we check have really significant leaks. And there's people that have health issues from these leaks, like people that get cancer from their liver breaking down from being exposed to these cancer-causing agents. So I'm here to inform this year. I'm also here to sell oil, steel.
 to sell city permits and to get grants and tax credits for the oil companies so that we can stop pumping oil into the ground next to people's houses.
 and put it in above ground tanks. And we can keep the oil customers in their base. We can keep selling oil and help the oil companies not lose customers. We can give tax credits to the people who use the city permit system to get the tanks permitted to code and stuff. And basically, we know what the problem is. We've known how bad it is. We know that it persists. We continue to allow it to happen. We can stop it in a second. Right?
 We have so many sad, elderly, despondent people who can't believe how costly their cleanup is when I show up and I tell them they have a groundwater issue. And the groundwater just moves this contamination under all of our houses. We don't know where it is. It's under all of our houses.
 And if you took all the contamination that was in this city and put it in drop boxes in people's driveways, we wouldn't be able to drive anywhere. There is so much contamination in the ground in our city. And the fact that we still let people pump it into the ground, it's really unspeakable. So I'm more here just, like I said, out of trying to inform people what's going on and let people know that we did the correct policy thing for commercial people, but we're not helping our residents at all. So...
 I hope we can address that. Thank you, Mr. Bradley. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, sir, for your testimony. Why do you think the solution is giving all companies tax breaks and grants? Don't they make enough money to be able to do the cleanup without tax breaks?
 Well, it's just that we need some incentive to get people to stop the behavior. It's an absurd behavior to let somebody come to your home and take a hose with cancer-causing agents and put something into a tank that's that old. I just don't have another way to stop it as far as like –
 We don't want to punish anybody. We don't want them to lose their business. I'm trying to keep them in their customers. But we know that what they're doing is an absurd behavior. So have you talked to the state legislature, the DEQ? Yeah, the DEQ is who we work with.
 But, you know, it's a slow thing trying to get people to wake up to this information. It just doesn't happen quickly. You think the city of Portland is faster than DEQ? No, I'm thinking the city. It's up to our city policymakers to stop the behavior because the federal and the state money and the lobbyists are suppressing the information at the federal and state level. So it's kind of up to our local city people to get this message across. And did you leave us a way to contact you outside of this process? Yeah, I'll leave my phone number to save your environmental.
 What I want to say and finish with, $3,000 for a new above-ground tank and there's going to be 10,000 oil customers. That's $30 million in green jobs. We can start tomorrow. Thank you very much. Thanks, Mr. Bradley. Next individual, please. Item 137, request of Ken Burfeand to address council regarding disruption of peace and quiet at Broadway and Market Plaid Pantry.
 Good morning. Good morning. I am not Ken Burfield. I am Marion McNamara. Ken had a last-minute schedule clash and asked me to come and speak for him. Okay. Ordinarily, those changes do need to be approved in advance, but since you are here today, I will allow it in this particular case. Thank you. And there is another individual who has swapped out two speakers from now with prior approval. Thank you. Thank you.
 Ken asked that I address the issue of disruptive noise on the corner that his condo faces, which is Market and Broadway. I live down the hall from Ken and Hilda, and I know from them what a hard time they've had over the past year since they moved in. There are people who gather on the corner every night or almost every night.
 there's a fair amount of shouting and drumming and fighting, and there's a howling dog who responds to all of the emergency vehicles that go by. Ken often calls the noise officer, and when that works, it's really only for the interim while the officer is there, and it just engenders anger and resentment from the group that the officer talks to.
 And this negative cycle is not good for anyone. The issue of noise is really the most difficult quality of life issue and the one that we are least able to mitigate. We're able to get help from Clean and Safe with cleaning up litter, but we don't seem to be able to do anything about noise issues in residential areas.
 And it really is interfering with people's ability to sleep. Excuse me. Excuse me. This is a disruption that is not consistent. I'm sorry. You're going to have to sit down and be quiet or you're going to have to leave. You're going to have to sit down and be quiet or you're going to have to leave. One moment. We'll take a brief recess.
 Sorry for the disruption. Sure. Thank you. In a way, you know, this is the kind of disruption that I think is tearing apart our ability to engage civilly with each other. And what we would like to hear from city council is what are some ways that we can ensure that the unhoused people who live in our neighborhood are
 are not harassed and neither are the people who live in the building and feel harassed by the noise issues outside. Is there some kind of community option that we haven't thought of that we could pursue? Is there some kind of mediation that could be done with the group of people who are there regularly and the people who are affected by what's happening outside on the street?
 there are three other corners on that corner that there's nobody trying to sleep in. And so that seems like a way we might be able to
 solve it. So any help you can give us in problem solving would be helpful. Thank you for what you're doing to solve the long-term problems and I hope there's some short-term fixes we can come up with. Thanks. Could you just give me clarity? I certainly know where the Plaid Pantry is. Which corner specifically are you referring to just so I have that? It's Broadway and Market and it would be the
 South east corner. Okay, the south east corner. Okay, thank you. And above is a condo building. Okay, very good. And we'll reach out to the owners of that location as well. All right, thank you. Thank you, I appreciate it. Next individual, please. Item 138, request of David Keith Davis to address council. I believe he already has.
 Regarding ongoing war on cop watchers, citizen journalists, and citizens by G4S security, city council, and the city. Not present. Next individual, please. Item 139, request of Charles B. Ormsby to address council regarding Bureau of Environmental Services multiple projects. And through prior agreement, we've had a change in individuals, so come on up.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Portland City Council 2019-2020. My name is Charles Ormsby. I go by the nickname Skip. I'm co-chair of the Birds Hill CPL&A. This is located in the Lake Oswego Urban Growth Management Area. I live on a Clackamas County tax lot roughly in the vicinity of Highway 43, a.k.a. State Street, a.k.a. Riverside Drive and Tulager Boulevard. First off, thank you.
 The individual that was just here is why I didn't bring my mother today. She's age 104, and we've lived in the Portland area at that house since 1952, and when the angled parking was on State Street.
 I'm here before both my neighborhood and myself individually. Birds Hill and City of Portland are conjoined at the hip in a sort of a Frankenstein manner in multiple aspects. The key aspect that forced us was the location of the railroad tracks on 4th Avenue that were removed about 1907, 1910 when the bridge across the Willamette River, River Mile 20, was installed.
 You have a sewer plant in Lake Oswego. There is a city manager of Lake Oswego, along with friendly others in his orbit, are proposing that that be replaced with a membrane bioreactor plant. This is putting Portland at considerable risk for multiple projects, including the Southwest Light Rail project,
 project because that plant services the drainage basin along Barbara Boulevard. It's also putting your rebuilding of I-5, I-84 interchange at risk and the Abernathy. I'd like to invite the City of Portland Council members, members of BES, to take a tour of Birds Hill and that facility area as soon as possible. Thank you.
 first off, the leaves are on the trees and you have a vantage point looking from Birds Hill Road to the southeast, so you can see the complex area that it is. So you need to see that and visualize it, otherwise you can't understand it and understand the risk that the City of Lake Oswego, specifically the City Manager, is putting you at. Second, I'd like to request a meeting, a joint public meeting,
 to be determined, Portland City Council, Lake Oswego City Council, BES staff, and whatever the city manager of Lake Oswego is doing with whatever consulting groups. The issue needs to be fully vetted, fully visualized, fully validated, fully field verified so everybody understands the considerable risk to the city of Portland.
 He tends, let me put it politely, to withhold key information from people, specifically the year 2014 June report on the Triune Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant. A key constraint in Section 7 of that report was not illuminated to the Lake Corps, which is the owner of the lake anyway, so backup flows. This is expensive and conservatively, and we need to meet soonest, ASAP, stat. Thank you.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, sir. Next individual, please. Item 140, request of Dee White to address council regarding Portland values, science, and lead in our drinking water. Hello. My name is Dee White. Yes.
 It is well established that even at low levels, lead is a potent, irreversible neurotoxin that is especially damaging to pregnant women and young children's developing brains. A recent groundbreaking study also links lead to significant heart-related deaths among adults in the U.S. every year
 EPA scientists and water quality engineers nationwide know the more corrosive the water, the more it will pull lead out of plumbing and into our drinking water. We have been an outlier for years with historically high levels, while similar cities such as Seattle got to work decades ago and have shown significantly lower levels of lead ever since. Our local water officials have obfuscated on the reasons why our lead levels remain so much higher than Seattle's.
 In the 90s, the Portland Water Bureau crafted a less rigorous alternative to the federal lead and copper rule that mitigates for lead paint in lieu of controlling lead in our drinking water. Is this a Portland value? Is it even good science?
 Why aren't our government officials at the state and local level earnestly and aggressively addressing the serious problem that has caused a silent public health threat and infrastructure damage in this community? And is it good science or a Portland value that 22 years later the Portland Water Bureau has no data or analysis?
 to show that this homespun substitute for the federal rule has shown progress or improvement in reducing lead in our homes, schools, parks, or businesses. In fact, Portland remains at the top of the heap with the highest lead levels of all large public water systems in the U.S.,
 Being guided by good science and Portland values does not mean burying the lessons of Flint, dismissing public concern, and condoning improperly treated water. Your rhetoric is counter to your data, and it's insulting.
 Last year, Commissioner Fish proclaimed, there is no lead in our water. This is absolutely deceptive wordplay since it conflates Portland's pure but corrosive bull run source water with drinking water that the Bureau has failed to properly manage.
 It is disingenuous to pass blame to the schools in 2016, then to customer plumbing in 2017 and 18, when it has been your responsibility to accept responsibility as you are legally required to do and urgently protect our drinking water now, as you should have done over 20 years ago. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Hardesty, and Fish, how is this acceptable? Thank you.
 So, Carl on Commissioner Fish. Mayor, can I just, before we get off this, thank you, Dee, I'm not going to respond. We had testimony earlier about the Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Facility. And first of all, let me just assure my colleagues, there is no proposal for
 to currently change the treatment plant. There is an evaluation process going on to look at options. There is no quote-unquote proposal. And I will also clarify that since this treatment plant is wholly within Lake Oswego's territorial boundaries, if Lake Oswego...
 chooses to pursue any change in this treatment plan, that would come to Council for a hearing and a full discussion about whether that is appropriate or not. So there is no current proposal, and there is no action item before us. But if at some point there is a proposal, that would come to Council in the ordinary course. Right.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for that clarification. Carla, on each of the consent items, I'm going to have to have you read them for the purposes of rescheduling. Could you read item 144, please? 144, correct the salary grade of the nonrepresented classification of occupational health specialists. This item is rescheduled to the consent agenda on 3-6-2019. 145, please.
 145, pay property damage claim of Main Street Development, Inc. in the sum of $24,143, involving the Portland Bureau of Development Services. This item is rescheduled to the consent agenda on 3-6-2019. 146, please.
 146, amend subrecipient contract with Housing Development Center, Inc. by $54,100 for a total value of $151,100 to support the risk mitigation pool program. And this item is also rescheduled to the consent agenda on 3-6-2019. 147, please. 147, accept an engineering report.
 on a proposed encroachment into the right-of-way for 2nd Subsurface Tunnel under Southwest Mead Street. This item is rescheduled to the consent agenda on February 27, 2019.
 148, please. 48, authorized development fee agreement with Fern Hill Crossing LLC to pay the city a fee of $60,000 for transportation system improvements. And this last item is also scheduled to the consent agenda on February 27, 2019. Thank you for that. Let's go to the first time certain item, please, item number 141.
 accept funding and authorize intergovernmental agreement with Washington County for $1 million for Southwest Multnomah Garden Home Intersection Safety Project. Colleagues, Transportation Commissioner Chloe Udaly is out today. So she asked if I'd step in and introduce this exciting opportunity to partner with Washington County on an improvement that will help residents connect to town centers, transit, and nearby businesses and schools. Thank you.
 Now I'd like to welcome PBOT Project Manager Tamor Ender to give an overview of the project, and then I know he has some invited testimony before we open it up for public testimony. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. You can move that closer to me if that's more comfortable. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning, Commissioner Hardesty. Good morning, Commissioner Fish. My name is Tamora Ender. I'm here on behalf of the Portland Bureau of Transportation to talk to you about the Southwest Multnomah Garden Home Project. I'd also like to introduce the other people joining me here at the table.
 To my left is Brad Taylor, and he's with Brad Taylor Group, and he is consulting with us to expand our public engagement capacity on this project. And furthest to your right is Ben Lively, who is my colleague at Washington County, who we've been working with on this project. Thank you.
 So quick background, just to clarify where this is in Portland. It is so far southwest that it's actually in Washington County. PBOT assumed jurisdiction of the street in 1992 in what's known as a jurisdictional transfer. If you're on southwest Multnomah and you keep going past Multnomah Village and past 45th, kind of near Olsen Road, this is kind of where that is, right in front of Old Market Pub there. So just to orient you.
 We're here today because we have a grant from Washington County. This is one of the best types of grants we can get. It's extremely flexible in how we design the intersection. They also have agreed to waive permit fees for us as well. Some of the challenges with this intersection is there's ambiguity about who has the right-of-way. There's multiple legs serving the intersection, which creates safety challenges, and it lacks biking and walking facilities.
 The improvements we are proposing to make include filling sidewalk gaps, improving the safety of the intersection itself, installing curb ramps, and improvements that will benefit transit reliability. This is a multi-jurisdictional partnership, one of the...
 Things that happens when you're involved in the edge of a jurisdictional area is there's kind of this alphabet soup of different agencies working. And so because of school buses in Beaverton and one block away is city of Beaverton, one block in the other direction is unincorporated Washington County, we've had to coordinate with a number of different agencies, which has been exciting. Thank you.
 So just to give you a quick overview of what we're proposing, we've opened it up to the public to help inform us whether we move forward with either a signal or a roundabout at this location. The signal option is cost between $2.5 million and $4.5 million. And I'll move forward to the roundabout option.
 which is in the ballpark of $4 million to $6 million. And the increased costs for the roundabout are related to intersection geometry, greater impacts on private property, and stormwater needs that would need to be addressed
 However, roundabouts are also the safest type of intersection because a lot of fatalities that happen at intersections are related to speed. And one of the key design features of a roundabout is slower speeds. And so what some people say is if you get in a crash in a roundabout, you're leaving in a tow truck and not an ambulance.
 So I want to highlight we're also looking at some sort of biking and walking facility with paint and posts on Multnomah between 45th and Garden Home consolidated on one side of the street without affecting the number of travel lanes. Public engagement, we talked with Sweeney, Southwest Neighborhood, Inc.,
 Their Transportation Committee, we engaged with the Bicycle Advisory Committee. We also had an open house that 130 people attend about this one intersection. And then we had held office hours at the intersection of Olson and Garden Home Road. We had launched an online survey that had 900 responses, which for PBOT is fairly high.
 We also, Brad Taylor, went door-to-door to residents that would be affected by this proposal and personally invited them to engage in the public process, and we believe that's one of the key reasons why we've been so successful at having a lot of people engage with us, both in the online open house and the in-person open house. Okay.
 I checked yesterday, and we've had about 930 respondents. One of the key questions that was important for me was asking people, assuming cost is not a factor, which would you prefer, roundabout or the signal? And 70% of people supported roundabout. And then we mentioned roundabout does cost more money and could take more time if we are to look for more money and to design a more complex intersection approach.
 public feedback basically stayed fairly high at 64%. The top three safety concerns that we heard was relating to the sheer volume of traffic in this area with growth in southwest Portland, and then speeding concerns as well, and then right-of-way ambiguity. Also, other things we've heard from community members was concerns from people walking and biking, particularly related to the roundabout, and then...
 that public improvement should benefit public streets. So the other thing I'll mention is what's in front of you today, because sometimes it's kind of confusing. The council action you're being requested to take is basically accept $1 million in funding from Washington County and to authorize the city of Portland to initiate intergovernmental agreement with Washington County and how we move forward with this project.
 I also, for the people watching, I just want to mention this is not a decision point as far as whether we move forward with a roundabout or a signal. You're not asked to make that decision. Certainly we welcome any input that you have.
 So PBOT will be making that decision as we evaluate three things, public feedback, what is technically feasible, and the amount of funding we have to move forward. So those three things will be our driving factors as we decide later this spring, early summer, which one we move forward with. And then we do have a website for people who are interested, and that's portlandoregon.gov slash transportation slash gh.
 I'm happy to answer any questions. I can also turn it over to Brad Taylor, who can talk about some of the public engagement that we've done with this project. Thank you.
 Commissioner Hardesty has a question. First, thank you very much. Very excellent presentation. Thank you, Brad Taylor. I'm not surprised that you had 900 respondents when you engaged people one-on-one. You just said something about PDOT will make the decision about which option we would choose. Yes.
 I would think if cost comes into play, you would probably want to be talking to us as well about, A, where the other money comes from, right? Yes. Because, as you said, we're making choices. Mm-hmm. But I...
 don't want to think that you're not going to come back in front of the city council and make the case for why you're going to make whatever choice you make. Okay. Commissioner Harder, if you're extending that invitation, we'd be happy to engage with council about additional funding if that's something you would like us to do for sure. Well, no, no, no. I just want to be clear. I just want to be clear that it's the city council that makes funding decisions and not PDOT. Okay. So when you said PDOT would make the decision, I just want to correct that for the record. Okay. Okay.
 Okay. I suspect that you'll be doing another presentation and saying this is the option we have and this is how much money we've raised. Right?
 Yes, I understand your point. I guess to clarify what I had meant is PBOT has a way of applying for system development charges internally. So there's a list of system development charges that have been approved by council, and they're identified. So X project gets this much money. And so what as a project manager I can do is apply for system development charges that are attached to, for example, this intersection.
 And so that's kind of what I meant when I said I can apply internally for those sorts of funding, if that makes sense. That's helpful. Thank you. Okay. Okay. I'm Brad. I'll turn it over to you. Good morning. My name is Brad Taylor with Brad Taylor Group, and I was asked to come just to give an overview of our outreach efforts. I appreciate you taking the time to listen.
 We were quite successful with outreach and participation, and as Commissioner Hardesty mentioned, I think it's because we engaged people in a variety of ways and met them where they were at. So we started with the mailer to let them know that this was going to happen, and then followed up with a door-to-door opportunity to engage, and left a flyer at that point with additional ways to engage with the project. And the idea was to really give a warm invitation so that people knew that we were wanting not only their attendance, but their engagement and their feedback.
 We met people at meetings that they already attended, as was mentioned, the Sweeney and the Bicycle Advisory Commission also had office hours. And our philosophy was when we would gather a group in the room and we would hear their feedback, we would also get – have their feedback recorded in writing so that we could display it and move it from location to location so neighbors were not only able to hear the presentation that Tamir just presented but also see what other neighbors have already said, which would then spark ideas of their own, and we kept track of where people were
 coming in with their concerns, which I believe you have a summary in the packet that you've been provided. And the idea was to not only give the opportunity for people to be heard, but also the opportunity to feel heard and to see their words being shown. The full report that will memorialize the project will have the breakdown of the feedback of each meeting and will also have a representative sample of email exchanges and emails that were also shared.
 presented to inform the project. So, again, the idea was to give people multiple invitations and opportunities to engage and then to really make them feel that their voice was valued and that their concerns would be preserved in the record. Thank you. Thank you, Brad. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and members of the council. My name is Ben Lively from Washington County's Land Use and Transportation Department, Capital Projects Management Division.
 And I appreciate the opportunity to speak in regards to the Garden Home Road Multnomah Boulevard intersection project. This project has the opportunity to make significant improvements to the safety and functionality of that intersection. And as you've heard from Timor this morning, Washington County has allocated $1 million of funding for this project. Those funds are apportioned from Washington County's major streets transportation improvement program.
 And the distribution of the funds and the responsibilities of the county and the city are detailed in the agreement that we're discussing today. In a brief, the county commits $1 million in funding to the project, to the city for the project, and the project continues to be solely administered by the city. Last month, on January 22nd, Washington County Board of Commissioners approved the execution of the agreement upon
 Approval by this council and completion of the county's contract review process. The county looks forward to the execution of the agreement, if approved by this council, and providing the funding and continuing collaboration with the city to create a successful project. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 And Mayor, we did have two people invited to testify. Is this the right time to call them up? Yes, it is. Thank you. Okay. We have Jerry Rundolph, president of the Ash Creek Neighborhood Association.
 And Stan Hausman, CPO3 chair, which is kind of CPO is the district coalition equivalent for Washington County. And he's actually six, so I'll read his remarks after Jerry. Very good. Welcome. Thanks for being here. My name is Jerry Rundorf. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today. I just want to reiterate this project puts a smile on our face as I am Ash Creek Neighborhood Association president.
 seeing your day-to-day situations. I want to just implore you that this could put a smile on your face, too, as seeing you go through your duties today. Lived in Portland my entire life. Lived about two miles away from this intersection for my entire life. And see the ambiguity in the geometry of it, like Tamora said. And even though the accident rates don't show it
 In data, there's a lot of close calls in this intersection day and night. And I just want to put on the record that Tamar and his staff have done great public outreach. As I talk to my neighbors to gauge their input on one choice or another, the takeaway is we desire any chain. I appreciate your input.
 concern for the money commissioner hardesty and i feel that the neighbors that i represent would like change and if it comes to a situation where no change is made due to money we're interested in getting some change maybe back to the signal situation versus the roundabout but everybody has a smile on their face looking forward to some change for this intersection i applaud tomorrow and all of his staff's effort so thank you very much thank you
 And now I'll read testimony from Stan Hausman, who's the chair of CPO3 in Washington County. On behalf of community participant organization in Garden Home, Raleigh Hills, and West Slope area of Washington County, we appreciate being able to provide feedback with whichever outcome prevails. Our only interest is that the outcome proves to be a safer and better situation than is currently present. We look forward to seeing the final result and any opportunity to provide input to the process. Thank you.
 So that concludes our presentation. If there's any other questions from council, I'd be happy to answer those. Very good. Colleagues, any questions at this point? We'll go to public testimony. Yes, Mayor. We've had two people sign up. Very good. Maggie and Charles Bridger and Johnson. This is your first time at the mic, isn't it? Welcome. Rather unexpected. Yeah, this is an important waypoint. We're glad to have you here. Good morning. Good morning.
 for the record, and the fresh person clerk, Charles Bridge Crane Johnson, as the former state treasurer had to sometimes also listen to in Salem. I want to thank Commissioner Hardesty for her question because it's, I think, illuminating for us as citizens, even those of us that engaged for seven years with the city government, that if we want $50,000 to help with homelessness, we might have to have an agenda item. But the way that SDCs are structured...
 is we have $2 million of slushy money, so we might be able to access $2 million of slush money for a traffic light, or maybe there's $4 million of slush money for a roundabout. People have mixed feelings about roundabouts. I love roundabouts that have gold-plated statues of Joan of Arc in them at Gleason and Cesar Estrada Chavez Boulevard. I don't know if we'll get a gold-plated Joan of Arc or duplicate Coast Circle at this location.
 The other thing, as we look at the overall city commitment to equity, it's great that we have an opportunity to engage with a million dollars of Washington County money out on the southwest edge. We know, as was mentioned by one of the testifiers that...
 Lethality at this intersection is not a problem, or is not nearly as high a problem as in other areas of the city. So I know that you're all committed to making sure that the equal amount of time that went into this southwest, lucky Washington County million-dollar connection, equally we're able to continue to address deaths on division and Division Zero challenges throughout the rest of the county. Thank you.
 Is that complete public testimony? If Maggie hasn't come back, no. That's it, yes. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 142. We're actually ahead of time there. Yeah, you're right. Let's take a second reading, please. Let's go to item number 150.
 establish an interim compensation rate for the revised tree inspector classification and create a new represented classification of tree inspector senior and establish an interim compensation rate for this classification. Colleagues, this is a second reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It's already had a presentation in public testimony. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye.
 Hardesty? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 152, also a second reading. Amend contract with Brown and Caldwell, Inc. for professional engineering services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Waste Gas Burner Replacement Project, number E10649, in the amount of $338,935. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And could you please read items number 155 and then 156. 155, authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and non-permanent
 Temporary property rights necessary for construction of the Northeast Columbia, Cully Boulevard, and Alderwood Road Intersection Improvements Project through the exercise of the City's eminent domain authority. Colleagues, this item has been rescheduled to February 27, 2019 per Commissioner Udaly's request. Item 156, please.
 156, authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain temporary rights necessary for construction of the Springwater Connector Project through the exercise of the City's eminent domain authority. Colleagues, this item has also been rescheduled to February 27, 2019, per Commissioner Udaly's request. And with that, we'll take a four-minute recess.
 We are now back in session. We have a time certain item number 142, please. Amend fee schedules for land use services. Colleagues, today we have before us the proposed fee changes for the BDS land use services program. The BDS land use services program is responsible for administering the city zoning code as well as other portions of the city code.
 This program is funded entirely by fee revenue, so the fees need to be set at a rate that covers the cost of providing the service. BDS has kept this rate flat for the past five years, even as development in the city continued to increase. Fees from other BDS programs are regulated by state law and can't be used to fund the land use services program.
 With recent increases in personnel costs from labor agreements and cost of living increases, combined with a reduction in the number of large commercial projects, the Land Use Services Program has been utilizing their financial reserves at an increasing rate. Now, as things begin to turn to normal after a recent rush to development that we've seen across the city, BDS has taken prudent steps early to reduce expenditures, including reducing positions.
 They've also done a cost-of-service study, and they've determined that the fees for some services don't cover the actual costs of providing those services. If the council wants to see the fees kept at their current rate, a subsidy from some other source, such as the general fund, would be required to cover the cost-of-service delivery.
 Given our budgetary situation and the unavailability of additional general fund, I authorize BDS to bring this increase forward to the council to utilize this time to make the design review function better and reduce delays in the permitting system, which they have done.
 With us today are BDS Senior Business Operations Manager, Elshad Hajiev, and Land Use Services Division Manager, Kimberly Talent, to provide additional background and information on the proposal. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Kimberly Talent, Land Use Services Division Manager. Our program services fall into four categories, public information, early assistance, land use reviews, and building permits.
 Public information is about how the zoning and tree regulations apply to people's projects, and it's provided primarily via the zoning hotline and in person in the Development Services Center. We get about a thousand calls per month to the zoning hotline, and approximately 4,000 customers visit the Development Services Center each month. Fees are not charged to customers for staff spending time providing this public information.
 Secondly, we provide early assistance to customers to help them understand zoning code requirements and prepare a complete application. Each year, we do about 400 early assistance appointments and 120 pre-application conferences. Third, we do LANIS reviews, which are reviews that are required by the zoning code in some situations before a building permit can be issued.
 Examples of lane use reviews are design review, conditional use review, adjustment reviews, which are often called variances in other jurisdictions, and subdivision reviews, just to name a few.
 They use a quasi-judicial process and require a public notice, a comment period, input from our partner bureaus, a written decision, and an appeals process. Some lane use reviews do require also a public hearing. Not all projects require a lane use review. Most projects just need a building permit. Okay.
 And we get anywhere from 650 to 1,200 Lainish review applications per year and an average of 150 permits per month. Lastly, we review building permits for compliance with zoning code and tree code requirements. And we are just one of 15 to 20 city review groups involved in reviewing building permit applications. Thank you.
 Good morning. I want to just give you a little bit of a background on the program finances. Several years ago, Land Use Services Program was getting general fund support pretty consistently to subsidize some of the services that we provide to public. Those general fund money were used to compensate for services provided for which programs were
 program was not available. I was unable to collect the fees, such as staffing the zoning hotline, providing customer trainings, reviewing and commenting on the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability zoning code amendments. General Fund also subsidized services which benefited the community and the city's livability by keeping the fees low for things like environmental resource enhancement reviews, historic resource reviews.
 General fund support was over $2.3 million back in 2001 fiscal year. General fund support decreased over time and was completely ended in fiscal year 17-18. Further training the financial situation in a land use service program was having to fund programs at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 diverting money that would have gone to the financial reserves and would have positions as better for this construction downturn that we're experiencing right now. BDS has not raised land use services fees for the last five years. During that time, we experienced the construction boom, and the land use services program had pretty healthy financial reserves that were above the goal.
 We also understood Council's desire to keep fees low, and so we did not seek fee increases during the construction boom. On the other hand, over those five years, personnel costs increased significantly due to several reasons. Cost of living adjustments, merit and step increases for our employees, PERS contribution increases, and...
 Two years ago, when the new PT-17 contract went in place, the majority of employees in land use services are employees that belong to that union, and their salaries went up on average by 16% to 17%. To add to that, overall development activity has declined, contributing to lower revenue collections for the program, specifically the decline in large multifamily construction.
 Due to increase in the personal costs and decline in large commercial and mixed use projects, we have been drawing on programs reserved consistently over the last year. These reserves are currently below the minimum levels and are being drawn continuously to fund operations. We got a very early start by reducing our expenditures and keeping a lot of our positions vacant in land use services.
 We're not filling vacancies. We limited spending on our training and overtime, and most recently we've been cutting positions in land use services program. The Bureau is also gaining a lot of efficiency through electronic plan review and other efforts to reduce the cost of the services provided. So we're working on both sides of the equation.
 As far as the fees goes, we conducted a cost study to look at fees and make sure that all of them are at the cost recovery. So the results of this study actually support our request for the fee changes. We're proposing these fee increases to cover our costs. Some fees are still being kept low, so they don't act as a disincentive for customers seeking these services.
 It's a really balancing act of finding efficiency, reducing expenditures, and increasing fees while we're still providing services to our customers and community. Land Use Services remains committed to providing excellent service. However, we need to take some action on the revenue side to make sure our fiscal stability is good.
 The key point of this proposal is to raise the revenue by approximately 5%. Please note that some of the fees are being raised more than 5%. Some of them are not being changed at all. In addition...
 We're also asking to change fees for the site development and for the life safety review on land use reviews. Those are the two sets of fees that are being charged along with the land use review applications.
 On site development side, we're proposing another 5% increase to most of the fees. And on the actually land use, on the life safety review, we are asking to eliminate two reviews on the environmental review and the environmental review production zone and the river review. With that, I'm turning to Kim to talk about our stakeholder outreach. Thank you.
 So related to stakeholder outreach, the Development Review Advisory Committee, that's also known as DRAC, is made up of representatives from a broad spectrum of groups involved in development review and permitting. We've discussed the changes with DRAC. They understand the situation the division's in, and they are supportive of the fee changes. We will be publishing an article in the BDS's Plans Examiner newsletter.
 And information will be posted on our BDS website. Lane use services fees are very minor in comparison to systems development charges or SDCs. The development community regularly tells us they'd be willing to pay more if they could get faster service because time is money.
 We understand not everyone is in that position, and we do have protocols in place for requesting low-income fee waivers and fee waivers for nonprofit organizations that directly serve low-income individuals. In the absence of general fund support, in order to provide those fee waivers, fees need to be set at a rate sufficient to be able to subsidize those services. It is challenging to have our entire funding source tied directly to the cyclical construction cycle.
 or the construction industry, it is imperative that we're able to set aside sufficient financial reserves for the regular downturns that occur. We're striking a balance between reducing expenditures and continued service delivery. We also need to retain a core portion of our workforce, because we know that being in a cycle of massive layoffs followed by massive recruitment
 and hiring and training efforts, it's incredibly inefficient, and it hampers our ability to respond nimbly to quick upturns in the construction industry. Those kinds of dramatic cycles will always leave us behind the curve and unable to catch up. It is also hard on morale and doesn't help us recruit and attract and retain great employees. So thank you for your time today. Please let us know if you have any questions. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Yes.
 Does that complete your presentation? Yes. Very good. We'll move to public testimony then. Okay. Thank you both. We have one person signed up, Maggie. I didn't see her today. Is she here? She's going to pass, she said. Oh, there she is. Okay, very good. All right, this is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item is 149 on the regular agenda.
 149, accept bid of Landis and Landis Construction LLC for Sunnyside North Reconstruction and Green Streets ALD-05 for $9,320,929. A man who needs no introduction, Larry Pellett. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners.
 I am Larry Pallatt from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Landis & Landis Construction for the Sunnyside North Reconstruction Green Streets Project, $9,320,929. Thank you.
 The engineer's estimate for the project was $9,900,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was high. The project was advertised on our electronic bidding system. Four bids were received, and Landis & Landis is the low responsive and responsible bidder at $9,320,929, which is 5.85% under the engineer's estimate.
 Bureau of Environmental Services, along with Procurement Services, identified an aspirational goal for the project for co-bid certified subcontractor supplier utilization of 20%. Landis & Landis, acting as the prime contractor, identified the following areas as opportunities for subcontracting. Asphalt grinding and paving, trucking, traffic control, concrete cutting, and tree trimming.
 There is a total of 2,626,000, or 28.16%, COVID-certified subcontractor supplier utilization apportioned as follows.
 disadvantaged business enterprises, $1,445,000 trucking, traffic control, and concrete cutting, emerging small businesses, $1,180,000 trucking, paving, and tree trimming. Landis & Landis is self-performing $6,555,929 of the work, but actually could have performed another $591,000 value internally, but chose instead to subcontract that work.
 Landis & Landis is located in Merrillhurst, Oregon. They are not a state-certified COVID contractor. They do have a current City of Portland business tax registration and are in full compliance with all of the city's contracting requirements. If the council has any questions regarding the procurement for this project, I can answer those. Since Landis & Landis is the prime contractor met and exceeded the city's goals, we did not ask either the Bureau project manager or the contractor to be in chambers today. Thank you.
 Any questions? Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you so much for your testimony. Yes, my question is, it says that there were three DBE businesses and four ESB businesses. Were there any minority contractor, minority specific contractors used in this project? I believe, I will double, be happy to double check and forward you the names. I believe that two of the disadvantaged business enterprises are also minority contractors.
 When we report, there's a hierarchy of reporting, DBE being the top hierarchy, so we really only report based on the top level. They could have multiple certifications. Well, let me just say that for me it's really important to know that minority contractors are actually getting city business because when we use all that alphabet soup,
 and I've actually been able to dig down, I find out that minorities are not getting contracts. So I would appreciate you making that information available, because that's something I will be prioritizing and checking on every time I see a big contract like this. Commissioner, let me just say that the Bureau of Environmental Services actually has a pretty good record on this. And, in fact...
 the Office of Equity and Human Rights has called out their plan generally. We'd be happy to, if this became something you wanted a further briefing on, we'd be happy to do it. But BES has a pretty good track record, and it reflects –
 a commitment at leadership to make sure that we spread the benefits of prosperity broadly. So thank you for your interest. And in the future, Commissioner, I'd be very happy to build that into it, not just identify by ID but identify all of the certifications, and I will follow up with this particular project and send it to your office. I thank you both. That's extremely important. I appreciate that. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Very good. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. Thank you, Larry. Thank you all very much. Next item, 151.
 authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to acquire certain permanent property rights necessary for Columbia Slough water quality improvements through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services has an opportunity to acquire 11 acres of open space in the Columbia Slough watershed to protect existing habitat and riparian areas. Thank you.
 Acquisition would allow the Bureau to conduct restoration activities to help shade the slough and reduce water temperatures in compliance with water quality standards. On behalf of BES, I would like to acknowledge the current property owners, the Warren family, for its contribution to the slough's stewardship over the past 25 years and for their generosity.
 Here today is Nancy Hendrickson, Environmental Services Manager for the Columbia Slough Watershed, with a brief presentation. And then a member of the Warren family is also joining us. So, Nancy, take it away. Great. Thank you. So, as you said, I'm here to talk about this land acquisition. Okay.
 I'll keep it brief, but I do have a little context for you. So the city has been the lead agency, BES, in the city for complying with the water quality of our receiving waters, our creeks, streams, rivers, and sloughs. And since 1995, one of our strategies to improve water quality is to restore the riparian canopy along the banks to shade the water.
 So when the Warren family approached the city with a proposal that the city could acquire their riparian buffers in northeast Portland along the Columbia Slough, we thought this would be a good match.
 In front of you, you see a map of the area. In red are the properties under the proposal today. And also the green areas, some of them are city-owned for well-filled purposes. And also the big four corners natural area is on your right on the screen. It's one of our core areas for habitat and water quality in the Columbia Slough.
 So, yeah, so this is 11 acres. It's consistent with our strategies. And during the due diligence period, the city attorney recommended that we use a friendly condemnation procedure. And the landowner agreed. And so this is a willing seller type of arrangement, except that the legal mechanism we're using is this friendly condemnation procedure. And so that's why we're here in front of you today. Okay.
 And Nancy, what is the benefit to the city of a friendly condemnation procedure? When we were doing due diligence, there were low levels of contamination on the property, mostly DDT from previous land use. And what the friendly condemnation procedure allows is that the city can accept this land, but we don't accept the liability for that contamination. Okay.
 And in case you're worried about us accepting contaminated property, the work that we're going to do out here, the restoration work, would not mobilize that contamination. In fact, would stabilize it. So we don't anticipate any problems that way. Thank you very much. Mr. Warren? Yes. My name is Cameron Warren. And I...
 manage the properties, the covenants and restrictions in this development. This Interstate Crossroads Business Center was a 20-year, 100-acre master planned project that even from the very start was we had planned to want to protect this area that we're basically have in this agreement. Okay.
 The area was designed to remain untouched in a natural state for plants and wildlife and vegetation to protect the slough, and then also for the people that would be working in the area.
 The land also has about a little less than an acre of a biofiltration system that processes stormwater for Cameron Boulevard and the neighboring properties along that street. So, again, that's part of the water quality system for this area.
 it's our feeling that this should also belong to the city sadly there's been also some other homeless folks that had gone out onto this area in this last year and we were unable to shoo them out of there until just recently so there's a significant clean up that needs to be done to clean up the
 the aftermath of that homeless camp. We're going to be cleaning that up as a, and it's a condition of the city, but we want to make sure it gets cleaned up too. So, and that work is going to start on Saturday. It'll be completed probably by the end of next week. So we also,
 intend to protect for the future, hopefully keep folks from going out onto that area, keep an eye on this area a lot more closely than what's happened in the past to prevent that sort of thing from endangering the quality of the saloon and this natural area. So we appreciate the city. Thank you.
 taking this on and we think it'll be good for the city. It'll be good for this area. Thank you very much, Mr. Warren. And thanks to your family for your, your past stewardship and your generosity in making this, uh, this gift to the city. Thank you. Very good. Does that complete your presentation? It does. Excellent. We'll move to public testimony. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? Um, just one, oh, two, sorry. Maggie and Charles Bridge Crane Johnson. All right.
 Thank you both. Thank you, Mr. Warren. Thank you. We sure appreciate it. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And I think later on there's opportunity for discussion about the procedures by which the city and which bureau actually protects natural areas. I think some of us in the city, when we hear Bureau of Environmental Services, we think,
 they have waste collection contracts, right? Is that... And so... Part of what we do. So just under the scope, it seems like as we have a growing awareness of the climate, to me it seems like a natural preserve area normally in a government belongs under a parks department, but this is not exactly a parks use area. So I'm glad we're getting the land, but I just think that as a city, a city that's in its own media where people are questioning the functionality of the form of government we have...
 that that's an area for us to look at under charter review and processes. What does the city really do to give permanent protection to critical natural areas? Is it the best function to have the same people that do the contracting or the franchising for trash and waste removal also responsible for preserving this loop? Charles, maybe I misunderstood what you said earlier. The Bureau of Environmental Services does not handle trash or waste.
 So we manage the wastewater facilities where water is treated and then returned to local streams and rivers. The garbage hauling is actually franchised and overseen by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you. Thanks. And because BES's mission is healthy watersheds generally,
 It is core to its work to make sure that the Columbia Slough and other places are protected. I generally agree that the city has, and EBS has an important mission, regardless of other various lawsuits that have troubled the city in the past. The other thing that is evident from the testimony we've just had is that when the city does not mobilize adequate financial resources against homelessness...
 ancillary costs everywhere. It sounds like the current property owner is in a financial situation where they're gracious and capable enough to mediate some of the problems that arise when some of us are forced to live outside, especially dealing with depression. How far is this place from a dumpster? I don't want to see these people demonized. I hope that the city's various teams, the city's
 urban camping remediation. I forget the clever little acronym, but it's been able to engage with the people that left this mess, help them get into a better condition so that they're not as inclined to leave a mess, and that we can soon hear from the city how we're going to partner with Metro and get these thousands of homes online from the bonds we passed. Thank you very much. Mayor, I want to check with legal counsel. Do I need to bring a motion to remove the emergency clause? No, we can continue the hearing. Okay.
 is what I think legal counsel had advised us, to continue it to 227. You can continue it and leave it as an emergency, or you can make a motion to remove the emergency. All right, so I would prefer that we continue it, Mayor. Very good. So this item, unless there's any further discussion, this item is continued to February 27, 2019. Thanks again, Mr. Warren. Next item, 153.
 Amend timeline for placard requirement and tenant notification for unreinforced masonry buildings and required documentation of compliance. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you very much, Mayor. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. One of the things that I have heard over and over and over again in the three weeks that I've been on the Portland City Council has been the issue of unreinforced masonry buildings. I've heard from just about every corner of the city of Portland on this issue.
 I can assure you, however, that no one has told me that they want their building to be unsafe. However, many people have told me they cannot afford the retrofits that would make it safe in an earthquake. An earthquake would be a terrible way to lose your home or business. No one wants that. But many Portlanders are also worried that they will be displaced by economic forces long before the earthquake hits.
 That's why I am looking forward to the work of a new committee focused on developing realistic financial supports for URM owners who need them most.
 Applications for the committee are open now and on the city website. And this is a committee that the Bureau of Emergency Management is putting in place that will be reviewing the retrofit requirements. And you'll hear a bit more about that.
 In the meantime, my goal is to slow down the enforcement of the placards rules. Many building owners are clearly fearful about this requirement. It is the city's responsibility to ensure people understand the rules and the reasons for them.
 I don't believe we need to record the URM issue on the title as well, which seems to be a big barrier for some individuals who have that requirement. In the process that was taken leading up to this URM ordinance being passed, it is my belief that we didn't earn the trust of the people that were required to actually do these upgrades.
 We didn't provide enough information early enough to ensure that people thought that this was a joint effort rather than something that was being shoved down their throat.
 It is my belief that we can do better by notifying both potential renters when they're considering a move as well as instead of when they are already signing the lease. I think it's important that we be proactive, but again, that we take the time to put the right pieces in place at the right time.
 I want to thank Commissioner Udalli who suggested that we work with her to continue to figure out how we protect renters at the same time we're delaying the implementation of this ordinance. I know that the Bureau of Emergency Management is committed to serving Portlanders most at risk of displacement from an earthquake but also at risk from other factors.
 And although URMs are a topic Council has discussed before, the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management will keep working and taking the time to bring back recommendations that are developed in an inclusive way. Process matters, and earning trust in the community is also essential in any effort to build a resilient Portland and a resilient community.
 In the meantime, I have asked the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management to bring forward today's ordinance, which gives us more time to do that work. Mayor, Commissioner, I have invited Jonna and Derek to provide additional information. I have a brief opening statement, too. Very well, if I could. Yes, please. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for bringing this ordinance forward. In November of 2019...
 excuse me of 2018 not yet in November of 2018 I did not vote for the placarding mandate the ordinance establishing the placarding mandate I believe then as I believe today that we put the proverbial cart before the horse no one in this debate takes the threat of an earthquake lightly and I appreciate the comments of of Commissioner Hardesty in that regard
 However, our current mandate risks leading to significant demolition of historic buildings and significant inequity, changing the very character of our city. It also places undue burdens on older adults, small businesses, arts organizations, music venues, churches, and mom-and-pop landlords.
 I support the changes being proposed today, extending the placarding requirement to November of 2020, requiring notice to tenants in a rental application, and eliminating the lien requirement. I think that we will all benefit from a reset and the additional time to get it right. Thank you very much. Mayor, if we may, a testimony you're ready for. Yeah, of course. Good morning and thank you, Commissioners.
 For the record, my name is Jonna Papa-Efthemiou, and I work at the Bureau of Emergency Management as the Planning Policy and Community Programs Manager. I'd like to just walk you through the changes that are proposed at this time as simply as possible.
 So to begin with the current code, which was adopted in November of 2018, it requires for-profit URM building owners to post a warning sign and to notify their tenants that a building is a URM by March 1st of this year. That's coming up soon. And then it gives nonprofits until November 1st of 2020. And the language that they have to post and notify is the box text.
 The first proposed change is... Jana, can you go back to the placard? Is this the actual... Yes, that's copies and pasted from the ordinance. ...on the placard. That's the language on the placard. So unreinforced masonry buildings may be unsafe in the event of a major earthquake. That's exactly the text. That's what this is all about. Yes. Got it. Thank you. That's just one piece of what this is all about. All right. We'll get to the rest. Thank you.
 So the first change is to the timeline to post the placard. It would extend the timeline for for-profit building owners to match up with non-profit building owners. So everyone would have until November 1, 2020, to post the warning sign. This is after the new URM workgroup that Commissioner Hardesty mentioned will have had time to meet and develop their recommendations. So this requirement would then come in the context
 of the next steps that they've proposed. Jana, can I ask you a question about that as well? Is the intention here then to change the wording on the placard? What is the intention of the work group? What's the point? The point of the work group is to develop, it's to review the work of our three previous work groups and to come up with some recommendations that would provide work
 Greater financial support, in particular for URM building owners that would otherwise probably struggle to make the retrofits. So it's really focused on the financial piece.
 So it's not focused on the placarding. It's focused on any seismic requirements or potential incentives to help pave the way for that. It is focused on that, but a part of the commitment that the Bureau has also made is that we're hiring an independent third-party facilitator, and so the work group will, in many senses, also direct their own work. So is it a possibility that what we're really doing here is we're going to eliminate the placarding requirement?
 I think that's a decision for council. But is, I mean, let's, I'm just curious, is that where we're headed? What's your recommendation? I think that I'm eager to see an independent advisory group that's inclusive, and I want to hold
 our bureau open to whatever their recommendations are. And their charter says they'll make those recommendations directly to council. So ultimately, we'll absolutely be up to council. Thank you. So can I just jump in here for a sec? The way I read this ordinance is we are postponing the effective date of the placarding. Right.
 to November of 2020. So that's specifically what the ordinance does. Yes. Currently, the legislature is taking up proposals to create financial incentives for,
 for owners to do the retrofitting work in the nature of grants and loans. The city is also reviewing whether it has certain financial incentives. So as someone who supports this approach, I think all the options are on the table.
 We are effectively postponing the date in which a placard has to go up, but between now and November 2020, we're giving ourselves the opportunity to find out if there are financial incentives which mitigate the impact
 to a property owner, particularly the smaller property owners. And by the way, I don't want to lose track of the benefit, in my judgment, of postponing the lien requirement. Now, we can argue about whether it's a lien, and different people have different views on this. I went to...
 a highly respected developer who does historic preservation work, John Russell, and I said, what is the effect of this recording requirement? He said it effectively works like a lien, and it has the unintended consequence of making it harder to get financing for the work that he needs to do on his historic properties. So it seems to me under the circumstances it's wise to revisit that as well.
 Thank you, Commissioner. And Mr. Mayor, I would just say that I do not expect staff to now have a recommendation since what we're doing is hitting a pause button so that we can hear from many more of the constituents who have been impacted and who didn't feel like their voice was actually included in the resolution. And so I would be very disappointed if my staff came in and had a recommendation about what the outcome –
 of talking to people through this community process will be before we start that process. Okay, and I'm just trying to put the pieces together here. This isn't a new process. This started years before I got here, and we've been batting it around ever since. So, Mr. Mayor, if you wouldn't mind to allow her to do her presentation, and then we'd be happy to engage in conversation because I just feel like the public isn't getting it.
 I'd like to ask her questions as part of the presentation. Oh, well. I have a right to do that. You do have a right to do that, but I was just hoping that you would allow her to complete her thought before then. Okay, I'll let you complete your testimony, but I would like to ask some questions. Absolutely. So fortunately the presentation is brief. In addition to the changes to the timeline to post the placard, it also changes the notification requirement for tenants.
 Previously, it required building owners to notify renters when they signed the lease, it was part of the lease agreement. And now it requires owners to notify prospective tenants when they complete a rental application. So presumably they get the information earlier on when they're still just in the application process and they may be considering other choices.
 We would have liked to keep the compliance date on this tight because people are making decisions every month about where to live, but we need some time to inform building owners about this requirement, and so it sets a date of June 1st of this year.
 And then the other change is about documentation of compliance. Currently, as Commissioner Fish mentioned, it requires building owners to record on the property title at the Multnomah County Recorder's Office the requirement to retain the placard, keep up the sign, and continue to tell future tenants about the building's URM status. And that informs and binds future owners.
 And the change would eliminate the requirement to put the URM sign and notification requirements on the title at the county, and instead it would require the owners to acknowledge their obligation in writing directly to the Bureau of Development Services. And those are the extent of the changes. Very good. I have just a couple of questions. First of all, some people might be surprised. I actually support removing the requirement to record on the title. I think it has created way too much confusion there.
 and probably that's what I'm hearing about more than anything else from building owners, is the concern that this appears to be a lien. It is, of course, the position of both the city's legal counsel and at least it has historically been the position of the Bureau of Emergency Management that that is in fact not a lien. But that being as it may, we report to the public, and the public is concerned about it. I personally don't.
 see any material reason why we could not remove that requirement. So I just want to be clear I support that. I do have a question about notification. So my understanding is, if I heard you correctly, the notification now would be in the application process for renters. Is that correct? That's right. How do we know they saw the notification? Will they be required to acknowledge that notification? Yes.
 That's a good question. I think that that would be sensible. That would likely be covered in the administrative rules that are written after the ordinance is adopted.
 Because we do that now, right, with asbestos and lead paint. Runners are actually required to sign an acknowledgment so that we know that the landlord actually gave them that information. Is that correct? To my knowledge, yes. Okay. And we also, it's my understanding that this does not apply to current runners? It doesn't.
 In the ordinance that was passed back in November, it did require the notification of tenants.
 However, the requirement was just the owner of a building subject to the code must notify existing tenants that the building is an unreinforced masonry building. It didn't say that it had to be in writing, so a verbal notification would have sufficed. When we went back to do the updates, we realized we didn't have a good way to enforce this or document compliance, and so we felt like our responsibility
 we would be most effective by focusing on going forward and that everyone eventually signs the lease or re-signs the lease so they'd be informed. Got it. Thank you. Yeah, please, Commissioner Hardesty. Doug Bradley is from my office, and I want to make sure if you want to add any additional testimony, you have the opportunity to do so. Is this his first testimony? This is his very first testimony. So we'll dispense with the normal pacing.
 We welcome him for his presentation. Thank you. Be nice to him. He's a good dude. Mayor Wheeler, members of council, my name is Derek Bradley and I am Commissioner Hardesty's policy director. This is my first time providing testimony before this body, but I have been fortunate enough to provide testimony down in Salem before. So if hazing is the norm, then that's okay.
 I want to thank the mayor for his questions, and I think that it's important to note that a lot of work has been going on already about some of the issues that I think you brought up, including notifying people in URMs and how to best address that issue.
 There were conversations about finding new mechanisms for enforcement on notification outside of title changes or just a sort of vague requirement. There were discussions about the city ultimately taking up the burden to notify these tenants. And these are discussions that are ongoing and that we hope to continue.
 have an opportunity to really flesh out and bring to council a more fleshed out method of notifying tenants than what was just read. Unfortunately, the timeline of this, of what we're trying to get, it was before council now, was this needed to be first read today, second read in a week before, to get it done before March 1st. I want to...
 Just commend both the Bureau of Emergency Management and Bureau of Developmental Services for putting in a lot of time with us coming into office just in January and alerting them that there were concerns within the community. We had questions, and everyone's been willing to work with us on this, and that's been very much appreciated. If you have any other questions for us, we'd be happy to answer them.
 Thank you so much. I do have one question for you, and the question is, has our office made any decision about what the long-term ordinance should be at this point? I think the only long-term decision we've come to is a real desire to find ways to fund these meaningful projects
 important updates to structures. I think if you look...
 At California, as a great example, you can see a statewide requirement where some local jurisdictions provided funding options and some did not. The jurisdictions that had – and there were a variety of funding mechanisms used. The jurisdictions that provided funding mechanisms saw a drastically lower rate of demolition of their historic buildings than jurisdictions that did not provide that funding. Okay.
 A great example, I would encourage you to look at San Diego versus San Francisco if you're interested in some of those numbers. And we've heard a lot from community members throughout that there is real concern that a lot of historical places and well-loved places in the city will be destroyed if what we have in the books now is just kept unchanged. Right.
 I have a question for Jonna, if I could. There was a piece in the Tribune yesterday about Jim Kelly and the building that he owns that was formerly Rejuvenation Hardware. And I learned something from that piece, that he retained the ownership in the building while he sold his business. Mr. Kelly was...
 felt aggrieved because he had made what was, at the time, the required upgrades to his building, had invested a substantial amount of money, and now has been told that it's inadequate. As you take up this, well, assuming this ordinance passes, and it is regrettable that two of our colleagues couldn't be here today, but I'm betting this is going to pass, so...
 assuming this passes, I would be interested in better understanding why people like Mr. Kelly are not grandfathered in if they did the work in good faith at a point in the past, or what's the compelling public policy reason not to do so. In addition –
 We can pick different cities that are either models to follow, emulate, or to avoid in terms of this debate. It seems to me the city that is most relevant to us in terms of having the difficulty of finding the common ground is really Seattle. Okay.
 So at some point I'd be interested in learning more about what Seattle is considering and what we can learn from their experience. But at the end of the day, it's my belief that we have to have a suite of incentives that we can offer, particularly the smaller landlords, in order to make this transition economically viable. And if we don't, we're essentially just consigning a lot of
 historic buildings to demolition, which I don't think is the community sentiment. So thank you for both. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I just wanted to put on the record that the bill in Salem acknowledges that there are 10,000 of these URM buildings around the state.
 Only 1,600 of them are in the city of Portland. And so in context, every main street in Oregon has these buildings on it. And so we want to really take the time to make sure that it's not just about mandates, but it's really about how do you work cooperatively with a community to actually get the outcomes that you're looking for. And so thank you both and
 that concludes our invited testimony, I believe. Great. Sort of two comments more than questions, and thank you for an excellent presentation. First of all, the bill is House Bill 2208, and it's being introduced by Representative Paul Evans.
 I was down there on Monday, and I can tell you that the city of Portland is pushing this bill very, very hard. As Commissioner Hardesty just correctly pointed out, this is not just a Portland issue. This is about the entirety of the community. What makes this issue so thorny is that it is pitting an actual threat, a life safety threat,
 against other really important values in this community, historic preservation, the arts community, music venues. We've heard from our pastors in the black community about the significance of this to their parishes, to their communities. And we have to figure out where is this right balance between acknowledging the importance of those values in our community
 But understanding what has changed in recent years is the identification of an actual threat to life and safety. We didn't know when these buildings were built. We didn't even know 25 years ago that we were in a seismic zone and that these buildings were,
 provided a potentially more substantial risk. So that's what we're dealing with here, right? So that's thing number one. Thing number two on House Bill 2208, this community has galvanized around this particular issue. I've certainly heard the community. I think I can safely say, just as Commissioner Fish said the ordinance is going to pass, I can pretty safely say that's true.
 I cannot accept as a landing point for this is doing nothing. That cannot be the option. We cannot simply walk away from this and say, phew, the ordinance is dead.
 Now we really don't have to do anything serious. At some point, we have to talk about seismic codes. We have to talk about securing these facilities. And I'm not saying today. I'm not saying tomorrow. But can we do it over 30 years, 40 years, even 50 years?
 Can we not lay that foundation to actually ensure that these buildings aren't just here for today, but they're here for future generations to enjoy as well, and understanding that there is a much broader and true risk to URMs in a seismic zone. So that's sort of the commercial. Last but not least, House Bill 2208, please do call your legislature. People who are so motivated to write.
 to call, to show up, to demonstrate on this issue. This is when we really, really need you to focus that energy down in Salem in support of House Bill 2208. Thank you. That was a little bit of a shameless plug, but there it is. Thank you. Carla, how many people? Twenty. How many, I'm sorry? Twenty. Very good. And the time...
 Try to keep it within two minutes, but we'll be fairly liberal about it. This is our last substantive item for the morning. Name for the record, please. The first three are Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, Roger C. Jones, and Walt McMoneys. They'll be followed by Lightning Superhumanity, Angie Even, and Maggie. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And...
 I want to thank again Joanne for emphasizing that. When we have a public participation process, it's very important that members of the public don't feel it's a dog and pony show towards a foregone conclusion. So it'll be interesting to see when we bring this back. I want to thank the mayor for opening up the window for timelines for ultimate completion. Perhaps the timelines can be graded based on the economic capacity.
 of the property owner. I think that even people who've gotten a significant amount of press based on maybe their legal position on this, McMenamans with Crystal Ballroom and stuff like that, would agree that they are better situated to be under a more structured, shorter time frame than some other owners, especially in areas where people are holding on, traditional minority owners holding on, and neighborhoods that have been gentrified
 I think one reason you should consider that this has maybe become a bigger hullabaloo than anyone expected is while we're talking about large-scale risks to safety, it's like a placard is normally considered ridiculously intrusive in some contexts. In Oregon, a state with about 29,000 people who've been registered for various so-called sex-related offenses...
 Only the most serious predators are even listed on the website. So out of those 29,000, only a few are listed on the website. And we would never get a majority agreeing that, yeah, if I live in an apartment with a convicted predatory rapist, that we have to have a placard for safety. So I do believe that we need to empower consumers to make informed decisions about.
 But we already have at least two splotches on the PortlandOregon.gov website that specifically talk about URM. Placarding, whether it stays or goes, is a decision that will maybe come out of this workshop. But there's also central registries and notification through that way. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Roger Jones, and I'll be speaking today for the Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association.
 which is one of our historic districts, or we'd like to be a historic district in Portland, but it's a well-known location and has 42 targets on the back of its historic buildings. Thank you.
 This target is whether it's going to be effective today or whether it's going to be effective in November of 2020. The placarding issue will basically create a stigmata for that, for our district and any district in the city. So while I speak specifically for our property owners that are affected directly by this, I would like to,
 also focus on what this ordinance does or could do if it were not taken away, if it were not fully fully repealed. Thank you. The full repeal would solidify about 7,000 housing units, affordable housing units. It would give us a reprieve for that element. It would also give our committee, which is going to be formed
 chance to breathe right now an 18-month Delay to the inevitable which says This is a URM if you say that if you force the people to say that about their building They can't verify it any better than the Bureau of Development Services can verify the list is is unverified if there's 10,000 year arms in Oregon, which I just heard and
 A lot of those are actually in residential areas. What's undisclosed or should be disclosed more discreetly or more popularly is that 25 years ago, we selected commercial districts to look at to see if they're URMs. In 1993-95...
 Oh, my gosh. I'm sorry. Do you want to finish your last thought? Yeah, I do, really. In 1993 and in 1995, we supposedly had a list of URMs. That list was basically the main streets and the commercial districts in the central business district of Portland. There are thousands of other URMs in our city that will be affected by this.
 So, please, what I'm asking for is a complete repeal and a start over so that the committee can work unfettered for a year and come back and give you a good policy a year from now. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. Walt McMoneys, associated with EMBU, Masonry Building Owners of Oregon.
 And I own three buildings that the city has said are URMs. One of them is this one, which is the Trinity Place Apartments. And it's my baby. You know, it's a 1911 building that's got some beautiful interiors, and it's basically a wonderful building. But we spent $1.1 million upgrading this building, and we don't pass muster at this point with the building BDS.
 And they say, well, you've done a great job, but you haven't quite made it. And my problem is what they're saying is, I've done a great job, but you've just about made it. But I'm still putting this placard that says it's an unreinforced masonry building. I mean, it's ridiculous. It's very reinforced. It just doesn't happen to be reinforced to the tune of ASCE 4117, which is the current standard for upgrade.
 So I think one thing that's kind of ridiculous about the placarding thing is the inappropriateness of some of the placards, I mean that particular placard language to some buildings like my building. Now in another building, you sell court apartments
 which was labeled a URM, and it wasn't a URM. We went in there and broke into the walls, and our engineer took pictures, and we brought the city people over. It took about six months to convince them. We managed to convince them it was a reinforced building. In fact, basically the brick was a facade on a wood-framed building. So we got that one off the thing. We've got a third building that's a 1910 garage, and it –
 It is a URM, but we've done a lot of things to it, and I don't think anybody's going to be scared away because their car is being parked in a dangerous building, not to the extent they would be in terms of the living and so on. So my basic testimony is the...
 The labeling needs to be accurate. And also, in the first place, the 1,650 buildings that were identified, that was done by rapid visual screening, which is a technique FEMA came up with to identify... Let me finish this. To identify approximately how many buildings in a city like Portland were URMs. It wasn't meant as a way to specifically pinpoint that a particular building was a URM. The whole notion is you drive by in the car, and you look up and you see bolts coming out through the wall,
 And you say, gee, that probably looks like it's reinforced. Or no, it doesn't look like it's reinforced. But it's a very inaccurate, although useful, tool. Thank you all. Appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. Since the gentleman mentioned it, I also wanted to have the city attorney put on a record that there was a lawsuit filed against the city and the judge has taken some short-term action. And so I just thought it would be appropriate to make sure that that was on the record. Do you know, or should I...
 I'm just aware of what I read in the newspaper or hear on television, so I don't feel comfortable making that representation. Very good. Maybe we can get someone from the city attorney's office to come down and actually state what the current status is of that because I think it's important. My understanding, Commissioner, is that Judge Acosta of the district court, of the federal district court, issued a 60-day temporary restraining order
 prohibiting the city from enforcing its code and was based in part on the representation that the council was going to be taking up an amendment to the ordinance. And so the judge froze everything in place for 60 days, is my understanding. Thank you. That was my understanding too, but I just, as a non-lawyer, did not want to put what a lawyer said on the record. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Next three, please, Carla. Our Lightning Superhumanity, Angie Even and Maggie, and they'll be followed by Edie Mondini, Vic Savara, and Christy White. All this talk about retrofitting. If you do tiny homes for supportive housing, you won't even have to have all this retrofitting.
 Extra engineering for these earthquakes in the newly discovered seismic zone. You know, tiny little houses, they don't need a lot of engineering reinforcement. Excuse me one second. It won't be taken against your time, but we have 20 people who signed up. I am talking about seismic reinforcement. Yes, that's what I'm discussing. Or do you not support the ordinance? No.
 I support housing that doesn't need seismic reinforcement. That's what I support in the future, that doesn't need all that money being spent on so much overengineering. Maybe we should start building our buildings in more human proportion and a lot greener.
 And that's what I'm saying. You know, don't need elevators. Don't need stairs. You need ramps and flat walkways. And let's build our buildings in human proportion. Good morning. Sorry. Hi. Sorry, Mayor. Excuse me. I'm sorry. We've lost our quorum. I'm sorry. What happened? We've lost our quorum. Yeah. There's no quorum. And so I was concerned about that. One second, please. Okay.
 I'll wait for Commissioner Hurst. Well, Nick, that's scintillating television. I guess we should take a moment to acknowledge that people do watch this at home on Channel 30. And we get a lot of feedback from folks. Former Mayor Vera Katz used to watch Channel 30 religiously. Former State Senator Aval Gordley watches Channel 30 religiously.
 You're here most of the time, so you don't have to watch it on Channel 30. What the hell did you do? I got on KGW. I am so new. All right. Go ahead and continue. Thank you. My name is Angie Even. I've lived in Portland my entire life. I've been a community leader in the Woodstock neighborhood for over 30 years, and I appreciate the time today.
 I brought a number. This number represents the number of days that I have personally tried to get you to listen to the mom and pops. This is the number of days that I have personally watched these people be disrespected, ignored, and shut out.
 You've praised us for our respectful testimony in the past, and we've been mistreated over and over. And here we are again, another hearing, and there was no notification. If people are upset today, please understand that that is on you, not us. They're afraid, they're stressed, as everything they've worked for is being threatened. Placards are wrong. It's a false narrative, and it's fear-mongering.
 We have three commissioners that have came out in the press opposing the placards, so I'm not understanding why we're not here for a repeal. The title encumbrance that was tried to be enforced is absolutely outrageous. There is no trust left. None.
 Amit Kumar from BDS testified under oath in a deposition recently. In that deposition, he contradicted testimony that he gave to city council more than one time that the list was accurate. This alone should nullify the votes and the resolution that was passed on June 13th. Mayor Wheeler, I've met with you four times today.
 In those times, you told me you would only support parapets, cornices, and chimneys. That the URM project was the worst half-baked policy you had ever seen, and it should have never came to City Council. You told me that you did not want to regulate people out of business. You told me that you would not go forward on anything until that list was addressed. And you asked me to trust you. And I'm still trying.
 To all of you, enough is enough. Stop the process and don't move forward until you make things right. We have 10,000 public record request emails that show the systemic bias and contempt during this entire project. The new committees are now going to start...
 892. Can I just have, can I just finish my paper? Can I have that much? It's 12 font and it's double spaced. Folks in the audience, if you disrupt the proceedings or disrupt people who are testifying, we're going to ask you to leave. Do you understand that? That's the rules. Thank you. Okay. So I'm going to, people are upset. Okay.
 To all of you, please stop this process and make things right. In those public records requests, two things became very evident. One was staff deleted two other types of buildings out of this project to politically push forward the URMs in May of 2018.
 The other thing is that there are 1,500 individual condo units that were never notified. Those are sitting in the assessor's list. They are not on the URM list. They've sent one postcard to condo buildings but neglected to send those to the others. And that's in an email from Shelly Hack.
 saying that those buildings have... I can bring it to you. Sorry. Okay, sorry. Anyway, so just hear this. I'll just sum it up. You published an unverified list in 2016, and now you're being unjustly punitive. And if this is so doable and so easy, we might ask the city to just buy our buildings and make us whole.
 The people that own these buildings are the stewards of the city. We've lived here. We've worked here. We've worked hard. And we deserve the respect to be heard and for you to work with us. And I appreciate my time and the extra time. Thank you. And, Angie, I'd like to respond since you called me out by name. Yeah, absolutely. First of all, I have enjoyed our meetings and I've appreciated them. And I did make that space to hear what were often alternative views to my own, but I wanted to hear that perspective.
 What we were discussing when we made those comments, that was relative to the original proposal, which, as I'm sure you'll recall, was requirements around seismic upgrades. We compromised once, which was the timeline on those seismic upgrades, and we concluded that that wasn't going to work and there wasn't support on the council for that to have happen.
 So what we went to instead was a public information and notification strategy. So I just want to be very clear that this has moved.
 in large measure as a result of the community's input on this. And so where my colleagues, I think, are going with this now is to say, let's do a do-over, which is fine, and that's certainly their prerogative. I'm just saying we can't keep pretending that there isn't also – I understand the risk to the building owners. I get that. It's been made crystal clear.
 but there is also a broader public health and safety question that we cannot ignore. And so from my perspective, it's not just about how do we honor and appreciate people who own buildings in this community, but how do we also respect and appreciate everybody else who is exposed to a verifiable, demonstrable public safety risk? And we heard our former fire chief come in and speak eloquently to that point.
 point. So there's a bit of a balancing act that has to go on here. I just want you to understand that. Can I just respond respectfully? And that is that I think where the disconnect is, Mayor Wheeler, is that
 From the conversations that you have with the building owners to what comes out on the other side, everything else is done without any transparency within City Hall. But we can disagree on that point. Okay. Thank you for your testimony. Well, I don't think that these people disagree. Okay. Well, that's... I understand why...
 Angie, I understand. I get your point. And I understand why you would say that on behalf of the building owners that you're here representing. I appreciate it. Thank you for your testimony. Well, bottom up, not top down, please. Good morning. Good morning. I may go over my two minutes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Humanity. Again, on this original ordinance, I myself would just put it on the shelf and leave it there.
 Now, my biggest concern here is dealing with the insurance companies, keeping them aware. If we're talking about a safety issue, possibly work with the insurance companies to have more insurance on these buildings. I don't see any big concern on the tenants understanding what type of building you have there. Again, we're doing this futurist-type look into the future and –
 almost an Elon Musk type, let's go to Mars on this situation. You don't know when we're going to have that earthquake. You have no idea. You don't know when you upgrade these buildings up to the current seismic standards. These buildings could all fall to the ground then also. We need to just make people be aware, have adequate insurance, make the public be aware what the situation is. But this is going way over the line here. As far as on the placards...
 If you end up going that direction, that should be optional to the owners what they want to do. Again, my biggest concern also is on the marketability of these properties, which this is a big blemish on them. This is a big blemish from investors coming into the city and looking at this and going, I have no idea how much money I'm going to have to put into this building just on this issue.
 And this is a big concern. It's kind of like the stock market going up and down, this uncertainty. I don't know what I'm doing here. I don't know what I'm doing there. And values are going up and down, up and down. And it's interesting, somebody said, maybe the city should just buy all their buildings at fair market value, if not 25% higher on this issue. You willing to put up the money? You want to own the whole city? I look at this almost as a property grab against these owners. That's the way I'm seeing this.
 That's the way I'm viewing this. And if you're willing to put up the money, make them great offers right now. Because this is ridiculous. You are actually devaluing their properties unless you have this in line. Exactly what is to be expected, but not use this futurist idea. Look at it in the future.
 You don't have that ability any more than anyone else. And you are devaluing their properties at a fast rate because of this. Again, this ordinance should be put on the shelf. And my biggest concern, and I'm not quite done. I'm not quite done. I'm going to take ten more seconds. If everybody takes four minutes, we're not going to get through the whole list. I am going to cut you off. Your time is up. Your time is up. Don't cut me off. You are out of order. Next three people.
 Next three are Ed Mondanay. Excuse me, your time is done. Your time is up. You're 40 seconds over. Ed Mondanay, I'm sorry, E.D. Mondanay, Vic Savara, and Christy White. They'll be followed by Pippa Aaron, Bill Eastman, and Mira McLaughlin.
 Folks, I really want everybody to have an opportunity to testify. But excuse me. Excuse me. You are out of order. You are out of order. You're out of order. I'm going to have to ask you to leave. Goodbye. Thank you.
 For the rest of you, I want to make sure we have the opportunity for everybody to have a voice at the microphone. And if everybody goes on for four minutes, we're not going to have a quorum here, and we're going to have to stop testimony early. You know, apparently you don't agree with that because you're talking over everybody else. Goodbye. Thank you. E.B. Mondinay, thank you for honoring us with your presence today. It's good to see you. Thank you.
 I'm glad I'm not the only one that has issues in my life. Just another Wednesday as far as I'm concerned. Well, I'm going to be quick, I hope. Repeal, repeal, repeal. I want to start with those three words. And I want to bring to the attention of this wonderful council. Good morning, y'all. Morning. Good morning.
 I've just completed a renovation of the pulpit that graces the top of Celebration Tabernacle at the tune of about $100,000. We all agree that we want to save Portland. People have no place where there is no history. This action drives the nail in the coffin of gentrification of the African-American community, which is a continued insult –
 to our people and our legacy here. This continues to widen the gap of equity and inclusion in a state that was founded in white supremacy. I'm very concerned about the 1,600 or so buildings that have been listed, that they have been listed properly and appropriately here.
 In accordance to your own work, you have said that this was an ambiguous list at best. Anything this confusing and has as many rabbit holes as this resolution and this mandate, in my mind, just real simply needs to be stopped. Thank you.
 I tend to lean towards scripture in cases where a resolve is necessary that men can't seem to get. And the word of God reminds us that in the principle thing for humans is to get wisdom and to be educated. But then in all of that getting, we need to get an understanding. I think it is incumbent of our city leaders to listen to the voices of our people.
 and figure out why it's so important that this can't just be repealed and for all the voices to come to the table and have an equal say. Good morning. Thank you. Perfect timing.
 Good morning. Good morning. I feel lucky to be following you. I'm Christy White. I represent Al Solheim and his partners who are owners of several URMs in Portland. Thanks for listening to the concerns. As you consider this pause, we'd like you to focus on a few points.
 You have a building code that's currently in effect, and under that adopted, effective, well-considered building code, you have triggers for when a building requires seismic upgrades. Those triggers are related to changes in occupancy, changes in occupant load, changes in hazard classification. If any of the URM buildings or any other buildings in town hit one of those triggers, the code requires the upgrade. That's fair. Okay.
 It's fair because the upgrades are required at a time when there is a quid pro quo, and the owner can likely finance the upgrade. You want higher occupancy or a more intense use, you can have it, but you must do the upgrades. All buildings are treated the same way in that regard. The placard program seems to dismiss the current building code and simply assumes that if you have not hit one of these triggers and therefore haven't upgraded your building lately, you're deemed unsafe. Okay.
 Well, instead, during this pause, we should decide whether the triggers in the current code are appropriate. And if they are not appropriate, what is appropriate, given the balance between safety, feasibility, and proportionality? If you are concerned that there's buildings out there that have hit the triggers but not completed the upgrades, spend our time enforcing the current code rather than throwing all the buildings into the same set of facts or same status. Second point.
 The process for determining whether a building is safe or unsafe under your placarding ordinance also seems flawed. The evidence offered, which you've heard today, stated that they were based only on external visual inspections.
 But you've also probably read the reports, as Commissioner Fish noted on the newspaper article, that there's URMs who have been fully upgraded into the standard in effect at the time, spent millions of dollars, and now are being required to declare themselves unsafe. And we know of one instance when a letter was sent to a URM owner who said they were in compliance.
 and that building was never touched for seismic upgrades. So last sentence. Disparate enforcement undermines your own primary objective. A building upgraded safe, a building not upgraded unsafe. So we ask that these concerns at least get addressed during this fair pause and you engage more stakeholders. Thank you. Ms. White, if I could jump in real quick. Number one, would you mind emailing your testimony to the council? Sure. Number two, are you considering...
 volunteering for this new committee.
 Yes. Okay. And number three. Is there a different answer that's possible right now? I don't think so. No. Number three, are you involved in the legal action? No. Okay. So that's Mr. DiLorenzo is the lawyer, along with others, on the legal action. You're here counseling us on what you think is good code and what the law currently provides and should provide. Yes. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Vic Savara, and I live in and I own a URM building. I was extremely thrilled when I heard that Commissioner Hardesty had put a repeal on this issue. And the reason I was so relieved was that the original committee under which all of these approvals had been, all these recommendations had been made, did not even contain one.
 small, older, occupied person, not even one. So from the beginning, this thing has been flawed. And because it has been flawed, we've been band-aiding things, like kicking the bucket down the road. So if we have a process which is not good, which has come up with something wrong, and we have accepted that,
 because we have said that we want to come up with a new committee which contains the representatives of 90% of the owners. Okay, I'm very encouraged by that. So I appeal to the Council, okay, that instead of just kicking the bucket down the road and saying, hey, postpone it till next year, repeal it and then tell the committee, come up with something in 18 months which is a community
 thing because as an owner, I love my tenants and I wouldn't want anything to happen to them too. So I want to be a part of the solution. Commissioner Hardesty.
 I thank all three of you for your testimony. So I'm curious. So putting a pause in place until November 2020 provides us the opportunity to talk to many more stakeholders, to put together the work group that the Bureau of Emergency Management is going to put in place, and to really
 ensure that we've identified some funding opportunities to assist these small business owners and doing the upgrades that we are requiring. So what's wrong with
 doing a pause until 2020. Because I think if we repealed it, quite frankly, there would be no incentive to do the work to get to something that makes sense. Because when it's gone, it's gone. And then there's like no rush. But if we put a date out in the future, like November 2020, and say, well, by then we're going to come back and we have to come back before that date with something that makes more sense, what's wrong with that?
 Nothing wrong with that, except what I see right now, that there's no date specified for the new committee to make a recommendation. But they're actually in the process now of recruiting for the new committee. And so, again, if we just repealed it today...
 Right? Then what's the pressure on the committee to actually get their work done in a timely fashion and bring it back for city council deliberation? I just want to repeat again, I really appreciate your approach. Thank you. Thank you so very much. Thank you. I appreciate that. Reverend Montanay, did you want to respond to that? A wonderful proposal in its decency that it's presented in.
 The language has to be very clear. And for me, it is a repeal in a sense because we're all interested in safe citizens. But the language has to be clear and very strong and no placating asserted for me to be quiet. Okay.
 Reverend Monanay, I never want you to be quiet. I want you to say it to the top of your voice. About this issue. Let me just say that again. I mean, I'm pretty transparent. You know that, right? Yes. And so my goal is to get us to a result that more people will support. I don't imagine we will come back with something that everybody will think, well, wow, this is like the greatest public policy that we could have developed.
 But if more people are involved early stages of the process, then we will come up with a better process and we'll come up with a better recommendation. So thank you all for being here. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you for listening. Next three, please, Carla. Our Pippa Arendt, Bill Eastman, and Mira McLaughlin, and they'll be followed by Barbara Bushell, Tim Even, and Mark Strom. Good morning. Morning. Morning.
 I guess I can go first. I'm kind of feeding on the last one. Thank you for the approach. Thank you for the idea of saying, wait a minute, I think we got some of this wrong. We can do better. Ironically, what that means is that a lot of this whole debate is based on the fact that this law is built on a flawed foundation. The who...
 We've debated endlessly how did people get on the list, who's being judged, why are they being judged, who's not being judged. The what, it's about a prospective earthquake that nobody debates that we are at threat of, but the what of how we take care of that, no, that's the how. The how is obviously in question too. How do we best keep people safe? How do we inform people? And the challenge is that those three bricks...
 of the foundation are all somewhat flawed. So the idea of retaining a law that is for public information but that misinforms by omission, if I'm looking at a brick building right next to a high-rise building in a liquefaction zone, well, that's safe because it says this one isn't, and my city would tell me if it wasn't.
 That is, we need to think about a citywide education program, and the idea of clinging to conclusions that were already made on a flawed foundation seems like a bizarre approach. I think that there is a timeline. I think there will be an urgency, and the goal is to make sure that we re-approach all of these things in a way that's positive and constructive rather than reactive. Let's get rid of the current placarding and repeal.
 Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, I'm Pippa Arendt. Excuse me, could you put your name in the record? Absolutely. I'm sorry. Mara McLaughlin with Music Portland. Thank you. For the record, Pippa Arendt. I also urge you not to amend but simply repeal the current placarding in contract ordinance.
 Even though a federal court has placed an injunction, has literally put a restraining order against this placarding and contract ordinance because it's so ill-conceived. And even though there are three of you who have stated on public record that you're against it, here we are again. And I have to take time off work to find the energy to convince you to discuss this and repeal it again.
 The amendment, while there's many good parts of it, I appreciate that, it simply does kick it down the road and replaces the most onerous part of it, the deed encumbrance, with another as yet undetermined BDS contract. Again, if this were just a public awareness campaign and signage ordinance, as it keeps being called, the city would placard all of their own buildings, including schools and low-income housing.
 There's some disparity here. Most of the buildings that are being targeted are the main street buildings, and you're doing this even while disregarding the best practices from neighboring towns, such as Beaverton, with their early warning systems and other life-saving measures, and other more effective and less punitive public awareness campaigns. So...
 I want to convey, the experts have told you placarding is a bad idea. We have told you placarding is a bad idea. A federal judge has put an injunction on this.
 Public trust has been broken. I don't think it can be repaired. And it feels like the city is wasting time and public resources with this lawsuit by not simply repealing this. I also want to say this, and this feels very scary to say. I don't want you to amend it. I want to vote. I would want you to vote no against this. And the reason is there's an evidentiary hearing next week.
 And by amending the most onerous clauses, you're disallowing a full discovery at the evidentiary hearing. And I believe that we'll win, that building owners such as myself will win, and we need to have the full disclosure, full discovery at the evidentiary hearing. Good morning. Good morning. Almost afternoon, I think. My name is Bill Eastman. I own a building that's on your list. It's steel and concrete reinforced.
 But I'm spending a lot of time on this issue because my name's on the list. I'm a small business owner. I get stuff done at work. And I know that if I want people to get something done, it's got to be easy. It has to be understandable. There has to be feedback loops. You have to figure out all the nuts and bolts and get people involved so that it gets done. I'm all for safety. I'm all for safety. We need to be on your committee.
 We need to have a loud and active voice in this process that's going to evaluate and is going to retrofit buildings for public safety. Please, please, please, please, please back up your words with some action. Include the property owners in the process. The buildings should be re-evaluated. This list from 1993 is inaccurate. It's incomplete.
 You really need to do that over again. The bureaucracy has to be reduced so that we can get permits rapidly, easily, affordably. This city engineer showed us a cartoon. What's his name? Amit Kumar. I studied engineering. He showed us a cartoon of bricks falling down. Not all URMs are the same. And we need to have real...
 engineering that addresses the problems, not this 1950s steel stuff. They now wrap buildings in carbon fiber, they spray cement on them. Other cities are doing new innovative things that do not require people to relocate the tenants. We need to adopt that. And if the city can t do it, then you ve got to let us do it.
 There's politics. Well, I don't know about the politics. You guys run for election. I don't. I'm a volunteer. And you've got to get the logistics and the finances going so that we can get this done. Please include us. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please, Carla. Our Barbara Bushell, Tim Even, and Mark Strom. And they'll be followed by Tony Smith, Cassandra Banton, and Marcus Irving. Good afternoon. Hello. Am I up? Yeah. Go ahead. Thank you.
 My name is Tim Even. To a couple of the questions you had this morning, I want to tell you that Seattle is smart enough to not bring this to their council until they have some form of funding or way to go forward with it. Also, Portland won't have any main streets left after the developers get through with these placards if these placards go on. Oregon might have some. Portland won't. Thank you.
 I demand there be a repeal of this placard ordinance and the process be stopped, also that a full investigation be conducted into the whole project. The project was started by Stephen Novick, who stacked the committees with people who will profit. Even with those stacked committees, they recommended no placarding, though. The whole process is corrupt, unethical, and crooked. There has been no transparency. There are illegal subcommittee meetings.
 violated public meeting laws. Votes were taken and voided when the results weren't the way the city wanted them. City staff hid the deleted policy decisions in the final policy report. The staff deleted the non-ductile concrete and soft-story buildings out of the report that are supposedly the same as URMs, so they're not included anymore. So
 so they could politically pass this one type of building by picking on the URMs. They cooked the numbers and came up with retrofits that would only cost $11 a square foot, but I see the Benson High School numbers are $812 a square foot. That's only an $801 square foot difference.
 The staff also recruited testimony to counteract us. They emailed and had people brought in to testify against us. Even with that effort, you received nearly unanimous concern for the project, which you've ignored and are still ignoring, especially you, Mayor Wheeler.
 Building owners here have been called liars and cheaters for not retrofitting. How can this be when your own city buildings are not retrofitted? I replaced my roof in 2007 with a reputable roofing company and a permit and a city inspector signing off. Not one word about URM masonry. I have an email here where Amit Kumar says, yeah.
 The city failed because of their bundling program and they didn't ever follow up on anything. Yet the city called me the cheater. The city did not want owners to know about this project. So they sent out this postcard to notify me after almost four years that it had been going on. They sent me this postcard to show me about my clean water. Look at the difference.
 The city is dishonest, and they recorded this placard ordinance with a 3-0 vote and then embedded an encumbrance that clouds the title for the deeds. Owners tried to bring this to their attention, and then we received emails saying we were wrong. So either you lied to us, or you don't know what you're voting on. I demand you repeal this placard ordinance, stop the process, investigate your own people, and enforce the code you have, and stop threatening us.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Barbara Buchel, and I'm the general manager of the Batar Companies. And we have five commercial buildings that are on the list.
 These five buildings were built between 1904 and 1923. They are single-story buildings, and in this group of five buildings, we currently have 23 small businesses.
 So these buildings, you can easily stand on the sidewalk, look at them, and it would be reasonable to discern that in the event of a major earthquake, these probably are not going to fare well. Putting a placard on the building, putting a clause in the lease, requiring the owners of the building to sign an owner's contract is not going to change that fact.
 seismic upgrade
 does not make economic sense. These are 23 small businesses, but they're not individuals. They all have numerous employees. So there are many, many people that are going to be impacted by the need to do seismic upgrade, which isn't going to happen on these buildings. I mean, if it happened...
 It's going to be reflected in increased rents, run these people out of business. It isn't equitable. It doesn't make sense. And we at least respectfully request that you simply repeal the requirements. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Next three, please. Are Tony Smith, Cassandra Banton, and Marcus Irving...
 And then the last two who signed up are Robert Hunter and Lindsay Levy. Very good. Good afternoon. Would you like to go ahead and start? Yes. My name is Toni Smith, for the record. Thank you. I want to thank Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Fish for your clear, honest, and concise synopsis of where we are at today on this very complicated issue. So thank you.
 As a concerned citizen who's engaged in the arts and music scene, I urge you to repeal the placarding ordinance. The process, as has been stated, has been broken since the inception of the plan. The list is inaccurate, both with buildings that should be on the list and are not on the list, as well as buildings that are on the list that should not be. It is clear that this issue, this is not about public safety, and if it were, the city would be...
 not allowing some buildings to be removed, as well as the city is targeting small business owners. The city should be educating the community about gas shutoff valves and liquidification.
 liquification zones. I know I never can say that word because certainly that will result in more death and destruction than a one-story brick building. So we urge the city to, instead of imparting fear tactics, to do education around gas shutoff valves and liquification zones.
 Finally, for a city that I view as being a very progressive city in a progressive state, Portlanders expect, deserve, and demand a more innovative approach to safety. And my hope is that the committee will come to some more innovative solutions. So I urge you to repeal the placarding ordinance. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and to the councilmen and women.
 I appreciate this opportunity to be able to speak. I'm Bishop Marcus Irving from Albina Christian Life Center, North Portland. I am also on the database for URM buildings. We found out that we were on the database about two days before you all decided, voted on mandates.
 in June, I think it was, June 13th, 2018. I just want to say that I feel extremely discomfited
 I've been called to preach scriptures, preach the word, be instant in season, not a season, reproving, rebuking, and exhorting with all long-suffering and doctrine. I never ran for city council, and I never dreamt that I'd be sitting in city council sessions as frequently as I have in the last half year. I believe that...
 to repeal is a very very good process for right now however I feel like the city council has given all of these 1600 plus buildings I'm also a master's division sprinter I've run track all my life at Oregon State University I've also I feel like you've given us a four foot pole to pole vault to this balcony
 impossible for every one of us. I'm hoping that we're able to repeal, but more than that, I feel like it's important for us to, I'm asking to be God-fathered in the rest of these buildings to a process that we have obtained our buildings and our property.
 We're all doing what we can do to maintain our current situation. And every building that should be built from this time forward should have the mandates to retrofit their buildings or build them to fit the earthquake standards. But let me say before I close that I feel like
 This is a gross injustice. As we have heard everyone speak, it's a gross injustice for us to not be included in the process and now have to fight a city council that we ought to be friends with. It's completely preposterous. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Cassandra Banton, and I came down here as a representative for someone who owns some URM buildings. Okay.
 My peers have spoken really eloquently, so what I would like to speak to is as a taxpayer, I have great concerns that if this ordinance isn't repealed, potential lawsuits may saddle the city with expensive legal issues fighting an ordinance that wasn't properly investigated before it was brought about. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you.
 The last two are Robert Hunter and Lindsay Levi. Very good. Am I the last woman standing? Please, you can start. I was waiting. Okay. Lindsay Levi. Briefly, I am a small business owner. I am a member of Indivisible. I do a lot of charity work. And I was in the 1989 earthquake in San Francisco. I worked at KGO. It was indeed in the liquefaction zone. I've written all of you many times.
 Thank you very much about the cart before the horse. I feel like I really want this city to be resilient, just like I don't want ice in this city. So shout out to addressing that as an indivisibler.
 When we don't want the cart to come before the horse with resilience, we deal with the shutoff valves. Every single building has shutoff valves, and we need to do that because fire and flood are really dangerous after any type of event, especially a seismic. As a former Skyline parent,
 Go through Linton and tell me you're not having a heart attack about those gas tanks and the pipes that have not been updated since the late 60s. We're going to lose Sobe Island. We're going to lose the bridges. And it's going to be impassable that our emergency airport is in Redding, California. It's cuckoo.
 I mean, that's because our airport is in a liquefaction zone. And having been at KGO during the earthquake and the Battle of the Bays, when the Bay Bridge collapsed and our reporters couldn't get home, not one of our bridges is resilient. Not one. Right.
 And so I'm kind of looking at it going cart before the horse. You're starting with the 1,600 URMs, not dealing with the liquefaction zones at all. And as a Lincoln parent, how did that get off the URM list? Thank you. Thank you. Last but not least. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Robert Hunter. But I think this all started with Steve Novick, didn't it? He brought this up, the URMs.
 When he was commissioner? No. I believe so. But also the New Yorker article about the big one, and that was stated that this was going to happen within, what, 40 years from an Oregon State professor. Well, I was doing some research and reading, and I pulled up a University of Washington report on the subduction zone off the coasts, and they said the last one happened in 1700.
 And the next one is going to happen probably around 500 years later. So that would be 2300. So it sounds to me you have another 180 years to come up with a plan. My business would be impacted if I put these signs up. So I appreciate you considering repealing this. Very good. Thank you, everybody who testified. Anything else before I move this?
 This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, everybody, you showed up today. Next item, 154. Authorize a purchase order with Hughes Fire Equipment Incorporated for four emergency response apparatus for a total not to exceed amount of $2,816,210. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. As you know, breathing equipment is vital to the health and well-being of our firefighting team, and we are here today to talk about the next purchase of these upgraded material. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I will keep it brief. My name is Jay Guo, Senior Business Operations Manager for Portland Fire and Rescue. With me here is... Excuse me, I'm going to stop you for just a sec. Folks, if you could take the conversation out into the hall, please. We still have City Council business to conduct. Thank you.
 Again, good afternoon. My name is Jay Guo, Senior Business Operations Manager for Portland Fire and Rescue. And with me here is our new Los Angeles Chief, Bill Goforth. So we are here today to request council's authorization for purchase of four fire engines from Hughes.
 Fire Equipment Inc., which is a regional dealer for Pierce Manufacturing. We use the Houston-Galveston Area Council's Cooperative Procurement Agreement for this purchase, which is reviewed and approved by Cities Procurement Service.
 And the total cost is $2.82 million. This is a recurring purchase, so the funding comes from Portland Fire Rescue's base budget, and it's a priority replacement reserve. And we kind of, this owner, we asked for emergency owners to come.
 avoid a 3% price increase effective March 1st. And we understand today emergency order cannot be passed, so we can be back next Wednesday.
 Mayor, I'd love to keep the emergency on this particular ordinance so that next week when we have more city council members, maybe we can then pass it. Yes, so I'd recommend is we'll take testimony and then we'll continue the hearing. Okay. With that, we just hear answer any question that you may have. None. Oh, good. Any public testimony on this item?
 Three people signed up. Very good. Lightning Superhumanity, Maggie. Thank you. And Shedrick Wilkins. Maggie, did you want to testify or no? Two minutes, please. I respect our emergency service people. They save people's lives. But I would also like to talk about unregulated shelter systems and how they put people's lives at risk.
 Uh, you've got no laundry in there. You've got bed bugs. So, Maggie, I guess it's my opportunity to interrupt you and ask you to speak to the ordinance itself. Okay. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Very good. So, uh, and unless there's any further conversation up here, we will continue the hearing to February 27th, 2019 for the vote on emergency.
 And we are adjourned. Thank you.