Okay, I think we're ready, Carlin. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the February 26th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Hales?
 Why don't you read all of them? I think we can read all of the items, right? There's no reason to not take this up as a package, you think? COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Well, Commissioner Salsman is recused from one of them. MR. That's right. All right. Then let's not take them up as a package. Let's start with 225. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. We're not voting today. MR. We are not voting today. MR.
 One presentation. That's what I thought. Go ahead. Let's read them all, please. Read them all. Item 225, approve the 11th Amendment to the Central East Side Urban Renewal Plan to add plan area and projects, extend the duration of the plan, and increase the maximum indebtedness. 226, approve the termination of the Education Urban Renewal Area Plan.
 227, adopt the Fourth Amendment to the North McAdam Urban Renewal Plan to add to the plan area, add projects, and extend the timeframe of the plan. 228, approve the Eleventh Amendment to the Airport Way Urban Renewal Plan to reduce plan area by approximately 970.5 acres.
 229 approved the second amendment to the Willamette industrial urban renewal plan to cease collections of tax increment and
 230, approve the Fourth Amendment to the amended and restated River District Urban Renewal Plan to reduce plan area by approximately 36.4 acres. Chair Jerry Cook Right. Thank you. Let me reset the context. I know some of you have been involved in these discussions for some time, and we as a council have been talking about this package for almost a year now.
 The purpose of this group of ordinances is to right-size our city's urban renewal areas, something which has never really been attempted as a comprehensive effort, and that's what this is about.
 Obviously, urban renewal used well is a great and powerful tool. It's done a lot of great things for our cities. It's created livable neighborhoods. It's created a lot of employment opportunity. And in theory, it develops sufficient new property values to pay back the cost of the city's investment in infrastructure that we need to make this place great. Okay.
 We have used this tool very successfully, and in fact, in some cases, that theory is starting to be realized. That is that there are places in the city where we can now declare victory and put property back on the tax rolls to pay property taxes into the city's general fund, the county's general fund, and the common school fund like the rest of the real estate in the city of Portland does.
 When I first took office, I asked the Portland Development Commission to reexamine the boundaries, the duration, and the purpose of all of our existing urban renewal areas, 11 of them and six neighborhood prosperity initiative areas.
 In May of last year, I brought to the Council proposed amendments to six of these urban renewal areas, and the Council then affirmed that direction and asked for more public outreach in a package that does the following, reduces the impact on taxing jurisdictions,
 helps Portland State thrive, and provides resources for affordable housing. Those were the three things that we as a council said as we refined and developed this package. Those are the three things we want to do. Reduce the impacts on the taxing jurisdictions, help Portland State, and support affordable housing. Throughout the summer and fall of last year, we had a committee, and we're going to hear from some of them this afternoon, that met to work on this package, and a majority of the committee supported it with only a minor change.
 Patrick Quinton will be walking us through the package here shortly, but I'm really pleased with the results. First of all, this package will put $800 million of assessed value back on the tax rolls. Let me say that again, $800 million of assessed value going from urban renewal area sequestration back into general taxation paying for public services.
 And, in fact, that's already paying dividends to the city and the county and the school district's budgets. It'll increase, this package will increase resources for affordable housing and advance the implementation of our affordable housing goals.
 And it will help achieve the potential of South Waterfront and the new MAX station areas in the Central East Side. One of the other things that I've done as mayor is, frankly, when I arrived here, I found that we were behind the curve on planning for the light rail station areas that accompany the new Orange Line, and the Planning Bureau has accelerated its work there.
 to, in effect, synchronize with this effort to take in new area in the Central East Side that will obviously be radically affected by the presence of a billion-dollar light rail line in what was before not so well transit served a part of our city. So with that, let me invite Patrick Quinton up to make his presentation, and then we'll take testimony from people on the committee who have come here today to report on their work. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales. Good afternoon, Commissioners. And, yes, my name is Patrick Quinton. I'm the Executive Director of the Portland Development Commission, and I'm here to provide some more detail on the proposed amendments to six urban renewal areas. I just want to highlight I'm joined by a variety of people who can be quite helpful in the conversation, so at any point we want to talk about specific numbers, whatever we have, we have people that I can bring up.
 As the mayor mentioned and kind of summarized in a nice way, we are here to revisit the direction of
 that Council provided last May. So as the Mayor mentioned, and he highlighted these three specific goals about reducing the impact of urban renewal, supporting PSU, and preserving our investments in affordable housing and other development outcomes.
 And so we're here today to report back on how the proposed changes to their renewal areas deliver on that. And as you can see, just at a high level, we believe this package delivers on that. So as the mayor mentioned, we have dollars returning to the taxing jurisdictions. You'll see –
 in detail the increases in investments in affordable housing in a variety of districts, but also some of the other development outcomes that we're going to be able to achieve with these changes. And then finally, we'll report on the development agreement that we have executed with Portland State
 delivering on our kind of shared objectives for our major university here in Portland. But that work obviously is dependent on your action on the urban renewal areas.
 So the mayor talked about the timeline. We came to you – well, the mayor has been talking about this as a part of his – since he took office. We did background work on this and brought to city council last May the proposed changes. You passed a resolution directing us to go back and get more public input to refine the proposal and then bring it back to council, and so we're here. But –
 Just wanted to highlight some of the major steps that have happened. We convened an advisory committee. I'll show you the composition of that. Excuse me, I'll show you that as well as the public outreach that we've done in a second. But we've also met on multiple times with the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and you see they took action in January. I believe you have a correspondence from them.
 their recommendations and forwarding that to you. And we've also met with the Multnomah County Board of Commissioners
 As I mentioned, we did extensive public outreach. So in addition to convening the Urban Renewal Area Amendment Advisory Committee and developing recommendations from them, we developed a housing subgroup from that so that we could deal specifically with questions around affordable housing. We've also used the current process around the Southeast Quadrant Plan to brief the folks in that community, stakeholders in that community, and talk about how this does –
 does overlap with the work that's going on around the comprehensive plan. And then you can see the extensive list of organizations that we've met with to talk specifically about the changes and what it means for these communities.
 And so what came out of the public input process is what you'll see today, is the refinement of the proposal that we brought to you last May. And so we started with boundaries. So the advisory committee, as well as some of our other conversations with stakeholders, helped us finalize the new boundaries for boundaries.
 For four of the urban renewal areas, two were expanding, two were shrinking. We've obviously had a significant amount of feedback on the objectives around affordable housing, with particular focus on the North McAdam urban renewal area. I'll talk about that in a second. And I know there's lots of testimony that you're going to hear later on today, and they can shed light on those conversations. Okay.
 As I mentioned, we completed our negotiations with PSU around a disposition development agreement. So our plan for moving forward with them is clear, but it is dependent on the approval of changes to the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area and the Education Urban Renewal Area.
 And then lastly, you have all the documentation in front of you. So the proposal we brought to you in May didn't have that information, and so you can now see the detail behind that. So I'm going to quickly walk through these changes again. I know you're familiar with these changes. For those who are seeing this for the first time, though, I want to make sure everybody knows the package of changes. So there's –
 There's one group which is we're reducing or eliminating four districts. So Airport Way, basically a closed district. It has excess acreage that we can release, and so we're releasing 40 percent of the assessed value in that district. Once again, Airport Way, closed district. It has the remaining assets. And as Mayor Hales pointed out, one of the districts that is already returning substantial tax dollars to the taxing jurisdictions,
 The second reduction is in river districts. The river district has the most assessed value of any of our urban renewal areas. It does have excess assessed value relative to our projected maximum indebtedness. And so based on our work with the city's debt management office, we've determined we can release 26%.
 of the assessed value in that district, that returns immediate tax money to the taxing jurisdictions. And we're actually already doing that. So for this fiscal year, we're actually not collecting the property tax revenue associated with that reduced area.
 Where I am in industrial, we are, for all intents and purposes, shutting that urban renewal area down. The technical way we are doing that to allow us to continue to invest the remaining assets is to stop collecting new tax revenues. So we haven't been collecting tax revenues from the past.
 from what we call Waiura. We have the remaining dollars that we're going to use to support the manufacturing community that remains on both sides of the limit, and then we've ceased kind of taking away the authority to issue any more debt within that district. And then the last one is the
 elimination of the education or renewal area, as you know, 35 acres of that will shift to the North McAdams River renewal area under that proposed expansion. So this action effectively shuts down the education or renewal area and will take away any opportunity to issue new debt. As we'll show later on in the projections, the long-term tail of the
 of the education urban renewal area provides a significant amount of the return back to the taxing jurisdictions. We basically eliminate another 15 years of urban renewal that was associated with that. And then we have two urban renewal areas that we proposed to both expand and extend the last day to issue debt.
 On the central east side, you can see on the map it's a minor expansion to pull in what is referred to as the Clinton Triangle, but it really is the new station area that will result when the Portland-Milwaukee Light Rail MAX line opens up next year. We believe this particular area has a significant amount of development potential, but it does require public investment to realize that potential potential.
 The district also has some additional needs in that southern end of the district that we believe could use additional public investment. And, of course, we want to continue to invest in affordable housing. So in addition to the expansion of the area, we also want to extend the life of the district by five years.
 And then there's expansion of North McAdam, which, as I mentioned, will expand by 45 acres. Most of that acreage is coming from what is now in the education or renewal area. This expansion allows us to pull in a substantial part of the area associated with PSU's activities so that we can support the university's growth, but in particular take advantage of the growth in commercial areas
 activity, whether it be business or real estate related activity around the university. We also propose to extend the last eight to issue debt in the district by five years. And what this does is it allows us to access maximum the full maximum debt in this that was established for the district.
 Under current projections, we would not come close to accessing that. And as you'll see in a minute, this unlocks a substantial pool of resources for us to accomplish a variety of objectives in North McAdam that include supporting the growth of OHSU, obviously continuing to meet our affordable housing goals, as well as support other commercial development and provide the infrastructure to support that development.
 Where are the 10 acres that are not currently in the education district, and why are we adding those? So if you look in the map, it's the red. So there's the yellow acreage, and then the red acreage is the additional acreage. These end up being –
 kind of islands that were left out but they do have they do have importance they contain commercial property that that we believe has potential for for redevelopment and and and you know one of the the goals in expanding the district is make sure that we pull enough taxable commercial property to to support the the work we're doing and so these red areas are commercial areas that actually have but you know like i said development potential in the education uri
 I think we, because the education area or renewal area had a focus that was on the other half of the area in yellow, and so we didn't want to, I think we had an amount that we wanted to put in the education or renewal area, and so they just didn't make the cut initially. But as we were working our way up from the North Mac side, we were able to pull those in. And what's that? I believe that they, I'm sorry, I'm going to ask. Those are OHSU properties or offices? They're offices.
 Offices, yeah. So these are offices that have supported, I think an example is I think OHSU leased space in there for some of their commercialization activities. So there were things going on that related to what was happening either at OHSU or PSU, and that's one of the reasons why we wanted to pull them in.
 But they wouldn't be paying taxes if they're OHSU-PSU, right? Well, there's a combination. And if it's private, if there are private companies there, if they're somehow spinning out of OHSU, they would pay taxes. And what's that white island between the yellow and the red? So that is the university place. That is the – I'm sorry, is that –
 But University Place, that's part of North McAdam. It's already part of North McAdam. So the white parts are already part of North McAdam Urban Renewal Area. So University Place was already an island. It was already, yeah. That was part of an earlier amendment, as is the other finger going up, which is how North McAdam expanded to build out the streetcar line. Thank you.
 And so when you, as the Mayor mentioned, these six changes are being brought as a package because as a package we can deliver on the goals that were established for this work. And one of the goals was to reduce the impact of urban renewal on the taxing jurisdictions. And this summarizes the total gain, but it breaks out the financial impact of
 for the changes to each of these renewal areas. A lot in here, we've walked these numbers in the past, but just the highlights are, if you go to the right column, you can see that the total gain to the taxing jurisdictions over this time period in nominal dollars is just under $200 million. When you do present value on that, it's about $88 million. Okay.
 Obviously, the gains come from the areas that we reduce. So the gains are delivered primarily by River District, Willamette Industrial, and the closure of the educational renewal area. The gains that we obtain through those reductions, a
 allow us to expand centrally side in North McAdam and extend those districts. Um, and then you get the net effect of, of a, um, positive return to taxing jurisdictions, uh,
 You can also see from a time series that you get an immediate bump from these actions, and it's only in basically 10 years out that we begin to go negative again. That's a time period when North McAdam would have normally ended its operation.
 its original life, and so there is a negative effect, and then we pick up, once again, positive impact of the taxing jurisdictions after that. So, Patrick, that's important, at least to those of us who plan on serving another 15 years, and we're looking at the impact of this on the city's general fund. So I pulled up the old chart we got on that when you gave our last presentation, and that's in December. Are those numbers still current, or have they changed?
 These are current numbers. This is by URA, are the benefit impact to taxing jurisdictions, city, county, school funds. So that's the next slide. So I can switch to that slide if you want to focus on that now. So the numbers –
 The numbers change for a variety of reasons. One of them is just as we get new numbers from the assessor, we then update the projections on that. But then the other thing that may be different, and back in December, would he have had ones with the development agreement in it, right? So the other thing, these assumptions are based on no development agreement with
 with ZRZ in North McAdam. So the next slide, I guess, is the one I was alluding to. Yeah. So I just want to highlight between today and 2030. So that's just looking at it over the next, whatever, 15, 16 years. The net, I have to take away the present value because I don't know how to calculate that. It looks like something close to $5 or $6 million net to us between now and 2030. Is that about right?
 Yeah, yeah, with that time period, that's what the math works out to. And what practically does it mean to show a negative number between 26 and 30 across the board?
 That just means based on what the city or any of the other taxing jurisdictions would have received under the current scenario, meaning URAs closing down according to their current schedule, this is the change relative to that position. We don't know what the city's general fund revenues are going to be, so it doesn't make any predictions about the overall state of city tax revenues. This is just the number relative to the current scenario.
 So just to be clear, the bulk of the benefit to us really doesn't kick in until after 2030, and that's because in the short term we actually have to pay off some debt. MR. Yeah, so the reduction in the four ERAs that I talked about is, you know, it's material, but it's not an overwhelming number.
 It's between $5 and $6 million over 15 years. It's not insignificant, but the real money, according to this, kicks in after 2030. Right, so that's when the urban renewal area is closed down. So what I was going to get to is, so this is when all these areas are now shutting down, and so you have the return to the tax rolls of everything on urban renewal. And so you have the result of all of the investments that we've made
 in these districts now finally coming back to the taxing jurisdictions. But how much of that is attributed to these amendments, and how much of that is attributed to what would happen already because of districts closing down? Yeah.
 Well, it's simply a function of how much money gets invested. So we have current assessed value and projections about where that goes, and then overlaid on that is what we plan to invest in each of these districts during that time period, and what we calculate that, what we project that to be, I guess is a better way to say it, will result in increases in assessed value. And those are two different lines because if you just assume a 3 percent growth on the base is,
 If we make a dollar investment in a particular area, we would expect that to be leveraged a certain amount and then move the base, and then that grows at a certain rate. So it's overlaid. Those two things are overlaid in these numbers. And by making increased investments...
 So if you increase your investment in central east side or in south waterfront, we're assuming that that has an impact on assessed value above just the base growth rate. And what are the two or three things that can happen in the out years that cause you to lose sleep that would change these forecasts? What are the variables that we'll be watching that could make these numbers go up or down?
 I mean, I do think the main issue is always the way the market works and what the pace of development is. And so it's going to go in cycles. It's not going to go in a straight line. And so the timing of our investments and, like I said, what private investment it attracts, I think will be dependent on what's happening in the market at that time, and it could be higher or lower based on that. I think, you know, if you look at the cycles, they go up and down. The trend line is usually –
 tend to go up, but it's almost invariably not going to be these numbers, but it could just as easily be higher as it is lower. And these calculations just distribute the gains that we've talked about across the main taxing jurisdictions based on the current formulas for how those monies get allocated.
 And then the next table, I just want to once again return everybody to the question of affordable housing. As we mentioned, this was one of the goals of this urban renewal area package. So as you can see, this is a net increase in investment in affordable housing. You can see where those funds come from. Obviously, there's a dramatic increase in the affordable housing investment in North
 the slight increase in Central East Side and us shifting current dollars in the remainder of South Park blocks, that offsets the loss of affordable housing investment that would have come from the education renewal area
 And so you see a total nominal gain of investment of $3.5 million, but because the investments are accelerated, meaning they happen sooner than they would have under the education or renewal area, the present value calculation actually makes it a higher number. So we get money for affordable housing sooner. We get more money sooner, and that's why the present value calculation is higher. Do you have similar tables for parks and transportation? No.
 We don't, but we can certainly get to that information. Thank you. So now I'm going to dive in a little bit more specifically to each of the urban renewal areas and talk about some of the priorities there. Within North McAdam, this is a high-level picture of kind of the difference between what we can accomplish under the current scenario and what we can accomplish with an amended urban renewal area. I don't know.
 I think it's clear it's a dramatic difference. You know, North McAdam right now is without the deadline looming of 2019, 2020, and the lack of an expansion area and development just restarting in South Waterfront, there really isn't the prospect for significant tax increment generation over the remaining life of it.
 With the additional five years and including the expansion area, that we believe gives us a chance to capture a lot of development and the resulting value. So it allows us to do things like build Southwest Bond, which is going to be a major north-south throughway for the development of the north part of the district.
 Additional money is available for open space or other infrastructure needs. It allows us to have the money to invest in growth around Portland State, money to support business growth in the area. And then last but not least, we have a significant increase in affordable housing from $9 million under the current projections to $47 million under the amended scenario. Okay.
 Patrick, can you elaborate on what kind of business slash redevelopment loans you might be making? So this is, you know, as you know from our budget, and we're in the budget season, so we'll be revisiting this topic, but we have a number of line items in our budgets that allow for us to make business loans as opportunities arise, and so that could be businesses that want to move into the district, and we could lend them money for the build-out of their space or for the acquisition of space.
 But then it also allows us to make strategic investments in real estate projects that might have a financing gap. It may be that there's parking needed, and the parking is the gap, and so we can put the investment in parking to allow development proceed. But this is more of an opportunity investment.
 fund for those type of investments. So this is money set aside for investments. You're not quite, at this point, you don't know exactly what they're going to be. Exactly. Exactly. And like I said, all of our budgets have these line items to varying degrees. As a relative percentage, this is actually pretty small relative to some of the other budgets that we have. I notice you don't have contingency on either of these sides. How much was the contingency of the status quo and how much would be amended? Yeah.
 I don't – I can – one second. We have that number handy? It was 26. Yeah, I think we talked about this week. There's $20 million at the end of the life of this district under the amended scenario. I don't know that we had really much in the way of an ending balance, but we can clarify that for you. It's essentially unallocated, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 At the end of the life of the debt, I mean, with this status quo scenario, there isn't much left. We're basically spending as much as we can of those dollars. I think you said, just to clarify, on the amended side, that's the amended North McAdam urban renewal area, assuming as of today there is no agreement with ZRZ. Right. So for the sake of these numbers, it assumes minimal development on the ZRZ property.
 And what percentage of the URA is the Zydel property? Well, it's 30, I'm going to do the math in my head, 35 acres out of how many acres, 400 acres? Thank you. Yeah. Less than 10%. Yeah.
 So, as I mentioned earlier, as a result of public input, we spent a lot of time refining the plans for affordable housing in North McAdam, and we think we have a much better approach to affordable housing as a result. I mentioned the increase in resources. So, we are projecting increasing the set-aside from 30 percent to 42 percent. Some of that's
 back-loaded, and it's additional $38 million, as I mentioned, the nine going to 47. But the other thing that we've done is get more detail about specific projects. And right now, I think we can talk about a very specific project on a parcel we own called Parcel 3, which is in River Place, which is in the URA, and you can see that's
 The number is up there, but it would be roughly 200 affordable units. We would have a minimum of 62 of those units would be at 0 to 30 percent MFI. That can break ground really as soon as we can move the project along, and that's likely to be a 2017 date. And then we would be –
 begin making plans to acquire a site for a second project. That would happen much later in the district because we would be spending a big chunk of our dollars up front for the first project. We would have to wait a few years for new dollars to be generated, and then we would have a second project later on in life at district. That would be roughly similar scale, but would certainly, at a minimum, finish the remainder of the 0 to 30 units project.
 that were part of the original goals. In doing that, we would exceed the overall 0 to 60 goals and meet or exceed the 0 to 30 goals on that. Lastly, before I know you have a question, we have an affordable housing provision in our development agreement with Portland State. Any other development agreements that are executed within this district would have language around affordable housing as well. A couple of points just for clarification. Sure.
 Under your projections for the urban renewal area, you have the TIF to fund this, so you don't have to actually do something exotic like obtain a bond or something else, right? Correct. We can just move the TIF forward. Correct. And secondly, you have a line here about PHB and partners working in secure operating subsidies. So just to be clear, what we're talking about is things like Section 8,
 Project-based Section 8 vouchers, VASH vouchers, McKinney funds. What the council would be directing, the Housing Bureau, PDC, to secure the subsidies so you can buy down the rents to $0.30, correct? Correct. What is the nature of the affordable housing agreement with Portland State? Is that for university plates?
 So the agreement with Portland State, in short, requires them to offer to the city to sell units in any residential housing project that they do, which would most likely be on University Place. It doesn't relate to student housing, but it relates to any other residential development. So essentially, side. Just before you move on from that, I'm looking at the ordinance. It doesn't reference that particular allocation on that plan. Okay.
 How is that set in stone? I'm sorry, allocation for? This project, the Parcel 3 project. Proposed allocation. With those allocations, how can we be sure that that's what's going to happen? It's in the plan. It's been the plan document. It's in an appendix, isn't it? Yeah, it's in the report to the resolution, which is where we put all the detail in there. It's B, I think. And don't we need to have that in the council directs?
 Well, it goes with the plan. It is. You're right. Okay. It rides with the plan. So those can't be changed without further council action to shift the numbers? If it's in the plan, we can't change it without further council action. Thank you. So centrally side, once again, somewhat of a similar before and after scenario. The numbers aren't as dramatic, but you can see centrally side,
 has limited resources left. The bulk of these resources we plan to use to acquire some strategic sites in Central East Side and then try and generate additional resources from the sale of those sites, and we have some other money allocated, as you can see.
 The amended district gives us more opportunity dollars to accomplish the objectives I talked about earlier. Much of this relates to how we support development along the new light rail corridor, the Clinton Triangle I talked about. You can also see some of the other investments that we would be able to make. We do believe that the –
 that the neighborhood needs to at some point dress address parking we're not exactly sure what what the the project is or what our actual role is but as the district grows and attracts more jobs and it is one of the main jobs districts in the in the city we are going to have to have to figure out some solution to parking and that may require us to make an investment in some kind of structured parking um but um but but so so money is set aside for that and then you can see it gives us
 some more opportunity to put money to work in supporting businesses and other individual projects, which we know we're going to need some kind of gap financing if we're going to focus on commercial industrial development in that district. And then it does increase the affordable housing numbers from $4 million to $10 million. Commissioner Novick. Patrick, you said you might acquire property, which you then might sell. Yes.
 But the income from potential selling of property isn't included in these projections. It would be money that we'd get subsequently, right? You know, well, so the money does come back in. It's still TIF, and then it has the same restrictions. But let me just add, do we have a sale of ODOT blocks included in our – so we budget in a conservative manner typically, so we don't include in our – if you can picture our budget, top has the resources –
 There's a line for property income. We don't often include that as we forecast out just because of the uncertainty in land sales, but that would, in fact, increase the pool of money that we have available to invest in the district. And we would, you know, depending on what kind of outcomes we want to see on the ODOT blocks, we would certainly expect there to be a return to the PDC that could be reinvested. So why is there no increase in the amount allocated to parks in this plan either? Well...
 I think we have flexibility on some of the business and redevelopment loans around, you know, what happens as part of a particular redevelopment, also the investment around the Clinton Station, that those dollars could include some type of assistance there. But, you know, the Washington Monroe Community Center money has been sitting in our budget for,
 I think as long as I've been at PDC. So I would assume that I would also say that money is there to help parks move forward on whatever community center plans exist for the southeast area.
 Well, it's grossly inadequate, and that's why it's still sitting there, because you can't do very much with a million dollars. So it's interesting to see other areas getting more money from the proposal on this side and no discussion of what the parks needs are. Commissioner, I would be happy to come back with a breakdown of the historical expenditures here.
 In the Central East Side, PDC funded the entire esplanade. And so if you look at historically what's been invested in the Central East Side, I think the picture might look a little different. Can you point me to the place in this plan where it talks about affordable housing in the Central East Side and particularly in the expansion area?
 So right now, so we have – so PHP is actually working on current project in essentially side that will add how many hundred some odd units in essentially side? Correct. Yeah. So anyway, so there's a current project that's using up PHP dollars now that
 And the Clinton Triangle, assuming that the Southeast Quadrant plan, a comp plan, comes back with us allowing housing to happen there, I think we would work with BHB, with their dollars, as well as I think other incentives we might be able to provide to develop affordable housing within that triangle. Beyond that, I don't think we can get more specific until we – Where in the plan does it talk about that? I'm just looking for a page number. Okay.
 It's in the report. We're in the report. Thank you. I don't think that's right. So if I could, at some point before next week, get the information about that. Because that was one of my concerns that I voiced at the hearing last year, was if we are going to expand, let's make sure that we have appropriate policy language in the – I apologize. I was looking at the wrong report there. So it could well be 26. Sorry. Okay.
 We need strong policy language to make sure, like Commissioner Fish has inserted in the North McAdam plan, there needs to be similar language in the Central East side to make sure if we're choosing to do these extensions and amendments, what is the public benefit that we're going to get? I'm sorry, I had a slide ahead of here I could have clicked to, but we – so there's –
 You can see an additional 55 new affordable units. I think as we've talked about, I think, and essentially side, given that the numbers go from 4 to 10 million, still not a big pot of money, I do think this is a conversation that should also happen within the Southeast Quadrant conversation. I think we have an opportunity, given the current zoning, to use our tools there to encourage affordable housing development that isn't as heavily subsidized as it is elsewhere because there's a lot of market interest in developing housing. Yeah.
 We also have some other work to do that's not PDC's responsibility but ours. We have an aging fire truck maintenance facility occupying four acres of property at a light rail station area. We have to find a new place to do the fire bureau maintenance work in order for that property to be freed up for housing or anything else. But that's our work to do, not PDC's.
 Given the focus in the central east side has not been housing. In fact, it's been to try to minimize the amount of housing. I want to be sure that if this expansion happens, there's appropriate policy language to guide future investments as well as to inform the southeast quadrant plan. So if that's not there, then maybe at the next hearing I'll have a amendment. Because it's not 26 in this one. Okay.
 so that's so i wanted to spend most of the time on a north mcadam and centrally side that's really what i have today in terms of an overview um i we can answer more questions we can bring up the both or the invited testimony as well as the folks who signed up to testify so i have um i've read some of the testimony we got ahead of the hearing today patrick so i want to ask you a couple questions while you're still in the hot seat and we'll bring you back later um one of the questions was
 If we move forward with parcel three and then at some point in North McAdam, we have a second site identified for affordable housing, what is the current –
 framework for deciding the allocation between deeply subsidized units at zero to 30 and other units at 30 to 60, recognizing that when we use TIF, it has to be 60 and below to be eligible under the 30 percent set-aside policy. But what's the mechanism for deciding the next allocation and split between deeply affordable and affordable in any future development? Okay.
 Well, you know, I would start by saying that the goals are the goals, and so, you know, we would use the dollars we have to meet the goals that have been established, I think, so beyond that as kind of our guiding principles.
 principal then I then it comes in the budget process and and so the money that we that that we send a PHP that that is peers in our budget and you're a budget committee that you would have as they have have the ability to direct it there and then I mean I can invite Tracy to come up and answer the rest of that question but I also think it's it then the obligation would also be on on PHP part to
 to be accountable to the objectives of council in that. So I think it's the typical accountability in any budget that we have and bring to you. Okay. And I think we're likely to hear today that in the next development, we need to continue to focus at where the need is. So that will be affirmed. The other thing is, in the –
 ordinance and the attached report. It has boilerplate at page 9 that says essentially the 30 percent set-aside policy applies. And on page 28, it talks about the modified set-aside policy that was the result of planning sustainability's push. Are we clear that it's the set-aside policy as modified by the recommendation of planning? You mean that's
 Thirty percent of all the net of 40 that the proposal that says it's 30, but 50 50 split at the back end, which is not technically the policy. We can argue about whether the policy is a floor or ceiling. I believe it's a floor. Is it clear enough in this document that, in fact, we are modifying the policy to provide for the additional resources at the back end?
 I mean, I think we've been clear in the report and our intent. I think we've shown that. But it would have to get affirmed when budgets get approved. Right. So I think that's where the legal, if you want to get tech, that's where the legal authority is when the budget gets approved. And so I think that's direction that can be provided to, by our board as well as city council to our board. Just so we have a record on this. Yes.
 Again, at pages 28 and 29, you have the specific language, most of which I can read, except there's a draft through part of it.
 But most of it I can read. And that makes clear that we're modifying the 30 percent set-aside policy to create the additional resources. And that's reflected in the chart and the text. And I just want to be clear that that, in effect, modifies the reference to the set-aside policy on page 9. Yes. Which is the generic policy. Yes. But what we're saying is for this district, we're actually committing to a higher goal. Yeah. And as you like to remind us quite often, the set-aside isn't really –
 It doesn't really limit us going up, right? So in some respects, it doesn't change the set-aside policy. It just, this is like an interstate. We're now spending well above the set-aside, you know, the goal. So the set-aside allows us to go up, right? So it's consistent with set-aside. But, yes, the commitment is in that document, but it's going to need to be reaffirmed when we go back for budgets.
 Other questions for Patrick? I have one request and then one big general question. My request is, would you mind giving Art Pierce a minute or two at this point to explain the significance of the transportation investments in the Central Eastside? Sure. Would that be okay, colleagues? Come on up. We worked on this stuff many years ago, so I'm quite familiar with all the plans for South Waterfront. Right, right.
 Central East Side. Central East Side. I can speak to Central East Side. I'm sorry. Actually, you can talk about both. Oddly enough, I'm well-versed in both. So, well, maybe starting with South Waterfront –
 As you all remember in 2009 we adopted the North Macadam transportation Investment strategy and so there's a number of transportation projects down in South Waterfront that are very key to supporting the development outcomes Down in South Waterfront the near term ones one of the very key one is of course the extension of bond It allows us to complete the Moody bond couplet primary mobility within the district and
 One of the next items that's coming up is in the very southern end of that district, what we call the South Portal, or it's at the Bancroft-Pocatum intersection. So that's another key element that's been identified really since the formation of the urban rural area as a district in the mid-90s. So that's been one that we've been tracking for many years. So those are probably some of the key ones coming up. There's a number of smaller investments that are also contemplated for the district. So of course, urban rural resources are very, very important to allow us to make both of those investments possible.
 I got a briefing the other day from OHSU, and what I learned is that the Moody Bond investment is extremely important to them to connect the streetcar to their workforce on the Schnitzer campus. Absolutely. Could you comment on that? Yeah, absolutely. So the way the district, you know,
 functions right now in part because we're waiting for, as the whole district evolves and the ZYDAL site to redevelop, we're really, really reliant on the two-way moody portion of the street system.
 the next phase and certainly for us to have enough vehicular capacity for the district we need to have moody function as in the southbound direction and bond function in the northbound direction so that's definitely crucial to to making the district work there is a contemplated sort of realignment of streetcar right around the base of the tram where currently it comes along sort of through the plaza area at the base of the tram and so that's contemplated as part of the evolution of the system there
 Okay, so on the Central East Side side. Before you move from that, is there money? My understanding is that the proposed allocation does allow enough money to build bond, but does not allow enough money to do the South Portal. Is that correct? Correct.
 That's correct. So the money that's currently listed in the budget is what's contemplated for bond. We don't have – we're just beginning the process of designing bond. So it's what's based on past projections of the cost of that project. We're just beginning the engineering really as we speak. Are you hopeful that it will cover it? I'm very hopeful that it will cover it, but I don't know that we know enough about all the engineering challenges to know for certain. Okay.
 And how about the South Portal? And then on the South Portal, the line item that is the $7 million line item that's listed as parks and transportation infrastructure is part of what was contemplated to help support the South Portal once we work farther through that design.
 for the south portal it already is on an sdc list so it is something that is eligible for some portion of it to be funded through sdcs it also is a because we've known about it really for the whole life of the district as properties have redeveloped developed such as prometheus we've
 We've requested of them they have provided non-remonstrance clauses within their agreements of their planning, so they are anticipated to be a contributor to the project. But we don't believe that we have enough resources between the SDCs and the private properties contribution to do it without also TIF resources. So that's something that is anticipated as a need for the district.
 in the coming years. So you were figuring that that parks infrastructure was for the South Portal. I was considering that it was for Parks and Greens and the Greenway. That's interesting. I think that it is, as I understood, it's a generic line talking about both parks and infrastructure, not necessarily just parks itself. Well, I...
 Well, it's also the case that we could apply for grant funds like we did with Moody. For sure. Yeah, so certainly the precedent in Moody we did very, very well. In fact, we were able to do with very little urban renewal, if any, actually. None at all with that.
 based on making a really aggressive chase federally and getting a TIGER grant. So there's always possibilities. The great benefit, I think, is that for both parks and transportation, having that as a generic resource allows us to leverage additional external resources. It's also quite possible for parks to chase external resources and use that as a leverage fund to do that same chase. That's not our assessment. Okay. Fair enough. Yeah. Yeah.
 What was the total cost of Moody? Do you remember? $56 million. Yeah. So obviously if we'd budgeted for that item, it would have blown the budget of the old district. But we were able to obtain resources that aren't just from TIF. Not all progress is paid for with TIF, even though we love paying for it with TIF. Well, we got some stimulus money too for it, right? Right. We got stimulus money and the TIGER grant. Oh, we did get some. The TIGER grant was stimulus money. Well, at this point it's a now ongoing program, right?
 Right. I think the days of large federal appropriations are certainly gone for the next few years.
 so i don't i don't think that we should rely on that rely no but again we should apply because tiger is still inactive yeah another another round of tiger grants will be announced soon um we we don't think we're ready necessarily for the south portal in terms of having a new design to to propose but it is the type of project that we certainly will uh pursue external resources for and if you look at the timeline just availability of tiff for a lot of this it's it's you know we're still three four years out from this money being available
 So it is – so the time – you know, so we don't know. The timing – the environment could be different. And South Portal is something that would definitely be, you know, at least four years out if we were to take it on. So –
 So for Central Eastside, much of the infrastructure needs is in that southern end in supporting the expansion area, as well as really where the district connects onto Powell Boulevard. So that's where there's a lot of challenges, transportation infrastructure challenges there.
 So the Milwaukee-Powell intersection itself is probably the primary investment that's contemplated there. There is additional street kind of connection infrastructure that's needed through, like, the Northwest Natural Parcels and some of those other parcels in that southern triangle area. So that is a variety of infrastructure that's needed to support the redevelopment of those parcels in the southern end there.
 So it might actually be possible to improve that intersection? We believe it can be, yes, yes. I'm not sure there's any way you can get worse. I don't think it would make it much worse, yeah. So you can see that in that slide I brought up, the transportation improvements there, that's what Art's highlighting. Thank you, Art. We won't talk about parking in Central Eastside. That's a whole other conversation. No, please, that's another conversation. Thanks, Art. Other questions for Patrick? Yes, Patrick. Oh, that's right, big question. Here's my big, hairy question for you.
 which is that a few weeks ago we had a discussion about the Portland building, and we were told that we need to spend something around $100 million, both to make it habitable and to prevent it from falling down in the event of an earthquake.
 And we had a bit of a discussion about where are we going to come up with $100 million. And one of my suggestions was, well, maybe we just shut down all the urban renewal areas, and how much of that could we pay for it by early defeasance of urban renewal areas? And so I – it's not that everybody jumped to endorse that idea, but we didn't have too many ideas around the table.
 And I asked you last week to compare these amendments not with status quo, but with early defeasance, or defeasance as early as possible of all of the URAs. And I really appreciate it. You actually got that information to me yesterday. I'm actually going to pass the sheet out to my colleagues. And it says that...
 If we shut everything down as soon as possible compared to what's contemplated in this plan, we wind up actually getting about $100 million in general fund.
 And so my assumption is that even if we adopt all the amendments, that doesn't mean that if nobody has a better idea about how to pay for the Portland building six months from now, we might not be able to, that we can't decide as a council, well, you know what, we actually just can't afford to do urban renewal anymore. We need to spend it on the Portland building instead. Okay.
 So my question for you is, at what point and what actions are these decisions irrevocable? At what point – I mean, are there actions like signing development agreements that mean that we can no longer think about early defeasance as a way to get more general fund money? Yes, I –
 So the answer is there's kind of a nuanced answer to that. I think every single day you get more and more locked in, and so how much debt you issue really is the ultimate indicator. But, yeah, we have a development agreement with PSU. When the urban renewal area or if the urban renewal gets approved, I should say, then we now have obligations to PSU of a certain amount or working on projects with PSU. I know people – there's –
 around the topic. So projects in concert with PSU, so then that gets triggered and that's totaling $19 million right now. You would have that kind of all over the place, kind of slowly adding up. You'd have obligations that would require you to borrow and then you'd be locked in there. Okay.
 So I'm not going to say that it's at some point it's irrevocable, like everything is off the table, but I do think we are beginning to make plans that I've laid out here that would, within a year or two, would lock us into the entire package here. But the PSU agreement, that would happen automatically as soon as we make a plan?
 So we're coming to you. Council approves your amendments. If you approve that amendment, then that does trigger our obligations under that agreement. You know, I would say that we have other obligations within the urban renewal areas that we
 that we would probably lay on the table that would also kind of constrain what we could do in terms of shutting down our renewal areas. You know, the other thing is if you look at what we're doing in River District, I mean, maybe at the end of the day what's left is you get to chip away at our renewal areas if there really is excess AV and do it that way. Yeah.
 I know I'm bouncing around, but it's a pretty theoretical question because I think we're more locked in than maybe the question acknowledges. Patrick, the chart you handed out, just so I'm clear, if you were to just take this abstract concept, and Steve said that it didn't generate a lot of enthusiasm, I don't think it generated a second, but it's worth, I think, to illustrate a point, it's worth having this discussion here.
 The loss to categories of investment that the city is committed to is pretty staggering under this. Let me just be clear.
 Your memo says that the loss to housing would be $84 million? Correct. So that shuts down affordable housing investment as we know it. And the loss to PDC economic development is $216 million? Well, it's to everything else. So that's everything non-housing. So it's not. But that includes the loan programs. Infrastructure. Anything that we have in our line for parks or for infrastructure for redevelopment projects. And you total that at $300 million?
 The total is 300, so the difference between, you know, take 84 goes to housing, so it's the remainder. What is that? 216. Yeah. Yeah.
 So I guess I would say if we move to a complete defeasance of urban renewal, I'll bring an amendment to say that we'll take the first $84 million off the top and put back into housing because I think we all agree that's a first priority of the city. But it will come at the cost of no economic development, and that may end up having some impact on jobs and growing the pie. But there's a time and a place to have that debate. Okay. I know you want to go to – I just have one question. So please. Go ahead.
 And that is on page 31 of the North McAdam report. It says that the total TIF that we're now expecting is $122 million, but then it says that the project staffing is $15,200,000. Is that right? $15,200,000 is the amount? Over the remaining life of the district. So that's roughly 10 years of 10, 11 years of work on that.
 on projects of significance. So that's, I mean, for a district of that size with a number of projects, that's what that equates to. So it's about $1.5 million a year in administrative costs. Okay, thank you. Okay, Patrick, I know I will have a little more questions for you later, but let's do get our panelists up.
 Our first three folks are here from our partner local governments, David Wine from Portland Public Schools, Brian Newman from Oregon Health and Sciences University, and Kevin Reynolds from Portland State University. Thank you for being here. Thank you. David, you go first. Whatever order you'd like to go in. David? Okay. Good afternoon. Mayor Hales, city commissioners, I'm David Wine. I'm the deputy chief financial officer and the budget director for Portland Public Schools.
 First of all, thank you for including Portland Public Schools in the advisory committee that considered these changes. We appreciate that as a partner jurisdiction. We do support these proposals. Moving properties out of urban renewal and back onto the tax rolls is the ultimate objective of urban renewal, and we're pleased to see that happening.
 I've joked for some time that Urban Renewal is the Hotel California of public finance. You check in, but you never leave. I think I may not be able to use that anymore if we start accelerating pulling things out of Urban Renewal. So I'm disappointed at losing that punchline, but happy to see us moving property back onto the tax rolls. This will benefit the state school fund and schools across the state, including Portland Public Schools.
 And the only other thing I did want to say is that in regards to the education, Urban and Women in the Area, the original plans for that, which never really took off, did include the Lincoln High School site, which we care about.
 We are in the early stages of developing some possibility of including that in the capital bond. And whilst we're disappointed to see it fall out of that possible urban renewal area, we're excited about the possibility of working with the city as we get and develop plans over time for that site. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thanks for working on this with us. You're welcome.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, members of the City Council. My name is Kevin Reynolds. I'm Vice President for Finance and Administration at Portland State University. President Lavelle is out of town today, but he wanted to convey his personal thanks to the Mayor, Executive Director Quinton, members of the Council, and others who have worked so diligently over the past period of time on this development agreement between PDC and PSU. We're very grateful.
 We do fully support the changes to the education Northam Academy RAs, as have been proposed this afternoon. We really appreciate the collaborative effort to develop a synergistic plan, which not only supports the growth of our university over the next 10 years and benefits the students, but continues the development of this great city of ours.
 We believe this new agreement continues to recognize our critical role in education and research and our contribution to economic development and cultural impact in Portland. It further strengthens what is already a great relationship between the city and the university, and it helps us plan our future as we expand our urban mission.
 As you know, Portland State University worked very closely with the city and with the PDC to develop the education URA. We advocated strongly for it because we believed it would have bolstered our growth, created new downtown low-income and student housing, and had other benefits. Thank you.
 That said, from our standpoint, the changes proposed today to expand the North Macadam URA is a cost-effective alternative and would guide further development of the downtown area, including the University District.
 In closing, we fully support the URA changes as approved. The changes show continued commitment from the city to support our university and our students and our community partners. Thank you very much. Thank you. And I want to thank you and President DeVille. This is an extraordinary act of civic partnership on PSU's part, and it's much appreciated here. Thank you very much.
 Brian, welcome. Thank you, Mayor Hales and members of the Commission. Brian Newman with Oregon Health and Science University. I was also a member of the Urban Revisory Amendment Committee that Jillian Detweiler chaired and I want to thank Jillian and the PDC staff. They kept us laser focused on the three goals that you set out at the beginning of the hearing today.
 Before I jump into my testimony, I just want to clarify one thing that Patrick mentioned. There's no OHSU land or buildings that are being transferred from the Education URA to North McAdam. I think he made an honest mistake in that there were two parcels that OHSU owned in the original Education URA, but those buildings, like most of the land that's in the Education URA, are being removed from that district. They're not being transferred, so I just want to make sure that was clear.
 As you know from my testimony three weeks ago, we're actively expanding our academic and clinical campus in South Waterfront, including building out the local road network to serve our buildings. Through the Knight Cancer Challenge and our own revenue, we will have developed just over 40 percent of our campus by the time this next wave of development is completed in 2018, well on our way of building out that full campus as we expected over 25 years.
 Healthcare is an industry that's changing rapidly, and this campus expansion allows us to continue to carry out our mission of providing the state of Oregon and all Oregonians access to healthcare, the research and the clinical trials that we provide, as well as training for healthcare jobs.
 Although we're not an economic development agency, when we do our work well, we produce quality jobs, temporary jobs from the construction activities for the projects that we're working on now, but also permanent well-paying jobs in health care, teaching, research, and support roles.
 We also ensure our job creation actions benefit the community as a whole. As an example, our construction jobs are 100% union wage, prevailing wage jobs, and we include significant mentorship opportunities and participation for minority women-owned and emerging small businesses. We're also making significant investments in the Jefferson High School cluster to encourage and enable students from underrepresented communities to pursue health care as a career.
 OHSU strongly supports the ordinance before you today as we believe it is the only mechanism the city has to complete the regional portion of the transportation network serving South Waterfront.
 today all traffic in South Waterfront be it bike car auto excuse me bike pedestrian auto truck is funneled on South on Southwest Moody Street which is already congested the extension of Bond Avenue is critical our patient students and employees appreciate the city taking the action necessary to continue improving access into the district and so with that we support the ordinance and really think the city for its partnership and we're happy to participate in the process
 Thank you. I'm going to just if I can make one comment. I was just doing the math. I'm the only member of the council before you today that actually voted for the Education URA. So we have a little history with at least two of the three presenters. And I want to thank particularly PSU for the collaborative way they have engaged the Plan B that has been put before you. And from my point of view, there were two necessary conditions that had to be met.
 One was that we had to find an alternative way to support the growth and expansion of the university district, which is both good for PSU and good for the city. And we had to find a way to compensate for the loss of the set-aside money for affordable housing in an area that was ripe for development. There was a lot of dirt that could be developed.
 And I appreciate in that regard that, as Patrick noted, the proposal to expand North McAdam actually accelerates the availability of dollars for affordable housing. So that's not just a sort of a neutral consequence. That actually puts us ahead in the short term in terms of available dollars. But I appreciate the way that you approached those negotiations. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. And I wanted to add to that thank you for raising the issue of who voted for the education you are in, who did not.
 Because I did not. It's awfully lonely up here. Well, and it was very important to me that a promise is a promise. And so I worked with President Vival over the past year to make sure that he is okay and that this university is okay with the revised proposal. I don't know whether I'm going to support it or not. It's still important to me that when the council as a whole makes a promise, that we keep our promises. So thank you for being a partner in figuring out what that looks like.
 All right. Thank you and President Robertson as well for being amazing partners and carrying out your part of the plan rather aggressively, and we appreciate that. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Now we have some more folks that were on the committee that I want to call, please. Debbie Kitchen, Sean Hubert, and Marion Haynes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I am Sean Hubert. I'm the Chief Housing Officer for Central City Concern, and I had the opportunity to serve on both the URA Advisory Committee and the West Quadrant Plan, and my testimony today bridges both of those. The Advisory Committee was tasked, as you know, with balancing key URA district goals with a desire to return revenue to the taxing jurisdictions. Can you move the mic a little closer? It moves. It moves.
 So overall, I think that this has been achieved in the recommendations before you, which deliver a significant net gain to the taxing jurisdictions while preserving key investment opportunities needed to realize URA goals. I particularly want to highlight a few areas relevant to our work at CCC, the River District downtown URA adjustments and the North McAdam and affordable housing goals. By many measures, the River District has been a success.
 but its boundary also includes areas within Old Town that continue to struggle with disinvestment and blight. The committee engaged in a very robust conversation on how much acreage to remove or retire in light of this need in Old Town. In the end, while not unanimous, the committee voted to include Block 33 within the River District while still achieving a significant overall reduction in URA acreage.
 The CCC strongly supports this proposed amendment as Block 33 represents a significant potential catalytic site in the heart of the Old Town District. And in our view, inclusion of this site supports the city's ongoing efforts in the revitalization of the original downtown and the one area of the central city which has not participated in the broader real estate recovery.
 In terms of the North McAdamy-URA boundary, the committee affirmed the value that Portland State University brings to both the local district economy as well as that of the overall city. However, the district has been challenged in living up to its original affordability goals and the comprehensive plan goals around economic diversity reflective of a broader city.
 And this led to a difficult discussion about whether to revise downward these goals given resource constraints. And we are pleased that after much discussion, the district's original housing goals have been reaffirmed in the recommendations before you.
 But the struggles present in the North McAdam affordable housing conversation are reflective of the issues faced by the city as a whole. And illustrate that affordability and economic diversity in neighborhoods will not be achieved without a robust set of tools and resources coordinated across the city's bureaus. I want to applaud the city's ongoing look at zoning incentives and other tools to further affordability. And it's also its deployment of additional resources in the interstate URA.
 But I also want to encourage the city to continue to look at ways of deeper and more effective coordination across city bureaus behind an aligned housing policy. And I'd like to continue to press the importance of achieving a dedicated revenue source that can be deployed citywide. Ultimately, if we're going to deliver on affordable, diverse, and inclusive neighborhoods, we will need a dedicated and predictable source of ongoing funding outside of the urban renewal areas. Thank you. Thank you. All right. You're welcome.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I'm Debbie Kitchen, and I'm representing the Central Eastside Industrial Council. We had a member of our board, Peter Finley-Fry, who participated on the advisory committee. We support the advisory committee's recommendations on the expansion and extension of the URA with the understanding that the projects support the following priorities—
 It's important to us to ensure efficient freight movement. Infrastructure improvements that enhance freight movement are a top priority, especially in the southern end of the district where higher density development is envisioned to occur, and this is in the light rail stations primarily.
 These improvements would also improve safety and access for all users of the transportation system and the district. Safer and easier access to Powell Boulevard and the Ross Island Bridge are a high priority and will facilitate more intensive business development around the light rail stations.
 We are concerned about the amendments that were in earlier versions of the Advisory Committee report about underdeveloped areas adjacent to the Clinton Station. However, at the time that we were looking at it, it hadn't been identified for affordable housing. We are fine with affordable housing at the Clinton Station. Other than affordable housing, we would prefer that the investments focus on transportation and infrastructure improvements such as that.
 The ODOT blocks on Water Avenue have long been identified by our board as a priority for important development opportunity to add to the city's tax base. It's a high priority that we have development on the property that contributes to both the employment base of the city as well as the tax base. And this development should be prioritized for private sector employment expansion.
 More intensive development around the ODOT blocks and the light rail station may lead to the need for structured parking in the future, so we support evaluating the need and adding structured parking if it is deemed that it would unlock the development potential for those priority sites. This assessment should be coordinated with the CEIC's Transportation and Parking Advisory Committee.
 We support considerations that the Hossford-Abernathy Neighborhood Association has put forward about safety concerns on 11th and 12th between Hawthorne and Division. We don't favor speed bumps on those roads or narrowing the right-of-way, but something like pedestrian crossings or
 traffic lights would be, we think would be appropriate to kind of slow down traffic through that area. It is a connection with residential and the commercial on the Central East Side district side, and we want to maintain the safety of those crossings for pedestrians. Thank you.
 Central East Side has been a unique opportunity and continues to be a unique opportunity for growth of employment and industrial sectors in our city's economy. And so we want to support the diverse industry clusters that are there. We feel that this expansion, and especially if the dollars are focused on some of the transportation improvements and ODOT blocks and the sites around the light rail stations, that that will help achieve that goal.
 We also feel that it's important to maintain the affordability of the business development opportunities there. It's going to be distinct and different from what's available in South Waterfront, although there may be connections because of the bridge. We feel that we're
 We feel that this is an opportunity for startup businesses and smaller businesses to grow and prosper because we do have the industrial zoning, the stable conditions that promote long-term investment and close proximity to downtown and the central city. So thank you for the opportunity to testify today. Thank you. So, Debbie, thank you for your testimony and for all your work on this. Is the Central Eastside Industrial Council confident that the language in the report addresses the concerns that you just raised?
 It, especially the projects that were identified, how this money was being spent, I think it does support what we are recommending. So we're happy with that and support that. We do feel that there's more, that this increased density around the light rail stations is going to lead to some congestion issues. And the ability for freight to move through the area and other transportation at these sites is really important.
 So we were happy to see those.
 So there's strong enough policy language on the freight movement that you're comfortable? Yes. Thank you. And it's combined with the work that's happening in the southeast quadrant planning process where we are maintaining the district as a freight district. It does have underlying industrial zoning in most of the industrial sanctuary areas and then with just small modifications in the corridors and around the light rail stations. Thank you. Deb?
 Debbie, by the way, I'm going to nominate you later for the Scott Andrews Award for this year.
 I was reflecting that you're the perfect candidate for this year, and that goes to someone in the private sector who wears three or more leadership hats, testifies before us on a regular basis, has no possible way of maintaining her day job. And if there was any honor on our side, we'd actually give you an office so that you could do your work while you were here. I appreciate that. I do have to give testimony to my husband, who does maintain and carry on the business while I am busy with many of my security.
 Thanks for all the hats you wear. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, members of the council. My name is Marion Haines and I'm with the Portland Business Alliance. I should thank Debbie as well, who serves as our board chair this year. The alliance served on the advisory committee for these changes and supports the package before you today. I would also like to thank PDC staff. This was a complex topic with a lot of moving parts given the six districts that we were working on. So they did a lot of work to keep us on track.
 The issue that was raised earlier by Central City Concern I should just touch on briefly. We had gone into this process with a focus on Old Town Chinatown, Skidmore area and had brought forth a recommendation for moving that block. It didn't ultimately come in the recommendations before you're here.
 before you hear today, but we do hope to be able to have ongoing conversations about Old Town Chinatown. It is an area of the city that still needs significant investment, and we think we can continue to have those conversations in the future. That being said, the alliance has always supported the promise of urban renewal, and I think there are two sides to that in our view. One is the investments that we can make with the tax increment money to –
 instigate new development, job creation, economic development, things of that nature that ultimately increase property values, which then brings you to the second part of fulfilling urban renewal, which is actually returning the money to the overlapping taxing jurisdictions. And I think with the package before you today, we've accomplished that goal and balanced those two things. So we're happy to support that. Thank you very much. Questions for this panel? Thank you all.
 So now I want to call a distinguished housing panel, former Commissioner Gretchen Kifori, former city staff Margaret Bax. Okay. No, she's giving you deference. So we're all giving you deference. Okay. Well, that's fine. That's fine. But why don't you come on up with her, Gretchen, if you'd like. Well, we have their name as we receive the address. Ah, okay. We're all on.
 I hear you. All right. Thank you. I will bow to your organization. Hi, I'm Kathleen Hirsch, co-president of the League of Women Voters of Portland. This will be the first naysayer. The proposed Central East Side Amendment would expand the size and extend the life of that district by five years. The League urges the City Council to oppose this amendment.
 The proposed acreage expansion and half the funds from the five-year extension are targeted for development adjacent to the new Clinton Street light rail station. The city owns much of the land in the proposed Clinton Triangle expansion area.
 Surely we can find a different way to fund moving the city services located there, installing infrastructure, and guiding planned private development without taking money from classrooms and mental health services. Is it possible, for example, to issue bonds that could be repaid with proceeds from the sale of the improved land and the system development charges that would be
 collected when the land is developed. The district was created in 1986, was due to expire nine years ago. In 2006, a review committee, the PDC board, the planning commission, all recommended extending the life of the district by eight years and increasing the maximum indebtedness by $23 million.
 City Council instead chose to extend the district by 12 years, increase the maximum indebtedness by $35 million. If five more years are added to the Central Eastside URA, it will have been in existence for 37 years before it stops issuing debt. This would make it the longest lived district in the city's history.
 The local taxing jurisdictions, including the schools, the county, and the city's general fund, will not fully recover their foregone revenue until mid-century, this century, 2051-52. If the district ends in 2018, per the last amendment, this break-even point will occur in 2035-36.
 The other funds from the extension are targeted for opportunities that have recently emerged. Anyone passing through the central east side today will observe an actively developing district benefiting from many years of public investment. It by no means exhibits the underperformance and decay of an urban renewal area. Additional projects that would be nice to do will continue to come up because the central east side is an interesting and viable area.
 It is the League's position that the district should end in 2018 as it is currently planned. It is time to let the district continue its positive trajectory with private investment under the guidance of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and with support from city resources when needed.
 It has been said that urban renewal districts should not be used as the city's ATM. Extending the Central Eastside Urban Renewal District is doing just that by taking money from the county and schools accounts to pay for improvements the city alone should provide. We urge the City Council to let the Central Eastside Urban Renewal Area expire after 32 years and find another funding mechanism for the Clinton Triangle development.
 Debbie? I'm Debbie Iona, representing the League of Women Voters also. Although the League appreciates the consideration staff have devoted to the North McAdam affordable housing concerns, we cannot support adoption of the plan amendment until there is more certainty about how the housing goals will be met. More details on the number and affordability of units on the Parcel 3 project,
 and secure commitments for sites from each of the major property owners, PSU, OHSU, and Zydel, are needed. The district's five-year extension and expansion is critical to their success. That should be used as leverage to acquire items that benefit the public, including land for affordable housing and parks.
 The public is understandably skeptical of the city's commitment to affordable housing and South Waterfront. Fifteen years have passed and only 209 units have been developed. Long-time observers have seen the city release property owners from their affordable housing obligations in the Central District, on OHSU's Block 33, and with PSU at the Doubletree site. Collectively, they represent close to 1,000 affordable units.
 The League recommends that you rebuild community trust by securing commitments for sites from the three major property owners before taking action and provide more details in the plan amendment. Oregon's urban renewal statute requires that substantial amendments include a description of each project, estimated total costs with sources of monies, and anticipated completion dates.
 This information is available for transportation, commercial redevelopment, and other anticipated projects but not housing. We recommend the following revisions to the amendment. The concept of meeting the income profile of the city as a whole is a city policy and should be stated as such. Include a commitment to meet the income profile in newly developed units in the expansion area.
 The Harbor NATO site should be left out of the document unless the city is confident it is a viable location for housing. A recent report in Governing Magazine places Portland at the top of the list of 50 U.S. cities in the number of neighborhoods experiencing gentrification since 2000. The city anticipates significant residential growth in the central city.
 including South Waterfront. If Portland is going to live up to its ideal of a diverse and inclusive city, we need to devote considerably more attention and resources to housing affordability.
 Again, we urge you to withhold approval of the amendment until there are more specifics on parcel 3 and firm commitments for affordable housing sites in the district. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Mayor Hills, commissioners, I'm Shelly Lorenzen, League of Women Voters of Portland. The proposal before you today would extend the life of the North McAdam District by five years. Thank you.
 These additional five years will allow the PDC to collect property taxes to support improvements important to the ZYDEL's private development plans. We understand negotiations with ZYDEL have stalled or maybe are ongoing at best. In the league's view, extending the district in advance of a deal would be a critical mistake. That extension is your bargaining chip.
 No development agreement, no urban renewal dollars for infrastructure investment that will benefit the Zydels. We also urge the city not to consider the Zydels planned development to be the fair exchange for urban renewal dollars. Per the development agreement, the Zydels do not have to develop anything unless the market is there. The city should stay firm that the Zydels must commit to affordable housing, parks,
 and Greenway improvements in exchange for urban renewal dollars. Should the Zydels decide they are not willing to make those commitments, then the League urges the city to use its zoning power to require those fundamental features as part of this development. And in fact, we would suggest that that apply to OHSU properties as well as the Zydel properties. Today's proposal also would remove about 36 acres from the River District, as you heard earlier.
 And the League respectfully requests that you remove more acres from the district. While 36 acres may sound significant, the financial impact on the affected jurisdictions is actually very small. For example, in 2015-16, the City will have only $1.5 million more to spend on citywide services, the County $1.4 million.
 These are insignificant sums compared to the tens of millions of dollars that go to PDC each year to pay for river district projects. $32 million in 2013 and 14 alone. We believe there's at least one obvious way that more acres could be removed from the district now and money for that Portland building. $30 million is in the budget for the post office property.
 We have been advised by the PDC that in any post office deal, the city will simply serve as a legal intermediary between the U.S. Postal Service and the private developers that will develop the property. In short, the city will buy and flip the property. Because of the unfortunate impact on the city, county, and schools, we urge you to explore whether this plan could be better financed in a different way without using urban renewal dollars.
 In other words, find another source of financing for the purchase of the post office property, release the assessed value supporting the $30 million post office line item in the budget, and return the corresponding tax revenues to the taxing jurisdictions. Should this prove impossible, we ask that you at least remove that $30 million line item as soon as the post office deal is done. Thank you very much. Thank you. Questions? Questions?
 Yeah, I have a few, and Debbie, I'm going to direct them to you. Okay. And I want to start by saying, and I apologize for my voice, I'm going to head home soon, but I believe that you are, if not the indispensable person, an indispensable person on this affordable housing piece. And I just want to thank you for service on the committee. Thank you.
 for holding our feet to the fire and for the quality of your advocacy. Thank you for saying that. And because you've given us comprehensive written testimony, I just want to clarify a few things because it's very clear, but I just want to make sure that we have all the available information. The first is with respect to the proposal to spend more than 30% on housing. Do you have a position on that?
 Well, I certainly think it's fine to spend more money on housing. With your help, maybe we'll export that to other districts. Number two, in your testimony, you raised a concern about getting further details about the number and affordability of units at Parcel 3. At page 29 of the document before us, and I realize this has gone through a lot of revisions at the end, so you may not have seen everything here.
 But it says that there will be at least 62 affordable units, zero to 30, and the rest 138 at 30 to 60. And there is a whole paragraph describing that that's been drafted. Is that the kind of specificity you're looking for in terms of the hard numbers, at least the floor numbers of what we're going to build and at what income level? Yes. Okay.
 Although let me just say, you know, I'm going to be followed by a number of people who have a lot of expertise in housing development, and I hope you ask them a similar question so they can give you more information. I also think that it's trust but verify, so we want to make sure the language in here is clear about the floor that we're building, and you've called that out, so I appreciate that.
 You also mentioned in your testimony that we should consider deferring taking an action until we have a deal with Mr. Zydel. And I appreciate the spirit of that, and there's been some discussion about whether that creates leverage and can we get certain goals.
 I'm just going to make a comment about that, which is we have no power to compel an agreement with Mr. Zydell or any other property owner. The one concern that I have is that I'd hate to be coming back here in a year or two and saying, gosh, where are we in negotiations, and missing the chance to move on some things that the community has said is a priority. I just want to be clear. We can't force a deal. We can be clear about the terms of a deal.
 but we can't compel a deal. And frankly, if there is no deal, which I think is regrettable, there will actually be more resources to spend in other parts of the district.
 Because the city was contemplating spending some money to build out the infrastructure. So Mr. Zidell will make his own judgment about whether it's in his interest or not to have a deal. But we can't compel that deal. And I'm just deeply reluctant to condition a lot of things that I think are important on whether a property owner comes to terms with the city. So I just offer that as an observation. In your testimony, you also...
 question the idea of buying units in market rate housing. And you say that your preferred approach is planning and developing affordable projects from the ground up. I just want to say I wholeheartedly support that. And my understanding is that the city's current position in negotiations is that we want to be able to have dirt for a project, not buying individual units. Although in the PSU development agreement, it's buying units in market rate.
 At that one site, at the university place. And that was also in the Zydell development agreement, the one that is no longer. So my understanding is that the city is now looking at acquiring a piece of dirt for development. I just want to affirm with respect to Zydell.
 that deal that my preferred approach would be to have a piece of dirt that can be developed not acquiring scattered site Units and other buildings and frankly, I don't even know how that would work given that we're also trying to focus on The needs of very low-income Folks that deeply subsidized units. I we've gotten away from scattered site in all of our housing So that is individual units. So I just I just want to say I I'm
 I agree with that, and my understanding is the city is trying to negotiate dirt, not individual units with Mr. Zydel. And...
 again why you think Harbor NATO should be taken out because you just think it's just not a decent enough site for development? Well, you know, it's been mentioned for a number of years and I really – I don't think I've ever heard anybody say anything particularly good about it. And, again, I think I'm going to defer to people – you're going to have people here who used to be city employees who can – in the housing world who can speak more – But you're raising a question about whether that's given its location the proper
 Yeah, if you go by it, it doesn't really look like a great place to have people live. It's not my preferred site either. But I don't know that we need to take it out of the document because we're hopefully going to have more than just those two options. So thank you for your testimony. I just think maybe it gives people false hope to put something in there that really isn't viable. That's why we're saying you should really make sure you think it's viable before it stays in the document. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, now I might be able to persuade former Commissioner Query to come up and perhaps Margaret Backs with her and Will White. And then after that I'm going to call Andre Baugh, who's our Planning and Sustainability Chair. I think you want to speak, Andre, so thank you for being here. But let's hear from this distinguished panel and then we'll call up our volunteer superstar. Sorry.
 I feel today – Deborah on the phone. Kofori. Deborah is calling in a question, so wait a second. I should. I'm Gretchen Kofori, retired, I thought, and I feel today like the ghost of Christmas past and –
 My job is to remind you. I'm Scrooge, by the way, and everybody that's had to work with me or for me knows that's the truth. But I would really like to remind my friends up here that three of you were involved with me in 98, 99, when we did this ambitious...
 housing policy rewrite for the city and Charlie you were the planning person and Dan you came on to keep my chair warmed all these years and Amanda was on the planning commission so and I think Steve was agitating about Urban Renewal financing in the community at the time but so we all have it was in middle school yeah well I was going to leave you out but I would be hard to do that
 But we all put a lot of work and energy before I rode off to PSU in the sunset. And the purpose was to set clear goals for the city. The reason I feel like the Christmas past reminder is that the commitments that we made at that time have not been kept. And you've heard already that they have not been kept.
 They are not necessarily planning to be kept, except for a lot of scurrying in the last few weeks. And believe me, I know how hard this is, but I still don't think it's enough. Our little rump group of the old-timers or the old bats or whatever we call ourselves has not... Speak for yourself. I know, speaking for myself. I am, I am the Scrooge that...
 we just don't think this is specific enough there isn't enough agreement as to what will be developed and when it will be developed and we want to see more of that specificity it doesn't sound like it's there on the parks or on the housing and I'm just begging you to reserve this very critical tool
 Like it or not, it is a critical tool that the city has to finance affordable housing and use it wisely. These are precious resources, and you have the power to use them wisely. Thank you.
 Who's next? Margaret? Thank you. Margaret Backs, 3435 Northeast 22nd. I passed out. Carla has my written testimony. As we all know, I do better if I read from a written thing than speak expertaneously.
 I want to first thank you for your decision to reaffirm the City's comprehensive plan housing policy that states all new redevelopment areas will reflect the income distribution of the City and for affirming your commitment to meet the North McAdam housing goals, which we adopted in 2003. I also want to thank you for the decision to reestablish a process for annual monitoring and reporting of progress towards meeting these goals. These are welcome modifications to the plan that was released last fall.
 I also want to strongly encourage you to now make a concrete plan to meet these goals. With City Council's commitment and leadership, the goals will be met. Without it, they won't.
 Portland has a history of getting things done. It has taken on and successfully completed difficult, expensive, complex projects such as a redevelopment of Columbia Villa and Iris Court, light rail, streetcar, and the aerial tram, name just a few. These all required long-term commitment and coordination by multiple city agencies as well as significant public investments.
 Similarly, to meet the North McAdam housing goals, the city needs a multiyear development plan with specific sites, draft project concepts with anticipated number of units and timelines. Buying the units in future market rate development is not an effective strategy, nor is it a wise use of public funds. It would most likely result in higher per unit costs. You could easily spend the money.
 but that's not the goal the goal is to build housing for lower income people the need to secure land for affordable housing was identified as fundamental to meeting the housing goals in 1999 when this ura was established in 2003 when the housing strategy was adopted and several times since it is still literally the foundation of a successful housing strategy yet it has not been done
 Most of the infrastructure has been built, thousands of market rate condos and apartments, office, retail, parking garages, hotels. But today there is still only one building with 209 units of affordable housing. Thank you.
 On page 29 of the report accompanying the amendment today, I made a copy of it for you, is a list of 14 PDC-owned properties. According to this chart, most have been either sold or disposed of for the parking facilities, hotels, condos, parks, streets. Mm-hmm.
 But there and there are four remaining active sites, including the double block across the street from the park. This is often referred to as Block 33. In the early days of the district, this lot was slated to be the centerpiece of the city's affordable housing strategy. In fact, by 2006, the city had invested over $6 million to secure this site for 400 units of affordable housing.
 No housing has been built there, and the city has now released the owner of the site, OHSU, of its obligation to make it affordable for housing. Yet it appears that at least $3 million of PDC housing funds are still tied up at the site. Thank you.
 I suggest the city considers entering an agreement with OHSU to build affordable housing there if you do indeed still have a stake in the property. OHSU has had the use of city funds for over 10 years, and during this period, property values have risen dramatically. Alternatively, OHSU could transfer another suitable site from their extensive holdings in the district.
 for affordable housing for its low-income clients and workers. Similarly, PSUs should be required to make the site available for low-income housing. They too employ workers, many who travel a long way to their jobs because they can't afford to live nearby. ZYDEL also should be required to make housing site available. The City intends to spend nearly $25 million to build streets and other public improvements to make ZYDEL and OHSU's land developable and more valuable.
 Allowing the city to buy land for affordable housing is a minimal requirement in exchange for past and future large public expenditures. Alternatively, Zydel and OHSU could pay to complete Bond Street and the other public infrastructures as developers must do in non-URA projects. The city could then use this money for affordable housing and parks.
 Sixty years ago, Portland established its first urban renewal district, the South Auditorium URA. Historic Italian and Jewish communities were demolished, displacing thousands of residents along with churches, community centers, and small businesses. In their place, high-rise apartments, strip malls, concrete parks, and fountains were built.
 It seemed like a good idea at the time, but I think many of us today would agree that this wasn't the right thing to do. Much of that area is being added to the NorthMAC URA and this flat amendment. As a community, we have an opportunity to get it right this time, to build a vibrant, diverse neighborhood and to not repeat past mistakes. With your leadership and direction, we can do this. Without it, it just won't happen.
 Thanks again for taking the time and effort to make this emerging neighborhood one that is affordable and accessible To people of all income levels and one the city will be proud of for generations to come. Thank you I've attached the original housing goals from the URA that was adopted in 1999 and the list of properties which interestingly enough on the back side are your Demographics of the neighborhood which are which are pretty interesting as well. I
 Thank you. Thanks, Margaret. At the end of the – I'll let you keep going with your testimony and the others we've invited, but I want to make sure we get Patrick back up and also Tracy from the Housing Bureau to address some of the specifics that have been raised. But one of them, of course, is this Block 33. And as I understand it, the Housing Bureau recommended abandoning that housing commitment there.
 And that was a decision that was supported by PHB. So I want to hear more about the rationale behind that later on. I would, too. That's interesting. Certainly it happened well after we were gone. Me, too. Yeah. So thank you. The point is then where's that $3 million? Let's hear from Patrick about that. Go ahead, Will. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm Will White, former city housing director and until recently senior advisor to Senator Jeff Merkley. And I really appreciate the opportunity to testify today on a matter that I've been working on for now about 20 years. So I want to start with a little bit of history because I think it helps inform what is going on now.
 I was already active on housing issues in Portland in 1996 when the River District URA was first created. At that time, along with other advocates, I advised the council that a deal whereby the city investments, which were taking down the Lovejoy ramp, building the streetcar, building two parks and a water feature,
 should not be responded to by simply getting development at higher densities per acre. And that was the plan at the time, and it was clear to me that that's exactly what developers want always, is to develop at the highest possible density because that's the maximum profit that will be realized.
 We presented data demonstrating this and said that the city should instead require a mix of incomes in the new neighborhood, so that we really ended up with a balanced and diverse neighborhood. Ultimately, as you know, the River District did become a successful mixed-income neighborhood because of the development of projects like Pearl Court, Lovejoy Station, the Sitka Station Place, and others. And I think when I am with people from out of town visiting there,
 They're astonished that they can't pick out the affordable housing in that neighborhood. It looks every bit as nice as the market rate rental apartments and condos. So that happened because we built those affordable properties early while the land prices were low, and the city held the developer to explicit standards. And so I think we need to learn from that opportunity.
 Two years after the River District was established, a then-member of city council called me and apologized for having not listened to some of the advice we offered
 back in 1996, and he said, I'd like you to sit on the advisory committee for a new district we're about to establish called North McAdam. It's going to be 130 acres, much larger. We really need to get the housing piece right this time. And so along with Tasha Harmon, I accepted that appointment and spent the next several years in those meetings trying to get the housing piece right.
 But guess what? That did not happen. PDC and the council adopted sound targets, but some strategic mistakes were made in three areas. First of all, it was decided that the housing should happen at the back end of the building.
 the development period rather than at the front When everything was going to be more expensive and that was with the understandable rationale that TIF producing projects had to be done first But secondly sites were not acquired while the land was cheap. I don't know how many meetings I went to where staff reported to us that they'd turned down a possible acquisition because the owner wanted too much money for it and then the prices would continue to escalate of course and
 And finally, affordable housing is not required in the specific development agreements with property owners early on in the process. So as a result, we have nearly 3,000
 very handsome condominium units and luxury apartments that have been built, but not a single unit of affordable housing until we began, until more than a decade had passed, and only that sole project, I believe, was approved because it would provide housing for homeless veterans during a time of war. So it was a very compelling and important project. I'm glad it got approved, but it took that kind of heart connection to
 to get a first and only project approved in North McAdam. We then made another serious mistake in my mind. Well, it took one other thing. Yes. It took the reversal of the collapse of the tax credit market. Ah, yes. In fairness, it just didn't pencil out during the Depression. But when the tax credit market came back,
 Margaret Van Vliet, I think, took ten different runs of that one. But once the tax credit market solidified and the financing, we were able to move forward. Yeah, we had a period where the tax credits were getting a very low return. I agree with that. The other mistake, in my mind, was in 2003 when we abandoned the comprehensive plan policy that Gretchen Kifori just referred to, which states that new neighborhoods created with public money should reflect the income profile of the city as a whole.
 Instead of being bold and finding creative ways to get the funds to do this, we adopted the now well-known constrained funding model, which lowered the housing goals by 64 percent. Not just a small cut in the housing goals, a 64 percent slashing of the goals that would have made this neighborhood comparable to the rest of the city of Portland.
 Now, then what happened after that? We didn't even meet those modest goals. We have built 479 units of affordable, we were to have built 479 units under the constrained goals, but we're short of that now by 270 units, which is a 56% shortfall on the slashed goals. And now we have a chance to get some additional money, but I just want to point out that
 As Patrick explained with the reconfigured urban renewal districts, the net gain for affordable housing across all districts is only $3.5 million, $3.5 million, which is 10% of what's been spent to date
 in North McAdam to get one single project accomplished. So it's a very small amount of money. It's $48 million in North McAdam, but that's because we're taking money out of the education district and other districts. So I regard this as our third and final chance to get it right in North McAdam. We finally have to hold on to keeping our commitments as a city, and to me that means doing the following four things.
 Number one, we should develop all of the missing 270 units required under the constrained funding goals on parcel three. The city already owns it. It's been assessed as a site that could handle 400 units of housing.
 We've already built nearly 3,000 market rate units in North McAdam. To my mind, we don't need to do more on parcel three. We should get those 270 units there and have at least 100 of those affordable to people below 30% of median income.
 Those are the people that have the hardest time finding a place to live anywhere in the city. And nonprofit developers have created many successful models for this type of housing. We can do it, and we can do it much cheaper than the one project that was built so far in the district. And another time we could go into the many reasons why it can be done less expensively. Secondly,
 We need to stick to the goal that was established in 2003 and under the comprehensive plan that after the first 3,000 units were built, we would revert to the commitment of having the urban renewal district's population match the income profile of the city as a whole. Thirdly, in order to accomplish this, we have to secure sites now.
 Now, I've talked with people actively involved in doing the hard work to do this, and there isn't enough money right now to go out and buy all those sites, but the negotiation could happen now and purchase agreements could be made to be then actually paid off down the line as the money becomes available. We don't have to lay out all the cash right now in order to tie up those sites.
 Fourthly, and last, we need to require a strong housing component in the ZYDAL development agreement and require that both PSU and OHSU
 step up to provide land or resources for housing that would be appropriate to the many Portlanders who work or study at these institutions, institutions that have received great benefits from the North McAdam URA over the past decade and a half.
 One example of that is the money that's been paid for Block 33 for the air rights. We were supposed to get 400 units of affordable housing out of that. I think we need to go back and say, how do we somehow make up for that? It's not necessarily that same plan of parking underneath and housing above, but we need to do something to make up for what we lost when that agreement was allowed to go away.
 So I appreciate the fact that you, Mayor Hales, and other commissioners have agreed to slow this process so that we can look at it and get it right, getting in particular the housing component correct. And I salute you for doing that. Those of us that are here today that have already testified or are about to do so will hold the city accountable but are also very willing to work with you and your staff to do this
 and we want to find smart strategies for creating a true mixed-income neighborhood in North McAdam, not a city-funded district where only the wealthy can afford to live. And I'll say in closing that I know from my five years in Washington that Portland has a national reputation for bold and progressive accomplishments.
 A neighborhood developed with immense city resources that doesn't accommodate the hardworking people that keep this city going falls far short of that reputation. So let's regroup, refocus, and find a way to do that now. I urge you not to approve the current amendment until a detailed strategy is reached.
 has been developed for accomplishing that goal. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Let me ask a question maybe of all three of you, and that is it's good that we've kind of looked back at the history of what worked and what didn't work. Some of us have been involved in that history, some who haven't. And...
 I appreciate your willingness to roll up your sleeves and work with Jillian Detweiler on my staff and others on this package. But frankly, some people listening to this discussion might be a little confused by the apparent dissonance between Mr. Quinton's presentation and yours. And that is, to put it kind of bluntly, do you approve –
 We can only spend the money we have now. We can't spend the money from the past. We have awesome power in this panel, but it's not over yesterday. It's over today and days subsequent to today. So we get to spend the money we have now. The proposal that Mr. Quinton has laid on the table with your help is that we, of the available resources, put $23 million into development projects, $15 million into infrastructure, and $47 million into housing projects.
 Do you think that's the right balance? Well, I think that number is a little misleading, but to give due credit to Patrick, he presented both figures, and I'm glad to be corrected if wrong, but that $47 million isn't the net figure. That's the increase just for North McAdam by taking something like, I think, $25 million that would have been spent in the education district and moving that over and similar in the other districts. So the net increase...
 is just $3.5 million. And as I said, that's only 10% of what's already been spent in the North McAdam District on housing, and we can see how little was achieved with that amount. Right, but we can only spend money we have. And as we've seen with both, say, Gateway and the Education URA, just because you draw an urban renewal district doesn't mean that development actually happens, right? And recessions come along as they did in North McAdam and Central Eastside. So again, we have a...
 What we do is adopt a general plan here, and then we do development agreements. As you recall, we adopted the general plan for the River District in 96. We inked the development agreement in 99. So we do the plan first and development agreements second, typically. So, again, we're being presented with a plan that spends $47 million of the new district's available resources on housing, $23 million on development, $15 on infrastructure. I assume you like that split.
 I very much appreciate the work that Patrick and his team have done to increase the resources for affordable housing in the district.
 I think it's important to keep the net amount in mind. I think we also have been proposing for now a couple of decades other policies that could be adopted by the city that don't require just cash in order to realize these objectives. And I think it's important to remember that the development agreements –
 The time of the greatest leverage with any given property owner or developer is before the city agrees to spend the money on the infrastructure that all of them need in order to realize their projects.
 In other neighborhoods, if I'm a developer and I want to build an apartment and I need to do new curb cuts and sidewalks and street frontage, I need to pay for that. Here the city is doing that. So before we ink that deal, I think we should make sure we're getting the right quid pro quo from all parties that have an interest in seeing this move forward. And I hope it does move forward. I just want it to be done in the right way. Charlie, if you want a blunt answer, I don't know.
 There isn't a lot of confidence that if those are the numbers, that that's in fact what we'll see when the projects get done. That's why I think you're not seeing everybody in the audience stand up and go right on, right on. You know, there's just not a lot of faith that these goals are going to be met. Okay, I hear you. I appreciate that. Thank you. Yeah, and when you spend the money matters. Right.
 You know, when this district started, there was 25 million identified for housing, and they thought that was enough, or that's how they came to those constrained goals. By spending it later and continuing to wait, both for identifying and securing, taking options out on property, as well as developing, makes it go more and more. So we'll be able to spend the money, no problem. But unless we are smarter and more strategic about it, like right now, then we're
 we're not going to meet the goals. We're not going to get the units. And it's about housing people, not about spending the money. And there's other resources in the community that those resources can be leveraged with. And that's where it gets gnarly and people's eyes roll back. Wait a second. Did you say gnarly? I did. Do I owe you a quarter? That brings back a flood of memories. Do I owe you a quarter? Huh? You owe me a quarter. Mayor, let me jump in with just what Charlie was saying. We've had very...
 deep, robust debates in this chamber in the last few months about police accountability, about investments in Northeast Portland. And a common feature is advocates come in and say, that's a good start, but we want you to do more. And that's what I hear you saying, but you're asking for more specificity. And that's the role of advocates. In almost every area we're doing, we're being pushed to do more and be more specific. So I want to take Will's four points.
 We have a proposal for 200 units at parcel three. You've challenged us to find a way to finance 270. So that seems to be a clear, that's clear. You have reminded us that as we continue to expand housing units in the district, that the denominator gets bigger. So the numerator has to get bigger. So it's the affordable housing goals are not static.
 They grow over time because we have to look at the income profile of the city and we have to constantly adjust based on the number of units that are built generally.
 You've said, you've reminded us that our affordable housing goals that were set once upon a time assumed a certain number of overall units, and as the district gets more units, we have to add more affordable housing units to maintain the right proportion. Well, if I may, it's not quite that, because when that deal was cut in 2003, the constrained funding system
 said we're going to cut our goals back by 64 percent until we reach 3,000, then we're going to go back to the matching city income profile. That's a clear statement. But again, that I understand. You're saying that we need to ‑‑ that our current targets need to be readjusted as the district grows, and I understand that. You've challenged us to secure sites now because they're not getting any cheaper.
 That certainly is true, which is why I believe that fundamental to the Zydel negotiations has to be a piece of dirt that's identified that can be built. Number four, you said that there actually has to be a piece of dirt in the Zydel negotiations, so I think that is stated. And then we've heard a lot about Block 33, and I think we should have some testimony on Block 33 because one of the astonishing things in here is that
 is that the investment we've made in the district is substantially above the actual amount we invested in Block 49. And that makes Block 49 on paper look like a much more expensive program because there was a lot of real estate transactions that occurred before the city put its money into what's now called Grace Landing. So it becomes a very expensive project, but almost a third of that money actually had nothing to do with the project. Yeah, and there'll be someone later that will break that out more specifically. And that has been...
 I know it was a gnarly deal, but it didn't have to be that gnarly. So anyway, I appreciate the specificity, and I think you've put down the markers and the challenge. And I do think we have to be very clear, not just because we have to be clear about our intentions, but because every new dollar that's generated, there's competing priorities here. Commissioner Fritz is going to be advocating passionately for Greenway or a park. The mayor and commissioner –
 The mayor and others will be advocating for infrastructure. And that's the nature of what we do. So if we're not intentional, then we may not be in the first position or the second position from your point of view. So I appreciate that. Thank you.
 Thank you all very much. Appreciate it. Thank you for your time. Appreciate the detail. You too. Thank you. Okay, now we'll call one more panel and that's Andre Baugh, President of Planning and Sustainability Commission, Dave Unsworth from TriMet, and Lynn Michon from the South Portland neighborhood. Thank you for waiting. Thanks very much for being here. I'll go first. Andre Baugh, Planning and Sustainability Chair, Commission Chair.
 The URAs that came before us were only two that we were able to look at. That's the Central East Side and North McAdam because under the code, we only look at significant changes. So my comments and the letter really reference only those two. Thank you.
 We looked at the URAs twice. It came before us, and we delayed it to get more specificity around housing. And it came back again, and reluctantly we passed it and sent it on to council. And I'm just going to go through many of the things, our recommendations, that
 have been talked about already so I'm going to just highlight the ones that we really felt needed to be pushed forward and really taken up by council from that standpoint housing 30% of the units in this district we feel and we put this forward also in the west side that you have before you right now 30% of the units being affordable units
 That is key. This is a key component of the central city. And if you don't get the units here, it's going to put more pressure on the rest of the city to meet your overall housing goals for affordability. And so you need to think about that as you think about doing housing improvements.
 The share of TIF funding allocated in North McAdam should be increased. The current policy is 30% of the TIF goes to housing, and the remainder goes to infrastructure. We think you ought to rethink that position. And this is not a competition of parks, infrastructure, and housing, because we believe that if
 a good diverse neighborhood should have parks. And so we think you ought to do parks and affordable housing. The real question is, what is the priority down there, and how do you spend that money and when? And so as you look at that, you already have in there about a minimum of 50%, but remember that 50% is a back-end investment.
 proposal that we put forward for going to housing and we think you ought to look at that earlier and every year through a budget process to say if you're not spending the infrastructure money could you spend it on housing could you spend it on parks through a budget process so that you're accountable every year to the housing question um
 Council should support the Housing Bureau's effort to secure funding for the operating subsidies needed for units at 0 to 30. We heard that's a tough issue, and that's a barrier to affordable housing, and we support getting more operating dollars.
 ZRZ, the ZYDAL development, we strongly support affordable housing in that development. And a question that we had and a discussion we had was if this was an inclusionary zoning, which we support, we've testified for, we've said we're putting in the comp plan, we've done everything to try to get it for years in Portland, ZYDAL would support
 pay or build affordable housing. However, in the TIF district, the city has to pay to do affordable housing, and not sure why that is. Unless, of course, he chose just to do commercial buildings. Unless he chose to do just commercial buildings. And lastly, we would like to strongly support the Lot 3 project, and between 200 and 400 units are not specific there. But I'm
 That's really my comments. And we did not, we had a discussion just to be clear about the issue of parks or housing. And we are clear, we think you need to do both. And we think the funding needed to be earlier than later. Because it's not, building North McAdam without parks or without the housing just didn't seem fair at the end of the day. But the proposal doesn't have the money for the parks. Yes.
 It does not, you're correct. And it doesn't have the money we think for affordable housing either to reach the number. So that's the change in looking at that 30% to 70% allocation. You have to change that number or you just don't have enough money when you look at the budget. Thank you, Andre. Appreciate it. Len, why don't we let you go next since you volunteered for this. Good afternoon. My name is Leonard Michon. I'm a...
 a vice president of the South Portland Neighborhood Association, as well as the Land Use Committee member, and I am a resident of South Waterfront. I also just recently joined the PDC's Central City Advisory Committee, representing residents, not businesses. I'm here to advocate for transportation infrastructure improvements.
 Table 4 within the report accompanying Amendment 4 to the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area highlights 24 different transportation infrastructure issues, of which 7 are identified as complete, 7 partially complete, and 10 incomplete. There are actually 3 which residents of South Portland believe should have priority.
 First is the extension of Bond Street from Gibbs to north to River Parkway. This is a key for development of Zydell Yards, as well as for access and further construction on Zydell's, I'm sorry, on the OHSU Schnitzer property. Both Zydell and OHSU,
 will certainly be economic supporters and really a lot of funds coming from ZYDEL once development gets started. Second is the south portal access into and out of south waterfront. This is a traffic flow restrictor in the current configuration.
 What's needed at this point is an extension of Southwest Moody and Bond to Hamilton. This would involve taking the former Bin Springs property, which is now being used as a parking lot. PBOT at this point is looking at several options to access South Waterfront from McAdam with the possible alignment of Lowell, taking property that is actively in use.
 The third is the Willamette Greenway Trail from Ross Island Bridge to River Parkway, linking Tilikum Crossing to Tomacol Park. What I am seeking consideration for as representative of SPNA and a resident within the South Waterfront Community Association is installation of a temporary hardtop trail. Zydel's multi-year remediation of the riverbank has already created a dirt trail
 that makes that connection. I expect that Portland Parks has concerns, but I'm certain that Zydel is willing to work with the city in getting a temporary greenway built. This is not only important for the residents, but it is an incentive for workers and employers and everyone soon to be taking advantage of the Tillicum Crossing.
 What I would also like to say is, as a representative of the South Portland Neighborhood Association, we are also very supportive of affordable housing. So it's not that we're looking for transportation or affordable housing. We're looking for both. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for your help.
 Dave, welcome. My name is Dave Unsworth. I am the Director of Project Development at TriMet. And on September 12th this year, 2015, we'll be celebrating the
 the Orange Line. So it's the connection that goes from Portland State, has a station at Lincoln, in what could be the expanded North McAdam ERA, has a station down at Southwest Moody. The infrastructure we put in place is already there for the extension of Bond and try and spend millions of dollars in investing in the Greenway Trail down in the South Waterfront as well.
 We cross the Tillicum Crossing. That's part of the $64 million we put in bicycle and ped improvements throughout the corridor. We have a station at Omsley, and we have a station at Clinton. Those are in the Eastside Urban Renewal District. And clearly, we continue down through southeast Portland neighborhoods to Clackamas County, 7.3 miles. Okay.
 I'm excited to invite you to the first ride on May 15th. So we're moving along and things are happening and we'll open up on time and on budget. That's not really why I'm here today, though. What I'm here today is to really talk about why we're –
 finishing the work that we've done. So as we look at the Clinton Street Station, through the southeast quadrant planning effort that's gone on, the community has come together and said they see a vision there for many different uses. And for those uses to be successful, there needs to be improved access. That's roadways.
 changes to that land use in there. And it's not just the zoning, but it's actually what the community has said they think they need. So from that standpoint, TriMet supports the expansion, the extension of the Central Eastside Industrial URA, if you will. Similarly, when we go across the river and we look at the Lincoln Street Station, I know Portland State, through the Lincoln Station, the market and strategic plan they've gone through, they have visions for what will occur there.
 We think that inclusion of that station in that area in the North Picatamuri is a smart investment. It builds on the investment that this region has already done. So I urge you from that standpoint to support these ordinances. Thank you. Thanks for all your good work. It's pretty exciting. Questions for this panel? Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so let's turn to the sign-up sheet for those other folks that are here who would like to testify.
 I show 17 people left on this list. The first three, please come on up, are John Ostar, Maxine Fitzpatrick, and Susan Emmons. Okay, thank you. And then let's go with Dan Valeri. Thank you, sir. How about Marianne Molden? Okay. Susan, welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Susan Emmons. I'm the director of Northwest Pilot Project. And I'm here today to speak for people who can't be here. And that includes the low-income seniors calling us every day, desperately seeking housing, 20 calls every day. And we have nothing to offer them but waiting lists. We have to tell elderly people sleeping outside that there's a waiting list for our emergency shelters.
 I've been doing this work for 30 years. I chaired the Housing and Community Development Commission from 1992 to 1995, and we did a needs assessment every year.
 just as we are doing today. In 1995, we had a countywide shortage of 10,000 units for households at 30% of median income or less. Fast forward 20 years to 2015, and our shortage countywide is 23,245 units. We have a severe housing crisis, and the poorest of the poor are the ones in greatest jeopardy. And I think we all understand the need. So what are we going to do about it?
 Identifying Parcel 3 as a site for affordable housing is a terrific first step. We've been told there can be 400 units on the site, and we're looking at one building of 200 units. At Northwest Pilot Project, we think all 200 units should be for people at 30% of median income or less.
 We've been told there's concern about so many very low-income units in one building, and our response is we can give you a list of buildings with a concentration of people at this income level that work beautifully. And I'd love to take any of you on a tour, but I'll give one example. Rose Schnitzer Tower, Southwest 12th and Clay, 235 units.
 subsidized housing, all very low-income seniors and people with disabilities, preserved by the city as one of 11 by 13. Twelve. Twelve. One of twelve. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, and your city funding.
 Residents of the beautiful Mirabella have kind of adopted Northwest Pilot Project and done some amazing service projects for us. I was speaking to them in early December last year, and the subject came up about the lack of progress in their neighborhood to provide housing for very poor people. And they asked me why, and I told them truthfully that I think there are people who don't want more housing for poor people in their neighborhood.
 One resident got up in the audience and said that she and others were at the opening of Gray's Landing, that they think it's a beautiful building and would welcome more buildings in their neighborhood, that they know they are privileged and want to live in a mixed income neighborhood. She wanted to be here today to testify, but she couldn't miss a medical appointment. But she was all lined up with me for January 29th, and we had a few delays. And I'd like to close with a story of a woman who lives at Gray's Landing. She's 74, she's been poor all of her life,
 It's not because she's not smart. She's as smart as can be. It's not because she hasn't worked hard all her life, raised her family, was widowed earlier. She's a real survivor, but she would tell you, I'm poor because the jobs I had never paid much money.
 She was at our annual holiday luncheon for seniors last December, and she told me that when she stood on the balcony of her studio apartment watching the Christmas ships coming down the river, she cried because she knew she had the same view as people with considerable wealth, and it meant so much to her that the...
 powers that be felt she had value and that she deserved to be in a beautiful setting and i know every one of us in this room loves portland so the question is can we make it the city we dream of the beautiful equitable progressive fair place for every citizen
 I urge you not to adopt the amendment as is until we have answered the questions posed by so many people testifying today. Where are the sites? What are the affordability levels? When will they be built? And if not now, when? And if not in North McAdam, where? And I would also like to say from your previous questions about the money and all the competing priorities you have as city council members, and I wouldn't want your job for all...
 all the money in the world. I think you have really tough jobs, but I think we always find the money for the things we really want to do. Aerial tram, state-of-the-art transit system, extending the streetcar to South Waterfront. We find the money for what we want to do, and we always build housing for poor people last. 30 years in the business, that's what I see. Thank you, Susan. Thanks for all you do. Thank you. Thank you. Who's next? Go ahead.
 Dan Valliere with REACH Community Development. As you know, REACH manages the one affordable housing project in South Waterfront, Graze Landing, and thank you, Susan, for that story. And I'll just offer one other example of how affordable housing gives back to the community.
 One resident at Grey's Landing is also a board member at REACH. So there's volunteer service right there that he gives to REACH, helping govern the organization. He also had a stroke and has a disability as a result of that, but he teaches yoga, gentle yoga. So it's yoga for anybody. You don't need to be able to sit on the floor or do any stretches over your head. And he volunteers all around town.
 almost every day of the week, and so he's giving back to the community in countless ways to other people at no cost. I mean, he's an incredible person. So that's just one example of many of people who give back, too. So it's not just about helping until Hub gives back. You already heard developing housing on Parcel 3, yes, great step forward. Increasing the set-aside also is a great step forward. These are all things that have just come about in the past few months, and that's great.
 I also would point out that the
 proposal includes at least 62 units for 30% and below, and people with income 30% of median and below. That's a good place to at least start. I think we do need to strive more. I would echo what Susan said, that we can do more. There are countless buildings where there are way more than 62 people, very low income. So there are ways to do that. The resources need to be figured out, but it's been done many times.
 I would also encourage even looking at the number 200. Again, they're bigger projects than that, so to the degree that could be a floor, leave the room for the city and others to try to exceed that. I also provided a handout, just some more information. It's free.
 breakdown of the reported total North McAdam housing expenditures and this was talked about a little bit earlier So it just has some more breakdown or an opportunity network prepared this handout. I gave it to a clerk and It's one lesson to glean from this is that there's room to be much more efficient with the funds as an example, you already heard about the gnarly deal of Grey's Landing and as an example was first envisioned in 2003
 The land and the project stalled midstream. The city ended up issuing an RFP in 2010. REACH was chosen in 2011. And many of the high-cost aspects were already locked in, as Commissioner Fish pointed out. For example, PDC paid $5 million for the land in 2006. So if it had been acquired in 2003, you know, it would have been much less than that. So there are many dynamics to be factored in to why it was so expensive. And that doesn't have to be repeated here.
 but the conclusion is it needs aggressive action and to use the monies efficiently we need to be as aggressive as we can be today and that will lay the groundwork for a wise use of funds going forward thank you thank you good afternoon good afternoon um thank you for having us here um
 My name is Mary Ann Malden. I am a lifelong resident of Northeast Portland. I was born and raised on 19th and Stanton, and we married in 71, bought a home at 4335 Northeast 40th, and have lived there for 43 years, our homes paid for. And as I reflect on our lives, I just can't help but think of those in our community who do not have the means
 and the opportunities that existed for us. I'm thinking of a particular family in our community that attends our church in northeast Portland. They're a family of four, comprising of a mother, a father, teenage son, and daughter. They previously resided in a two-bedroom apartment in the Cully neighborhood. The teens shared a bedroom, and the parents the other.
 The family agreed that the children sharing a bedroom was not a tenable living arrangement during their adolescent years and needed a home that could accommodate the growing needs of the family. Over a two-year period, they were able to save and borrow from relatives the $8,000 required for a down payment on a three-bedroom trailer at the Arbor Park trailer park in Cully neighborhood.
 They owe a sum of $50,000 on it in addition to a monthly fee charged for leasing the space. Both the parents work full-time at minimum wage jobs, and they've used all their resources, so are really hurting for this dump. My husband and I also deliver emergency food through St. Vincent de Paul in that area as well, and
 I just went, I just need to come and be a voice for them. We've been so lucky. And so as you're making decisions on the North McAdam renewal area that will create an opportunity for low-income families, such as the ones I've referred to above, I'm going to ask you to come and be a voice for them.
 I voted for all of you, each and every one of you, believing that you would honor the commitment to promoting low-income housing for those in need. And I just asked you to act thoughtfully and justly in making your decision. You know, we all have just this one life to live, and we've got to do the best we can, all of us.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Susan, I just had a quick question for you, if I could. Because you're here at a time we're talking about two issues that are near and dear to your heart. One is no net loss, and one is obviously expenditures within urban renewal. So in the connection with the West Quad plan, I've asked for some updated information on no net loss.
 because I want to better understand how we're doing. Now, you publish an annual survey, but it occurs to me that we ought to be thinking about no net loss and this urban renewal district because if there are older adults that are displaced in the West End, for example, because of some market force, what better place to live than South Waterfront within walking distance of great health care facilities?
 and having access to all the other benefits. Do you know offhand if we have any significant at-risk buildings in the West End right now? It seems to me from looking at our map that anything that's privately owned is at risk. Anything that isn't in the hands of a nonprofit is at risk.
 And it may just be, I mean, when we count our inventory, the buildings still exist, but the rents have gone so high that they're not available to our folks. And we've seen so much displacement from that. So with all the likely development pressure, particularly in the West End, where there's still some older buildings and very low-income people, I think inevitably we're going to see displacement.
 just natural. And we're going to have to also figure out how that relates to the no net loss policy. And I think we have to keep our eye on South Waterfront as a place where perhaps we can do some replacement.
 And I think that, you know, it may sound very negative to you, what those of us who are housing advocates are coming forward, but I think it would be a lot worse if we hadn't done what we'd done, the investment. I mean, we've done some wonderful projects. So it doesn't deny that we've done good things as a city, but we could do so much more. We have a lot of talent and we have a lot of knowledge.
 Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you very much. Okay, next ones, please. Are Sam Goldbreth, Jean DeMaster, and John Miller, and they'll be followed by Tasha Harmon, Diane Lynn, and Kathy Orton. Jean, would you like to go first? Sure.
 My name is Jean DeMaster. I'm the Director of Human Solutions, which shelters or houses approximately 350 homeless families every single night. This is about 1,100 homeless people, about 600 homeless kids, and about 500 homeless parents. I also serve on the Portland Housing Advisory Commission, although I'm certainly not speaking for the commission today.
 But I think that when the Portland Housing Advisory Commission meets next week and we talk about these issues, I'd like to offer that the Portland Housing Advisory Commission do the monitoring on the progress of how many affordable units we have produced once we agree on a goal.
 According to an analysis completed by the Portland Housing Bureau, in Multnomah County, there's at least 23,000 affordable housing units that are in deficit, which would mean that these are units that are needed for the lowest income renders but are not available.
 For us, this deficit means that although homeless families have vouchers to be able to get out of the shelter or get out of the situation of being homeless, they're not able to find apartments or apartment owners that will rent to them. As a result, they are stuck in the shelter or they're doubled up with family and friends, sometimes in unsafe situations.
 I'd like to ask you to imagine yourself as the parent in a homeless family, and you have several homeless children with you, and you finally, finally, finally get yourself out of the emergency shelter by having a voucher that you can take to a landlord, and it'll pay for five months' worth of rent, and you go to apartment after apartment after apartment, and no one will rent to you. And then someone asks you, how many units should they build in North McAdams, 62 or 200 or 400? And
 If you were that homeless parent, you wouldn't say 62, I don't think. For every 100 extremely low income renters, there's only 21 affordable rental units for them to rent. For Human Solutions, we have 700 units. Our vacancy rate is 1 percent, which means we have seven vacant units at any time, and they're only vacant for as long as it takes to turn over the unit and the next family moves in.
 As you know, being homeless is harmful both short-term and long-term to parents as well as to children. Children have a very hard time keeping up in school if they're homeless. Parents can't keep jobs if they're homeless. But this lack of affordable housing and the 23,000 deficit in affordable housing units is what keeps these families being homeless.
 Part of the solution, of course, is to build more affordable housing. I would just like to ask you in summary to think about whether or not we have enough affordable housing for all of our citizens, whether or not we can purchase land now to make it more cost effective, and if we can identify strategies to build housing for very low-income people and write that into the plan so that we're certain that it would happen. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Thank you. I'm John Miller. I'm executive director of Oregon Opportunity Network. Oregon On is a statewide association that advocates for affordable housing groups. In Portland, we have 19 nonprofits that we serve. So we advocate on their behalf, but really we advocate for the 23,000 families that Jean just mentioned that are heavily rent burdened right now.
 So I wanted to first thank Mayor. Your staff has been great to work with over the past several months. We've also been working with many of the advocates that have already spoken today. And what I'm going to do today is really sort of recap and put a fine point on some of the asks that we've had. Okay.
 And I think, you know, you mentioned we're, as advocates, we ask for more. And that's right. And, you know, that really is our role. And I think with, you know, the screaming need out there, we would be remiss if we weren't doing that. So, and we'll keep doing it until the problem is solved. Right now there's 23,000 families that are rent burdened in Portland. And until we get that solved, we'll continue with this message. Okay.
 So just to recap our ask, what needs to be added to the plan for Northam Academy URA to really make it be a complete community, which is one of the initiatives that I know that the City Council is looking at is making complete communities throughout the city. Well, this is a great opportunity in Northam Academy URA to make it happen. Okay.
 some of the things that we're looking for. So on parcel three, commit to reach the constrained goal of 270 units. 200 is a great start, but really 270 would at least get us to where we need to be with the original plan of the URA. Also, we need to act now to secure additional sites.
 And we don't have to tie up the money right now. We can just put down options to purchase later. But we need to get those sites in the pipeline now before the area's been redeveloped and the land cost goes through the roof. We should turn to OHSU, PSU, ZRZ, and others, and they should help by making land available. Given that the expanded area is already or will soon be at 4,000 units, to match the citywide income profile, we're going to need at least another 300 units at below 60.
 percent MFI. And so I know recently we had an issue in northeast Portland where there was an affordable housing imbalance and Mayor Hales, you made a bold move and dedicated $20 million to meet that need. We see that this is a good opportunity for perhaps another bold move such as that to try to meet these goals.
 Also, in the central east side URA, there should be language to ensure that there's a firm commitment to securing affordable housing in the Clinton Triangle or on other sites.
 So there are many developers and owners here that are ready to jump in. We know that there's not enough money, and right now we're trying to solve it with URA funds. The big picture is we do need a very large sustainable revenue source, which we'll be talking to you about more in the future. So thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome, stranger. Commissioner Hales, Commissioner. My name is Sam Galbraith.
 He got a promotion. But he was here when I was a commissioner. Mayor Hales, it's a flashback for both of us. Excuse me. My name is Sam Galbraith. For almost 20 years, I worked for the Portland Development Commission. The majority of that time was spent in charge of their housing programs.
 And during that time, we accomplished some seminal things, I think. One of the things I'm most proud of, because of its lasting value, was a 1979 document. Vera Katz, I think, was on the advisory committee to establish downtown housing policies and programs that live to this day in terms of ongoing policies, such as the income profile that's in the North McAdam project.
 Based on those programs and the recommended policies, thousands of units have been retained, upgraded, and built in the following 20 years. I also want to thank you for pursuing the overall URI changes. I mean, Mayor Hales, this is long overdue. I think it's an excellent move, and I commend it.
 and also for accepting the ongoing goal for the North McAdam in terms of the housing goal, for the parcel three objectives, maybe with some modifications like Will White suggested, and for earmarking $47 million to meet it.
 But why am I here? I'm here. I've been out of the maelstrom of public policy and public development for quite a while. But in rapid succession at the beginning of the year, I read a couple of quotes in one of our daily newspapers, which made me incredulous. I knew it must be an error. Both people are in the room. I won't name them, but one said that we can proceed with development of North McAdam University
 without a development agreement with Zydel. And another prominent person said, you know, Zydel can go and pull permits at the development office without any development agreement. Well, maybe so, but not likely, without the $27 million-plus in infrastructure that the plan is scheduled to carry out. You don't give away your leverage here.
 The goal of an urban renewal project is secure public benefit for the city as a whole. And certainly a heterogeneous neighborhood, a neighborhood in which over 50% of the workers make 60% or less of the median income, is a worthy public goal. So what I ask is a continued goal of matching the city income profile that was established in the plan in 2003
 after the 3,000 initial units are developed. So we're looking forward. No amendment to the development agreement without key properties like the ZYDEL, Block 33, and Block 3, and development agreements to reflect the ratios consistent with the overall income mix in the goals for the project. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Galbraith, just to clarify, you don't think we should do the URA amendment until we have the ZRZ agreement?
 That's my position. I know that there's some feeling otherwise, and it is true that we've initiated urban renewal areas and not had, of course, development agreements. But I think the development agreements have to be, I think we need to hold off on making incentivized infrastructure investments.
 that benefit primarily a major landholder until we have a development agreement. So I think we have leverage. We don't have legal authority, but I think we have prevailing attitude and certainly precedent to do that. Thank you. Sam, just to follow up on that, OHSU has made a pretty compelling case for making the investment along Moody. And so if we held up indefinitely for Mr. Zeidel to come to the table, we might be –
 holding that hostage. The other concern I have is that we have the money now to invest in parcel three. And again, if we wait a year, let's say it takes a year to conclude a negotiation or more, we can't compel that negotiation. Are we prepared to hold that negotiation?
 hostage, in effect, to a development agreement that may not happen where we have the money to move forward on a substantial down payment of affordable housing in Parcel 3. I didn't realize there was a tie between the DeZell development agreement and Parcel 3. No, the only, just the point is, without the amendment that we're proposing here that expands the geography and creates and puts more TIF in North McAdam,
 we don't have the resources to do parcel three. So I just, I get that leverage is the key word here and gnarly.
 Leverage cuts both ways and different people going to look. But one of the things I'm concerned about is holding an affordable housing development in Parcel 3 hostage to a requirement that we have a development agreement with Zydel that might not happen if Mr. Zydel chooses not to consummate a deal. And I understand the dilemma, and I think there's a way to have both. Okay.
 I want to know more about that. Thank you your ideas for how the time could run forwards and backwards at the same time Thank you. Thank you Okay, next three, please. Next three are Tasha Harmon Diane Lynn Kathy Orton They'll be followed by Elena Kay Eric Leonard and Barry Joe stall. Good afternoon Good afternoon mayor Hales commission
 You've heard a lot of details in the last couple of hours and several specific requests, and I'm not going to rehash them. That's been well covered. I'm here to look at the big picture with you again. Portland is becoming a city that doesn't work for a large percentage of the people who live and work here. Even before the vacancy rate fell to 2%, an estimated 54% of all renters in Multnomah County were cost burdened, were housing cost burdened, paying more than 30% of their income for housing. That's only going to get worse. Yes.
 We're on our way to San Francisco if we do not make different choices. The new draft comprehensive plan says that most of the new housing in Portland is going to be built in the central city. But the vast majority of the housing need is for people in low and moderate incomes. And if this process in North McAdam is any example to us of how it's going to go, that need is not going to get met.
 Without strategies for preserving a real diversity of housing in our older neighborhoods, you won't even be able to build sufficient affordable housing in the central city to offset those losses, never mind increase the supply. We can't do what needs to be done for this city around the affordable housing strategy simply by investing public dollars. That's going to have to be a necessary part of the strategy. It cannot be all of it.
 We need to shape the incentives and requirements, the environment in which development happens, to level the playing field between the people who want to create a diverse housing stock and the people who simply want to make as much money as possible from their land and development. We need a commitment to policies and tools that will shape the city's housing supply to match the incomes of the people who live here.
 Advocates gave you a list of those tools 20 years ago. They included mandatory inclusionary zoning, linkage fees, a land speculation tax, land banking, and permanent affordability requirements. Not one of those tools, save something sort of like permanent affordability requirements for subsidized housing, have been implemented. And here we are. The city has invested millions and millions of dollars in urban renewal districts without any of those tools in play. And here we are.
 The city is failing to create a framework that will lead to a housing supply that meets the needs of its citizens. The best time we created that framework was 20 years ago. The next best time is now. If you fail to make this shift, you're not only creating hardships for innumerable people, you are also undermining a bunch of the other goals that you hold dear. You cannot succeed in limiting carbon emissions,
 increasing high school graduation rates, eliminating food deserts, creating livable, complete communities without making the creation of a supply of housing that actually matches the income profiles of the city a major priority. We're here to ask you to acknowledge those connections and not limit yourself to what's easy, to what feels possible, to what you have enough money for. We're asking you to be stewards of the future, to champion diversity and equity and sustainability and build a city that works for all of us.
 Thank you very much. You're welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council members. My name is Diane Lynn. I am Executive Director of Proud Ground, Portland's community land trust that creates permanently affordable homeownership opportunities for medium and low-income people, as you all know. We also maintain about $18 million of land assets for the community through the land banking process.
 Tasha reminds me, I was chair when I was at Multnomah County as a county elected official, and today I don't miss that job in watching all of you guys grapple with these issues.
 I did have a chance to chair the affordable housing, regional affordable housing committee. A lot of those tools were discussed thoroughly again after that 20-year-ago conversation. And we did help Multnomah County work very closely with the city of Portland on a 10-year plan to end homelessness.
 I'm really here just to say that I'm wanting to support this group of housing advocates who bring this amazing institutional memory to these efforts to try to create real housing opportunities for people. A lot's happened in all these years, but I think we could all agree that we haven't come even close to meeting the progress we know is necessary to meet the needs of
 and it has now become imperative. I'd also like to thank all of you, and specifically Commissioner Saltzman, for supporting House Bill 2364, which is the effort to reverse the mandatory ban on inclusionary zoning, our one hope of just imagine what it would have been like if we had had that in place over all these years.
 Since 1999, we've lost that tool. We need to bring it back to the table. Along with all of the specifics you've heard today from the advocates about what can be done, we need to bring that tool back to the table also to give Portland a fighting chance to make this progress possible.
 I'm also here to say, look, let's all work together to offer support, leadership, creative ways with the cross-sector communication that we, in collaboration, we can do. The land trust could even be a part of helping establish a land banking or getting options on the land that's available in North McAdam today. That's just an idea. We can work together. We've got the brainpower. We've got the heart.
 The people that are here today are here because we really care about this city, as you all very well know, and we're here to help figure out how we can do better in this particular effort. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. I'm Kathy Orton. I represent Brooklyn Action Corps, and I guess I'm a change of pace with all the housing discussion. Presently, only the Clinton Triangle is –
 proposed to be part of the new ura and the reason it's to be added is because it adds to development of the portland milwaukee light rail line however this ignores the vacant and marginal uses along 17th avenue as well as the south side of powell if the goal is to encourage development along the new orange line then the entire segment should be incorporated
 To make this point, I have included several tables. Table 1 shows the south side of PAL businesses, of which there are 17 of assorted sizes, mix of old and new businesses, and a variety of site owners.
 Table 2 shows 17th Avenue Brooklyn businesses not going beyond the boundary of Holgate. There are 17 businesses there and an equal number of unused lots or tri-met parking areas.
 If you'll also notice Table 3, that shows the current users of the Clinton Triangle. There are only six small businesses in existence there now, as well as the Fire Bureau. The majority of lots on that section are owned either by the City of Portland or by Stacey and Whitback, who are the contractors for the Orange Line.
 The Fire Bureau is considering moving, and we're not even talking about the Brooklyn Industrial Area from 26th to 18th, Holgate to Powell. So transportation is a huge issue at Milwaukee and Powell, as we all know. There's also huge issues with the Brooklyn Industrial Area, Union Pacific, Holgate. They'll all be impacted when the Orange Line actually begins running.
 So in conclusion, I would say either add the south side of Powell Businesses and down along the 17th Orange Line additional stations as part of the URA or leave the Clinton Triangle out altogether.
 If we were to do that, how far south would you think we should go? We'd go as far south as Holgate and even consider the Brooklyn Industrial Area. Down to McLaughlin? Yes. Yeah, okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Eleni Kiyagiaris, I believe is the last name, Eric Leonard, and Barry Joe Stull. And they'll be followed by Susan Pierce, Jeannie Gaelic,
 And Hiram Asma. Thank you. Then why don't we go with Susan Pierce. Welcome. Thank you. Mayor Hales and Commissioners Fritz and Fish, the only two left. My name is Eleni Cahayaris. I chair the Lincoln High School Long-Term Development Committee, and we would like to acknowledge and express support of the proposed URA amendment impacting the Lincoln High School site.
 We agree that these amendments may have a positive impact on other areas of our city, but would like to note the loss of support to the site of Lincoln High School. Lincoln High School campus plays a vital civic role in the life of urban Portland. As part of the education URI, Lincoln High School would have benefited from the urban renewal that it is in dire need of. Schools, and importantly, urban schools, are economic drivers for our city, one that we could better utilize and support. When people consider the city of Portland for their future home, they look to the schools, the public schools.
 Lincoln High School is the only public school in downtown Portland, and it gets looked at, toured, judged, and often the city of Portland and our great public school get bypassed for the suburbs and or private school, not because Lincoln lacks programming or success, but because of the quality of its facilities.
 Having been officially named, along with Benson and Madison High Schools, for the 2016 bond measure, Lincoln has a strong possibility of being rebuilt in the near future. The bond has the potential to ignite economic and civic growth in the city of Portland by creating a hub of education, civic engagement, and economic mobility in the heart of our city. Master planning for the proposed project will begin this year. We seek open dialogue and opportunity to keep the City Council of Portland and the PDC apprised of our progress and to solicit input and support as our community prepares to go before the voters. Thank you.
 In addition, the amendment as stated by the PDC has three main goals, one of which is to support Portland State University. Lincoln and PSU, while no longer may be bound together by the urban renewal boundary, are nonetheless in development of programmatic and potential building partnerships, projects regarding the sharing of facilities and spaces such as classrooms, labs, athletics, and parks. The loss of URA dollars will have an impact on future partnerships. Also, please note that the I-405 physically divides the two schools today,
 With this new educational partnership and the sheer size of the two schools continuing to grow, the importance of the land over the I-405 and its connections will become more and more vital. We encourage the city to direct PDC and applicable bureaus to begin working with regulatory agencies to clear the way for bridging this divide by making it feasible to undertake such a project as soon as the opportunity presents itself.
 Finally, with the loss of the education URA, we are uncertain how off-site and infrastructure will be developed. We seek support and understanding that the city, PDC, and PPS work to establish other secure sources of funds to cover extensive off-site and infrastructure improvements related to the development of the Lincoln High School site, as these are extraordinary relative to the other bond-funded projects PPS has planned. And because Lincoln High School is...
 A unique urban site on public transit lines where shared public spaces which benefit the entire city. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Good afternoon and thank you for the opportunity to speak on this. I'm Susan Pierce. I am chair of the Hossford Abernathy Neighborhood Association, or HAN, as you'll hear it referred to.
 The hand board has not been able to, neither supports nor opposes this project.
 The amendment was first brought to our attention in September. We had brief periods of time in October and November to discuss it amongst everything else that's going on in hand. Things are pretty busy right now, and we haven't been able to discuss it since. The whole concept of urban renewal to financing, it's a little complex for some of our board members. We do, generally speaking, support...
 the CEIC position on this sort of issue. And I could sort of attach everything that Debbie Kitchen had to say as an amendment or a beginning to what I have to say here.
 There are some aspects or considerations, however, on which the board agreed. The Clinton Triangle is the area immediately adjacent to the Clinton Station, a stop along the soon-to-be-opened Portland-Milwaukee light rail line. Hand board members and residents along with our neighbors in the Brooklyn neighborhood have been considering what we want to see as station area development for a number of years. Thank you.
 It's a developmental challenge in part because it's currently not accessible, as we've heard earlier today. If the UR funds are to be contributed toward reconfiguring Southeast Powell and Milwaukee Boulevard, this could address some of that accessibility of that property, along with the freight transit that's so important to the central area.
 The CEIC. However, if this is done, already the residents along 11th and 12th Avenues, which is in addition to be purring the Central Eastside Industrial District, is a residential district that actually predates the industrial district of which it's now a part. These are all old homes.
 or for the most part are, those residents are really concerned about the traffic and the speed of traffic up and down, especially 12th Avenue. And so if there is enhanced accessibility, then we would be adamant that changes in infrastructure at southeast Milwaukee or that there be mitigation. And we also would support the CEIC concerns about speed bumps, however we go to.
 We'd be interested in stoplights. The Clinton Triangle could absorb the low-income housing required as a part of the URA spending, thus decreasing the concerns of this EIC about putting it in the midst of industrial properties that would –
 We see that as a good thing. It's right there in a transit center with a new orange line. And we have been – is that the end of my – Please try to wrap up, Susan. Thank you. Pardon? Please try to wrap up, Susan. Yes, thank you. So we'd be very happy to see more low-income housing because we've lost a lot to big developers.
 the Crescent Park assets, and you have that paragraph that's from notes, hand is park deficient. We have one tiny little parkland named Piccolo Park. We're a little disappointed that we have not been, this is our neighborhood, and yet we, the residential part of the neighborhood, are not at the table, and should this amendment go forward, we are adamant that
 there should be a representative from the residential part of the neighborhood at the table. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. I highlighted the Crescent Park part of your letter and also the other ones. I got it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Stull. Good afternoon. My name is Barry Joe Stull. I feel kind of like I gave it the office. I was at the Affordable Housing Memorial. My friend was actually camping down in the area, and he says, this is down by the end of the streetcar line. And I went down there, and we were...
 We're memorializing the fact that the affordable housing wasn't built. That was years ago. I know that we're putting on a lot of airs here in the city of Portland. And the best way I can describe what's going on is to tell a little bit of an aside, but give you some sense here.
 I am a PAMP historian, so I do some classes. One of the other guys was doing a class on hashish. He told about his exploits. They were importing hashish into the United States and other countries, using dogs to get the dogs through customs. They had these cages that had the hashish in them.
 It was apparently nuts. And they said, we're going to drug this dog and we're going to send it on through. But as soon as you get it, you're going to have to kill this dog because this dog is absolutely crazy. Well, the dog had an unexpected layover and came to and ate its way out of the cage, was shot dead by the airport staff. And they found out the cage was made out of hashish. And the whole scheme kind of all fell apart. Well, the whole scheme here is I was living in affordable housing as a person with a disability and I had a job.
 And my non-profit affordable housing landlord filed a 30-day no-cause and destroyed $20,000 worth of my property. That left me broke, sick, and homeless. And now, taxpayers are paying for me to be in HUD-subsidized housing. I'm the metric equivalent of that dog that you all are using to do your metric equivalent of importing hashish.
 You're taking the federal money. This is all about taking federal money, building...
 transit infrastructure, and taking federal money. So me as a homeless person was worth more than me as a person with a disability, with a job, in affordable housing. And I got the joke when I saw that Maxine Fitzpatrick was signed up to testify today, because when I saw that, I remembered that one of the affidavits in that case file as I was fighting that
 bogus eviction and destruction of my property, one of the affidavits had her characterized as Maxine Fitzgerald.
 Didn't even get the name right, and it didn't even matter in this bogus system. So if you want to know why people have some questions about the way you're doing things, it's we don't have questions about the way you're doing things. We know the way you're doing things. You had all the tools. We heard it here today. All the tools you had to prevent this mess 20 years ago, you didn't use. You know why? Because you're giving money to the rich people.
 And you're taking it from everybody else, and there's plenty of poor people like me that you can pretend you're helping. Okay, next three. The last two I show signed up are Jeannie Gaelic and Hiram Asmuth. Okay, is Jeannie still here? Yes, she is. Good. Come on up. Thank you for waiting. Well, nearly last, but hopefully not least. Not at all.
 My name is Jeanne Gaelic. Like many here in the 1990s, I worked on the North McAdam Plan, but I was an advocate for future parks and the Willamette Greenway. If the new dense south waterfront is to be successful, it must have more than buildings and roads. Parks and the Greenway are critical infrastructure and civic assets. They are an essential urban service.
 They provide space for recreation, habitat for urban wildlife, and a safe transportation corridor for bikes and pedestrians. They help to sustain both our physical and mental well-being. They are an incredible attraction for both businesses and developers. And in the discussions on the West Quad, of which I was on the SAC member, it was a top priority for this district to have the Greenway completed.
 Parks and the Greenway have been promised, but underfunded in the past, and today their full funding continues to be vague and on the back end. We need both affordable housing and the parks and Greenway to become a priority. We need them to be funded adequately, and we need them soon. Thank you.
 We've been waiting years and years and years for that greenway and for more parks in South Waterfront. So I urge you to please make it a priority. Give it funding. And I just wanted to say, please don't make the greenway a temporary solution. We find that temporary solutions become permanent.
 People just kind of forget about it because they're kind of taken care of. So let's do it right and get that green light done. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, just to reassure you, we don't even have the money for a temporary solution. But we need to. We need to find it.
 welcome my name is hiram azimuth a southwest portland resident um i i think that there's different motivations that folks have for talking to you guys um with all due respect you know a property developer is is motivated on profit you know these housing advocates they're motivated for protecting portland's uh houseless and under house citizens and the integrity of our city you know um
 I went to a thing called the Portland Renters Assembly last night. There was about 20 of us. And what we were talking about was specifically how the rents are increasing in
 you know, while our incomes aren't matching those increases. And so I think it's very crucial when you're talking about something that's going to have impact 5, 10, 20 years, 30 years down the line, specificity, and I wish Nick was here to hear this, is crucial. We have to have this. We have to have these developers working.
 we've got to hold their feet to the fire. You know, we have to find ways to be very specific about where this money goes and how much of it gets dedicated, you know, to the affordable housing. And we have to follow through on it. You know, I keep hearing time and time again about all these grand plans to end homelessness and all these grand plans to create affordable housing. And somehow it doesn't happen. You know, meanwhile, these developers, they have no horse in this game. You know, if there's
 any kind of operation that occurs there that involves a medium family income. Right now our medium family income here in Portland for one person is $48,000 per year. That's $4,000 a month, which is at a 40-hour work week, $25 per hour. I don't know anybody making $25 an hour. I just don't. It's not a reality. So we need to think about housing people who are making what we realistically do make, which is 35%, 40%.
 Some people make 20% of that number. So I think that a very key thing to talk about with affordable housing is what is affordable.
 There was another woman who made a very cogent point recently. She said, match the housing with the incomes. I think that's so crucial and we have to be very specific because if we're not specific, these developers will walk right over us. They're the reason why our rates are going up so quickly. We're green lighting all of these massive projects. I'm seeing old home after old home getting smashed and turning into a McMansion.
 all over the place. And I think it's bringing in
 people from out of city, and it's not accommodating the people in the city. You are the advocates of the people who are here now. Please be our advocates and defend us, you know, from this onslaught of development by at least making very specific requirements that the development that comes is going to not treat displacement like a casual word. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Johnson, you get the last word. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. My name is Charles Johnson. And I think I'll – although I was – both these remarks have just touched me. I visit the neuropsychiatry unit at OHSU on the eighth floor of their high-rise, and I look out to the south at a vast sea of unaffordable housing. Thank you.
 and no green spaces, no parks, as the lady has pointed out, or minimal. And then my friend Hiram talks about MFI, medium family income, and Mr. Stahl was just up here, and he's worked with various nonprofits that take their clients and they code them into a computer where the clients get a barcode on a plastic card, not on their body. That's for HMIS, probably some federal contract, the Homeless Management Information System,
 except the last three letters are a lie. It's just homelessness. There's no management, there's no information, and there's no system. There might be information, but we have people, we don't ever have a clear, coherent discussion at the Coordinating Committee to End Homelessness or here about exactly how many people are never, ever going to have an income above $790 or whatever the latest Social Security adjustment is, and that we absolutely have to have information
 an equal, exactly equal number of units for those people as people are that are getting Social Security checks. That information is out there, but we never seem to pair up that information. And then we have the issue of the working poor, as Hiram has raised, people who really don't have any rational connection through their pocketbook to median family income and poverty level. And every time we have these conversations, I realize we're primarily talking about urban renewal, but essentially we're using part of our urban renewal strategy is
 to find more affordable housing units. But we never set, we never talk specifically about the data of how many people are under there and that if developers want to make any profit on real estate, they have to find a way to fill that need. If they can't fill that need, they can't have any assistance and we need to have publicly owned and managed properties, understand their federal obstructions to getting new northwest towers and new home forward owned properties.
 let them sue us if we try and house our homeless. We need to get 3,000 people off the street and in sanitary safe housing. I'm also, obviously this is a vast issue that I can't fully address in the three minute remarks, but
 I was over in the CEIC, the Central East Side Industrial Corridor or whatever it is, near St. Francis at 1131 Oak, where there's a big transition right there around 11th and 12th to the residences of the Buckman area and things like Grand and MLK where REACH –
 and join, particularly REACH, where I know one person who's being evicted, supposedly a case-managed service class. He'll either be couch surfing or sleeping on the street, so we need to improve the safety net and talk about real transitional publicly managed shelters. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Thanks very much. So we've had a long hearing. Commissioner Fish has soldiered on despite having a cold. What I would suggest we do is that we'll close the public hearing and continue this item
 for at least a week so that then we can bring Patrick and staff and Tracy and others up for council discussion when we're A, fresh, 2, well, and 3, have time to get into the details. First of all, Mayor, thank you for diagnosing me with a cold. And I put it in absence for tomorrow because I'm at death's door. But if Dan calls in sick tomorrow, you've at least gotten me off the hook because he couldn't have gotten it from me. All right. We'll blame you, no doubt.
 Mayor, I tried to sneeze this way, but we can ultimately blame my son who brought it home from school. Mayor, this has been an extraordinary hearing. And just in terms of managing things, I'm looking at the items that we have received.
 I will not be here tomorrow. But in terms of 230, 229, and 228, I don't think anyone, I think those are issues at some point that I'm prepared to act on. I have some questions I'm going to follow up with some questions to staff about 225 because I'm unclear about at least a detail around
 whether there is, in fact, a housing component to the Clinton Triangle. I just want to look at the language, and I want to better understand that, and potentially a funding. And then there's three or four things that came up time and time again with respect to –
 uh 226 and 227 and they're of course linked because as we sunset one we create the other and um since you've uh agreed to continue this a week which would give us a chance if we if we had amendments to bring them next week i will um reach out to jillian and to pdc with those questions i'll be back in the saddle hopefully on monday okay we'll see we'll see if there's um i'll have some questions and then we'll have some follow-up discussions and i appreciate
 you continuing this. This would be continued until next Wednesday or next Thursday? What we're just trying to figure out is where there's a little room in the calendar for council to deliberate here. Okay. We think we'd like to avoid a conflict with the West Quadrant plan next week. Yes, we would. Which will be lengthy and Patrick will also be out of town in the next week. So we suggest two weeks. Okay. Okay.
 So we do it on a Thursday afternoon or something? What's that particular Thursday afternoon look like? It's the 12th, right? It's the 12th, but you have an evening budget hearing at 630. Want to meet during the day and then have a budget hearing? All right.
 Okay. 2 p.m. on the 12th? Budget hearing might be less contentious this year. Might be. Okay. And then, yeah, maybe we can do that in an hour. Yeah. So we'll continue this. We're going to close the public hearing, but we'll continue these items until the 12th. And in the meantime, obviously, council members can direct further questions to Patrick or anyone else. Can I just also clarify something? Sure. We do have a pretty big stack of testimony. Yeah. Okay.
 To the extent someone has presented an idea that's not reflected in the testimony, please don't be shy about just emailing the council offices with the specific proposal. Absolutely. We've all been making notes, and we have a big stack of paper, but we have that opportunity, and I think...
 And assuming I can come back to work on Monday, I hope to have some meetings Monday, Tuesday. Good. Any other questions or requests? Well, I wanted to say, first of all, thank you to everybody, especially to those of you who stayed this entire time. We very much appreciate that. And those who waited until the very end for their turn to testify was very, very helpful. Some of the questions that I will want more information on are about the League of Women Voters' suggestion about the U.S. postal site.
 Service site with the 30 million for flipping and what happens to the 30 million after it's flipped so that's a question for you in fact, I have several questions on the river district and The pros and cons of just ending it now versus or any in 2018 versus extending it What really has to be done there and the block 33 question raised by Margaret backs with the OHSU $3,000,000 is a question that I have and
 Kathy Orton's testimony on behalf of the Brooklyn Action Corps raised a question in my mind. Did we look at ending the Central Eastside industrial district?
 putting this off because my mind has stopped working properly, but did we think about ending the Central East Side District and starting a new one for the Triangle and Brooklyn? And if so, why are we not doing that? I do want to make sure that Sue Pierce's points from hand about the traffic and the Crescent Park money, what happened to that.
 And then I'll have several others, in particular the question of how do we move forward knowing that we don't yet have an agreement with ZYDAL. And so if you look at where the numbers are without ZYDAL –
 there isn't enough money to do everything that we need to do. There isn't even close to enough money to do everything that we need to do. And do we actually need to build bond? That was another question I have. Does the development agreement we have with OHSU require us to build bond?
 And if not, maybe we should not build bond until or tell OHSU that they could build it. So that's a question that I have because that would free up some more money for other transportation improvements, including the South Portal, which I share Commissioner Novick's concern about how the
 There should be a little bit of money in the tables that we've received for the South Portal, even if we're going to get most of it from the state or the federal government. It just doesn't feel like we're doing what we need to do right now. What we're deciding right now is whether to continue and extend this district and get more money to invest in it. And it seems like a good...
 except that it then takes money away from the other taxing jurisdictions. So we have to be really clear about what are the public benefits and how is this all going to fit together. And we're not going to have any more magic money flowing in for the next 20 years or so. So we need to be figuring out how are we going to provide the parks, and if not on Seidel, then where else could a park be that's going to need money for acquisition as well as development? How are we going to get the Greenway Trail effect
 finished, which we don't currently have that money in the parks budget, and how are we going to do the necessary transportation improvements, as well as how are we going to get at least 270 units of very affordable housing and hopefully to 400. So those are the, I would like us to look at all of these things together rather than, okay, we'll fix this piece and then we'll figure the rest out.
 We at least have to have a framework for how are we going to move forward on all of these to make it work. I was part of setting this up, as Gretchen Kifori mentioned, when I was on the Planning Commission. I feel a real responsibility to deliver on all of the promises and the hopes that we had back then. And yes, we spent $57 million on the tram.
 But that was then, as you said, Mayor, and now is now. And let's figure it out now as to what's the best use for the available money and how do we encourage development throughout the district that would then allow us to meet our goals. Mayor, can I just make one other point, please?
 you know i used to have housing and parks and reminded these discussions that it's much better to have those divided up among two commissioners because i used to have this conversation with myself housing parks and now now at least we have uh two advocates fighting the good fight but i just want to close with aggression kafori story because she's here and of course she she needs to be embarrassed so when i came to oregon didn't know anybody uh i was introduced to her by mike
 And she promptly at some point asked me to serve on the Housing Authority of Portland board. That's what was going on back then. And fast forward, Gretchen has a unique place in all of our lives up here. And I got a call about a week ago, and the phone went off, and it was the county chair. And I was saying, well, this is nice. The county chair is calling me. And she answered, hello, Deborah, and we exchanged pleasantries and sort of meandered around. And I said, well, so why did you call? And she goes, do you mind calling my mother? Sure.
 That was a high point for me, getting a call from a county chair directing me to call her mother. And it was a good idea. Any other questions, instructions, requests? Again, thank you all very much for a great hearing. So I'll continue those items to the 12th, and we're adjourned until next week. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, Amanda, we'll find another time. I think so, yes. Tomorrow, I hope. Oh, okay. Oh, are you? Oh. Amen to that. Yeah, really. So I might be able to, if you have something for the end of the day, I could come. Okay, I'll get Susan to check right there. I'm around tomorrow. Yes. Good. Thank you. I think you'd feel worse than that. Ah. Ah.