Okay, Carla, you ready? Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the February 24th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Ritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Hales. Here. Good morning, everyone. Welcome. We have some communications items up front. We have a process by which citizens can sign up to speak to the council on the subject of their choosing, and we have five people signed up to do that this morning. Then we will get to our regular calendar. If you are...
 Here to speak on one of those items, just let our council clerk know and she'll make sure that you have the opportunity to speak. We typically allow people three minutes to testify unless it's a huge hearing with lots of people to speak and it doesn't look like we're over that threshold this morning. When you do speak and testify on a council item, you just need to give us your name. You don't need to give us address and all that.
 and we follow the basic rules of decorum here and that is we like to give everyone a chance to have their say so if someone is speaking and you feel compelled to show your agreement with them feel free to give them a thumbs up or wave at the hand and if you disagree with them and still feel compelled to show that feel free to use a polite hand gesture to the negative
 but we ask that we not have applause or demonstration in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view in this room. We make exceptions for students and visiting dignitaries, so if you're one of those or both, you might get a round of applause from all of us. That's about it in terms of procedure. We have a consent calendar. I want to check with the council to see about items being pulled off the consent calendar. I see two that are being pulled to the regular calendar, namely 173 and 174.
 Any others? Anyone else want to request that? Okay. So let's proceed, please, to Item 164. Request of Crystal Elinsky to address council regarding historical and chronic corruption paid for by taxpayers. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners Fish, Commissioner Novick, Commissioner Fritz, and Commissioner Saltzman. Yes.
 My name is Crystal Elinsky, and I represent 10,000. This is not an idle thread. It's a wake-up call. Have you read those books I brought to you some years ago? The Portland Confidential and Wicked Portland. You have read those? Oh, yeah. You've read the both of them? I read Portland Confidential. Okay.
 Keep going, please. Go ahead, Crystal. Saltzman? Crystal, go ahead. Oh, sorry. Have you read those books, The Wicked Portland and The Portland Confidential? Yeah, we're here to hear from you, so go ahead, Crystal. I mentioned them in my three minutes some years ago, and I was wondering what the status was on that. Have you read them yet? Well, why don't you go ahead, and council members can get back to you later about that. Go ahead with whatever you want to say this morning. I mean, unfortunately, I don't have –
 I can't purchase you all a copy, but it's important that you read them before you leave your positions here. And there's been two more that have come out since then, so we have a lot of catching up to do. But to understand the history of the city, it's pretty vital. And I just wanted to know if you've bothered to read them since the last time I asked you. Well, Stanford has never gotten so much free press. Right. It's good. It's good.
 So keep going, Crystal. So you made your point about that. Well, also on September 4th, 2013, you said here in council discussing the fire bureau that you would look into Mayor Hale's.
 that you would look into the fire code and the new building across the street, the federal building. When I said that the bunker that I was kept in didn't have the sprinklers...
 Have you been able to find anything out on that? You don't get to cross-examine here. You get to make your points. So go ahead. You said you would look into it on that date. Whatever points you want to make in the time that you have. Well, I've tried multiple times to get you in your office. You said that you would meet with me. And each time your staff has given me the runaround, they told me to speak to different people. That when you came through, you said you would. You've said it here in council. Right.
 on camera and I still haven't been able to meet with you so this is my only chance to talk with you one-on-one you still haven't met with me so have you looked into that this is not for one-on-one this is for you to make your points so do that you have a but you haven't met with me one-on-one and this is my only chance to ask you if you have followed up on your promise thanks for coming this thank you very much next person please
 Item 165, request of Stephanie Valachos to address council regarding horns for the homeless. Come on up, please. So you don't have an answer to that? Crystal, you need to leave and let somebody else speak now. You need to leave and let someone else speak. Thank you very much. Crystal, you need to leave or you're going to be excluded. Okay, so go. Crystal, there's somebody behind you who's ready to speak, who's a person who wants to speak just like you got to. Let them have the chance. Come on up, please. Crystal, you're going to...
 Crystal, you're going to be removed from council chambers if you're disruptive. You're being disruptive. Crystal, this is your last warning. You're being disruptive. Other citizens need to speak. You're being disruptive by taking space and time that other people need to use. You need to leave the council chambers now. Okay, I'm sorry. Crystal, you're going to have to leave. I'm going to ask our security guard to escort you out of the chambers.
 Good morning. Good morning. You all look very familiar because I've done a lot of research and your names come up. My name is Stephanie and I'm here to represent the Horns for the Homeless. Winter 2013, my friend shared with me a moment that he had with his son. They were walking the streets of Portland when they passed a man curled up on the ground. The son asked his father why the man was just laying there with no shoes on his feet. And the father shared about homelessness.
 The son then asked his father, what can we do? Two years later, four outreach events, over 75 volunteers, 1,600 meals served, multiple contributions made by local businesses, and an unlimited amount of compassion through the power of music.
 Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to introduce a nonprofit that not only impacts my life, but builds bridges in the city of Portland. Give it up for Horns for the Homeless. All right. We can break the rules for that. Thank you. I've been an active member of Horns since the creation, and my purpose today is bring the awareness of horns to you, our leaders.
 Last fall, Mayor Hales declared a housing emergency. In a press release from October 2015 states, Mayor Charlie Hales today announced that an additional $66.7 million in funds will be directed to affordable housing projects in five urban renewal districts over the next five years. We applaud these efforts, yet it's a long way to the top if you want to rock and roll.
 One person can make a difference in another's life, but imagine what a city can accomplish. Visualize the influence our success rate can have on cities across our nation. Like an instrument in an orchestra, horns play the melody alongside our government and successful programs like transition projects and new avenues for youth. And together, we are a symphony.
 Horns for the Homeless are public servants. We strongly advocate for activation of public space for community events. These special events bring artistry and culture to our city, providing the homeless a sense of belonging, eliminating segregation, and reintroducing them into society. It is then that we can set them on a journey to self-sufficiency. I'm honored to be here today and share this amazing nonprofit
 Horns motivates through special events, and we need our leaders to support, to collaborate our goals. Through our government, we provide food and shelter. Through music, we provide compassion. And combined, we lead them to self-sufficiency. Like the closing of a live entertainment show, please give it up one more time for Horns for the Homeless. Thank you. Thank you.
 So who's your colleague here? This is Mr. Kevin Rankin. Kevin. He is a drummer for 80s band Animotion, getting ready to go and sub in for the Flock of Seagulls. He's also in the local tribute bands here, representing ACDC Tribute Band, Bon Jovi Tribute Band. Sits in with a lot, he represents, he's actually been on the board for the Oregon Music Hall of Fame as well. Great. Well, we appreciate what you're doing. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for being here this morning. Thank you.
 Thank you for your time. I have to say, we don't have enough ACDC quotes in council meetings. Steve quotes rock lyrics a lot when he votes, so you never know. Well, I did provide the clerk with my card, so if you want my autograph, I'll be outside afterwards. Okay, thank you. Thank you so much. Thanks very much. Thank you.
 All right. 166, please. Request of Holly Whittleton to address council regarding Portland Development Commission's funds for Southeast Works Alternative Youth Education Center. Good morning. Morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Novick, Commissioner Saltzman, and Commissioner Fish.
 Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you this morning. My name is Holly Whittleson. I'm the executive director at Southeast Works, and I've brought the most amazing gentleman with me this morning, Thaddeus Bulliard, who is here representing the Southeast Works Youth Center. He's going to speak on behalf of almost 30 youth that we have here today who are participating in a civics lesson. So thank you for that, too, as well.
 I'm here basically for two reasons. I'm here to support the budget request for the PDC Economic Opportunity Programs, and those are the adult and youth workforce development programs, and also to request continued funding for the Southeast Works Youth Career Development Center. However, I'm respectfully asking that,
 that if you do support the Southeast Works Youth Program, again this year we were allocated $40,000 for a case manager. I'll talk about that in a few minutes. That not impact the allocation to the EOI programs that are critical for adult workforce development and for youth workforce development. The Youth Centre this year has served 120 youth, all out-of-school youth,
 We serve those annually, 17 to 24 years of age. They are in our GED program, but they come with a host of issues, many of them homeless, couch surfing, hungry. They are suffering from trauma from foster care. They have drug and alcohol issues, behavioral problems, mental health issues.
 The money that you give us, the funding that you give us, funds a case manager who really works with every single youth that comes through the program door to connect them to the required services in the community so that they can get wealth, they can get health care, they can get housing. We work very closely with NAFI on that.
 and so that we also can connect them to workforce development. So finding them jobs. We're also doing some college and career readiness work so that we are there for them around their post-secondary transition. The gentleman Thaddeus that you're going to hear from this morning is aiming and magical thinking about Berkeley University, and we're going to help Thaddeus get there through the support of the case manager and through the fantastic teachers that we have who give their lives to these youth every year. So I'm...
 talking too much, and I'm going to pass over to Thaddeus, and he can speak on behalf of the group. Thank you. It's nice to meet you guys. My name is Thaddeus. I would just like to start out by asking all of my peers in my school to stand up very quick. Great. Good morning. These are the lives that, for the most part, have been drastically changed due to the undying, selfless nature of the staff of Southeast Works. Yes.
 My freshman year, I went to Benson, and due to personal reasons and other things, I did not get to finish my schooling there. My next year, I went to Grant High School, and I had another case of just not working out. We allow extra time for students occasionally, so we'll do that here. Go ahead. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 The next year, I decided to attend the NEA Early College Academy, but unfortunately, that did not work out either. That would be the end of the story if it were not for Southeast Works. These people gave me hope for my future. I didn't think I would be able to attend college or even get my high school diploma until they took me in and helped me with my education. Funding programs such as these create opportunities for kids like me and unlike me.
 And it's incredible. These kids have their lives completely changed due to the people who can help them because of just the funding that they can get through their schools. There's thousands of these kids, and there's going to be thousands more just like me. And I don't know what we would do without these programs.
 Thank you so much. Well, as I said, we occasionally change the rules in here. We spend a lot of time in this room solving problems, not enough time celebrating successes. So we appreciate Southeast Works and students like Thaddeus who are striving for a great future. Let's hear it for them. Since we have so many guests...
 My recollection is that this issue usually comes up during the PDC budget proceedings. So maybe we should give them a primer on where it lands on our budget process. Yeah, the PDC budget, it comes – I'm sorry, you mean where it lands chronologically? I think this is funded through – Through the general fund portion of the PDC budget. It goes to PDC. So we take this up both in our –
 general fund discussions, and then PDC when they come before. So there's two opportunities for the public to weigh in. Yeah. Wonderful. So it will be, yeah, we'll make sure you know when that comes up. Oh, wonderful. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you so much for coming, and good luck to you. Thank you. So the message that my colleagues just said, students, is that it's great that you showed up this morning, and we need you to keep showing up because participating during the budget process makes a huge difference.
 90% of success is showing up. So please come, and you'll get the opportunity to sign up under the Portland Development Commission budget, which means you may not have to wait hours and hours to get to the end of the city budget sessions. There are generally fewer people testifying for it.
 for Portland Development Commission. So please come. We'll let you know. There are usually a couple of forums in the community, and you're certainly very welcome to come and testify. And some of those forums are at night too, so maybe have less of a conflict with whatever else in terms of work or study that you're doing during the day. Thank you. Thank you so much, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. Thank you so much for being here this morning. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay.
 Okay, let's take item 167, please. Request of Monica Inand to address council regarding city general funds to support Portland Development Commission traded sector economic development work. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you all for allowing me to be here. My name is Monica Inand, and I'm the founder and CEO of Supproved. We are a software startup here in Portland, and we sell legal software to large corporations. Okay.
 And I'm here to talk about the importance of the city funding for the PDC economic development efforts.
 It's exciting to hear about all the good things going on, but I can't think of a more important time and place for the economic development efforts that are going on here than in the software industry right now in Portland. There is truly something very exciting happening here. My own company has doubled in size over the last 18 months in terms of job count and employee count, and I foresee similar growth ahead, if not more.
 Last year, in order to grow the company, we actually relocated from Hillsboro to Portland, and the PDC was extremely helpful with those efforts. And knowing that we needed to grow and hire quite a large number of people, we were able to successfully do that.
 They also work with many of the technology startups to get early adopter customers, and Zapproved has benefited from that as well. The city and the PDC worked with us, and the city of Portland has actually been a customer of ours for over five years. They were an early customer, and that's especially important in Portland because startups don't have access to a whole lot of large businesses to have early adopter customers.
 And one of those large indicators of success is having close customers nearby that work with you to get your products off the ground.
 When I think about the growth that we need to experience and attracting the talent we need to fuel that growth, I am really thankful for the diversity and inclusion efforts that I've been a part of with the PDC. We signed the Tech Diversity Inclusion Pledge that you might have heard of, along with many of my other colleagues at software companies, and we're working to educate ourselves so that our workplaces are very inclusive places to work and attract the right talent. Thank you.
 As I think about what's happening in the growth, we're going to need all genders, all races, all walks of life to fuel this exciting time. And so I think the work that they're doing is critical to let our software companies grow. The other thing I've worked with them on is the inclusive fund and picking a fund manager and allocating funds to attract entrepreneurs
 different genders and different races and being more inclusive there. And I think, again, a critical effort to get the next generation of growing companies. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. It's great to hear that progress report after your move from Hillsboro and all this growth. So how many employees are you now? We're now 75. That's great. That's great. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Okay. Let's hear the final communication item 168. Request of Paige Hendricks Buckner to address council regarding city general funds to support the Portland Development Commission traded sector economic development work. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Paige Hendricks Buckner, and I'm a founder and CEO of ClientJoy. And we make gratitude easy by managing gifting for companies.
 In 2014, my company was chosen to participate in the Startup PDX Challenge, a program that helps diverse startup founders by giving them $15,000, a free office space, mentorship, and a plethora of legal, accounting, marketing, and business advisory services. Historically diverse companies, those started by women and people of color, have struggled to find funding for a variety of reasons. We often hear that we aren't scalable and that we won't make enough money. This program moved beyond those excuses and invested in companies that are creating living wage jobs in our community.
 And in my experience, the program is transformative. Having previously worked in education and public policy, I had a great deal to learn about building a really successful business. And during the year-long program, we used the funds for a variety of really important reasons. We purchased local products, connected with mentors to receive critical advice, and access resources to improve our brand and financial structure.
 Because our business is deeply rooted in featuring the work of local artisans, the funding provided through the Startup PDX Challenge actually worked its way into local businesses when we purchased products from them. It was an awesome ripple effect that we want to see continue as we scale our business. And while this data is hard to quantify, the most important impact to the programs were the relationships that we formed with the other startup founders. Raph Sirups, Yellowscope, NoAppFees, Society9, Design Culture Lab, and with love from PDX.
 We purchased product from each other, learned lessons that were very hard, and taught each other how to use tools that would make us more effective and efficient. Even though the program came to an end last year, we continue to collaborate in really important ways that help our companies scale and be successful. Outside of the business, the challenge has given me the tools to return to the classroom as an educator and bring entrepreneurship to high school students.
 Last fall, Nitin Rai and Keri Nayuni at the Indus Entrepreneurs hired me to adapt an entrepreneurship curriculum built by two brilliant, passionate volunteers, Shashi Jain and Suresh Srinivas.
 Thanks to Lemelson Foundation, we've brought this curriculum to Benson High School. And each week, I'm honored to work with two incredible teachers, Kayla Stolte and Tim Harishu, to teach their tech algebra class how to think like entrepreneurs. And it has been an incredible experience. Some of the inventions our students have come up with are showing up in global tech shows around the world, and they've expressed that they're improving in other classroom experiences because they feel empowered to fix the problems that they're having in those classrooms.
 All this magic in the classroom has caused me to wonder, why aren't we teaching how to dream, build, test, and iterate at every grade level and in every subject? What powerful and innovative ideas would sprout out of an environment where students are encouraged to identify problems in their community and build solutions for the rest of their lives?
 The Startup PDX Challenge has had immediate impacts on the lives of the business owners who've participated and will continue to echo for years to come in the people who now have living wage jobs because of those companies, the profit margins of the businesses who become vendors, the customers for whom they've solved a pain point, and the students who are now empowered to solve problems. Thank you so much for funding this incredible program. Thank you.
 Thank you to both you and the previous speaker. I'm struck by the emphasis on technology and your work in the classroom, so I have a request that just to tack on at the end of some of your discussions with the students that the city is a good source for technology jobs. I was looking at the gender...
 makeup of various city bureaus, and I noticed that the Bureau of Technology Services is over 70% men. And I know there are a lot of women who are very involved in technology and software development. So just let them know that if they're not interested in the entrepreneur making a million bucks...
 route steady-city job that pays good benefits and is a career for 30 years please have them think about coming to work with us absolutely they would really love to have been here but they're actually on another field trip today so they'll come visit you another time thank you okay let's take action on the consent agenda please unless there any other requests for items to be removed let's vote on the balance of the consent agenda minus items 173 and 174
 Ritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Zaltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, time's certain. Item 169. Accept report from Portland Community College on the current work of Future Connect. This is an amazing program, and we're pleased to have a presentation on it this morning. I think we're starting with Callie Thornlad, Jessica Howard, and Karen Kirvan, so come on up, please. It's great to have you here.
 And as they're getting settled, I'd just say to the Southeast Works students that this is an amazing program that the city sponsors to help with scholarships in community college. And anybody who graduates from high school is eligible for it. So listen up, and we hope that you'll apply too. Yeah, this is a good combination this morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. I think I'm starting. Thank you, council members, for the opportunity to present on Future Connect. My name is Kali Thornlad, and I'm a member of the Portland Community College Board of Directors representing District 2, which is north and northeast Portland and goes up into Columbia County. Thank you.
 On behalf of the Board of Directors, I wanted to thank the City of Portland, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Saltzman, Fritz, Fish, and Novick for your support for this cornerstone program at PCC. Through our newly adopted strategic plan, PCC is committed to providing not only access to educational programs, but also success for communities of color, for first-generation college students, for low-income students.
 Future Connect is a pride point for PCC and it's become a statewide model for new models of engagement that involve local government, colleges, and the philanthropic community. As a board member, I must say this is exciting because the national conversation continues to be about how do we provide both access and success. And right here in our own backyard, we have created a program that is doing that.
 And as many of you know, I have a history with Future Connect and had the privilege of working on it with the city of Portland and Dr. Pulliams to bring this opportunity to students in Portland. The vision was to provide greater access to higher education to historically underserved groups with the belief that by investing in our human infrastructure, we would help build and strengthen this evolving city. So...
 We thank you from the bottom of our heart for your supports. We believe that as this city continues to grow and change, that Future Connect is providing opportunities for all members of Portland's community to access living wage jobs, to access opportunities within this thriving city. And with that, I would like to turn it over to President Dr. Jessica Howard, who is the president of Southeast Campus. Thank you, Director Thornlad, Mayor Hales, and commissioners. It's a great pleasure to be here today.
 PCC is committed to Future Connect because of the positive impact that it creates in our communities. Over the past five years since its inception, Future Connect has enrolled 1,200 students, well over 900 of whom have been from Multnomah County, through your support. This has provided a positive impact not only for the students but for the families and communities from which they come.
 And through the outreach of Future Connect staff, thousands of high school students now know the many options for them to go to college. When we speak about the impact of Future Connect, I know you've all received this wonderful handout. I'd like to just point out a couple things on that handout.
 First of all, on both sides, when you open it, the big takeaways really are that the Future Connect students are outperforming their national counterparts by at least two times, and in a shorter time frame, in a three-year time frame versus a six-year time frame in terms of completion rates, twice as good as their national counterparts who are low-income and first-generation. That is quite something. When you specifically look at first-year retention rates, what you have on the brochure are averages –
 But some of these outcomes are continuing to improve. For instance, on the lower left-hand side, the retention rate in the first year going from entry to one year into the program. Future Connect students last year returned to their second year at 84%. Compare this to the national statistics, which show that 40% of first-generation college students returned for their second year. You'll see then that not only is this a spectacular program, but it is getting better as it develops.
 In the lower right, there is a chart that shows retention data for students who have completed a certificate, a degree, or have transferred, those who are still attending, and those who have exited the program since its inception. Each group of these bars shows where each cohort is as of the current term, winter 2016. Okay.
 If you look at the 2001 cohort, the sort of medium blue on the right, you'll see that 31% of that 2011 cohort completed within four years. To give a sense of what this means, we can compare this number to the national income of low-income first-generation students who attended a two-year college and then transferred to a four-year institution within six years, and that rate is 14%.
 If you look at the 2012 data, you'll see that that number of completion is already higher than that initial year. For students who are not first generation, the transfer rate is 50% in that same six-year period, and that is what we strive for because we want there to be no disparity between these groups of students. The impact of Future Connect, however, goes beyond the numbers. It's impacted how we look at support and advising at PCC,
 As Director Thorne-Ladd indicated, it's a statewide model. It's something that the state has recognized as a best practice and is hoping can become a part of communities across the state. And the critical component of partnership in making the Future Connect model work for communities has created further synergies and further linkages to create more opportunity for students. The momentum created by the City of Portland as our first partner in this work has been absolutely outstanding.
 As you probably know, the cities of Beaverton and Hillsborough are now also our partners. And I will give you a very short list of some of the other partnerships and synergies that have come out of Future Connect. For the past year, we've been working in Columbia County through a grant with the Ford Foundation to develop a Future Connect partnership.
 We worked with WSI here in Multnomah County to provide summer internships for Future Connect students. WSI? Yes. What is WSI? Work Source. Work Systems. Work Systems. It's the acronym-heavy world that we're in. Yes. We've worked with universities to create scholarships and support specifically for Future Connect students. Future Connect students have studied abroad through a partnership with Carpe Mundi.
 And we partnered with PPS on a gear-up grant that creates paid leadership opportunities for Future Connect students in middle and high schools. So it's inspiring work. It's work that we're doing together. And we're supporting a collective population, which is our students and our future. So I really thank you all for your continued support. And I'm pleased to be joined by Karen Kirvan, who is Vice President of Community Relations for U.S. Bank.
 Thank you very much and good morning. I am here on behalf of U.S. Bank and the U.S. Bank Foundation and also the PCC Foundation, which I was pleased to join earlier this year. U.S. Bank has been a strategic partner of PCC Connect over the past five years or so, contributing $27,500 to support the great work that's being done at PCC and Future Connect.
 The U.S. Bank Foundation Work Pillar or Category of Giving supports programs that help students graduate from high school ready to go on to their post-secondary college or career training to gain the skills that they need to earn a living wage. And we are so pleased with the work that's being done by Teacher Connect in that regard.
 And Future Connect is one of the reasons that I decided to join the PCC Foundation Board earlier this year. I would like to share that Future Connect remains a top fundraising priority of the PCC Foundation Board.
 Since launching Future Connect with the City of Portland five years ago, the foundation has raised more than $2.2 million from more than 400 individuals, foundations, and corporations, and this does not include the generous support from the cities of Portland, Beaverton, and Hillsborough.
 I'm pleased to share that just two months ago, the foundation received its single largest cash gift ever, a five-year pledge of $475,000 from a Portland businesswoman to help hire additional Future Connect coaches. As you have heard from others, Future Connect works. On behalf of U.S. Bank, the U.S. Bank Foundation, and the U.S. Bank of America,
 We thank you for your leadership in the creation of the program and for your ongoing generous support. And lastly, I hope that you will join us on April 17th at the PCC Gala, where we will celebrate the fifth anniversary of Future Connect. Governor Kate Brown, Thomas Lauderdale, and members of Pink Martini will be joining us, too.
 We'd now like to have Tobias and the students come up. Before you do that, I think I made a mistake in saying that you had to have a high school diploma. In fact, students with a GED are also eligible for this program, right? Yes. Yes? Yes. And what benefits does a student get if they get a Future Connect scholarship? What does that get them? Mm-hmm.
 They have an opportunity to not only get the scholarship dollars, but they get a career coach or a college coach that works alongside them to ensure that they're able to complete their goals. And for some, it's an AA degree. For some, it's transfer. For some, it's a certification. But our...
 objective is to make sure that they're successful at PCC. And I just want to say, I remember five years ago in this room when we had the first sort of graduation of Future Connect scholarship recipients, and the chamber was filled with families and parents who were tearful and who were talking about how they never thought that their child would go to college. They never thought that they would have this opportunity and to look at it.
 five years later, and see that 1,200 students have benefited and that they have been successful. It's really incredible. And Portland was courageous to step into that space. And because of your courage, Beaverton and Hillsborough and all these other cities are realizing, wow, we need to invest in our future as well. So I just wanted to bring that sort of light. I remember Commissioner Fritz, you standing there beside, shaking hands with the students, and it has meant so much.
 They were not the only ones who were teary-eyed. And Kelly Thornlade, while you're at the podium, I just want to recognize this was really your brainchild in partnership with Mayor Adam Adams. And Commissioners Fish and Saltzman and I funded it at a time that we were cutting budgets left and right during the recession. This is why. Because we thought we believed in the students. We believed investing in them would help our city as well as the students and their families. So thank you very much for your leadership. Thank you.
 Before we lose the panel, I had a question for Director Lett. So, you know, the city has embraced a big equity vision, and at the heart of it is creating opportunity for underrepresented people and looking to leadership positions at the city, combined with the fact that we're projecting a huge wave of retirements over the next 10 years, a bubble of really skilled and seasoned people in the city that are going to be moving on.
 We're investing in the success of young people. They're chasing their dreams. Are we also, through WorkSystems, Inc., and other tools, thinking about aligning graduates with opportunities in local government? And are we doing enough to facilitate that?
 Well, that's a big question. I may look to my colleague here. I know that there have been efforts to provide internships to Future Connect students to really align folks with job market opportunities. So there is intentionality around doing that. Whether we have done that sufficiently for the public sector and government jobs, that I cannot speak to, and I don't know. Thank you.
 Jessica, if you want to. There's always room to do more. But our focus in terms of creating success beyond the credential is something that is a part of the entire PCC success plan. And I'll just give you one example. The very talented woman at the Bureau of Environmental Services who's looking at our long-term needs and recruitment
 has put forth a proposal that's heavily based on going into the high schools and colleges upstream and identifying talent, bringing people in for internships and experience-based learning, and then identifying talent and then connecting with them, because the really good students then have lots of options. So we want to be a preferred employer. And I would just say that...
 As you think about where these students are going and the kind of careers that they're preparing for, I think all of us up here would be interested in making sure that we're capturing the talent that might be interested in careers in our bureaus. And so push us on that because it needs to be intentional.
 Thank you. Thank you all very much. And, yes, let me do call a panel of Tobias Sherwood, Carlos De Jesus, and Jordan Collins to talk about the program a little more. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and Commissioners Novick, Fritz, Saltzman, and Fish. My name is Tobias Sherwood. I am a college success coach with Future Connect. Since 2012, the second year the program was in existence.
 i'd like to start by answering commissioner fritz's question what do i do um well i met jordan down here in a career classroom at franklin high school a few years ago met clarissa in a computer lab at david douglas high school when she was a senior in high school and it starts there by getting students excited to come to portland community college it really starts really basically with filling out fafsa
 learning about what programs are offered at PCC. So my job at the very start is building a relationship with these students and letting them know that they belong in higher education and that they belong in our scholarship program. They deserve scholarship money and the opportunities that will come from being a part of something bigger. And, you know, I'm thinking right now
 At 11 o'clock, I teach a class called CG 130, Today's Careers. So I won't speak for too long because I know we're pushing at 10 o'clock already. But I do just about everything a student might possibly need. Um...
 Clarissa, her brother Carlos was supposed to be here this morning. It's so nice to have a sibling in our program who could step in for her big brother and represent for our program. But so typically yesterday I was texting with Carlos, who's a transfer student at Portland State University, receiving the Future Connect scholarship there, which is $3,400 for two years. And he's pursuing a business degree like Jordan is.
 But I was also working with second-term first-year students who have no idea what they're doing still, even though I've been putting in a lot of effort and energy. And they're getting there, and they'll get there, and they'll get to a place where Clarissa is, and where Jordan is, and where Clarissa's big brother is. And so I help with financial aid. I help. I am an academic advisor. When crisis occurs, I can help students navigate those challenges.
 and I'm basically just the go-to person. And as a coach, I have a privilege that...
 some folks higher up who are focusing on the big picture don't always get to experience. And that is to see young people develop themselves as leaders, to develop themselves as folks who are going to enter the professional world with a network of people to support them and the confidence to really go for what they want and get what they want from PCC and from their life as a whole.
 Clarissa de Jesus I will pass it to you in just a moment I just want to say one thing about Clarissa um
 She is one of the most responsible people I've ever met. She has a ton of responsibility at home with her family. She takes on a lot of responsibility in her community of faith. She is a Future Connect leader. She was nominated by me last year to be a part of our leadership cohort. And she's trying to figure out what she wants to do. She wanted to be a naturopathic doctor. Now she's shifting toward neuroscience.
 I'm confident whatever she ends up landing on, she'll be successful. So thank you so much for having us all here today. Pass it over to Clarissa. Thank you, Tobias. Good morning, Mayor Howells and city council. Sorry, commissioners. My name is Clarissa DeJesus Solano. I am currently a second-year student at PCC after four successful terms in which I have earned a 3.7 GPA. That deserves a round of applause. Yeah, I think that deserves a round of applause.
 I took winter term off so I could go to Mexico. I went to Mexico to visit my family, but most importantly, I went to spend time and take care of my abuelito, which means grandfather in Spanish. My abuelita, which means grandmother in Spanish, passed away February of last year, so it has been very hard for him. And he has even been diagnosed with depression. Okay.
 And he wanted me and needed me to be with him since he was alone down in Mexico. And also because none of his grandchildren wanted to or had the opportunity to go to Mexico and be with him on the prior trip.
 To Mexico, six months before my abuelita passed, she told me that she wanted me to be someone in life and to be happy. She also said that she could see me being a doctor or a lawyer. Those words are still in my heart and will always be in my heart. Sorry. Even though we didn't have a special relationship, I felt that immense love she had for me whenever I was with her. Sorry, guys. Okay.
 Though I had crafted myself into a successful student, even before hearing my abuelita's words, after she passed away, I found a new purpose for my education, and I decided to dedicate my academic career to her. And she is the reason why I am in school right now. In high school, at David Douglas, I honestly did not have a reason or inspiration to go to college. I felt like I was forced to go to college. I did not.
 do my best because I knew I was going to pass. At the end, my ending GPA at David Douglas was a 2.68, and I still graduated on time. Not having any support or encouragement from anyone made me discouraged, but I quickly realized once I was accepted into the Future Connect that I would have someone to help guide me and support me my entire time at PCC.
 This was important to me for a few reasons. For one, my brother and my cousins and I represent the first generation of our family to go to college. We are the ones that the younger generations look up to, and we should set the example for them. My brother Carlos and my cousin Johnny both received the Future Connect scholarship. My brother decided...
 that he wanted to get his degree despite the struggles, while my cousin Johnny decided that school wasn't important to him and dropped out. Both of them were on the same path, but each one had a different mindset, and at the end they made their own decision. At the end, wait, at that time, I applied for the Future Connect Scholarship, and I had no idea my brother and my cousin had received the scholarship. After I had received the scholarship,
 I was excited because I was going to be assigned a coach. I did not know what I was going to get myself into when I was going to start college. Thankfully, my coach, Tobias, has been an amazing person since day one. He is not just a coach. He is like family. Tobias and the rest of the Future Connect staff are very nice and very helpful and are always motivating everyone to keep going.
 That extra motivation I have gotten from my coach and the rest of the Future Connect family has helped me get where I am today. I have a cousin who just graduated last year, and she went straight to a university. After starting school, she realized that she had no one to help her out and give her that extra motivation. If it wasn't for Future Connect, I would have already dropped out of college.
 Going to school, working, having church responsibilities, and having house duties has been very tough. At the end, I do my best to be responsible for all the things I do. At the moment, I have a GPA of 3.71. It hasn't been easy, but getting that extra help and encouragement from Future Connect has made the college experience less hectic.
 I was also nominated to be a Future Connect leader from Tobias because he saw something in me. I never considered myself a leader, but after taking the leadership class, I realized I have potential. I just need to come out, step out of my shell. It has also helped me grow as a person and view life differently. Thanks to Future Connect, I know now which road I am taking, and that is the road to success.
 My academic goal is to get my transfer degree and go to a university and get my doctorates in neuroscience and psychology. My end goal is to move to Mexico and have a little office space and help people with, like a little office space and be a doctor down there and help all the people who can't afford medicine.
 paying those expensive doctors down there, either for a low cost or for free. And thank you for continuing to support students like myself, my brother, and Jordan Collins, who will be speaking next. Thank you. Can I just also observe, colleagues, that when you began your beautiful remarks earlier,
 You mentioned we were a city council, but then you were kind of figuring out why we're commissioners. I have to say, after seven years on this body, I can't answer that question. Because if you're at the county, you're considered a board of county commissioners. If you're at the city, you're considered a city council. And I'm not quite sure why we're also known as commissioners, other than the charter says so. But you hit upon something that is a pure anomaly in Portland. Yeah.
 One more way we keep Portland weird. Thank you for being here. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. You may remember me from Floyd Light Middle School. I spoke at the budget hearing about a year ago representing Future Connect. I shared then how I planned on going to U of O, and that was my dream school, and how I was in the process and had about a year left of schooling to go.
 I want to take you back to my high school experience at Franklin. I was class of 2013. I was an average student in high school. Most of my time went to playing basketball for the team there. Didn't really know what was going to happen for college. I knew that U of O was a dream school, but I knew I probably couldn't afford it or how I was going to have the grades to get in. So I had an ETS advisor that I worked with, Jason Young, and –
 He told me all the options I had and they were very, very, very slim. He introduced me to the Future Connect program where I first met Tobias and he spoke about what Future Connect was going to bring to me, how they were going to give me a support coach to guide me through the process, and how it was also a scholarship that was going to help me pay for college.
 I just really want to piggyback on these guys are not just coaches. It's really like a family future connect to me. Anything I'm going through in life, I can kind of go to them and just ask them for advice. They're always sending encouraging emails, encouraging texts, helping you get through whatever hole you got to jump through next. I've dealt with a lot of adversity myself over the last year with my family health and just declining grandparents' health as well.
 Um, and these guys have really been there. I'm not really sure the credentials it takes to be a mentor, but these guys are like mentors to me. Um, so all I ever really wanted to do is be a duck, get into the sports marketing program. And I can now say, uh, after last week I was meeting with a coach and they said that I already had an associate of arts degree, which I didn't know I have because I was been so focused on my business transfer degree. Um,
 And so last week when I found out I had a degree already that I didn't know about, it was a good feeling. It was a great feeling, actually. That's great. And so I'm proud to say that I'm going to head into University of Oregon next fall with no debt to date because of Future Connect.
 And it's just, the program has really done miracles for me. All the coaches I've seen outside of class as well, I might play basketball with them on a Wednesday night or something. It's really a family. That's what I wanna say Future Connect is. There's thousands of students like me that are going through the same things, different adversities. And I'm just here representing them who can't be here to speak today.
 I just really want to thank all of you for your support, for placing your faith in us to succeed, and for making my college experience such a positive one. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you very much.
 Thank you all very much. Is there anyone else that wants to speak on this report? Excellent report from the front at Future Connect. So thank you. Mayor, I move to accept the report. Second. Any further discussion? Roll call then, please. Well, thank you for taking the time to come. It was mentioned by Coach, the FAFSA, which is the Federal Student Aid Program,
 application. I have a master's degree from Cambridge and I've taken a lot of tests and I would have to say that filling out the FAFSA was one of the hardest things I have ever
 have ever done. So thank you for helping students with that, get over that simple barrier, so-called simple, but you actually have to get over it in order to get into college and get student aid. So thank you for all that you do. Thank you, Southeast Works and your students for staying and listening to this presentation. The future is there, and we are hoping to connect you to it. And thank you very much for all the work you do.
 There was some astonishing news this morning. Phil Knight has given $400 million to Stanford to fund a graduate scholarship program. And $400 million is a lot of money. At 5% interest, it generates $20 million a year. Think about what could we do with $20 million in terms of creating opportunity. We don't have those kinds of resources locally, so we have to all public and private work together to fund these initiatives. Thank you.
 And Amanda mentioned that five years ago, Dan and she and I had the honor of being on this council and supporting this vision. There was a lot of pushback, and I don't want to underestimate that. There were folks who said it wasn't germane to the city's business, that it wasn't a core function. There were people who criticized us for prioritizing public dollars for this purpose. There were people that...
 had very strong views on this subject. And the council then and now, under Mayor Hale's leadership, has every year made an investment in the success of students in our community. Because after all, we're investing in the success of the future workforce that we hope chooses to stay in Portland and contribute to our city. But there can be no more important investment than in helping someone chase a dream. And I'm glad this council has resisted the critics who have told us that we should not be investing in the success of young people and their education.
 It is not our primary role. That's true. But this forum, I think, illustrates why it's an important part of our overall approach to building a healthy community. And I'm very proud that this council has supported this effort for five years. And I'm especially proud of the students who've come forward and told us about their stories, their wonderful stories. So thank you. And I'm pleased to vote aye. Thank you.
 Well, thank you for a very inspirational report, and I don't know if it was coincidence that Southeast Works was on the agenda at the same time today, but I think there's a lot of opportunity here for the students at Southeast Works to take advantage of Future Connect, and I hope you all will look into that very exclusively. I'm very proud that PCC is doing such a good job. I had the pleasure of serving on the Board of Directors myself for 10 years, and PCC is a very
 inspirational place and a lot of great success stories and thank you for bringing two success stories to share with us today we appreciate it very much I know Vic thank you so much for your testimony it's an honor to have this partnership with PCC an organization that helps 90,000 students of all ages gain the skills they need to further their academic goals into the workforce or become even more skilled at what they're already doing
 And this is a major part of our partnership with BCC, but it's not the only part. I want to let you know that a project I spend a lot of my time on is trying to figure out how to get high capacity transit from Portland to the southwest suburbs.
 And one of the big issues is, can we provide good service to PCC Sylvania so that people can take light rail or bus rapid transit there and won't have to drive? So I encourage you to come to hearings of the Southwest Corridor Steering Committee to make your voices heard. Thank you. Hi. Thank you.
 Well, it's a double coincidence, not only that we had this great presentation about Southeast Works, but also that we had Monica and Paige here talking about the Portland economy. One more coincidence, there are a whole bunch of people up in my office working hard on the World Indoor Track and Field event that's going to take place here in three weeks.
 And so what are the connections here? We're a city where the technology industry is booming, where Phil Knight has made a similar pledge, and Oregon Health Sciences University is expanding enormously.
 with a billion dollars of successful fundraising to be a national center of expertise in not only cancer care and cure, but other medical specialties. So there's a lot of opportunity in Portland if you have the skills to access that opportunity.
 that's the whole point of what we've heard from these students and leaders in these programs today is that there is a great deal of opportunity if you can get the right education in our society and that's difficult and that's expensive and that's not equally available to people in our very diverse city so what you're doing is critical for us
 becoming a city of opportunity for everyone in Portland. So thank you for what you're doing. A couple of really great reports this morning. Future Connect is doing wonderful things. And yes, I think the case has been made, although it's not a core function for city government, to partner with others to make sure that our people succeed. When you get past the words of the charter, that's why we're here. Thank you very much. Aye. Thank you all.
 Okay. We'll move on to other business here. Item number 170. Accept Portland Streetcar second annual report. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, this is the second annual report to Council by Portland Streetcar on its performance, operations, and budget. And it includes exciting new data on streetcar ridership and the city's return on its investment.
 As you know, the streetcar is owned and operated by the city in a strong partnership with TriMet, our regional transit agency, and an operations assistance provider, Portland Streetcar, Inc., which engages private sector stakeholders through a voluntary board, staffs our citizen advisory committee, develops sponsorships, and advocates for transit service improvements. Here today are the illustrious Jim Mark, the chair of PSI, Dan Bauer, the illustrious executive director of PSI, and our own illustrious Catherine Levine, the Bureau's streetcar manager.
 well we've lost our crowd yeah yeah hard act to follow good exciting things to talk about we we're excited so don't don't be dissuaded good morning good morning commissioner mayor we're very pleased today to bring to council the second annual report with data from the ridership survey and the recent economic development analysis dan bauer of psi will be providing more information about those two items shortly
 I wanted to acknowledge that over the past year, Portland Streetcar has continued to grow and mature. With the opening of the Telecom Crossing and the full loop service, there are now nearly 100 people who work at Portland Streetcar to provide public transit service seven days a week, addressing customer needs and safety. They are led by the City Operations Manager, Lenore DeLuisa, and the City Maintenance Manager, Gary Cooper.
 And I happen to know that Lenore was here. Yes, she's here. Do you want us to stand up for a moment? Okay, thank you. As you know, last September we entered into a new operations services agreement with Portland Streetcar, Inc.,
 to clarify our relationship, assign responsibilities, and set financial targets for sponsorship revenue to support service delivery. That is certainly one of the accomplishments we are proud of. But I also think it's more important to talk about what the team has done in this past year, which is focus on improved reliability,
 better communications with our customers, developing the Portland Streetcar strategic plan, and focusing on safety and security in coordination with our partners, TriMet, federal and state. Streetcar staff have participated in tabletop exercises with Homeland Security and TriMet. They have coordinated with the transit police, and we've added additional security at the Streetcar site.
 We all share the goal of continuous safety improvements for our employees and our customers. Dan will be telling you more about the results of some of those efforts. I'll turn it over to him now. Thank you. Would you mind turning that so I can see? So as Catherine noted, this was a tremendous year for us. Obviously, we had some major changes with the opening of the Tillich and Crossing and new service going into effect. But by far the biggest and most controversial thing we did was to change our logo and
 We expect this new logo to bring in roughly 3,000 writers per year. It should be noted that we worked that through the Citizens Advisory Committee, through the Board, with a lot of our partners at TriMet and launched it and somehow we won an award in New York City for best logo for travel and lodging. We beat out Airbnb. So there you go.
 Just a quick recap of the service right now. We have essentially what I call two and a half or three lines. We have the north-south line, which is the green line from northwest 23rd to south waterfront. And then we have the A and B loops, which are, depending on who you ask, essentially the same line or different lines because they never actually run on the same tracks and they go in different directions. We worked through the summer to come up with names for these things, inner or outer loops, timbers and thorns loops, all kinds of things. And we landed on A and B loops.
 So the A loop goes clockwise, the B loop goes counterclockwise. All three lines run at 15-minute service. And what that means downtown between the Broadway Bridge and the Telecom Crossing is we have service every seven and a half minutes, which is about where roughly 80% of our ridership is served with that. We have 15,200 riders per day, which is exactly the same as the Yellow Line Max. It's better than every bus line in the city, but for two. So the ridership on streetcars is really quite tremendous right now.
 We showed this slide last year, but just a reminder of how we've grown over time. Again, one of the fun things for us is we have partners. We now have seven, almost eight partners in the city or in the country running modern streetcar systems. Washington, D.C., after eight to ten years of trying, is going to be opening their system on Saturday. They're using the cars built right here in Oregon. So that's an exciting opportunity for us to see how that goes.
 Jim and I are headed to Kansas City in early April to see the grand opening of the Kansas City streetcar and then look forward to Cincinnati opening this fall as well. So a couple of accomplishments for the year. Somewhere in the budget process there between the spring bump and the annual budget, this group gave us a little bit of money to speed up the streetcar and improve reliability.
 And I wanted to just highlight a couple of the things we've done there. One was to improve a signal at Southwest 4th and Harrison. At one point, we could only move one train across that intersection at a time. With roughly $30,000 or $40,000, we were able to make that fix and move two trains through that intersection at the same time. And that has really improved our reliability through that section.
 We also put new striping on 10th and 11th Avenue, southwest 10th and 11th. This is what we call a business access and transit lane or a BAT lane. It allows cars to turn right, but the streetcar can proceed through. And what that does is allow us to better serve our platforms, so we less frequently have cars in front of us as we get to platforms in that area. We also fixed the switch at 16th and Lovejoy and fixed some track work at 10th and Market.
 And we did some analysis of other ways to speed up the streetcar, and we can talk a little bit more about that in a second.
 So what that's done for reliability, it has improved our on-time performance. This chart on the left shows our on-time performance. The green is on-time, yellow is early, and purple is late. Our overall on-time performance for the whole system is about 81%, but you can see two of the lines, the ALoop and the NS are running really quite well, 85% on-time and even roughly 8% early. And 8% early is a management problem, not an infrastructure problem. So we're doing quite well on those lines.
 but I want to flag that the B loop, which is the counterclockwise loop at PM peak, is routinely running into traffic at Grand and Davis and at Broadway and Vancouver, which are I-5 and I-84 on ramps. So that's why our on-time performance for the B loop is sagging. It's that 3 to 6 p.m. infrastructure problem there. Another big success, the reduction in crashes. This year we had a 36% reduction in crashes across the system, which is fantastic. What that means is we don't...
 We're no longer having to cut service because trains are not available to us. We have only three spare trains. So when we have a crash, that has a really tough impact on our system. So that's been a great relationship. Can I ask you a question about crashes? Yeah. Who is – in terms of the profile of a crash involving the streetcar, how often is it the result of someone who, for example, parks in a way that –
 creates no lane for the streetcar or cuts off a streetcar or drives in some way that's dangerous versus, let's say, driver error. Do you keep track of that? Yeah, we do. The report we publish has – I'm sorry. Yeah, we do publish an annual report that lists out all the crash types. We get a lot of near misses and people striking us from the center lane trying to turn right. We get a few rear-end crashes where the person in front of us comes to a sudden stop.
 we don't clip that many mirrors, not that many parking, but most of them tend to be cars that are swaying outside their lane. My sense for what it's worth is the streetcar is going slow enough that I think the bigger risk they have is cars cutting them off and driving erratically and not so much the streetcar. I think sometimes people forget that the streetcar is a big, heavy vehicle.
 dangerous vehicle and you ought to drive more cautiously. You know, 70,000 hours of service last year and only 30 crashes is pretty remarkable. Pretty good. Yeah.
 Another investment we made last year was in automatic passenger counters. This allows us to know exactly how many people are riding our system. This is a pretty major investment for us, but it's given us some really great data. So this shows you our monthly ridership, and you can see over the summer we took a massive hit because the Broadway Bridge was closed and we were completely unable to run streetcar on the east side of the river. And it has taken us up until this month to actually recover our ridership, so back to 15,000 riders a day.
 What that looks like for us on an hourly basis, this is kind of an interesting chart that shows how many people are boarding and getting off our streetcar every hour of the day. I roughly drew a red line on there that shows what a normal transit service would experience, which is a small AM peak and then a big dip and then a large PM peak. What we see is a peak from roughly 11 to 6, people moving about the city and just doing things.
 Excuse me, any number of activities. But it's a little bit different from a normal transit system in that regard. And I think the temptation there is to think that people are getting downtown, using streetcar to run an errand, and then leaving downtown. But what we know from new survey data is that 66% of our trips are beginning at people's homes. They're walking out their front door. They're getting on the streetcar. They're riding it for 1.1 miles. And they're going to work.
 32% of our passengers are going to work, which is the number one destination. We also have students, and then we have just people doing any number of other activities. But I found this particularly surprising that we have so many people walking out their door and completing their trip on streetcar going to work. It's kind of different than the narrative that has been out there in the community for a while.
 Some demographics from this survey, and I can be happy to divulge you with the methodology here, but I'd rather not bore you with that. This was in partnership with the FTA and TriMet. We collected this data. It was a very robust survey.
 Probably the most boring chart on there is the ridership age. That actually matches the census data almost to a T. I thought that was the most interesting thing in the report. Yeah. I wonder if there's any other mode split that so closely matches the census. I think we'll see with this data is that the people riding the streetcar are the people who live next to the streetcar. So there's nothing – there's no shiny unicorn out there that's using this in a way that's –
 different than we would. Very broad range of ages. I'm really impressed that everybody uses streetcar. Yeah. I think we all found these numbers to be kind of interesting, but it's a different narrative than out there. Similarly, 38% of our riders don't have vehicles. And confusingly, but interestingly, 38% of the households along the streetcar line are households without a car. So those are two different stats that happen, again, happen to match up perfectly. Okay.
 Less than 5% of our riders are tourists. And again, less than, quite a few of our riders are earning less than $20,000 per year. Along those lines, 23% of our riders don't have a driver's license.
 And interestingly for me, we deploy our ADA ramps at a rate more than five times that of Trident. So we are carrying a lot of people and mobility devices, a lot of people with shopping carts. Not every one of these is a wheelchair. A lot of these are people shopping and using their carts to get their groceries onto the streetcar. But still, that's what we're seeing a lot of that. One of my favorite photos is someone with a beer cake on the streetcar. On a hand truck. Good thing we have that ramp.
 Data like whether riders have driver's licenses or not, or much less valid driver's licenses, how do you track that? So I don't want to get too far in the methodology, but we partnered with TriMet and FTA to develop a pre- and post-survey associated with the federal grant that paid for the Eastside Streetcar Project.
 We used electronic tablets and collected, I think, roughly 6,000 samples that were representative of when people were writing and where they were writing. So that was a one-time – all of this data is a one-time snapshot that was taken roughly in May, April and May of last year. So you're saying you have a statistically valid survey protocol you use to get this data, and it's a snapshot in time. And this was by far the largest survey we've ever done, and it's only been done once. So –
 well we would like to repeat it but it costs you know it costs quite a bit of money to do a survey uh okay moving on so obviously we have um we're using streetcars as a planning tool as well um the other major study we did this year was in partnership again with trimet and fta
 was an analysis of the economic impact of streetcar. And what we did was we hired Eco Northwest to look at both what's happened, just generally what can we see on the ground, but also what was the causality of streetcar, to what extent did streetcar actually influence decisions. And there's a full report we can share with people on this, but I just wanted to share a few highlights with you. One thing we found is there's now $4.5 billion worth of investment along the streetcar line. This is within a quarter of a mile.
 The real market value of the streetcar corridor has increased over $11 billion, and actually what you see there is a concentration of growth in the city. So we used to have 11% of the real market value of the city along the streetcar line. Now it's 17%. So more stuff is being invested along that line. Excuse me. I thought I had hit this line. One second here. Oh, you know what? I think we have the wrong presentation, but that's okay. We can go with it. Okay.
 There's been a ton of housing built along the streetcar line, but one thing that's off the mast is we think at least 30 percent, but definitely quantifiable 25 percent of all the housing units built along the streetcar line are subsidized affordable housing. I'm going to take one second. Is that thumb drive still there? No, it's close. All right. Never mind. It's fine. Oh, it's all right. We'll go with it. It's fine. It's close enough.
 Another interesting stat is that people who are investing along the streetcar line are using more of their FAR, their floor area ratio. So we know that 41% of the people who are investing are using at least 80% of their FAR. So you're seeing more people take more advantage of their zoning capacity along the streetcar line than you are off of the streetcar line.
 Just to translate that into English, that means that people who are developing along the streetcar are making sure they have the biggest office building housing units that they can because it's worth the investment? Correct. 33% of all the jobs in the city are located within a quarter mile of the streetcar line. A lot of that has to do with the fact of where we run, but again, you're seeing a concentration of investment there.
 And we did this analysis, which the FTA called heads and shoulders above anything they've ever seen, at probably the worst possible time. There was not literally a single unit or square foot built on the east side during the pre- and post-analysis that we did. From 2010 to 2013, almost nothing happened.
 But we all know now things are picking up. This analysis doesn't include anything on Haslow and 8th Project. It doesn't include Burnside Bridgehead Project. It doesn't include any of the development that's occurring today on the east side. So we look forward to updating this at that time. So before you move to that, it doesn't include anything about the economic value of actually building the streetcar during the recession, right? None of the –
 construction. The construction jobs that we kept in Portland that provided good family wage jobs over the course of the recession. Yeah, that's right. Thank you. I'd like to mention that, Commissioner, because I think some people have had amnesia about some of the projects we jump-started in 2009, 10, and 11 that were designed to, they were effectively stimulus jobs, whether they were parks, affordable housing, or other things, and they were very important, and they were important as catalytic investments as well. And
 We seem to have forgotten that we've just passed through the Great Recession. Just flag for this analysis. There's a whole other piece to this, which was like a regression analysis or hedonic analysis that attaches the likelihood or the causality of streetcar creating change in the city. And it's just one of those things that's far too complicated to explain at city council. But that report exists. We've been presenting it around town and happy to share that with people if you'd like.
 A couple other quick items, just in terms of what's next for streetcar, we are looking for more cars. More cars would improve our service and our reliability. And we did make an application to the state for Connect Oregon to try and buy three used streetcars from Seattle. We got points for creativity in that one.
 But it didn't score that well. I think we scored okay. But we're still hopeful that we can find a way to get those streetcars. That would be $5 million for three new streetcars, which is roughly the price of one. So we're still trying to make that work. Dan, I think the appropriate phrase is certified pre-owned streetcars. Certified pre-owned. The blue book is still out on the table today. You can't see them today. They can't save any.
 I just had the rural transit agencies were especially appreciative of the city's willingness to as they say go out of the box and look at used vehicles and they pointed out a number of different folks at the state level pointed out their appreciation for the good stewardship of taxpayer dollars within the state and moving that forward I think the ranking
 uncertainty for them is that we would be looking to buy surplus vehicles. In other words, there's no certainty that we would win the bid. And at the state level, it's tremendously important to the folks who are looking at the grant applications to know that if they award you the grant, you will for sure be able to expend the dollars. Forgive me for asking this, but I know that every year there's a great ritual at the Fire Bureau where
 Dan gives a vehicle that's gone past its useful life to the Guadalajara bomberos, and they come up and they then drive it down I-5.
 it's because under our standards it's gone beyond the useful life but for them it still it has a use so when we're picking up a used uh streetcar from seattle there are no uh wear and tear safety other kinds of considerations no we're not they're not they're not for sale because they're beyond useful life they're for sale because seattle is moving to a system where they have to run off wire
 Because they have so many wires in Seattle, they have to run about a mile with the pantograph down. And so these streetcars that are just like ours, in fact, they bought them off our contract, are no longer useful in Seattle. That's important information. Yeah, right. They're, what, 10 years old, 9 years old? It's almost like they're surplus versus aging out. Yeah. But there's some conversion necessary. Yeah. We have to take their sponsorship off the side. Okay. Moving on. Okay.
 Yes, absolutely. Another thing that's happening right now you may have heard about, we have closed temporarily five of our streetcar stations. The two at Everett, those two at 1st and Harrison, and the one at Southwest 10th and Stark. The hope there is to both improve safety. Southwest 10th and Stark and 1st and Harrison are the prime locations of what we talked about earlier with cars turning in front of us.
 but also trying to speed the system up quite a bit. We hear a lot from both riders, but also non-riders, that the system needs to be more useful. And if you're traveling from northwest Portland to south waterfront, that's a long trip. And we're trying to figure out ways to speed this up. This trial is going...
 Pretty well. I would think we've received a not insignificant amount of pushback, but not a surprising amount either, and also have received quite a few positive comments, more than I've experienced in most projects. So we look forward to wrapping that trial up at the end of this month and making a recommendation through the board at that time.
 We're also looking at alternatives for speeding us up on the east side. We talked about the service with the B loop. We have a couple of spots where we get stuck every single day for a long time, and we need to be thinking about ways to keep the streetcar moving through that corridor. We're also looking at a place to turn around on the east side, probably around Grand and Wydler right by the McDonald's there. If we were able to turn a streetcar around at that point, we would be able to recover service on days when the bridge is closed or we have bridge lifts or anything else that's affecting our service.
 And then from a planning perspective, we're embarking on an effort to kind of dust off the 2009 streetcar concept plan. We have this plan out there that was adopted by council. People know it exists, but there's a lot of anxiety in the community about are we actually doing things? Are we actually going to build them? I have developers calling me all the time saying, look, I need to know where to put my PGE vault. And I see on this plan that you're building a streetcar here. Is that true or is that not true?
 and that's like a baseline question but there's also questions in the community about where we're going from here so we're as a board embarking on an effort to try and identify a series of investments that we think could double ridership from from 20 000 to 40 000 riders with pretty minimal investment it's it's it always sounds expensive to talk streetcar we think roughly three hundred four hundred million dollars you could build you could double the network
 But compared to $1.6 billion for the Orange Line or anything else, there are other ways we could be talking about this as a way of shaping our community and being consistent with the comprehensive plan.
 I heard your comment yesterday about Foster. I literally have not been at my desk since then, otherwise this map would have Foster on it. I was just about to ask that because there was kind of a glowing hole in it, southeast. Yeah, and this is a representative picture. But people should know that in partnership with TriMet and the city, PSI is working on efforts to improve
 clarify where we're going next. And I think that'll be an important conversation. Given what you've just told us, and before you move on, because I really appreciate having that map, and thank you for saying that you're going to consider foster. Since we know now that it does do what Charlie and others said it was going to do when the system was first conceived in stimulating both homes and businesses nearby, you could just see how putting it down foster and then up
 122nd might do what other strategies haven't been able to do in those areas in stimulating vibrancy and great places to live and work. Although those are good places to live and work now, it could be even better with streetcar. Genuinely, the conversation is going to be around value capture. Now that we know that you can create value,
 How are we as a city capturing that value and deploying it? Is it going towards the streetcar? Is it going towards affordable housing, jobs? We need some other tool to kind of capture all that value that's going to be created. Can we have both? With $4.5 billion, I would think yes.
 So I want to hand it to Jim just for some closing remarks. Sure. I'm Jim Mark, chair of Portland Streetcar, Inc. And, you know, streetcars have been near and dear to me since the day the real city really went after it. And I think it's really shaped the city of Portland. And I want to thank Dan and Catherine, I mean, and all the people that work on streetcar. It's sort of my opportunity to thank the people that make me look good as chair of streetcar, but all our maintenance workers, our drivers, all the crews that work so hard to keep it safety and safe.
 Commissioner Fish, I appreciate your questions about safety because there's a lot of people that work every day not only to make the line safe but also to analyze where we aren't safe and where there are improvements that can be made along the line and those people work very hard. And then last but not least, Commissioner Novick, who's worked really hard with us over the years and I appreciate our relationship and the opportunity to work with you on transportation and streetcar.
 This has been a great year. I mean, as I mentioned, we've got a great staff. Dan has done a great job. The city has done a great job. But we have our contract that we signed, you know, that we went through and I think addressed a lot of the issues that came out of the audit from before. So we're off and running. And as Dan mentioned, there's a lot of improvements that, you know, we're looking at enhancements over a period of time, and we'll reach out to the city on numerous areas that the streetcar could be moved to.
 A couple things I thought I'd go over of the year of accomplishments, and I'm going to go through them very briefly and feel free to ask questions along. PSI was responsible for privately fundraising for all the Tilikum Crossing and the Loop Grand Celebrations. That was all done by PSI.
 We hit a new high for private sponsorship on the streetcar, over $400,000 last year, and that continues to grow. We continue to get more interest from the private community on private sponsorship on the streetcar. Is that an annual number? That's annual. So it's really been growing.
 PSI is privately fundraising to replace the glass at all the streetcar shelters with etched glass to make it more attractive and sort of manage the graffiti efforts that we all have a tough time keeping up with, and the Board's been very active along the fair policy
 Station consolidations, as Dan talked about, and then planning for the future, we're really engaging not only this board but breaking into different subcommittees and reaching out to the city on the citizen participation boards.
 You know, it's important that we sort of look at the next phase of streetcar, of what it's going to do and how it's going to shape the city. I think Commissioner Fritz mentioned these are important times. So as we look at different areas, I think we have to think very carefully of where that line is going to go and the impact and effect that we can have within the city to increase mobility. Okay.
 And then finally, you know, the comp plan, which goes hand in hand with that of accomplishing our goals. I think when you look at successful cities, not only in the United States but around the world, streetcars and interconnector. And again, it's my pleasure to act as chair. I've really enjoyed the process and look forward to working on the future. Thanks for the opportunity. Great report. Thank you. Questions? I just have a question. Yes.
 In partnership with Google, New York City is putting out these kiosks that are going to create universal Wi-Fi. And Google is funding it, and it's going to be offset with the advertising.
 Do we have opportunities going forward to link Wi-Fi to streetcar, either at the stations or somehow in the system? And with that, you may already have it. And if not, does that give us another advantage in the marketplace? Yep. The short answer is yes, we can. We have advantages.
 We have cellular data going to our stations. We have cell data going to our cars. Technically, this is not that hard of a problem, just getting routers installed at those places. We also are in the grant application for Connected Cities. Is that what it's called? Smart Cities. Smart Cities, yeah. This question keeps coming up ever since I've started two years ago. Shouldn't we have Wi-Fi on the streetcars, and shouldn't we have them at the stations? And I think the short answer to me is yes, absolutely.
 But if I had $200,000 to spend, I'd rather buy security cameras for our cars. Just a thought. The company that Commissioner Novick has selected to run our bike share program is actually involved indirectly with the New York City free Wi-Fi. The Wi-Fi kiosks they're putting out in New York are at no cost to local government.
 It's paid for exclusively by advertising. Are you suggesting we should allow advertising in the right of way? Well, what I'm suggesting is there are new models for how to get Wi-Fi. And I think I would offer it as something to look at because if there was a partner like a Google or someone that wanted to bring it, I think it would be actually pretty neat that you had that service on streetcar and at your stations. Yeah.
 yeah and i've been in conversations with the bike share group because they're also going to have multiple locations where there could be a router so i think it's there's an opportunity there for sure yeah so um i have a couple questions um sort of starting with a comment i mean back to our discussion about the bat lanes on uh business access and transportation lanes on 10th and 11th which the council funded last year in which you implemented and about which we got very little
 given that you're that you're now carrying 15,000 riders a day I'm gonna dare to speak its name which is we ought to continue to prioritize the function of the streetcar over the convenience of individual motor vehicles so where should we do that next in order to keep you running on time in a city that's going to have more cars in it because if we're not aggressive about that you will gradually walk backwards as trans as you get choked off by traffic
 and if we're serious about
 And if we're serious about our carbon footprint, then we've got to be serious about prioritizing scarce public right-of-way for travel decisions that accommodate more people in more sustainable ways. So where next? Should we stripe lanes, change signals, otherwise shift the balance in favor of a community solution to transportation that's carrying far more people than cars ever could?
 My general sense is on the west side, traffic has not been that big of an issue to date. It's manageable. The two places where we have the biggest issue by far, and we're talking delays of 30, 40, 50 minutes, is Northeast Grand at Davis and Broadway at Vancouver.
 My hope is that with a $400 million Northeast Quadrant plan to redesign I-5 and Vancouver and Williams and everything else that ODOT and the city are participating in, that if we're going to spend that much money, we could find a way to move the streetcar through that particular intersection better than we do today. That being said, I haven't seen that in those plans. The Grand and Davis one is a little different nut. We're sitting in line with cars trying to get on I-84. So there's...
 Something to be said about how we're managing Grand Avenue generally. You've got four lanes of traffic. Nowhere else in the city do we have four lanes of traffic. It's one of those opportunity areas. The rest of it, I think, is really manageable with signals at this point. Well, you accomplished a lot on 10th and 11th with paint and signs. So are you saying there's no solution to the Grand and Davis problem that doesn't involve tens of millions of dollars, and there's no solution to the Broadway problem that doesn't involve hundreds of millions of people?
 I haven't seen one yet. How's that? Harder. You're saying it's harder? Yeah. Okay. Love, Joy, and Northrop becoming one way. Is that necessary? Love, Joy is mostly one way at this point. Yeah. You know, the Love, Joy ramp up to the Broadway Bridge. When the Broadway Bridge reopens, we tend to get stuck in queues there. You have a double left onto the Broadway Bridge. That's the spot we get stuck, you know.
 But worth exploring, for sure. Well, the council's going to be considering a capital budget as usual in the course of this budget. Yeah. If there are the kinds of cost-effective solutions that you implemented on 10th and 11th that we could do to make the service work better for all the people it's serving and now going to serve since you're going back up that ridership graph, let us know. So I have to ask...
 did anybody think about this when we planned the east side line i mean those intersections have been notorious for decades i'm just curious why we didn't think about putting the street car on the other side of grand avenue for instance or the other side of broadway anybody think about that i know this precedes your time there with probably receives all your times um
 from what i've dug up um when the design was done this was a different it was a different city we have grown a lot and our traffic has grown a lot since the east side alignment was originally drawn the models did don't show nearly the kind of queuing that we're seeing particularly at grand with because at that time freeway traffic was actually quite a bit lower than it is today
 And we saw this in the modeling around the Columbia River Crossing and everything else. There was a significant dip in the amount of cars traveling on the freeways. And at the time that that was modeled and looked at, it seemed to work. But as we grow, we are putting more and more cars on the road and more and more of those cars are trying to get on the freeway.
 There may be some opportunities to look at how we're doing. The other is the actual design of Broadway at Vancouver and Williams has changed since we opened. We now have the double right onto I-5 North and the bike signal. And what used to be a little bit different lane configuration that allowed for more through traffic on Broadway is now down to one, one and a half lanes getting through Broadway. So some things have changed. Other questions?
 Thank you very much. Thank all of you. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this report? Crystal Alinsky signed up. Okay. Come on up. Hello. My name is Crystal Alinsky. This is enlightening. I had a couple questions about the board for a streetcar. I understand it's not under the umbrella of TriMet and –
 Since there have been so many changes to keep track of, where it concerns the MAX, the... Well, I call it the yellow line south. I don't know why they changed the color. The bus, the major, major changes in the bus, and then reinstating what we had before with even more quirks and loss of memory. And then all of the streetcar. I was wondering, how do we follow this? If...
 Probably the Portland Streetcar, Inc. website that you mentioned. Is the board elected? Appointed. It's a non-profit. Portland Streetcar, Inc. is a non-profit. It has a volunteer board of directors. They are a crucial source of recommendations to the city. The city also has a citizen advisory committee on streetcar that reports directly to the commissioner in charge. Thanks. It sounds very different from TriMet.
 All right. Well, gone are the days where I sat there frustrated, wondering why we had a streetcar when you could walk faster than it ran and the wait was not worth it. And just the sense of it going around in this one track when Sam Adams extended it down to the south waterfront, it took a lot of people. I'll mention...
 my group of 10,000 to understand why suddenly the concentration over to major brownfield of the city, which is now as we can see in just a few years, a metropolis of its own. So sometimes the city planning follows the street car, follows the transit plans. And sometimes the other way around, just as Dan was mentioning the,
 how Broadway and Cooch, the Cooch and Burnside couplet, I lived in those two areas. I lived at Burnside Sandy right before that couplet was built and then I lived up at Broadway near the Rose Quarter Transit Center and I get lost in those areas now. So I think at the time they were planning this,
 Nobody except real estate developers and everybody in their business pockets was planning on this huge influx. It's hard to even navigate as a pedestrian, much less as someone trying to take a streetcar. So the problems we had with the streetcar in the beginning are what we see in other places that are trying to implement what Portland has.
 And hopefully they'll handle it much better than we have. I'll mention Phoenix and Tucson, where I have family and friends. And a lot of people just complain that it doesn't do anything except push gentrification. And I think I just wanted to say that I'm impressed.
 when I sit there and wait and I see two, three streetcars coming one after another, I'm like, this is how the whole city should be with buses and Max's. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. My name is Leighton. I represent Leighton Watchdog PDX. In my opinion, the streetcar has been very effective. I think their management in place is by far superior than TriMet. And some of the
 concerns I might have on a safety issue. I'm glad you brought up the fact you have an actual counter to count how many people board the streetcar. One of the concerns I have, and I guess management can look into it, is that I have a concern on the overall capacity on how many people actually should be allowed to be on the streetcar at any time. And I was wondering with your counter system is that if that was set up to where at certain times it went over the capacity
 It might notify the driver to not allow any more people to enter the streetcar. And I've had that same problem with the TriMed Max, is that I don't like these types of modes of transportation any more than a vehicle that someone may drive, having 10 people in a car, opposed to having too many people in the streetcar. It's a safety issue, and I think it needs to really be addressed, especially if there's wheelchairs in there, especially if there's people that get in there with bikes, etc.,
 There has to be a capacity and a limit that is allowed on these streetcars. In the fire marshal, I'd like to have a little more input from the fire marshal on that situation, on the overall capacity allowed, and make sure that is addressed. The other issues that I really am impressed with the streetcars, when you're talking the valuation of properties along the streetcar route, it's very impressive on the overall numbers on what the values are going to be.
 It appears that the developers are having more incentives to develop more units there, more residential. And we also noticed hotels and various other condos. And what I found interesting here is that you have a 5%, less than 5% of riders are tourists. And I find that kind of a difficult number to understand, considering I would think people coming into town would want to be next to the streetcar, and a lot of the hotels and new developments might be built there.
 So I find that number kind of interesting. Maybe I almost disagree with your less than 5%. And another issue I have is that when we're talking potential competitors to the streetcar, such as Uber, Lyft, I want to see if we can't get them to pay a little bit more money toward the operations of the streetcar. Because in my opinion, they are in direct competition with the streetcar, and
 I think that needs to be addressed with Uber and Lyft. We're going to be looking at the autonomous vehicles. I wanted to bring in Google and Uber to actually address that situation and come in with their plan.
 And so I haven't seen anything like that on this. And the reason why I say that is I'm very nervous about any more future investments in streetcar without having Uber and Google stepping up to the table on their autonomous vehicles throughout the city. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else? Okay. Do we have a motion to accept the report? Second. Roll call, please. Fairless Square. Fair.
 First, Commissioner Novick, thank you for bringing this report. I notice it's the second annual report, and it's certainly not just been two years since we've had the streetcar. I understand that it was you in your office who said, let's do a report. It's really...
 important to do these reports because it shows how successful the program as a whole has been and it gives information. I hope this presentation is posted online prominently or will be. I have, as of this morning, 537 emails urging me to do more on helping people who are experiencing homelessness. And we had a great presentation on a home for everyone. We do actually have a plan for
 do that and we know exactly what it needs to be done. This report similarly shows why is the streetcar a benefit to everyone and in particular why is it a benefit to Portlanders. I actually don't find it difficult lightning to believe that only 5% are tourists. It largely serves the places that people in Portland want to go. 66% of the trips beginning at home and that shows the great
 that's happened both in the Pearl and in South Waterfront of homes. And it takes us where we want to go. If I want to go to the convention center, I'm going to hop on the MAX because it's the most direct route, even though the streetcar does go there by a different route and encourages other people who aren't on the MAX line to be able to get to that destination. It's just phenomenal how much...
 This project has both helped with jobs during the recession and is continuing to serve jobs and housing needs within our city. And I'm very grateful to the work of Portland Streetcar, Inc. I'm particularly appreciative of the staff in PBOT
 Department of Transportation works with the streetcar and the streetcar board. Very gracious when we are looking at a way to get people who will hopefully be housed or sheltered at 3rd and Harrison, we asked the streetcar if we could provide free passes for them to get to services and the answer was sure. And when you look at the demographics of people who are using the streetcar, it is all ages, it is all incomes.
 It is a lot of people who have shopping carts of various varieties, whether it's groceries in the kind of...
 appliance that I might use to get groceries to and from the store, or whether it's folks who are taking all of their stuff, that they are welcome on streetcar and that we are accommodating everybody. And that's the Portland way of doing things. Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Thank you, Mayor Hales, for helping to start this way back when you were commissioner. And again, thanks to Commissioner and then Mayor Adams for continuing the program when people said that that was not the right thing to do. It certainly was. Aye. Yes.
 Thank you, Steve Novick. Thanks to the staff for an excellent presentation. Thank you to Jim Mark for his voluntary service on the board. I'm delighted to hear there's an effort to speed it up a little bit. We have heard that. I guess the best way to speed it up, Steve, would be to put it below ground, but my assumptions are a little short on funding for that. And then impressive numbers on reduction in accidents.
 And I will say that on a number of the routes where I drive, I think the cars make it unnecessarily difficult for the operators, the way they jump in and out along the route. And so I'm surprised that there is as few accidents as has been reported. Appreciate the transparency and the presentation on the report, and I'm proud to vote aye. That's awesome. Well, thank you for this great report. I think.
 It's really heartening to see the ridership numbers going up, and that squares well with what I see, particularly on the west side. It does seem like the cars are a lot more full than they have been, and I think South Waterfront has been an important destination in the mix. So it's a great report, and I also want to acknowledge Mayor Hills, who really did bring streetcar back to Portland, and I very vividly remember him being on the first streetcar ride and
 Choo-choo Charlie walking alongside there with a big stogie in his mouth. Yeah, we've got trouble for that. I think so. It's great to see that this has become an integral part of our system of both development and also helping people get around. So please support it. Hi. No, thank you.
 Thanks again to Jim and Catherine and Dan for their work in this presentation and on the streetcar as a whole and to everybody associated with the streetcar. I think this demographic data on who uses the streetcar is extremely powerful. And I have to confess that a couple of years ago, there were times when I was feeling sorry for myself that I thought of the streetcar as primarily a club that Brad Schmidt could use to beat me with.
 But I think that this data demonstrating the breadth of Portlanders who use the streetcar means that we should now think of the streetcar as a weapon in the continuing fight against cynicism about government investments. Aye.
 feels well thank you commissioner novick thank you all um this is a success story and the report is is illuminating and i think it helps um helps clarify what's really happening as opposed to sometimes what people think or worse is misreported as happening um and and uh
 you know the the data that you've put in front of us affirms what i've believed for some time now and i think it's now pretty clear in the numbers that this is the best investment the city of portland has ever made made lots of good investments bull run water system was a great investment but in terms of return on investment dollar for dollar even with most of the property along the line still in urban renewal districts it's already returning cash on cash
 quite handsomely, and once all that property is put back on the tax rolls, as we've already done with 40% of the Pearl District, that return to the general good of the city, the county, and the school districts is going to be spectacular. $4.5 billion of new investment for a little over, what, $200 million of total public investment in the infrastructure itself. Pretty nice ROI. Warren Buffett should do so well.
 so the numbers are helpful but so are the human impacts and the stories and I'll retell my favorite story about the streetcar because it illustrates something that Dan mentioned in passing which is there's this strange little anomaly that the streetcar seems to use its wheelchair lifts more than other forms of transit and that's because people with disabilities and older people who have mobility challenges have chosen to live along the streetcar line
 and they can live well there. And the story is that I was in a coffee shop about six years ago, and Susan Emmons, the revered director of a local nonprofit that takes care of vulnerable older people, a Northwest Pilot Project, came up to me in the coffee shop and said, hey, Charlie, I need to finally confess that,
 When the streetcar was being developed, I opposed it because I thought it was just an amenity for yuppies and that the city ought to be doing more to take care of vulnerable people.
 And now what I find, as the director of the Northwest Pilot Project, is that the streetcar is taking my clients to their doctor's appointments, to their jobs or their volunteer work, if they have that, to get to the grocery store. They're living a dignified and complete life because of that streetcar. And I'm here to tell you I'm glad I didn't say anything public, and I'm eating my words, and thank you.
 And so there aren't too many times in this business when people that used to oppose something take the trouble to come back and say, you know, I got it wrong. And I'm glad that the city did what it did. But Susan, of course, has the class to do just that. And that's what she did. But that's my favorite story because I can see those older people that she's talking about who are living in affordable housing that we've worked hard to create, living a complete life because of this good thing that we've all done. So let's keep up the good work. Thank you very much.
 Mayor Hales, I just want to state for the record you had me with Susan Emmons and the ROI but when you brought the bull run watershed into the discussion I just want to state a respectful disagreement on that Alright, we're going to smack down about which is a better public investment. I think we did pretty well on both counts If I might just add a comment too, I really appreciate what you were saying about looking at the different lanes of travel and how do we separate, Commissioner Fish mentioned this too about how we
 look at the collision...
 data and see could we separate. I had some comments yesterday about Williams. I think we should be looking at should there be streets that are primarily for cyclists and transit and local access for cars only? Are there other streets that are mostly for automobiles and transit? If the more we can keep everybody safe while getting everybody where they need to go, I think that would be a better system and we need to we've already started doing that with the Tillicum Crossing being just for bikes, pets and transit and
 Maybe there are other streets that we could look at, or maybe there are other lanes that, yes, cars can go in a streetcar lane, but do we really want them to be?
 Yes, cars can go on a street that a lot of cyclists use, but do we really want them to? I know you're looking at that, Commissioner, and I definitely support that. Yeah, it's a very important discussion. I'm glad you brought that up. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to our first item on the regular calendar. We'll come back to the items that we pulled, but I want to take up the proclamation first, which is item number 177.
 Proclaim February 2016 to be Black History Month in Portland. Sonny Benjumbo from the Office of Management and Finance is here. Let me welcome him, and I'll read the proclamation and then give you the floor. So it says, whereas much of the city of Portland's honor, strength, and stature can be attributed to the diversity of cultures and traditions that are celebrated by the residents of this great region,
 and whereas African Americans have played significant roles in the history of Oregon's economic, cultural, spiritual, and political development while working tirelessly to maintain and promote their culture and history.
 And whereas as a result of their determination, hard work, intelligence, and perseverance, African Americans have made valuable and lasting contributions to Portland and the state of Oregon, achieving exceptional success in all aspects of society, including business, education, politics, science, and the arts.
 And whereas Black History Month is a time for all Americans to acknowledge the legacies and remember the teachings of those who helped build our nation, took a stand against prejudice and injustice, advanced the cause of civil rights, strengthened families and communities, and paved the path to lives of dignity and prosperity for all minorities. And whereas present events, both in Portland and across the United States, serve as a constant reminder
 that though we have come a long way from times past, inequity and inequality still exist in the present, and it is our responsibility to address these inequities to ensure a more positive and equitable future.
 And whereas during Black History Month, all Americans are encouraged to reflect upon the past and current challenges and successes of African Americans and to look to the present as an opportunity to continue to improve society, advancing the ideals of freedom, equality, and justice. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim February 2016 to be Black History Month and encourage all residents to observe it.
 Welcome. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Esteemed council members, I appreciate this opportunity to be sitting with you again. Thank you for the introduction. I am Sonny Benjambo, and I do work in the Office of Management and Finance. But I also have the pleasure of serving as the director for the City African American Network, also known as CAN. I'm here today in continuance of our celebration of Black History Month.
 And thank you again, Mr. Mayor, for reading our proclamation and declaring February as Black History Month here in the city of Portland. This is a necessary recognition and one that we can are happy that our city leadership is taking the time to acknowledge. So again, thank you.
 This month we have and will continue to celebrate black history with a number of events. Last week, with the help of some of our friends at Portland Community College, we were able to facilitate an introductory exploration into the idea of whiteness, a construct that PCC will be discussing and exploring in more depth during their first ever Whiteness History Month, which I'm sure you guys probably heard about in the news when they announced it on Martin Luther King Day.
 I'm sure their program will run through the course of April, and I'm certain that will have a meaningful impact. The discussion that we were able to have in our session from the feedback that I received was very well received and eye-opening from the standpoint of the expression that the
 people thought Whiteness History Month was going to be about, it's much different. And it's much more about recognizing some of the constructs that are in place currently that affect and impact how we live on a daily basis.
 A day prior to that exploration, a fair amount of city employees took a more introspective look and introspective journey when they participated in a video presentation and discussion around the Angry Eye. The Angry Eye is a work by one of America's foremost diversity educators and anti-racist activist, Jane Elliott.
 Jane Elliott in the video, or in the video, Jane, individuals are discriminated against based on the color of their eyes and are confronted with criticisms and critical treatment in a similar way that minorities are engaged by the world around them daily. In a brief reflection in the video, Ms. Elliott makes the statement that, makes a statement that to me was profound. She said, things are better than they were when I was 13, but they're worse than they were when I was 50. Okay.
 and Ms. Elliott is 82 years old now. Our theme for Black History Month 2016 is Where Do We Go From Here? To give this question proper context requires reflection. One must reflect on where we currently sit and how things are going in our present. We must reflect on our histories and remember how we got here. And we must reflect on our goals and what paths we must take to achieve them.
 I myself have done some intentional reflecting about Black History Month and in preparation for my time here before you today. I took some time to ask myself and others what would be the most important idea or ideas for me to convey. In expression of one of my good friends and fellow City of Portland employee, Desiree Williams-Raji, I felt said it best. In her words,
 Black History Month is a reminder that the equity work we are doing as a city to eliminate discrimination and disparity in order for all residents to meet their potential is not just a moral imperative, but fundamental to our future success as a city.
 Black Lives Matter because this nation is built upon our ingenuity, strength, and resilience. We are inventors, philosophers, builders, engineers, teachers, and justice seekers. And when our individual and collective potential is uncapped, this country, state, and city will thrive. I would like to end my time with you today by posing each of you the question that we posed ourselves this month. Where do we go from here?
 In the work of equity, in the work of diversifying our workforce to make the City of Portland as an organization demographically representative of the community that we serve, especially within managerial, supervisory, and other leadership roles, where do we go from here in the work of making the City of Portland an employer of choice? In a lot of ways, that question is already being answered, and in many cases with your encouragement and influence.
 The work that DEEP is doing to develop and launch an affinity group-specific leadership development program, which we'll be launching in the months to come, the efforts around the equity assessment, the facilitation of the Equitable Contracting and Purchasing Commission, and other such initiatives are all steps in the right direction, steps towards making sure that when we use words like equity and diversity, we are not just giving lip service, but on the contrary, are expressing words full of substance. Where do we go from here?
 It is my hope that the answer to this question will forever remain forward. Thank you for receiving me today and for allowing me to be with you again, and thank you for, again, reading the Black History Month proclamation. Thank you. Thanks for some very thoughtful reflections on what this means and what we're doing and what we need to do more. Absolutely. I hope you guys join us for the rest of our events this Friday. We have Norman the Boogie Cat Sylvester coming in to regale us with some of his tunes.
 That will be in the auditorium from noon to 1. And on Monday, the 29th, we are having our social and soul food. And Mayor Hales, I see that you've already RSVP'd for that. So thank you. We'll look forward to you joining us on Monday. So thank you, guys. Thank you very much. Thanks a lot. Thank you. Very well done. Okay. We'll move on.
 Do you want to take up the items that we pulled? Sure. Then let's take 172. Sorry, 173. Amend the Arts Education and Access Income Tax Code to add a definition for charter schools to include those charter schools where the school district is the fiscal agent and delete the reference to names and addresses of taxpayers not being confidential. Okay. Mr. Lamb, good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Thomas Lanham. I'm the Director of the Revenue Division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. Joining me is Ken McGarrett from the City Attorney's Office and Terry Williams from my office. Before I summarize the ordinance before you today, let me take a moment to apologize for first not putting this on the regular agenda. I assure you there was no secret hidden agenda from the Revenue Division. It was a garden variety human error, and it was my error, and I apologize for that.
 The ordinance before you today provides arts tax funding for two charter schools that previously were not funded under the arts tax, Southwest and Ivy. And Terry Williams will briefly summarize that piece of the ordinance in a moment. The piece of the ordinance that I'd like to discuss is the confidentiality provisions around providing the names and addresses of payers of the arts tax. Thank you.
 Really, it's a basic issue of fairness and parity with other taxing jurisdiction's rules. The IRS, the Oregon Department of Revenue, and any other taxing jurisdiction that we're aware of in the country does not provide the name and address of personal income taxpayers on demand. So this change basically moves our local arts taxpayers into that same group and enjoy that same privacy and protection.
 Under Oregon law ORS 192 concerning public records, requests have a personal privacy exemption that we are currently having trouble asserting with our code language that says that we affirmatively will release information that we probably shouldn't be releasing. Disclosing taxpayer information is problematic for a number of reasons.
 One is that variations or errors in the data will cause people's names to appear on a list of 400,000-plus people in the wrong place, which then allows their neighbors or friends and family to conclude that they didn't pay the tax when, in fact, they did. We don't think that's an outcome that's equitable. Also...
 Exempt taxpayers currently have no obligation to pay the tax. If their name is released with a group of people that supposedly paid the tax, that wouldn't be correct. Not releasing their information allows third party to conclude that they are somehow a scoplaw.
 And so for those reasons, we don't – it's just another reason that we don't believe that this information should be released. And, of course, we can't release that in a third category of exempt because that then gets to the disclosure of confidential financial information. Another problem with releasing this information, frankly, is it creates a treasure trove of data for marketers and, worse, may help identity thieves connect the dots on our local taxpayers. Okay.
 And also victims of domestic violence that have court orders in order for privacy of their data, if those court orders are not timely received or timely entered or correctly entered into the database, we could have a problem there. So for all those reasons and for basic fairness, we're asking you to put Portland Arts taxpayers in the same group as other taxpayers with regard to confidentiality.
 I think one question that would be fair to ask is why is this language in our code in the first place? And the answer is that we, in 2012, when this ordinance was put together, we pulled in the confidentiality provision of our business income tax law. In that context, such disclosure makes some sense so that people can understand that they're working with a business that is
 compliant with local law. But in the context of individuals, certainly for a $35 tax, we just don't think it's appropriate. So I will stop there, and I can take questions on that piece, or we can move to Terry if you'd like to hear about the charter schools. So were we not – maybe this is Ken – didn't District Attorney Rod Underhill say we have to disclose this information? Well, so –
 It's kind of a two-part question because the public records requests go back. There were two of them. In the spring, there was one for the names and addresses of people who paid the tax. And based on the language in the code, we felt like we couldn't make a good faith argument that we weren't going to turn that over because our code says it doesn't prohibit it. So we gave that information out.
 Subsequently, we got a request for information for the notices that have been sent to people who didn't pay the tax and a list of people who'd received late fees and penalties. At that point, we made a couple of different arguments because those are a little more closely tied to financial information. As Thomas noted...
 People who didn't pay the tax have exemptions and reasons for that that are based on financial information. So we made arguments regarding that. What the district attorney said was, well, if the request is narrowed to just the names and addresses of those who didn't pay the tax, you really don't have an argument because you've already released the names and addresses of those who did pay the tax. So that's essentially what the district attorney said.
 So we're kind of trying to fix that piece of the code, which is we do think this is personal private information and the personal privacy exemption should apply. It's hard to make that argument so long as this applies.
 this section exists. The second piece of that is that we think that, similar to the Department of Revenue and the IRS, that certain confidentiality provisions should be given weight under a different exemption in the public records law, which applies to things that are otherwise exempt under other
 other Oregon law. And the district attorney really didn't address that situation because he said he didn't have to in this case. So that's a roundabout way of answering your question, but I think we were kind of put in a box by the nature of the fact that this language exists. And I agree with Thomas. It is more geared towards business license taxes than it is towards an individual taxpayer, which is a much more obviously personal private
 situation. For Thomas, what is our current compliance rate with payment of the arts tax? 2012, the first year, is about 72%. 2013, the second year, is about 69%. The most recent year is 68%. That sounds like compliance is going down, but recall, the longer we have to collect on a debt, the higher the compliance is. When you compare the three years at the same point in time after the due date, you actually find the compliance is going up
 Payments are going up. We've received more money in each year than we did in the previous year, both on a calendar year basis and a tax year basis, and we expect that trend to continue and accelerate this year. How does that compare with our business license fee collection rate, just as a comparator? On the business license tax side, we have a compliance rate that's estimated at about 90% to 93% or so percent
 at a point in time. Of course, with taxes, there's a fluctuation in the compliance rate measurement because of the seasonality of the deadline. But that's the terminal rate that we currently think the business license tax is at. I would add a footnote to that, that we are receiving information from the IRS that may cause us to dramatically reassess the compliance rate once we've fully engaged with that information and compared it with our records. So I guess my last question is,
 You know, given the compliance rate isn't all that great, it's been, what, five years we've had this in place? This is the fourth year. Fourth year, okay. So maybe it's trending in the right direction, but that still seems, compared to business license fees, quite a differential. And while I'm not entirely comfortable about disclosing addresses, I do think there's something to be said for shaming value in publishing names of people that haven't paid the tax or people who have paid the tax, or allowing the media to do that.
 Do you believe that there is a merit in shaming value? No, I don't. We've gone back and forth over the years inside the Bureau about the value of that, and frankly...
 It creates potential liability for the city to post names of people that we think didn't pay. We may have an incorrect record that then disparages someone inappropriately in that way. Also, generally speaking, it would just put us really out of step with any tax collection agency or most tax collection agencies. There are a few jurisdictions that publish that kind of information, Commissioner, but it's not the usual approach. Okay.
 Thomas, let me jump in for a sec. One of the public interests that's been asserted is to have data about who's paying and who isn't. So if the council were to accept this ordinance, what kind of aggregate data are you able to give out in response to inquiries?
 We would continue to publish all kinds of data around compliance rate, around payments received, around the timeliness of payments received. We can issue reports about the number of collection actions taken. Virtually anything that you would be interested in hearing or the public would want to know about in terms of the administration, the tax, the expenses, where the disbursement is going, how many teachers are hired, all of that remains disclosable and open to the public.
 To our counsel, one thing that struck me in the memo that we got was the state law and the federal law that's very explicit about privacy rights and says that a taxpayer's identity as well as an address is covered under the privacy protection. And do we know why at the state level and the federal law they struck that balance? Sure.
 I don't. I could make some assumptions. I mean, part of it is that I think in the past, taxpayer identity and taxpayer information has been used by members of the government itself to embarrass political opponents, to make political statements. I think there's that aspect of it. I have read literature, again, that says
 Kind of dovetailing on what Thomas was talking about, that the publishing the names of scoff laws really is not helpful and potentially detrimental. So there is some literature from the IRS about there. But I think it's generally thought to be that this is the type of information that people consider to be private.
 Do we know of any instance at the county level or in the regional area where information like this is disclosed by another governmental entity? No, but we're the only local jurisdiction administering a personal income tax. When Multnomah County had the ITACs, was that information confidential or was it publicly disclosed? It was confidential. It was confidential.
 You know, one of the things about – one of the challenges here is that when those of us up here, as by virtue of being public officials, have given up a lot of privacy. And I'll just give you an example. I came home the other night and found an intern from a newspaper camping on my front yard. And I asked the reporter and the photographer not to photograph my house and identifying areas, but…
 now the truth is you can go into the phone book or go on to google and you can find all you want about my house but what what limited privacy i enjoy i i try to protect for a number of reasons which i won't go into and sure enough someone broke into my garage broke my lock and broke into my garage subsequent to the publication of of that story and again
 We voluntarily run for these jobs, and we give up a lot of privacy. But that event, particularly since I live alone, did cause me to sort of ponder the limits of privacy and what kind of privacy we should be protecting. So I appreciate the fact that in the information that you've given us, you've given us a body of law. And I guess since this is a first reading,
 I would be interested in knowing if there is an example out there in Oregon where some jurisdiction has taken a position contrary to what you're recommending here, because that would at least give us a comparator, and we could inquire as to why. We have to balance interests. Again, the folks up here have given up most of their privacy. The people we serve have a different view of that, and I think we have to be careful.
 Commissioner, I agree with that, and I believe that as public officials we should be subject to greater scrutiny and perhaps a single public records request to ask, have I paid my ITACs, which, by the way, I'm in on my ITACs, my ITACs.
 Arts tax have not yet, but I will before the deadline. That's one thing. Asking for a blanket list of names of everybody in the community, I think privacy for the community is something that Portlanders cherish, and it's not unreasonable to ask, particularly for payment for the staff time, to get that kind of a volume of public information. So I'm veering towards supporting the public
 proposal here. And another reason, even if you just publish names, the last time I checked, there were two other Amanda Fritzes in Portland, and I'm really sorry to them that they probably get all kinds of grief because they get mistaken for some of the evil things that the Oregonian says I've done. If you just publish names without addresses, that wouldn't necessarily help for people who don't have unique names. Commissioner, there's also an irony that I'm struck by, which is there's a major candidate running for president
 who is under no obligation to release his tax returns and has in fact refused to. And we would in fact be applying a different standard to someone making a $35 tax payment in Portland than to someone who is a major candidate for president, who is under no obligation to release his tax returns.
 and who has the right to protect the privacy under federal law. And whether he has paid his taxes or not, no one is arguing that that information should be released because it's in the public interest. He's filed a tax return and they're covered under a privacy. So this is something – I think this is a good conversation. I think one thing we have to avoid also is –
 We have to avoid when we look at the balancing of a privacy versus public interest issue, bringing politics into the conversation.
 There have to be some bright lines. And we may, for example, want to bring some pressure to bear on people that don't pay their taxes, but we might say that same thing to people that don't pay their state taxes or their federal taxes or their child support or whatever, and I'm not aware that we release that information to shame them. So we have to consider that imbalance. Good discussion. Other questions? I guess –
 Maybe this is for Commissioner Fish, but when Willamette Week publishes its annual list of water hogs, which is somewhat of a shaming thing, don't they have the addresses of those consumers? Isn't that public record? People have water bills named address? Yes. I think that is public record. Yes.
 And, you know, I'm not entirely familiar with that process, but yes. In Thomas' article yesterday, his op-ed explained that because people – property taxes are public record. Right. So that's similar to a place-based property tax rather than an income tax, which is more protected. Yeah, it doesn't –
 The Willamette Week story obviously impliedly correlates use to wealth and income because they choose frequent flyers. Of course, the Water Bureau, we say thank you to some of those frequent flyers because the more water we sell, the lower the rates for the rest of us. But, I mean, that's politically incorrect to say that. I think it is different because, as Commissioner Fritz said, it's place-based and it's like in the nature of a –
 Property tax, but I think that's a question for you to also ponder between now and next week. I appreciate Dan raising that.
 So, colleagues, I would like to hear the explanation on the other piece of this, which is the charter schools. And I need to state on the record that I have a potential conflict of interest in that my future daughter-in-law works at the Ivy School as a teacher. So there's that. On the other hand, it benefits the children of Portland rather than my daughter-in-law, my future daughter-in-law. Unless she's an arts teacher. Unless she's an arts teacher. She's not an arts teacher. I'm Terry Williams, the tax division manager for revenue. Okay.
 As this whole program and process was crafted, we didn't know necessarily a lot about how charter schools worked. And we've come to learn that they can be sponsored by the district or by, if the district doesn't choose to sponsor one, they can be sponsored by the Oregon Education Department.
 We have two schools in the Portland Public School District, Ivy and Southwest, that are not actually sponsored by Portland Public Schools. They went through the state sponsorship process.
 So in our definitions, when we wrote the code and the IGAs with the school districts, we never really defined those charter schools. So when we went to do it the very first time, and we have to get the data from the education department, we were told that Ivy and Southwest are not schools in...
 Portland public schools they are outside and so that created this whole Dynamic where under how we wrote the code and how we wrote Our IGA s that we couldn't then fund those two public those two charter schools. I
 It has been the Arts Oversight Committee's desire and I think the intention that the charter schools in our six districts have funding. And so this ordinance is bringing in the definition of charter schools to allow charter schools that have been either disengaged
 sponsored by the district or by the state, provided that the district is the fiscal agent for that charter school to get the funding from the arts tax.
 And, colleagues, I did check in because I know we have Portland students who attend charter schools in schools outside of the Portland six schools. And, indeed, the language in the ordinance says that it's only those who are sponsored by one of the six school districts within the city of Portland that qualify under this change. Yes, that's correct. And I apologize. You said earlier that the Arts Act,
 access an oversight committee, review this, and their recommendation is? To include funding for the two charter schools, that this is what this ordinance does. This two, yes. The others are already included. Included. The other charters. Right. Thank you. Okay. Other questions for any of our resource people here? Thank you all very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? We have two people signed up. Crystal Alinsky and Brian Smith. Okay. Come on up.
 Morning. Go ahead. Morning. Morning, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, and Commissioner Salzman. My name is Brian Smith. I'm the parent of a fifth grader at Southwest Charter School. I'm also a board member for Southwest Charter School. And I'm here. I'll be brief. I just want to say thank you very much for considering this because I think it is an important step towards maintaining the trust of the voters who passed the arts tax. Thank you.
 And when we brought this to you, particularly Mayor Hales and Commissioner Salzman, I want to thank you in particular for championing this issue to help us get us here. So thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate you bringing it to our attention. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Again, I'm going to side with on this confidentiality issue. I'm going to side with D.A. Rod Underhill.
 in my opinion is that when this vote took place is that if people were unaware of this then this really puts an issue on this legitimacy of this art tax and what i want to make very clear here if somebody voted to approve this yet they were unaware that their confidential information would be disclosed in what they think is an unreasonable manner
 then I have some real issues with this, and I'm going to stand by Rod Underhill to see where this is going to end up going. And in my opinion, if people want to step forward and say, I'm not going to pay the tax because of this, I'm going to see what Rod Underhill has to say on this. Now, an issue on this, the charter school funding, again, this was in the code. So if it's state-sponsored charter school, and it states that this tax should not apply to that charter school,
 In my opinion, it should not apply. And it's very clear. Now, you're coming back and you're saying you're going to make a district as the fiscal agent of one of these schools. I don't know. Again, I think your code is very clear. And public Portland schools have picked up on those two charter schools to make sure they had funding. And they should continue to fund those two schools as though they've done in the past on this.
 And let's not start making these type of code changes when the public is unaware of exactly what they're getting into here. I really don't like that after the fact. And the reality is, is my question on this overall arts tax, if people would have been made aware of up front that their financial information could be disclosed to the public, would they have approved this tax? And if not...
 Maybe that's the reason why they weren't quite made clear of it from the beginning. And I'd like to have this investigated and looked at very close again from the DA, Rod Underhill, on this situation. Because I don't like the way it looks, and I want this art tax to be looked at very close from the DA, Rod Underhill. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else like to speak? Thank you all very much. This passes the second reading next week.
 We have a quick presentation on 174. 174, right? Yes. 174, please.
 74, amend Brownfield Investment Fund loan documents to accelerate repayment to the city and support site cleanup and redevelopment located at 10010 and 10040 Southeast Ankeny Street. Mayor, we are a little behind this morning, so I've asked Jen to give a very brief overview. And the reason that we move this to regular agenda is because we're going to be
 is that as part of our comprehensive plan work, we are putting a lot of attention on future brownfield remediation. And the last time we had a presentation on a project that BES was involved with, I believe, was in St. John's, in a project that took 10 years and was extremely complicated. This is a project that's in East Portland.
 And it dates back to 2008 when the Portland Brownfield Investment Fund made a loan to support the cleanup of a contaminated property in southeast Ankeny near 100. The property owners encountered more contamination than was expected and were unable to complete cleaning.
 And Jen is going to tell you just a little bit about who those property owners were because they're an important part of Portland's history. Now the property is being purchased and the buyer is willing to complete the cleanup and repay the loan. And the ordinance before us would allow the Bureau of Environmental Services to amend the loan documents to make that happen. And here for a very brief presentation is Jen Bildersee, who is the manager of Portland's brownfield program. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning.
 So this is an interesting story, and we're going to take that 10-year St. John's record and raise it by about 10 years and even go back farther in the history. So this site is in the Gateway neighborhood. It is the longtime home of a business that all of you may be familiar with, that many Portlanders are familiar with if they have ever attended an outdoor festival, an outdoor event, or even been to a construction site. So I'll leave that mystery there for a moment and say, yeah.
 It's here on the map, Ankeny and 101st and Gateway. It's a two-acre site. And for over 40 years... Pardon me.
 It was home to Schultz Sanitation, so that's Portland's own porta-potty company. The Schultzes are Robert and Rose Schultz, and they owned and operated this business on the site for about two decades. There was waste transfer that happened at the site and some storage of equipment on the site.
 They sold their business in 1979. When they sold the business, the name went with the business, which is why you still see the Schulzys around town on carts and at sites, but they kept the ownership of the property.
 and they leased the property to the new business owners. And for a period of about four years, the new business owners operated on that site, and during that time, DEQ received some complaints about how environmental materials were being handled on the site. DEQ investigated those complaints and found that things were not being handled properly on the site and that there was some evidence of unregulated dumping that could potentially have been happening on the site during that time.
 So at that point, the Schulzes evicted their tenants, and they began leasing the site instead to a neighbor who used it to store grocery equipment on the site. And so for the next 10, 15, 20 years, at many times, the site looked like this. It just was a site of equipment storage. And that brings us to 2002. Okay.
 In 2002, the Brownfield Program connected with the Schulzes. The Brownfield Program at that time had funds from the Environmental Protection Agency. These were grant funds that we brought to the city that allowed us to help private property owners who were concerned about contamination on their sites to do some environmental investigation. And the Schulzes were interested in this, given the curious and unknown history of their site, particularly during that period when it was being leased.
 So we were able to assist them in getting some environmental site assessments, and these found that there were PCBs and heavy metals really across the site. Now, at this point, the Schulzes were in a position that many brownfield owners are in. They were aware there was a problem. It was a fixable problem, but it was an expensive problem to fix, and they didn't have the means to do so. So the site, like many brownfields, became vacant and sat vacant for about five years, and
 It likely would have remained vacant for many more years, but in 2007, then Commissioner Sam Adams established the Brownfield Investment Fund. This was a $500,000 fund established with general fund money for BES to create a revolving loan. It could be used on property to deal with environmental issues.
 and it would help get over that barrier of the environmental issues so that a vacant site could be cleaned up, could be redeveloped, the fund could be repaid and be used on another site with environmental problems.
 The pilot site for the Brownfield Investment Fund was the Schulz property, and the $500,000 was loaned to the Schulzes. They began cleanup immediately, and this shows you some of the scope of the cleanup. It was a massive excavation. Over 4,000 cubic yards of soil initially were removed to deal with those PCBs and with the heavy metals.
 Unfortunately, in the middle of the excavation, an unexpected discovery was made of four waste pits. And in these waste pits, it is assumed, kind of piecing the history together backwards from the environmental evidence, that industrial solvents had been disposed of illegally on the site, completely unregulated. And these solvents were found in very, very high concentrations in several pits on the site.
 All of the environmental work to date had shown no evidence that this kind of problem would arise. So this greatly expanded the scope of cleanup that was necessary. It also expanded the cost of that cleanup well beyond what $500,000 could cover. So the Schulzes at that time did as much work as they could do on the cleanup with the $500,000 and again had to pause. At that time, they began looking for a purchaser of the property. They had really come to the end of what they were able to manage on the site.
 understandably many of those who expressed interest in the site when they learned about the complexity of the environmental issues walked away from the purchase also in 2013 mr. Scholl's passed away so for the past two years the brownfield program has been working with a prospective purchaser and that is Wayne Rask and group 701 LLC they are interested in purchasing the site they invested a lot of work in
 examining the site enough that we understood they were a serious buyer, we applied for and received a grant from Business Oregon to help those purchasers get a prospective purchaser agreement. This is a document from the Department of Environmental Quality that outlines the steps the new purchasers, the new owners would have to take to make sure that they're going to do complete cleanup. And at this point, Mrs. Schultz and the purchasers are ready to move forward with the sale of the property in the next few weeks. Okay.
 And the plan for redevelopment is that the new owners plan over the next five years to pay back the loan to the city with all of the back interest. At the same time, they will be completing the cleanup remedy under the oversight of DEQ, and they will work on redeveloping three uses on this site. One is a
 kind of flexible creative industrial use one is parking and one is affordable housing and so the ordinance before you today is a set of amendments to the loan document that our director michael jordan would be able to uh to authorize that would allow the purchaser to immediately pay back fifty thousand dollars of the back interest and then begin making regular payments with the intention of fully repaying the loan and back interest over the next six years
 So this is 15 years in the making. We're very pleased to be able to bring it before you today. Nicely done, Jen. It's just a great story. And there's pieces of Portland's history plus a program that Commissioner Adams launched. And we now have a reasonable path forward to recouping the money that went into this and the additional dividend of this going on the tax rolls and becoming developed and used for productive purpose. So, Jen, thank you very much for the presentation.
 That's great. Other questions? How long have you personally been with the program?
 i've been with the program for almost 10 years and this is one of the first site visits that i did when i began um it was involved in the program before that time but i've been working on this site for the past 10 years thank you shows how tough brownfields are yeah so this is a great story and great news i assume that means that when those repayments come in that we'll be able to roll those funds over into another loan for another difficult site that is correct good
 There's still some others, as you know very well, still out there. There are quite a few, yes. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Thank you, Jen. Come on up. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the concerns I've always had on these type of loans is that when the property is sold, I always wanted these loans to be paid off upon the sale, so a due-on-sale clause. Now, I understand there's some issues on this. The owner got into some problems.
 It almost sounds like the environmental problem was basically the existing company, the Schultz Company, when they had those type of pits there. You didn't really stress that or not. Now, one of the issues I have on this, has the site been completely cleaned up? And what is the estimate to do the final job? Because obviously what they're doing is they're just removing soils, but then they found some other problems here on some pits that,
 are going to saturate and how far that goes and does that go into water supply or anything else so i'm sure they're watching this real close but i'm i understand too on this agreement too is that from the schultz business to wayne rask is mr rask willing to limit and indemnify the schultz on the environmental issues on this property and if not why not and again how much has this been cleaned up
 And, again, it's been stated today that this loan will be paid off in five years if you put that on record with any and all interest. And I understand Mr. Rass will step up to the table with $50,000 up front that will be applied toward back interest. My main issue here is to make sure they pay this loan off.
 And if Mr. Rass comes into this property and he wants to do a partition, these into three lots and sell off a couple lots and pay a percentage back on this loan, which is in this agreement, okay, I'm okay with that.
 But in the event you run into some serious problems to where, well, now it just doesn't make any sense for me to go forward. And I'm going to step out of position on this. And then it will probably revert back to Schultz because they're also going to remain on position on this loan. I just want to make sure someone's going to pay this off. And that's my main position because I've always had a problem when you start to transfer deals that have been put together.
 You provide this type of funding, and then you transfer it off to another person. I just have a real problem with that because this type of funding should be in place to make sure that they try to finalize what they're doing, complete the cleanup, and then go from there. But it appears as though this is kind of a shuffle to the side again, and this is what I've seen before. And I want to have this again watched real close on this loan to make sure it's paid back.
 And there's no issue on that. Pay back the loan or we take the property. And that's the way it should be. We should have a lien on that property and take it back. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you, Lightning. And, Mayor, just so we're clear, Mr. Schultz's widow can't manage this property or other things. The path that the VES has determined here is a chance to have a property.
 assume the obligation, and that includes assuming the risks of the site and the further remediation. But the beauty of this is there's actually a path forward to cleaning up the site, developing it, and paying back the loan. And without this transaction, there actually isn't much of a path forward. So that's the purpose of this amendment. Okay. Thank you. Let's take a vote, please. It's an emergency ordinance. Perverts?
 Well, thank you to Jennifer Bildersley for managing this program since its inception and to Commissioner and then Mayor Adams for continuing to fund it. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for having the presentation. It is important for the public to know how general fund dollars invested in purposes like this are used and paid back.
 And I'm really pleased to know that this particular property is going to be back in productive use. Although it was the first and is now coming, of course, it's not the first that's actually been completed. There have been others since. And I appreciate all of the work because that's part of how we're going to fulfill our industrial lands requirements is to put these lands that are good industrial land back into industrial uses. Thank you. Hi. Ken, thanks for a great presentation and your good work and recommendations.
 Under the current version of our comprehensive plan and our 20-year plan for developing industrial land and the like, I think you're going to be very busy on the brownfield side. So good work. Aye. No, thank you. Thank you very much for a great presentation. Thank you, Commissioner. Aye.
 Very happy ending to a long story. Aye. Okay. Let's go to the rest of the regular agenda, please. Moving to item number 178. Authorized city attorney to appear as amicus curate in Rob Handy versus Lane County, Oregon, Supreme Court number S063725. Aye.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Walters. Good afternoon. Ben Walters on behalf of the city attorney's office, mayor, commissioners. I'm here in place of Harry Auerbach, who will be handling the appeal if so authorized. Harry is out of the office on vacation this week.
 In the Handy case, the Court of Appeals has interpreted the public meetings law such that sequential presentation of information to members of the council, whether or not remote in time, would constitute a public meeting. Whether the meetings occur with staff, such as the chief administrative officer, budget officer, or others, or with constituents, the court's test would be triggered.
 The League of Oregon Cities and the Association of Oregon Counties joined with Lane County in seeking review by the Oregon Supreme Court of this Court of Appeals decision. The Supreme Court has accepted review, and the briefing schedule has been set.
 amicus briefs are due with the opening briefs in the next couple of weeks. The City Attorney's Office seeks authorization to join with the League of Oregon Cities and the Association of Oregon Counties in asking the Supreme Court to examine and reject the conclusions reached by the two-judge majority in the Court of Appeals in favor of a bright-line test as described by the handy dissent, something clear, something understandable, and something simple to follow in its guidance.
 I have that's my presentation if you have any questions I'm available to answer questions apparently not thank you you want to speak on this item one of the issues I have on this again is when we're talking public meetings is that I'm sorry yes my name is lightning I represent lightning watchdog PDX is that when we're going over some of these issues and they're stating that the commissioners and the mayor
 are not supposed to be emailing on certain subjects and what the true content of what they're emailing and could also be classified as a meeting under the public meetings law. And I want to make sure, and I've stated this in the past, is that when we have special committees and we have certain meetings and then when I get here and I want to do public communication, I'm not out here for parity. Right.
 I'm out here to put things on record and to look across and try to make a change on certain issues. And if these issues are already predetermined, and I'm not saying they are, when any of you sit up here, then that is illegal under the public meeting law. And this is what this is going to come about. This is what this is going to be about. This is going to determine how much communication you can have behind the scenes on certain things.
 And this is going to determine if you have a discussion, if you send an e-mail, if you have a meeting at someone's house. Lightning, can I just correct you on something? Okay. Let's go with this. And I appreciate your passion on this, but all of our e-mails are subject to the public records laws. Yes. You're entitled to see all my e-mails. And that's fine. So that doesn't change. Okay. You're allowed to see all my e-mails. I'll give you an example that troubled me when I got a briefing on this. Okay. Okay.
 I get an email from one of my colleagues attached to which is a memo that has been circulated among two other colleagues, a memo that I don't open. I don't look at it. There is an interpretation under this ruling that that has now traveled beyond two and it might trigger a public meeting requirement even if I haven't reviewed the document.
 And what our attorneys have said is it would be good to have the court give us the bright lines because we will follow it to the letter. But the decision below is subject to a lot of interpretation. And so out of an abundance of caution, we want to get what those lines are, and we will follow them scrupulously. Thank you.
 And I agree with you. Commissioner, I'm a nurse and you're a lawyer, but my understanding is it goes beyond that. That if I have a one-on-one conversation with you, Lightning, and then I have a one-on-one conversation with somebody else in the room on the same topic, that all of those conversations are then public record. And then I'm not even allowed to have that conversation because it's on a topic that will come to council. So I would not be able to discuss anything with anyone outside of a public meeting, which doesn't make any
 even when none of my colleagues are involved. You as a commissioner have to understand what content in the discussion you're having with somebody. And such as private meetings at someone's house, if you have three or four people there. We're talking about one-on-one. Right. Okay. That's what this appeal talks about. Meetings of three or more are covered by public records. Yes. Emails are public records. Yes. Those rules don't change.
 This goes a bit beyond, and the view was to get a clarifying opinion from an appellate court, and we would be joining lots of other governmental entities in Oregon seeking that clarification. And if I make my point real fast here is that I've always had an issue with special committees. I've always had an issue with meetings conducted. The public has a right to come here and speak, and that is the time that you make your final vote, not before you –
 Now, the mayor may disagree with that. I don't disagree with that. That's not what's at issue here. Well, it is at issue on what you're discussing with people. You just made that statement to me. What am I allowed to discuss with you outside of this meeting?
 But if Mr. Fritz's example is a great one, she talks to you and you say to her, you have a concern with our homeless policy. She runs into me in the hallway and says, Lightning has a concern with the homeless policy. Or even if I just say to you, I have a concern with the homeless policy. Potentially is in violation of the law for not holding a public meeting, noticing it, having a chance for you to be there for her to tell me that she has a concern with homeless
 homeless camping. There's a point in which our system wouldn't function very well. Let me correct this real fast. Between our discussion between me and Commissioner Fritz, that's not three public officials. That's why we're appealing this. I think we're agreeing lightly. We agree that that should not be a public meeting, and what this court ruling said is that maybe it is. And that is my point here, is that the interpretation of
 It's going to be a very fine line, and we can interpretate the United States Constitution all day long. And this is what this is going to tie into right here, is the interpretation of
 of what you think is right and legal under the public meetings law. And the Attorney General will be looking over this very close, and I'm sure we'll have input on this, because what you think is wrong might be law, and that you might find out on this decision. Thank you.
 And that's precisely why we're appealing it, because we need to know. We will do whatever the rules are. We're very careful about not having public meetings outside of the public record and not emailing each other on decision-making topics. That's why we're appealing this. I think we're agreeing. We're at agreement on that. And like I say, I definitely want this to move forward and take a close look at the interpretation and just make sure that it's being followed close enough that you're not going outside the law on this issue. Absolutely. Okay, thank you.
 Anyone else? Roll call, please. Ritz. Definitely, I value open meetings. Definitely, I'm very careful about what is on the public record and in not having discussions on email or other ways with a quorum behind the scenes. This decision by the Oregon Court of Appeals would cripple the ability of elected officials to govern and proceed in a rational manner if upheld, and I greatly appreciate the city attorney wanting to appear as an amicus in this case, and I hope that
 rational, and good public meetings law will prevail so that we're all clear on that, yes, you can have one-on-one conversations that may inform an elected official's decision without it becoming a public meeting that everything I ever say to anybody, even at the grocery store, they say to me, needs to be documented and put into the public record. That would frankly make running for office probably not worth the effort. Ms. Hale?
 To me, this is very simple. We're asking the highest court in the state to issue a ruling to establish the guidelines about the scope of public meetings. And if, in the wisdom of the founders, we had wanted to scale back the judiciary, we would have made the Court of Appeals the last word. But we have an Oregon Supreme Court. And so we are going to join with other local governments to seek a final ruling, clarification, and then this council will follow the rules. Novick.
 I hope that in considering this appeal, the members of the Oregon Supreme Court will behave like normal human beings and have individual conversations with each other about the matter and that they will not feel that they have to have every single conversation in public. Aye. Niels? Well, in –
 13 years one month and 24 days of being an elected official subject to the Oregon open meetings law I've said a lot of things in public meetings, but I don't think I've ever used this word before But this was a loony decision that deserves to be overturned. All right, let's move on please Item number 179
 accept bid of 2kg contractors inc for the grant pool mechanical renovation rebid project for 1 million 744 thousand dollars good afternoon afternoon good afternoon mayor council members i'm barb gibson uh procurement manager for procurement services
 Today, you have before you the Chief Procurement Officer's report to Council regarding a contract award to 2KG Contractors Incorporated for the grant pool mechanical renovation on behalf of the Bureau of Parks and Recreation. The construction contract cost, based on the bids received, is $1,744,100. The engineers' project construction estimate was $1,005,000.
 on december 28 2015 the city issued invitation to bid 0195 for the previously noted project and on january 28 2016 two bids were received 2kg contractors inc was deemed responsive to the bids bid requirements of the solicitation
 and identified $7.25, or $91,750, of the subcontracting dollars going to minority, women-owned, and emerging small businesses. Mary Ann Kasson from the Parks and Recreation is here to answer any technical questions about the project that you might have. If not, I will turn it back to Council for any questions regarding the solicitation process. Questions for Mary Ann.
 Okay, apparently not. Thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, is there a motion to adopt the report? So moved. Second. Roll call, please. So thanks to Mary Ann Kasson, who's given me a detailed briefing. This renovation work will be upgrades to the mechanical system, installation of new equipment, pool gutters, lifts and drains, boiler improvements, and Americans with Disabilities Act compliance update. As was mentioned, we did receive two bids, and one was rejected.
 It's disappointing to see that the minority women's emerging small business utilization for this project is only 7.2%. I know that both parks and procurement staff worked hard. The overall rate for the parks bond program is 36%, and I know you'll remember, colleagues, that last week we were here with the Ventura Park Project, which is 78% minority women emerging small businesses. We are continuing to work with the National Association of Minority Contractors to do more outreach
 This project is particularly critical. It was one that I visited and was highlighted in the Bond Measure campaign. It's already a little behind schedule because of the bidding process we are hoping to be open for summer. At the start of the summer swim season, we're not completely sure. It's also a little disappointing that it's over the engineer's bid for the project.
 and times are changing. Although the engineers' estimate is only six months old, the bidding climate has definitely changed significantly, as we're seeing in other projects. So I'm going to be working with the bond staff and with Portland Parks and Recreation to see whether we can do any value engineering. You know, it's a basic... The fix itself is very basic, so there's really not much that one can do to change
 We weren't planning on putting gold taps or anything on the project in the first place, so it's not like we can cut down on it. We will be looking to see if there are any components of it that are eligible for system development charge assistance, and then we will be working with the project oversight committee to see, the bond project oversight committee, to see what the requirements are
 what else we can do to make sure that the taxpayers are getting full value for the money that they invested. And again, thank you to everybody who voted for the Fix Our Parks bond. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Next item, please, which is at 180. Okay.
 reallocate city's local share of the 2006 metro natural areas bond second reading roll call fritz 181
 authorized application to the University of Utah for a grant in the amount of $100,000 to assess the feasibility to implement a pay for success project to advance the city's green and healthy homes initiative well thank you mr. mayor and colleagues while I have talking points in front of me I confess I do not understand them I moved up the report
 We're asking the University of Utah for money, $100,000. It has to do with green and healthy homes initiatives and social bonding. That's about the best I can do. Okay. Well, asking for someone else's money is always a good idea, even if we don't fully understand the details. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it is an emergency ordinance. Let's vote.
 My staff tell me that the Green and Healthy Homes Initiative helps low-income Portlanders with home repair, energy efficiency, and other environmental health-related projects, and as such, I am certainly in favor of it. Sounds good. I'm actually impressed that the University of Utah has money to give people rather than often they're seeking public money, so a definite aye. Thank you.
 Yes. Yeah, same thing that I got. Home repairs, energy efficiency upgrades, and other environmental health efforts, which I think we wholeheartedly support. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? I'm not sure that I would accept money from just anybody, but since Utah is another Pac-12 school, I'm comfortable with it. Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you.
 thank you okay 182 and you want to read 182 and 183 together please ma'am okay those two please 182 authorized the director of the portland bureau of emergency management to execute intergovernmental agreements and amendments for administration of the fiscal year 2015 urban areas security initiative grant funds for all hazard disaster preparedness and 183 accept and appropriate
 the fiscal year 2015 Urban Area Security Initiative Grant in the amount of $2,579,060 from the Oregon Office of Emergency Management to enhance emergency preparedness through planning, training, and equipping emergency responders in the Portland urban area.
 Colleagues, these two items allow us to accept UIC funding and for PBEM to coordinate with our regional partners from the port, Gresham, TriMet, Washington County, Clackamas County, and Multnomah County and others to ensure that we are prepared and coordinated in the event of a major disaster. The funding allows us to procure materials and equipment for training and operational needs. There is no financial match for this grant. I'd like to turn this over now to Denise Barrett, PBEM's administrator with the IDPO, to give us some more information and answer questions.
 Thanks. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for introducing me. But again, my name is Denise Barrett, and I am an employee of the city working with the Bureau of Emergency Management as a senior program manager, but more known in the region on the day-to-day as the manager of the Regional Disaster Preparedness Organization.
 This grant is not new to the city. The Urban Area Security Initiative has been around for us since 2003, and with the exception of one year, we've received this grant. It has brought $75 million into our region to help support special needs in the metropolitan area for preparedness planning, helping the city coordinate with all of its county regional partners from government, but also the private and nonprofit sectors.
 Today, I really wanted to highlight, since this grant is not new to us, the benefits that will actually come for the city at this time. There will be enhanced earthquake maps and impacts assessments at a time when Cascadia subduction zone earthquake is high on our minds.
 around the region and among the public. This will help us to have more data with which to do better mitigation planning. We'll also, we'll talk about this in a minute with a colleague from the region, a disabilities access and functional needs assessment of the emergency management programs of four of the five counties in our region as well as the city of Portland's emergency management program. We'll be procuring a mobile water treatment plant which will benefit the Portland Water Bureau's ability in an emergency situation to provide
 to provide potable water. There's also continuation of the regional Citizen Corps project through this, which will help the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management at a time when there's such a demand for participants on the neighborhood emergency teams to help them to do their work.
 in providing those volunteers. It will also help the Portland Police Bureau with specialized equipment for its airborne assets in terms of airplane technology, which enables them to do a better job on interdiction, search and rescue, and other response activities. And last but not least, this grant also helps support Portland Fire and Rescue's specialty teams that are used in hazardous materials types of incidents.
 I think Commissioner Nova covered most of the ground in terms of its impact, but I do want to say that several of the projects do help in terms of access and functional needs and disabilities populations, and I think that's really an important step that we're taking with this grant. And both pieces of this legislation are marked emergency because it's a grant. We have to get it rolling, and it takes many, many months on the front end to get it in place. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Yes.
 thanks very much okay anyone want to speak on either of these items they're both emergency ordinances let's take a roll call vote on 182 please thank you for your work aye fish aye saltzman novic aye hails aye and 183. aye
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hale. This shows why it's important we keep fighting in Washington to preserve our eligibility for the UASI grant, because this is real money. Aye. Okay, 184. Thank you.
 Authorize a contract with Global Vision Consortium Corp. to conduct a disabilities access and functional needs assessment of the emergency management programs of the City of Portland, Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington Counties in Oregon and Clark County in Washington for a total not to exceed amount of $105,960. Mr. Novick.
 Colleagues, this item relates to PBM's continuing efforts to improve access to emergency management for all who live in Portland and the surrounding communities, ensuring people with limited English proficiency, disabilities, mental impairments, and those with limited access to resources are able to access city services and resources. It's an area we cannot pay enough attention to.
 I'm proud of the work PBAM and its local emergency management partners have been doing to ensure they're reaching every corner of our population. I'd like to thank Andrea Valderrama of my staff and Polo Catalani for their focused attention to improving access to city services, especially as it relates to new immigrants. And now I'd like to ask Denise Brown from PBAM and Scott Porter, the director of emergency management for Washington County, to tell us more about this important project. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning.
 Mayor Hills, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Novick, Commissioner Saltzman, Commissioner Fish. My name is Scott Porter. I am the Emergency Management Director for Washington County. I'm a member of the Regional Disaster Preparedness Organization Steering Committee, and I'm also one of the co-project managers for this project, the contract of which you have before you for consideration. So on behalf of the Regional Disaster Preparedness Organization and the project partners,
 We are asking you to authorize a contract with Global Vision Consortium to conduct a disabilities access and functional needs assessment of the emergency management programs of the City of Portland and the four counties that Denise previously mentioned, Clark, Clackamas, Multnomah, and my county, Washington.
 The Portland Bureau of Emergency Management and its emergency management agency counterparts in those counties, and my own in Washington County, recognize that the respective programs need to do a better job of addressing the needs of people with disabilities and others with access and functional needs. We've seen a number of high-profile disasters in the country over the last several years, particularly Superstorm Sandy and Hurricane Katrina.
 where the needs of people with disabilities and access and other functional needs were not adequately addressed. Meeting their needs is not only the right thing for us to do, it is required by law, a number of laws that apply here, the ADA, the Rehabilitation Act, Civil Rights Act, and other federal statutes.
 So the intent of the assessment that we're asking you to approve a contract for is to determine how the five emergency management programs are meeting the needs of people with disabilities and others with access and functional needs. And doing that across the full spectrum of the program responsibilities, which includes preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation. Thank you.
 In particular, we're asking the contractor to focus on our ability to alert, evacuate, transport, and shelter people from these communities as these functions present the greatest life safety risks to those communities and are the ones that have not been handled effectively in past disasters across the country. The key outcomes from this project will be a
 an identification of gaps in the activities and capabilities of each of the programs, as well as a prioritized list of recommendations for improving the programs and closing those gaps. And I anticipate that those lists will then guide our corrective actions as we go forward with our emergency management program efforts.
 I'll turn it over to Denise here to talk about the actual contracting process. Yeah, so we followed the city's policies and procedures for formal PTE contracts. A regional group of subject matter experts was pulled together, and from the city we had Nicole Cherone's participation, Jonna Papathiamu, and also myself involved. A lot of the participants were coming from human services agencies within counties. Multnomah County was involved.
 We received five proposals through this open bidding process, and the regional selection committee went through two levels of selection, and interviews were also included. Subcontractors were also a part of that process.
 In entering into this contract, we're happy to say that the percentage or the portion of the minority-owned, women-owned, and emerging small business is 35 percent or 36,720, and that was a stroke of luck on our part because we searched really hard to find organizations that had those qualifications, and in fact, one of the subcontractors became qualified under the Oregon Women's Certified after we received the contract.
 So, well, we'll just take it anyway, I guess. In terms of the impact, we've talked a little bit about the community impact. In terms of the impact on PBAM, the Bureau of Emergency Management, certainly if they get recommendations that would require them to have to improve some of their own plans and other policies and procedures that may go beyond their normal scope of general funding and would require them to find other funding. But I've been assured by the director that that would happen.
 I think in terms of it supports the city's livability goals, especially in terms of equity, and it's marked as emergency because the first part of the fund, it's actually three pieces of funding, UAC 14, UAC 15, and some funds from Metro, regional government, are going into this project. We need to get the first phase finished because that grant is expiring. The UAC 14 grant is expiring this spring. So thank you very much.
 If I might add, I want to thank Denise as well. She didn't recognize herself, but she put a ton of work into this effort. She mentioned Nicole Chiron, who has been your disability program coordinator, and provided important input into this project.
 And also there was a representative from the Minority Evaluator Program that participated in the evaluation of the proposals that were submitted. His name is Joe Nunn, and he provided a really nice,
 additional input into our process as we evaluated all of these. So I want to thank them and thank you for their participation. And I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for your continued support of the Regional Disaster Preparedness Organization and the pivot role that you play in that organization and also in the acceptance and management of the USC grant. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you both very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please. I appreciate the collaboration with Nicole Chiron, formerly of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. She's now the coordinator of the Commission on Disabilities in the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And as such, I'm sure we'll continue to work with you on this project. Thank you for all your work. Aye. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you. This is very important work. Aye. Novick.
 Thank you very much. And on Nicole Chiron, I remember being horrified when I saw that there was a goodbye party for her, and I realized she was not actually leaving the city. Aye. Niels. You know, a lot of things that don't respect governmental boundaries, and one of them is emergencies. So that's why it's important we have this structure and have this cooperation. So thanks for keeping it effective, and this is going to be a nice piece of that work. Thank you. Aye. Okay, 185 is our final item this morning, and it's a second reading. Aye.
 Vacate a portion of North Lombard Street between North Richmond Avenue and North Charleston Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Roll call, please. Fritz. Fritz.
 Well, thanks first of all to Kurt Kruger and Lance Lindahl from the Portland Bureau of Transportation for bringing this issue to the developers' attention and their willingness to reconsider. Thank you to our community stalwarts from North Portland who are here to watch the vote being taken. This is an issue on which reasonable people can and do disagree very passionately, and it was a good hearing airing both sides.
 In my perfect world, I am not – I wish I had been the final decision maker on the design of the building. The code ascribes that to our citizens' volunteers in the design commission, and they approved the design of the building, and then it came to council for the street vacation. I do believe that the street vacation and the realignment will improve safety at the intersection. I believe that the design of the plaza and the placement of the St. John's sign –
 can be done in a way that continues to make it a grand entryway to St. John's. I do hope the developer will continue to think of that as part of the signature piece of the building there, rather than only looking after their own interests in the signage and other ways that the whole thing
 uh, businesses set up. Thanks to the owner of the colony for being willing to work with us. And we'll make sure that, that her sign is still visible from the right of way, but no longer in the right of way because we don't have private signs in the right of way. And, um,
 It is one on which I can see the pros and cons. I was on the St. John's Lombard Planning Commission work group that spent a lot of time on this a long time ago, and I'm really happy to be on the council to now approve another step forward. I. I'll simply add to what Commissioner Fritz has said, that for me, the primary tipping point came when we talked about safety.
 And given the proximity to a school and some of the testimony we had from parents, I think safety is a significant issue here. I deeply appreciate the conversation we had as a community over a couple of meetings, a lot of passionate testimony, and I think the council sincerely engaged those concerns. And on balance, I think this is the right approach. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 I really appreciate my colleagues' appreciation of the fact that this is a safety issue, and PBOT feels that we will have a safer intersection now. I want to thank a number of people among the community members. I want to thank our Lindsey Jensen, St. John's Main Street, Seamus Linsky, Vice Chair of the St. John's Neighborhood Association, Barbara Quinn of Friends of Baltimore Woods, John Tepley, hope I'm not mispronouncing names, Shay Wisna, and John Petty, Gary Bohm, and Peter Brown from Save Ivy Island.
 kurt krueger lance lindahl and theresa montalvo of pivot staff the development team of farid valori alan jones and christy white and erica niebel of my staff thank you all very much hi nails well not all change is good and not all development is additive to the quality of life in neighborhoods so it's the responsibility of city staff and our volunteer commissions and us to make sure that we meet those tests i think on balance in this case we have
 Would we like things to stay the same? In many cases, yes. But this has been well managed and well calibrated. And I agree, the safety issue to me is pretty paramount. And if we can end up with good placemaking and a safer street, then that constitutes success. Aye. Okay, we're recessed until 2 p.m. Good afternoon, everyone. And welcome to the afternoon session of the Portland City Council for February 24th. Would you please call the roll? Ritz.
 Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Here. So we have two related items on the agenda this afternoon. We completed public hearings on both of them. It's time for council deliberation and action on those two items. I believe we're going to have a proposed amendment on the second item.
 So if there are no proposed amendments on the first item, and if there's no other discussion, I think it's time for us to take a vote on that. I need to read the titles. 186, approve and adopt zoning confirmation letter responding to request for zoning confirmation on Southeast 3rd and Harrison submitted by Right to Dream 2. Roll call, please. Britton?
 So we have been working on this, the Maronites, since October of 1913. 1913, 20. Seems like 1913. Seems like that long. Wow. Seems like it.
 Wow. It really does seem like a lot. Well, in fact, that's two years and five months. Mayor Hales promised when Lot 7 didn't turn out to be a viable option for multiple reasons that he would be actively engaged in finding a different space for the Right to Dream to Rest area. He has kept his promise, and he actually kept it with many additional plans.
 supportive services to everyone who has to live outside while they're waiting for services. And I also want to acknowledge Commissioner Saltzman, who authorized the Bureau of Developmental Services to issue this zoning confirmation letter, at least to bring it to council for affirmation. And so I'll go into the details of the details.
 proposed use of the site. This zoning confirmation letter affirms that the Council does agree with the Bureau of Development Services' interpretation of our zoning code that the proposed use is an allowed use at the site. Aye. Yes. I have great respect for the Bureau of Development Services, but in light of the testimony that we had the last hearing, I'm not persuaded this is an allowed use. No. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 We are applying our existing zoning code to an unusual situation. We hope, of course, that through the efforts of many people, we will make great strides at addressing the overall issue of houselessness in our community. And we won't have many further opportunities to address situations quite like this.
 If a year or so from now we reach the conclusion that this is a long-lasting phenomenon and there are going to be numerous such situations, I think it might be appropriate for us to take up the idea of writing new code directed specifically to situations like this. So I just wanted to mention that as a point to think about for the future, and I vote aye. Thank you.
 I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for her work on this and the whole council for our deliberations. It's interesting that you had that stumble and talked about 1913, not just because it has been a long and winding road to get to this point, but in somewhere, I was just looking it up because you said that, and somewhere around 1913, I'm not sure if I got the year right, 1911,
 They weren't far off. Multnomah County figured out that it's a public responsibility to take care of poor people. We need to remember that, that it's a public responsibility to take care of those who are houseless, for those who need help getting help, and for those who are desperate. And that's why Multnomah County in 1911 built Edgefield.
 We now think of it as a place to go for entertainment, but it was a poor farm. It was a place where people who were desperate and had no place to live could go and live and put themselves back into life. And that's what Right to Dream 2 is doing without much help so far from the community through the public sector.
 So that's why this is a good day. An old idea of people taking care of each other done in a new way and generated from the community. It deserves our help and support. I think the other thing we've learned in this long and winding road is that it's difficult to cite such facilities.
 It's difficult to cite almost anything, but it's certainly difficult to cite this. And I went to the Central East Side early on and said, if you can find a better place, tell me one. And they did not. So this is the right place. Aye. And now the second item is 187, and I believe we have a proposed amendment. Could you read the item, please? Yes.
 That's 187. Affirm the City of Portland's intent to relocate Right to Dream 2 onto city property located on Southeast 3rd and Harrison. Commissioner Saltzman. Yes, I'd like to offer an amendment. You all have it in front of you. It would be to the second to the last, be it further resolved, which speaks to the use agreement, coming back to the council for review. And I just want to make sure that use agreement contains a prohibition on minor children.
 which includes individuals under the age of 18 from being on the premises overnight or from the hours of 8 p.m. to 7 a.m., and also a requirement that Right to Dream 2 shall refer all pregnant women who stay on the premises to a federally qualified health center for prenatal care. So that is my amendment. Okay. Is there a second? I'll second it. Okay. Clarifying question, Commissioner. What is the definition of a federally qualified health center?
 It's basically every county public health clinic plus. So why would a person who lives outside have to go to a center when people who live inside can go to a private provider, can go to an individual provider? Well, this care is provided free to all pregnant women, so anybody can take advantage of the service at no fee.
 So many of our certified licensed midwives also provide free or low-cost services to people of all incomes. Why would individuals who are disadvantaged have to use a particular center? Because it's considered best practice for protection of children.
 Children. As a retired nurse, I would say that actually getting prenatal care is best practice, not necessarily in a center. Yeah, prenatal care. So, Mayor, I'd like to offer an amendment to the amendment. Okay. And I'd like to strike the second condition. So everything from 7 a.m.
 forward. So the references to pregnant women would be deleted and this would simply codify the commitment the sponsor has made that minor children will not spend the night at the restroom. And I guess I want to see if there's a second to that amendment. Second. Okay. Dan, I understand the concern. I think that regardless of what is in this resolution,
 the use agreement that we will negotiate and sign with Right to Dream 2 can get into a level of detail that maybe we can't in the resolution. But I understand the intent, and I think there's probably a broad agreement about the intent that pregnant women who are sleeping outside or sleeping at Right to Dream 2 or any other way outside of full housing
 ought to be taking advantage of prenatal care, if they're pregnant, from the county or from anyone else that can provide it. And we ought to be making sure, if we are the landlord in this situation, we ought to be making sure that in our cooperative agreement with Right to Dream 2 that that's happening. I'm confident that we can get to that outcome, even if we don't wordsmith what kind of health center we're talking about in this resolution. Thank you.
 yeah i think well my memory speaks to what yeah i mean i understand what everybody's saying but my amendment speaks to what would come back in the use agreement and saying that this should be a provision of it i was very disturbed frankly at the testimony last week that pregnant women are intentionally avoiding hospitals because they're afraid of losing their children
 I do lose that job. I'm upset by that too, and obviously we want them to get health care. But again, there are things that we've discussed in this arrangement that we're making, if we approve this agreement, and there are things that we've discussed in this couple of hearings, and I'm going to be speaking to some of these about east side planning, that aren't necessarily enshrined in the resolution, but where we have an understanding that we're going to make sure that
 this happens or that happens. And I'm just telling you, I hear you, I want to make sure that pregnant women that are actually anywhere in our care, whether it's in an arrangement we have with Right to Dream 2 on a piece of property and we own, whether they're staying in one of the shelters that the city helps to fund or anywhere else where we have access to those pregnant women and have case workers that are trying to assist them, we ought to be making sure that they avail themselves of available prenatal care through the county. May it be heard on the amendment, my amendment to the amendment.
 I believe Commissioner Fritz has already made a commitment to bring the use agreement back to council.
 I'm simply suggesting we strike that portion of the amendment. Okay, and let that be worked on. Codify what the sponsor already agreed to. And Commissioner Saltsman would be free to raise this with the sponsor, and at the time we have the user agreement come back to council. That's true. The whole thing is coming back. Clearly, we'll be working with service providers to provide enhanced services to this new location also, which, I mean, ideally one would not have heavily pregnant women outside at all, and that they would get –
 speedy acceptance into housing. Right. Okay. Are we clear on this? Can you accept my, as a friendly amendment? Yeah, I'm not going to let this issue go. I will be looking closely to make sure we have something like this in the use agreement. As I said, it's not okay to me, and I'm one-fifth of the decision-making up here, that pregnant women would avoid hospitals because of the fear of losing the children. So, Mayor, the sponsor has agreed. It may be the reality. It's not okay. All right. We hear you. We're not going to...
 So Dan has agreed to delete that phrase. I would move the amendment. Okay. Further discussion? Then let's take a vote, please, on the amendment that has now been further revised to end at the word 7 a.m.
 Commissioner Esselstyn, I greatly appreciate the intent of your amendment. I personally chose to have my three children with all the high-tech options available should I need them, and that definitely meant being at a hospital. It turns out that I didn't, and I was fortunate. I know of many other women who live inside who chose not to be in a hospital setting to birth their children, and I believe that people who live outside should have options
 to the same extent that the rest of us do. I do appreciate the intent is to look after people, and that's the whole intent of Right to Dream, too, is to look after people. And I'm going to continue to work with the group and with the neighbors to make sure that happens. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. And now on the resolution as amended. Pritt.
 So this has been two years and five months since we started looking for a site and it's evidence that it's really difficult to find sites that it's taken that long.
 Josh Alpert on the mayor's staff was particularly involved in looking for sites, running them by Right to Dream 2 on the weekly meetings that we have been holding since October of 2013. Actually, ever since I started, when I was first put in charge of development services, one of the first things I wanted to do was to see if we could find a way that Right to Dream 2 could be legally in a new place.
 And what's not stated in this resolution is that Right to Dream 2 will be applying for the so-called recreational campground permit from the state of Oregon that they're entitled to do, that they will be applying for all of the permits that are necessary and complying with all the standards in the permits so that this new site will be a legal place for people to shelter and rest.
 They have been in Old Town for five years. There have been zero police calls to the location. No drugs, alcohol, guns are allowed in the rest area. The new site will not allow recreational marijuana. That's already in the use agreement. And every person who stays there must sign a code of conduct. It is not just a drop-in place where anybody can be there. If they're not willing to pay for
 agreed to the rules, then they respectively offered other options or invited to go elsewhere. So it's proven to be a safe place for people to sleep and rest, and they have proven to be good neighbors. They have proven to be good partners with the mayor and me in this long and arduous process in trying to find a new place.
 I am very grateful to everybody who's participated in this, and I'm going to read a few names to just acknowledge. Matt Wickstrom and the staff from the Bureau of Development Services. Mike Lee Field and Rebecca Esau and others have been extremely gracious in giving us their time. Bob Keita, Josh Alpert and Rachel Wiggins from the Mayor's Office have worked on this huge and long hours. The Right to Dream II board members and their consulting architects, Mark Lakeman and Paul Keefe,
 Tim Merrill, Laura Pedersen and Pauline Goebel from the Office of Management and Finance, Linda Law, our city attorney, Mark Kramer, Right to Dream 2's attorney, Claire Adamsick and Dora Perry. It's been so long that I have had two different policy advisors assigned to this, Tim Crail and Tom Bizot. It's been so long that I have had two different chiefs of staff who have worked on this. And I really appreciate the effort that's gone in. We did listen, we did hear and recognize
 respect the concerns of those who testified at the hearings and all of those who sent in their comments i certainly hear the concerns of the 537 people who have emailed me so far saying that the city needs to do more to help people who live outside we agree
 Being in tents is not a solution. It is a temporary place for safety off the streets, as has been identified in the Home for Everyone. The Home for Everyone has identified ways that we can cut houselessness in half in a very short time if we have enough funding. To get to the other half, we would need a lot more funding. And we have tripled the housing budget since I've been on the council.
 We have been looking for more funding to make up for the lack of federal funding and state funding. And this year, we're looking to greatly increase the housing budget, which will be at the cost of police, fire, and parks and other services from the city. We don't have additional funds. So for those who are saying, yes, take care of people who live outside and don't cut police or fire or anything else that I care about, it just can't be done.
 So I encourage everybody to participate in the budget process to decide how are we going to allocate our finite resources, and then what are we going to do to make sure that we have the services that people want and need. Thank you so much for my colleagues on the council, several of whom are uncomfortable with this.
 temporary solution, as am I to a certain extent. It is not a real solution. It's a real solution for now. And I'm very grateful to Right to Dream 2 and everybody who's come to support them in making this next step. We'll come back to the council with the use agreement. I will be starting very shortly a good neighbor agreement process where we'll invite stakeholders to get together and hear even more community concerns and how they can be addressed.
 We'll be working with Eastside Plating to make sure that they have access to their viable business, which, again, it needs to be emphasized, has been a very clean business, which has not polluted the air or the ground the way some other businesses that have been legally operating in the city of Portland have recently been found to do.
 it's a safe place for people to be. They have 19 employees inside their building, and they will now have new good neighbors who will be part of the community on the Central East Side, and I believe will make sure that it's a safer place to be for everyone. Can I raise a point of order? We voted on Commissioner Fish's amendment to my amendment, but we didn't vote on my amendment. No, we accepted it as a friendly amendment. Did we? We accepted it as friendly. Okay, great. Give the whole speech again if you'd like. I waited until you were done. I waited until you were done. Thank you. I appreciate that.
 yes um today my head and my heart are in conflict and i can't remember saying that very often in the last 30 years that i've worked on housing and homelessness issues so i'm going to begin with some areas of agreement i first want to acknowledge commissioner fritz as the champion for r2d2 and the adults they serve during my tenure on the council no one
 No one has done more to address poverty and inequality in our community. And I am deeply grateful for the partnership that we have established on a number of issues, including working to end homelessness. And I also want to recognize R2-D2, which has become a symbol of hope, of resilience, and of self-determination. We owe them our best. The proposal before us would move R2-D2 from 3rd and Burnside across the river to
 to 3rd and Harrison. While the road from the west side to the east side is certainly paved with good intentions, there is a saying that sometimes the longest distance between two points is a shortcut. This proposal overrides our zoning code and our land use goals. It disregards concerns raised by Central East Side Business Council, Industrial Council, excuse me, neighbors of the proposed site and others. And it ignores health and safety
 issues posed by its proximity to its immediate neighbor, a business working with highly volatile and caustic chemicals on a daily basis. This proposal is not aligned with the Housing Bureau, a Home for Everyone, the county, or our Ending Homelessness Initiative, which are the roadmaps that we have developed with the community to guide our work. And it does not include clear accountability measures, benchmarks for success, or even a budget.
 Finally, this proposal represents, in my judgment, a new and troubling approach, shifting key responsibilities for addressing homelessness from the Housing Bureau to the Office of Management and Finance. I fully accept the arguments that this proposal is better than most of the alternatives. That said, I cannot support it. At times like this, we can choose to raise the bridge or to lower the river. Today, I regret that we're choosing to lower the river.
 This vote for me is not a statement about R2D2 or its passionate leaders and followers. It's a statement about us. Nay. Solve it. Well, I want to thank Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Hills for all their leadership. And while I have been the first to say, and I've said this when R2D2 first moved to Forth and Burnside, I don't support tent camps as a solution to homelessness. I believe in affordable housing as the path, the most desired path.
 But having said that, and notwithstanding my objections to tent caps in general, I think I've said this before, I give a lot of respect to R2-D2 in the last four or five years. They have really proven myself and many others who were skeptical about their ability to maintain alcohol and drug-free operations to maintain a very good environment in and around the neighborhood. They've proved me and other people wrong.
 And so I want to accept, I think they will do a great job at 3rd and Harrison. And I think it will only be a matter of time before Eastside Plating and Right to Dream 2 are best buddies. And I think that synergy will develop. And it is a clean site. I was astounded last week when Bob Keita gave me the environmental assessment and shows that there is no toxic air emissions there.
 from east side plating or on the vicinity or in the soil of the right to dream two site it's astoundingly phenomenally clean for what you would think in industrial portland so i'm going to give the benefit of the doubt here and i'm going to support this move and i hope it will be successful and i wish wish everybody well and i do think i do think you will be good neighbors with each other and this will be something we will look back in a year from now a year or two from now and we'll probably wonder what all the controversy was but
 Just like many people look at where Right to Dream 2 now is and say, what was all that controversy about four or five years ago when Saltzman was making us think about it? I'm pleased to vote aye. Novick. We unfortunately have people sleeping outside all around the city and we do not have places inside for all of them to go.
 Now, sometimes we hear from people who live and work in the vicinity of groups of folks sleeping outside that they feel frightened or intimidated by those people or have observed criminal behavior. We do not hear that about Right to Dream 2. I met with the police chief yesterday, and he said the police do not get called to Right to Dream 2.
 As my colleagues have said, Right to Dream 2 has established itself as a good neighbor. And I think in the situation we're in, when we have a group of houseless people who are committed to being good neighbors, then we should go out of our way to work with them. A number of objections have been raised to this particular site. I think some of those objections make sense. I think that you probably find objections to any site that was identified, but more importantly...
 The mayor and Commissioner Fritz have worked on this for a very long time, and I don't have another site to suggest. So we all wish that we weren't in this situation. I am pleased – oh, wait a minute. There's one more thing I wanted to say. Okay.
 Since it is 1916, I just want to congratulate President Wilson on nominating Judge Brandeis to the Supreme Court. And I trust that the Senate will have a speedy confirmation process and there will be a new justice in place for the new president. Aye. Aye. Well done. Hales.
 Well, if two and a half years constitutes a shortcut, I don't want to see what the long road looks like. So Josh, who's been on that road all that time, and Bob Keita and others, Rachel and others that have worked so hard on this, thank you. Thank you.
 Machiavelli said that there's nothing more difficult to plan or to execute than the creation of a new system because the innovator has all the resistance of those who are used to the old way and lukewarm approval from all who will benefit from the new 500 years ago he said that I quoted all the time because it keeps coming true and Josh Alpert is creating a new system for homelessness in our city and I'm proud to lead that on his behalf
 We'll suspend the rules for a minute for a staff person who's worked hard. Thank you, Josh. It's difficult. It's messy. It's imperfect. It's incomplete, but it's better than drift. It's better than accepting that homelessness is permanent and that we'll never get any better. And we're in a time right now where there is a national fog around us that seems to...
 indicate that things can't get better and that government can't be innovative. And I don't believe those things. I think things can get better. In fact, they are getting better in this city. We've housed...
 hundreds and hundreds of veterans, 695 as a matter of fact, during our commitment that we're now getting certified by the federal government for having met, of reducing our homeless veterans population to a point where now we can stay even instead of having it get worse, stay even at a very low number.
 We have opened 400 temporary or permanent shelter spaces just in the four months since this council declared a housing state of emergency, after years and years and years of no such progress. So it is possible to make it better. Another thing that I've learned in this business is that I usually won't have the creative idea.
 I'm usually a lot better at recognizing somebody else's creative idea than I am at coming up with it in the first place. When somebody showed me a dotted line on the map and said, we should build a streetcar there, it wasn't my idea, but I saw its benefit and its quality, and I said, yeah, let's do that.
 When a few people saw the city's plan for the Pearl District and said, no, this could actually be a neighborhood where people live, not just Cruise Way North Office Park, I said, that sounds better. Let's try to do that. And we could also build a lot of affordable housing in there if we did that.
 Look at what we did. We actually did. Once again, we can make it better. So I know that I won't always have the creative solution, but I often can spot it when somebody else comes up with it. And that's what Right to Dream 2 has done here. From what started as a protest and turned into a community, you've innovated. You've come up with a self-help solution to part of the problem that deserves our respect. And that's what this is about. It's about respect. So thank you.
 Ibrahim and everyone else involved for creating a valid short-term temporary solution to a really big problem that we all need to work on. And so I'm committed to continue to working on that problem, to continue making that kind of progress, and to keep proving that here in Portland we can make progress, we can come together, we can be a community, we can get things done. That's who we are.
 And we're also about business, and we want to be a prosperous city. And I want to reiterate what I said at the hearing last week. We will make it work for you at Eastside Plating. You're a legitimate business. You have a transportation need to solve. We have good engineers. We will put them at your disposal, and we will solve the problem, and we won't charge you a lot of money. In fact, we won't charge you any money for solving it for you because we want you to be a successful business, and I know you will be a good neighbor.
 So I'm looking forward to this being a success, and as my colleague, Commissioner Saltzman, said, wondering what all the fuss was about six months from now. Well done. Aye. We're adjourned. Thank you.