Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the February 25th meeting of the Portland City Council. Carla, would you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Seltzman? Novick?
 Morning, everyone. Welcome. We have some communications items up front where people have signed up to speak to the council on topics of their choosing. And after that, we'll start to time certain items and the regular agenda. If you're here to speak on a regular agenda item, you need only give your name. You don't have to give us your address. And if you're a lobbyist representing an organization, please make sure you disclose that because our code requires it.
 And with that, we have no proclamations or other pre-council business that I know of, so we'll start with item 199. Request of Cody Ridenour to address council regarding raising the minimum wage. Ridenour, are you here? Well, let's move on and see if he arrives before we finish communications. Item 200, request of Justin Norton Kirsten to address council regarding $15 minimum wage. Mr. Kirsten.
 Morton Kirsten, are you here? We had a bunch of people here on that subject last week. Apparently not today. Okay. Item 201. Request of David Redthunder to address council regarding pending propane terminal. Good morning. Welcome. Morning. Good morning.
 My name is David Douglas Red Thunder. I'm an American Indian, member of the Sistan Wapton Sioux Tribe, a resident of Hayden Island. I live directly across from North Portland's harbor, proposed location of the Pembina Propane Terminal at Ports Terminal 6. West Hayden Island is my sanctuary, a place of worship where spirits teach me their righteous ways for my journey through this life. I'm a member of the Sistan Wapton Sioux Tribe, a resident of Hayden Island.
 My brothers and sisters of the Yakima and Grand Ronde Federation share these traditions with me. And for us, the Columbia River's conditions surrounding this entire area support us spiritually, communally, and physically through our ancient fishing practices, all protected by U.S. treaty. We are very concerned about the likely impact of the siting of this propane facility will have on our shared life, giving air, land, and water, and all these creatures that live here.
 Recently, I have valid information and research findings by the local and national scientists that this Pembina-Propane terminal will be built near known and active earthquake fissures and fault lines. In the event of an earthquake and aftershocks of 6.0 and above...
 and we are due for the big one. These studies from noted geologists show sand base on which these massive holding tanks transfer pipes. The marine terminal are built will be dramatically affected by liquefaction. Thus, all substantial port for these terminal infrastructure will be gone and this massive facility will collapse.
 Other scientist studies show a massive boiling liquid expanding vapor explosion, BLEVE, will result from this collapse and its likely two mile wide blast zone will totally destroy all life on our natural sanctuary of West Hayden Island and much of the life in the continuous Columbia River, Smith and Bybee Lakes and further.
 As for the built environment, T6 will be gone, T5 and T4, Rivergate gone, ships in the port gone, 43-foot channel gone, and all of the hundreds of jobs associated with these will be gone. Plus, the resultant plume of superheated gases from this chemical debris from this blast will travel by wind drifts for several more miles in several different directions. These, along with six-mile radius of shrapnel, will seriously damage other built natural assets in Hayden Island.
 North Portland and downtown Vancouver are likely setting off more explosions than fire. Before this very ill-conceived idea is cited as a ticking propane time bomb in the middle of a fault in fissured riddled land. Don't blow this decision, you leaders of our whole city. Don't blow us up and destroy all we know. We will be one of the Pembina's first victims. My remains never found. Please remember me, David Douglas Red Thunder. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 okay let's move on to uh 202 please also i'm on for 30 minutes i also like to say um out of all the places to put this place you know this is very factually the ground they said they're going to put a three foot thick wall that's 160 feet deep which won't hit ground rock and it's going to be 3 000 feet long and i don't know how that scale gets into like that but also we have some abstract about portland and then how they're flying underneath the federal under the federal regulations
 which I know we need the money here in Portland, but this needs to be looked at more carefully. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Redthunder, did you testify at the Planning and Sustainability Commission's hearing? Yes, I did. Great. Thank you very much. All right. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Okay. Item 202.
 request of Sam Sachs to address council regarding the Rooney rule, minority interviewing for department heads and better access for community members applying for jobs with the city. Okay. And I think Anna Canwut, number 203, is going to join him. Good morning, Sam. 203, request of Anna Canwut to address council regarding the Rooney rule, minority interviewing for department heads and better access for community members applying for city jobs.
 Good morning, Mayor. I would like to request a couple extra minutes, if possible. Well, since you're representing a bargaining unit and you're here with the – well, you're not formally representing a bargaining unit. Sorry, I made Anna nervous when I said that. I'll give you an extra minute, but try to be brief. Okay. Just for the fact that I'm representing myself as a citizen. Right. I understand, but you're talking about a labor issue, so I appreciate that. Copy. Thank you.
 Mayor Hills, members of the City Council, my name is Sam Sachs. Although you may know me as a park ranger for the City of Portland or a human rights commissioner, today I come to you as a concerned citizen of Portland, Oregon. Sometime in the 1940s, Ralph and Florence Sachs came to America from Vilnius, Lithuania. They arrived in Chicago and settled in Portland. My grandparents were Jewish immigrants who came to Portland for a better life in pursuit of an American dream, and they found it.
 My grandfather worked as a vacuum salesman. My grandmother, a stay-at-home mom. They both enjoyed their lives here in Portland.
 Unfortunately, not everyone in Portland can relate to my grandparents' story. Many citizens of Portland, especially citizens of color, have immigrated to this wonderful city over the past 20 years, just like my grandparents. But not all have found the same happiness or realized the American dream. In fact, for many Portlanders of color who actually were born in Portland and who have generation after generation after generation of family in this city, they still haven't found the American dream.
 I'm here today to ask that we commit to doing a better job of serving our communities of color and our disabled community. When I look at this council, I see commissioners who have already done a lot of great work when it comes to equity. So who better to ask than you? There are two hurdles that I see in this city for reaching the American dream. One is access to city jobs, and the other is access to advancement in leadership positions within city government.
 Currently, the only way to apply for a job with the city is online. This doesn't work for certain members of our community. I would like to propose the City of Portland create a pilot project to install kiosks or computers in all community centers and possibly other selected Portland buildings.
 This would allow for those who don't have a computer or access to one, who can't find daycare, who can't get to a library, or more importantly, who may have a disability and may need assistance or special equipment like a screen reader, to have the same opportunity to apply for a job with the city by going to one of these community centers. In my role as liaison of the Portland Commission on Disabilities, I've learned that 43% of Americans who don't have broadband at home
 are at a major disadvantage when it comes to finding out about jobs. I have submitted an innovation micro-grant proposal to hopefully get this pilot up and running. My second proposal today is for the city to adopt a new hiring standard, similar to the Rooney Rule, whenever it fills an open bureau position, bureau director position. The Rooney Rule is a state law here in Oregon and in the National Football League.
 It simply states that whenever a head coaching or athletic director position comes open, that that school must interview one qualified minority candidate. I believe we can do the same here when it comes to bureau directors. When the rule was first implemented in the NFL, minority hiring went up 23 percent. Last year, there were five minority coaches in the NFL. Four of them went to the playoffs. So the success speaks for itself.
 Currently, the City of Portland has 26 directors. Roughly four of them are directors of color, meaning black, Latina, Asian, or Native American. To me, this is problematic for those employees of color working in entry-level, general, or even managerial positions because what it says to them is that director positions in the City of Portland are virtually unattainable.
 This city could do something very simple and easy by committing to interviewing at least one qualified minority applicant before appointing or hiring any of the 26 directors. As a park ranger, I work with a diverse group of men and women who have hope of advancement. I want to assure that if they hope or dream of being a parks director someday, they will know the city values that dream and is committed to making the path a little smoother.
 If you choose to adopt this new hiring standard, I would ask that you change the name from the Rooney Rule to the Charles Jordan Standard. Recently, I spoke with Mr. Jordan's children, and they have given their blessing. In fact, they suggested the name change to Standard instead of Rule.
 because they feel it is more in line with what their father represented. And in my opinion, it really should be the standard of city council to consider minority candidates every time they fill a director position. If you really want to raise the bar even higher, you could include managers as well. Charles Jordan was the first African American city commissioner and a parks director. He set a standard we should all aim to follow.
 I'm here today in the spirit of his words, if change is to be, it's up to you and me. We can be that change. Thank you. Thank you very much. Ms. Canwit. All right. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, Anna Canwit, Director of the Bureau of Human Resources. I'm here in a very unusual spot today because I have never been part of the communication.
 So I think that's odd. I got a lot of calls, what are you doing? But Sam, Mr. Sachs came to talk to me I think last December about would I be willing to do this and definitely. And I'm not here because I support the Rooney Rules. Mr. Sachs and I have talked about that. I actually don't. But I am here.
 for several reasons. A, really appreciate the work that Mr. Sachs and others have done, not only in his role as a citizen in Portland, in his role as a park ranger, 43 and other labor partners, in terms of really starting to help the city diversify our workforce, continue to partner with us to review our programs, work, et cetera, through an equity lens.
 definitely want to continue to support their efforts. I think they, in the long run and the short term, we are really going to make more significant changes by having that partnership. Just briefly, what we are doing now, I think, is starting to be effective and will continue to be effective. And just the concern I have over a rule is,
 They tend to end up sometimes when not necessarily be very effective in getting actual candidates hired. We have instituted a council's mandate bias awareness training for all of our interview panels. We think that's really key in making sure that everyone who is interviewing candidates is aware of their own biases.
 We have also instituted a requirement for all of our executive level recruitments, which is not just bureau directors, but a level down from that that we do have a person of color or female on the hiring panels.
 We don't mandate that across the board anymore, but we do mandate it for those types of recruitments. And also, of course, that the person is a subject matter expert as well. So we are actually getting input in terms of the job requirements.
 On our online system, that has been a continuing source of concern. We do get lots of applications. Last year it was well over 19,000. Doesn't necessarily address the concerns that Mr. Sachs has raised. And we definitely support a program of looking at kiosks in the Portland building, if it's feasible in community centers. We've partnered with a couple of dozen organizations.
 We can't track through employment department or SEI whether people are applying for city jobs. I mean, they don't ask when they're coming in to use a computer, what are you using it for, where are you applying, obviously.
 We would be hopeful that if they are coming into the city building, we would be able to track that and see if we actually are having a broader impact on persons of color, persons with disability, people who just do not have access to a computer. So I think that would be a great step forward in making sure that our online recruitment system really is more accessible than it may be today. So thank you.
 I know we're not, Mayor, deliberating today on the question, but...
 Ranger Sachs, I would like you to, after this, schedule some time to come visit with me. We're actually launching a national search this week for a new BES director. And so I've been getting kind of a crash course in what HR and the Office of Equity believe are the new benchmarks, the new standards for how we do these searches, how we do outreach, how we ensure that we have a diverse pool. And we've also had two focus groups.
 one with employees, one with external stakeholders, focusing on this. And equity and diversity was a cornerstone of their concerns. So I'd like to get the benefit, if you're thinking, because this will be a high-profile search where we may be able to get it right in terms of making sure at the back end we have a diverse pool of qualified candidates. And I want to make sure we do everything within our power to make that happen. Thank you, sir. I will make an appointment. Thank you, sir.
 I appreciate you two being here together. It seems to me we've got a couple people in front of us that share some objectives and have some small disagreements about tactics, but that's something that we can work on together. I like the creative idea about using our community centers as a place for people to seek employment as well as what?
 other things, other public services we provide there. So I'll certainly commit to carrying on that discussion with you as somebody who's bringing good ideas forward and with Anna who's a committed manager to the same objectives. Again, I think there's no difference about where we want to get to. It's a question of what tools we use to get there. So I really appreciate both of you being here on the same subject. Again with the opportunity to work together, I'll help facilitate that. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Thank you, Mayor. COMMISSIONER WRIGHT. Thank you.
 Have either Mr. Ridenour or Mr. Norton-Kersen arrived? Okay. If not, then let's move on to the consent calendar. I believe we have one item that's being pulled to the regular calendar, item 209. Anything else that needs to be pulled from the consent calendar to the regular calendar for discussion? If not, then let's take a roll call on the balance of the consent calendar, please.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, item 204. 204, accept report on the state of the arts from the Regional Arts and Culture Council. Commissioner Fish? Thank you, Mayor, and first let me apologize. My son has been under the weather for a week, and he gave me his froggy throat, so we'll soldier on, but
 Mayor and colleagues, today is one of my favorite days. It's the annual chance we have to hear from our partner at the Regional Arts and Culture Council, the State of the Arts. And today we have an all-star lineup here to share with us the good news, the accomplishments of the past year, and to set our course for the future. Thank you.
 And I'd like to introduce our first three guests to come forward. First is Executive Director Eloise Damrosch. Second is RAC Board Chair Jan Robertson. And third is Executive Assistant Johanna Kim. They will lead us through the presentation, and then we'll have some time for some comments afterwards. Eloise.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners. It's a real pleasure to present and celebrate the state of the arts in Portland. This is a favorite event each year for Eloise, so she loves to drag lots of the board members along to share the experience and the celebration. As the years have passed, it's become a favorite event for me as well. I want to thank all of our friends who showed up here to add their thanks to you and to demonstrate that the arts are alive and well in our wonderful city. And I want to acknowledge the fabulous RAC board and staff, many of whom are here with us today.
 This is a special year for RAC and specifically the Percent for Art program. RAC turns 20, having transitioned from the Metropolitan Arts Commission to the Regional Arts and Culture Council in 1995. The Percent for Art program turns 35, so many years of commissioning artworks for public spaces all over Portland and creating daily artful experiences for all Portlanders.
 The Visual Chronicle of Portland collection is 30, and our copper goddess, that would be Portlandia, celebrates her big trio in October. No doubt we'll sing to her then. Good morning, Mayor Hales, commissioners. I'd like to add my thanks for the chance to be here with you. As Jan said, this is a favorite day for me as well. Every year we talk about and show you how we have shepherded your considerable investments in RACC.
 We have sent you our 2014 annual report, which has all the numbers, drafts, and stats, and other pertinent details. So we hope you'll spend some time with that, but today we have a slightly different program for you. And taking a cue from Mayor Hales, who started his State of the City address with a song, he's a lot braver than I am, today we will talk less and show more.
 More music, visual art, inspiring outreach and equity initiatives, the spoken word, a veritable tapestry of creativity and talent from many corners of our community. Thanks to the Arts Education and Access Fund on top of continued support from the City of Portland's General Fund and Work for Art.
 We are making great strides in the size and number of grants that we are able to award to artists, on-profit organizations and schools that add tremendous value to our community and our lives. For example, the Portland Opera, 50 years strong this year,
 is an organization that serves over 163,000 people annually in their performances at the Keller, and over 33,000 more in classrooms throughout the state of Oregon and southwest Washington.
 Just last month, they received their share of the proceeds from the AEAF at $193,000, which brings them to 3.8% public funding, many steps closer to the AEAF's goal of 5% public funding for all of our most established arts organizations. Thank you.
 Director Christopher Mataliano, who's here today, tells me that these additional funds will enable them to continue multicultural aspects of their opera offerings, including the highly successful Spanish-English hour-long production of The Barber of Seville, currently touring schools through the Portland Opera To Go, or POGO, program. ¶¶
 I can give you your task, my lord, my lord, because with the soldiers, yes, the Koreans, they are strong, for pleasure, for pleasure, they are the king. The blessing that is full on this day of the feast, the blessing that is full of the high honor,
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
 Doré ador, oh garde, Doré ador, Doré ador, Qui songe bien, qui songe encore à toi, Rien n'est noir, peu grand, Et que l'amour t'attend, Doré ador, l'amour, l'amour t'attend.
 ... Bravo!
 Eloise, I dare you to try to top that. I was just going to say, do I have to talk? Thank you, Portland Opera. That was fabulous. If everybody isn't awake by now, you should be. So another place that we are investing, thanks to the AEF, is organizations that are bringing arts experiences to communities of color, persons with disabilities, East Portlanders, and other underserved populations in our city.
 Last year we invested in 10 organizations including the Cascade AIDS Project, which used the arts to raise HIV awareness among gay Latino youth. I'd like to now invite Edgar Mendez from CAP to tell us more about that project. Edgar. Edgar.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and the commissioners. I'd like to begin by thanking the Regional Arts and Cultural Council for the opportunity to participate in this initiative. My name is Edgar Mendez. I represent the Cascade AIDS Project for the purpose of our collaboration with the Regional Arts and Cultural Council, and I will be speaking to the impact of the expanding cultural access grant to our services in 2014.
 The program I represent exists to serve and prevent new HIV infections among ethnic and sexual minority youth. Thanks to RAC, we were able to increase the reach and scale of one of our most significant and successful annual events, known as Concientizate, a celebration of Latino art, music, and culture centered around National Latino AIDS Awareness Day. Concientizate has been hosted by the Cascade AIDS Project for over five years now.
 Latinos and Hispanics like me represent approximately 16% of the population, around 21% of new HIV infections each year. These new infections are particularly concentrated among young people and people underserved by traditional health services.
 One of the core values of the program that I represent is that it's not enough for a service to technically exist, it has to be embedded in the social and cultural reality of the people it intends to serve. Conscientizate is an example of these values. By bringing together respected musicians, artists, and performers in the same space as rapid confidential HIV testing, we were able to break down some of those barriers that separate and stigmatize HIV and
 and instead incorporate that as part of the activities that we engage in as a community and as families. By the end of the night, we had delivered culturally competent, destigmatizing education to over 200 attendees and delivered over 20 HIV statuses, primarily to people who had never been tested before. These initiatives, like Concientiste, not only break down the barriers between particular populations who are underserved by these health services, but also challenge the stigmas that I spoke about earlier.
 Deep community partnerships and relevant featured performers encouraged us and allowed us to believe that this event would be a success. Support from RAC early in this process allowed us to be in a position to solicit those donations and those support. They made our community partners confident that this event would have an impact and that this program would be successful in delivering those HIV prevention services. So for that, I want to say thank you to the Regional Arts and Culture Council and thank you to the City of Portland. Thank you, Edgar. Thank you.
 We are currently accepting proposals for a new round of Expanding Cultural Access grants, and we invite anyone who's using the arts to reach underserved communities to apply by the March 5th deadline. There's lots of information on our website, and our grant staff are happy to help with any kind of technical assistance. I'm also happy to report that applications are way up, so we're getting the word out to more people.
 We also support dozens of artistic projects every year through our Project Grants program, which Mayor Hales and Portland City Council so generously restored funding for this past year, having been seriously cut in the recent past. Our Project Grants helped bring all of us wonderful performances, exhibits, and a wide range of cultural experiences.
 A little later, you'll hear from one amazing artist, Dana Lynn Lewis, about what she was able to accomplish with a modest $6,000 project grant from RAC this past year. Dana, by the way, is also the artist who created the installation right here in the City Hall atrium that was originally installed in honor of Vera Katz. And speaking of small grants making big differences, we can't forget Portland's own Cheryl Strayed and her fabulous success with Wilde.
 Rack awarded her four modest grants in years past, which we like to imagine gave her small boosts toward the bright future where she is today. Jan shared with you the list of anniversaries we're celebrating in 2015, most of which are within our public art program.
 Portland's ever-growing public art collection includes a wide range of accessible artworks that RAC cares for on behalf of all Portlanders, and that's a responsibility we take really seriously. We commission and purchase work for public spaces such as city buildings, parks, and streets. And speaking of streets, I'm now happy to introduce Crystal Schenck, who together with her partner Shelby Davis contributed to the recent transformation of Division Street. Crystal? Thank you.
 Good morning. So my husband and collaborator, Shelby Davis, couldn't be here this morning, but we recently completed our first public art commission right here in Portland, and we're very excited to share it with our hometown and the citizens here.
 So, I just want to tell you a little bit about the project and what was really important as we were developing it. So when listening to RAC, the design group and the Division Street residents talk about the project and the feeling that they wanted to invoke, one aspect stood out very clearly. And this was the desire to have artwork that creates a sense of continuity and community along the entire length of the street.
 And artwork that was episodic in nature seemed to have the biggest potential for making a big impact along the entire streetscape project. So the projects we created are linked together by narrative, theme, and materials. You might have seen them. They're small figurative works on larger stone boulders in eight locations from 11th to 39th on Division.
 We wanted to make work that can be enjoyed in a passing manner, but also have rewarding details for the people who stop to take time to investigate. With all the new commerce and residential development that has strung up on Division, you might have noticed how much it's changed over the last three years, we thought it was really important to encourage people to travel the street on foot and not just by car. So the sculpture has become an invitation not just to discover the next piece in the series, but also to explore Division Street and all that it has to offer.
 While researching the subject matter for the project, we spent a lot of time getting to know the local community, walking up and down Division Streets, throughout the neighborhood, going to yearly street fairs, talking to residents and the long-term shop owners, learning a lot of the history of the area. Everyday scenes we encountered sparked the ideas for the characters that we sculpted, and while none of them are specific portraits, many of them capture the persona of some of the wonderful people that we met through our explorations.
 In placing the sculptures, we worked closely with BES and PBOT, making sure that the stones did not interrupt any of the rideaways or impede the bioswales and how they function. Both organizations were incredibly wonderful to work with, and we especially appreciate the people at PBOT for helping us find appropriate locations within the context of the community. They did their best to accommodate our vision of how we wanted the artwork to integrate within the streetscape plans.
 And their support and teamwork throughout the project helped make the installation of the artwork go very smoothly. Our experience working with RAC was also extremely positive. Peggy Kendlin has been an incredible asset to us as first-time public artists. She was a strong advocate for us throughout the process and gave us a thorough education on the ins and outs of what it takes to make public artwork. And she helped us negotiate working with the city, the residents, and the design team throughout the process.
 What we learn from RAC will be absolutely invaluable to our long-term goals as artists. So we really want to thank them for this incredible experience.
 Our sculptures have now been in place for a mere four months, but we've gotten a lot of outpouring of support and people seem to really have a lot of positive feelings about it. So in that time we've been contacted by numerous individuals who want to let us know how much they appreciate the work. And they've also shown it in many small ways, as Portland does. They have knitted scarves and put hats and given them presents. And so we have to say how much we've loved that.
 and it's been really gratifying to us as artists to know our work has brought so much enjoyment for the community that it's been made for. So thank you. Thanks, Crystal. We're especially proud during this big anniversary-filled year that RAC's longstanding public art program is considered a model nationally, and we celebrate and thank all of the artists, fabricators, volunteer panelists,
 city employees and of course our staff all of whom are vital to the program's ongoing success moving on to one of my favorite topics arts and education we have a special treat for you i'd like to introduce a teaching artist from the right brain initiative aaron nigel smith and young artists from king's schools fourth grade who are here to perform for you this little one class
 Two classes. Two classes. So these are students from King Elementary School. I've had the great pleasure of working with them in the Right Brain Initiative program. We did a 10-week session last term, but this term we're doing a four-week session in which we're focusing on the civil rights movement. And I've had the great pleasure for the past two sessions of working with them specifically on freedom fighting songs, that we taught them the song, Oh Freedom.
 And they have, in fact, we talked about the lyrics of it and the implications of how they used the song and the context in which the song was sung historically. And they even had the opportunity to come up with some of their own lyrics to include in the song to bring it more relevance to their day and their time. We were also actually, it was kind of an interesting scenario where this obviously is not the type of space where we'd want to have 40 kids performing.
 We were thinking about only bringing 10 kids to this event, but that proposed a dilemma for us. And actually with the curriculum we were able to look at it and say, hey, is it really fair to only pick 10? Let's pick, let's see if there's a way to make it work for everyone and kind of be examples of the lesson that we're trying to teach. So it was really cool that we did manage to get all the kids here, and I'm really excited to share with you O Freedom. You guys ready?
 All right. Now, with the right brain, we focus, at least with my work with the right brain, I focused a lot on the process. I think it's really important for kids to have exposure to the arts and to have the opportunity to be exposed and to make the curriculum connections with math and science and literature with the arts. And we work really hard on making those connections with the homeroom teachers. And it's really not necessarily about performing. In fact, this is the only...
 performance I think we've done actually as long since I've been in Right Brain. We usually do something, a culminating event to share with other classrooms. So it's really cool to bring them out and show them another aspect of art which is that which is performing art. All right, you guys ready? All right, let's do it. One, two, three, and. Oh, freedom. Oh, freedom. Oh, freedom. Oh, freedom. Oh, freedom. Oh, freedom. Oh, freedom. Oh, freedom.
 freedom over me And before I be a slave I'll be buried in my grave And go home and be free No more moaning No more moaning No more moaning over me And before I be a slave
 I'll be buried in my grave And go home and be free No more weeping No more weeping No more weeping over me And before I be a slave I'll be buried in my grave And go home and be free No more slavery
 No more slavery or I'd be a slave. Be buried in my grave. Go home. No more hurting. No more hurting. No more hurting. No more hurting. Go home. Be a slave. Be buried in my grave. And go home. And be free. And go home. And go home.
 And be free. And go home free.
 Thank you guys. You can see why we're so excited that learning like this is happening across the Tri-County region in seven school districts.
 Currently, 18 Portland schools are partnering with the Right Brain Initiative, more schools than any other district. The Right Brain Initiative is designed as a shared delivery model that includes classroom teachers responsible for student learning in subjects like math, science, social studies, and language arts, certified arts specialists who provide sequential learning in an arts discipline, and community-based teaching artists, professionals working in dance, music, theater, visual, and media arts.
 These essential partners are at the heart of the Right Brain Initiative, who work together to weave the arts throughout the curriculum and help ensure that the arts are part of every child's education. We have many outside partners as well. Two notable ones I'd like to highlight are Portland State University as our new assessment partner and Young Audiences as our implementation partner.
 Evidence of our success abounds. Last fall, we were especially pleased to release a report that indicates partnering with the Right Brain Initiative fuels student learning. Before schools joined the initiative, the average annual increase in student reading scores was two points. After just one year with Right Brain, test scores at these schools began to climb at a greater than average rate and continued to increase as schools became more engaged with the program.
 A similar pattern occurred in math scores, providing a strong correlation between right brain and increases in student achievement. Most significant, though, are the gains reported for English language learners whose English language proficiency scores increased 10 to nearly 20 times as their schools joined and deepened their involvement with right brain. This evidence certainly demonstrates the power of the arts to provide new paths into learning.
 As part of our responsibilities for the Arts Education and Access Fund, RAC works with the city's school districts to ensure high-quality arts education by supporting certified art and music teachers. In addition, we oversee coordination between school districts and arts organizations to bring the arts to all Portland students.
 Last week, a Portland Public Schools Student Arts Showcase celebrated the work of these specialists with a visual and performing arts extravaganza at the Newmark Theater. It was truly a special evening, and thank you, Commissioner Fish, for being there. PPS has brought some of those amazing drawings and paintings here to City Hall as well, on display on the first floor through March 6th. We know this is making a difference for all students, and none of it would have happened without your support.
 About five years ago, RAC board and staff made a very serious commitment to focusing on equity and inclusion to remove any barriers to full participation in our programming, grants, and offerings. We believe arts and culture should be accessible to every person living and visiting here. As you can see from our grant-making efforts, arts education programming, workshops, and public art activities, we look at everything we do through an equity lens.
 We have intentionally brought new voices and points of view to our board, staff, volunteers, and communications, and are forging many and diverse new relationships while strengthening existing ones across our city. We've also been encouraging the arts organizations and artists that we support to work on broadening their own reach by providing them real-life examples of ways to engage effectively.
 We have offered workshops with equity professionals, and at the request of the arts community, commissioned a how-to approach with ideas around building diverse audiences. We're trying to make this work as doable as possible by breaking it into bite-sized pieces or building blocks, as shown here.
 Many have embraced this work and all are asked to report to us on progress each year as an important aspect of grant reporting to RAC. And now I'd like to ask Jan to read our brand new equity statement, which has been developed with much input from the RAC board and staff. We believe that the arts have the power to change hearts and minds and to inspire social change.
 Prejudice and privilege have created barriers that RAC must dismantle systematically and strategically until everyone in our community has equitable access to arts and culture. We acknowledge that there is no one perfect way to achieve equity, but we are willing to take risks because there is much work to do. We're thoughtfully researching and implementing new methods of thinking within our organizational culture, starting with an in-depth assessment of our services, policies, and procedures. Thank you.
 We are seeking out and listening to voices that have not been heard and fully engaging underrepresented populations in dialogues that will help us improve. We are committed to the full scope of this work and will hold ourselves accountable along the way. Anything less would prove a disservice to ourselves and the communities we serve.
 RAC strives to be an organization that values and celebrates everyone's life experiences, their voices, and their histories. By consistently bringing new perspectives to our decision-making table, forming new relationships and alliances, and finding new ways to support creativity, RAC will be a strong, equitable, and relevant organization. Throughout this process, we commit to humility, optimism, and respect.
 I am incredibly proud to chair a board that believes so passionately about this work and continuously strives together to the goal of arts access for all people. It's truly an honor to serve with each of them. We have focused this presentation on several aspects of RAC's broad work in our community, but I would like to highlight one other accomplishment, namely our workplace giving program, Work for Art.
 Over the last nine and a half years, the community has donated more than $6 million to Work for Art, making it possible for RAC to support local arts organizations to an even greater extent. We thank the City of Portland employees, plus the employees of 75 other participating companies, who make this campaign possible every year. This fall, Work for Art will celebrate its 10th anniversary campaign, and we hope that you will all be part of it.
 I want to give a special shout-out to Commissioner Fish, who's recently helped us initiate important conversations with Comcast and Daimler about joining this program. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for being such a proactive advocate on our behalf. We look forward to working with all of you in the months ahead to make the arts more accessible in the city of Portland.
 RAC has come so far over the last 20 years, and we know that this progress would not be possible if it weren't for the elected officials who continue to understand the importance of culture and creativity in our community. In closing, I want to say how privileged and pleased RAC is to steward our city's investment in the arts and culture.
 We see and hear of the fruits of this work every day in all parts of our city, from community centers to concert halls, from schools to city streets, from established galleries to pop-ups. We know many people visit here for the arts. We see them following the public art walking tour and flocking to performances, festivals, and diverse cultural celebrations of all kinds. At the heart of all of this are artists, organizations, and arts lovers.
 And crucial to all of this richness is the financial commitment the city has provided without faltering and the personal value you each place on a thriving arts community. We are here to say collectively thank you and to pledge that together we will keep the arts strong, vibrant, and thriving moving into the future. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thanks very much. Any questions for our presenters? I know there are others that want to speak. Excuse me. Thank you. How much of the money that comes from the city is from the general fund and how much from the arts tax? Yes.
 For in general? Yes. Well, let's see. We get approximately $4 million from the city, and then we've received so far about two – let's see. We've given out – no, $1.5 million has come in so far. The arch tax, right? Yeah. So it'll –
 The arts tax will, I won't say never, one day maybe the arts tax will be on par with the city. But it's a very important addition to what we get from the city because we're using general fund money, about a million plus, to give the base of operating support. But that's what we've been doing all along. And these larger organizations especially have been at such a low percentage of public funding. So the goal is to add a layer on top of that, which is the arts fund and work for art.
 And do you have policies about how much the funding goes for performing arts versus visual arts and other? No, not, no. So it's on a, as applied for. Yeah, we're committed to supporting all of the organizations and artists as equitably as we can, but we don't have any kind of quotas or policies. Thank you. Mm-hmm.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks. Great presentation. I know we do have some folks that are signed up and want to speak on this report, so let's hear them, please. Okay. We've got seven people signed up. The first three please come on up are Dana Lynn Lewis, Kevin Bacon, and Anita Menon. Good morning and welcome. Good morning. Good morning. Are we speaking in that order? Yes, please. Go ahead. Okay. I'm Dana Lynn Lewis. Thank you so much for giving us this opportunity to talk today.
 I want to say that I'm really thankful to RAC and the city that supports it because it's truly extraordinary. I have worked not only with RAC but with other organizations around the country, and it really is different to work with RAC. When you work with RAC, you get support not just when you get a grant, but you get support during the year and the time of your grant. And then they care about you afterward, too, so you really feel like they've got your back.
 An artist's life is not easy, and it can be a string of events that runs the gambit of experiences from wonderfully fulfilling to unimaginably frustrating. This year has been the former for me. Not all years are like this. However, once you get that support and feel that, as I said, hand on your back, you can fly quickly, and then opportunities seem to accumulate. As Eloise mentioned, I received a project grant this year that contributed greatly to what I was able to manifest in my show Clearing at the Lewis and Clark College.
 Great opportunity, big space, totally committed curator, Linda Tessner, and Lewis and Clark College. I had so many ideas, and I have hundreds, literally, of sketchbooks in my studio with things that I would do if I was given such an opportunity. However, it's hard to really do those experiences if you don't have the funding to do it. You can have all kinds of ideas, but they never leave your sketchbook if you don't have the funding. Okay.
 Things build. After I received the RAC grant, I received additional funding from the Oregon Arts Commission and the Ford Family Foundation. I think, as somebody else mentioned, when somebody feels like you've got support, they want to jump on board. Linda also received a grant from the Ford Family Foundation to make a book about this show. This book now gives me a really special tool that undoubtedly will help me in my career in the future.
 As I mentioned, this last year was full. I had a residency at the Oregon State Hospital to work with the patients. They collaborated with me to make the art for the new hospital in Junction City. Telling you about this experience would take up all your time, so I'm not going to go into that right now, but I would love to someday. I just want to say that it really truly was one of the most rewarding experiences that I've had in the public realm. I mention this for two reasons. One, because the work that I did with them also impacted the work that I did for my show Clearing at Lewis and Clark.
 so much that they are also credited in the book, and in November, the hospital staff brought them on a field trip to the show. There I was able to discuss with them their impact on the show and the positive impact they have had on my life, which when I was walking them back up to the bus when they were leaving, one of them stopped me and said, nobody's ever told me I've had a positive impact on their life, let alone impacted their artistic career.
 As artists, we wonder, does what I make matter? Will people connect with it? Will it communicate beyond my studio? And as funders, I know somehow you really need to document this. Well, there are several ways, most of which are very subtle. And a lot of them are that you just have to have the belief system that art is important and through history...
 You just have to trust that it is. But for the record, on this one, I need to tell you that over 2,005 people were clocked in through the door at Lewis and Clark College, and another 2,500 participated in this show, which went virally...
 Can I have a couple? Okay. Which went viral internationally, not to mention the hundreds of patients from OSU, not to all whom were able to come on that field trip. In closing, I need to say that I've been here for 25 years, and I've had amazing experiences in both my studio and public realm, collaborating with other artists, musicians, choreographers, and writers. Portland is on the map in many ways.
 as it was when I was not first here. And it's not just because Portlandia put it there, not just because we have amazing food choices, and not just because we have an internationally acclaimed sitting planning department. It's the artists who have impacted all of these things with their tenacious spirits. For the artists who have contributed so much, it is increasingly harder to live and work here. Portland is rich with artists and what they bring, yet the artists are not rich.
 We need your help to realize our wildest dreams and we want to be able to stay here in Portland. So when considering your budget, please see that it's not only supporting an artist and perhaps their gallery show, but the larger reverberations of their works that are innumerable in this city. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning, Kevin. Good morning. My name is Kevin Bacon, and I'm the principal at Boise Elliott Humboldt School. In my second year there, my third year of education altogether, I've been in all quadrants of the city, either as a teacher or an administrator. It's my third time being here. I was here a few years ago on behalf of the Vision into Action Arts Grant under Mayor Tom Potter.
 Tom Potter, the BMA, the Black Male Achievement, just recently with Mayor Hales, and now RBI, Right Brain Initiative, under RAC. So VIA, RBI. Like there's three-letter acronyms. It's neat to hear...
 RAC read their equity policy and then also to know that they walk their talk in their 55 schools. There's been intentionality in how they've selected those schools in regards to bringing those opportunities to students of color. Our school, for the last five years running, has had the most African-American students.
 than any other school in the state at any level, high school, middle school, or elementary school. And we are a pre-K through 8 school.
 Boise Elliott Humboldt School is in its third year of transformation into a STEM school in partnership with the Portland Metro STEM Partnership. We're one of only two PPS schools in the metro area that's a part of that partnership. We see our focus on STEM as a way to ignite passion for learning and heighten engagement for students while also preparing them for college and 21st century careers, which we already know that there's projected
 shortages in those fields of science, technology, engineering, and math. STEM education creates an integrated learning environment that encourages problem-solving and persistence, critical thinking, and teamwork across subject areas. While STEM was the initial vision for Boise LA at Humboldt, our acceptance as a right brain school has allowed us to infuse the arts into our work to become STEAM.
 Get it? Science, technology, engineering, arts, and math. Tapping into a different way of thinking for students and helping provide a truly integrated approach to learning. While some may see STEAM as a period in our schedule or something you do, we at Boise LA at Humboldt view STEAM as the driving force for our instruction. By having the arts in STEAM, we think about learning.
 We are thinking about a thought process for kids and a way to engage students in problem solving and design thinking. This type of instructional change is not an easy task in a school, especially given the numerous challenges we already face. We've been lucky to have RightBrain by our side to support us in this work. RightBrain is more than just the residencies. Our teachers have had the opportunity to attend professional development and learn concrete activities that engage students in new ways.
 And while the learning strategies can be incorporated by classroom teachers on their own, it is the teaching artists that are really able to support learning in a new way. We are currently in our first year of residency and in the middle of that planning process, 30 more seconds, that planning process, we have found that it is a compliment to the partner work we have previously done with science educators in many ways.
 In our three years of transitioning from just a school into a STEM and then STEAM school, we have carefully developed a system for utilizing community partners to support our learning. Community partners are carefully selected, making sure that they're a best possible match for both students in the content area.
 Teachers also meet with these professionals before they come into the classroom to construct a program that really aligns with our standards, is culturally relevant, and is unique to our students' needs as learners. I just so happen to have a conversation with the director of STEM for Southwest Washington, and what he talks about is that the – what employers are looking for ultimately are – I
 are employees that can collaborate and that can learn how to learn. And when you bring the arts and not just the ability to the thinking that goes along with that, along with that art school, the initiative around STEM, we feel like that's really coming together nicely, and we wouldn't be able to do that without the Right Brain Initiative and the support of RAC. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Anita Menon, and I'm the Artistic Director of the Anjali School of Dance and the co-founder of MyTream, a small non-profit arts organization. I founded the dance school in 1996 to impart the 2,000-year-old dance form from India called Bharatanatyam.
 My passion has been in adapting the art form for the next generation of dancers through innovation and experimentation with contemporary choreographic works. Over the past few years, I've received several grants and the Performing Arts Fellowship Award from RAC. Besides encouraging my own artistic journey, the grants have tremendously benefited the community in the following ways.
 By hiring only local artists, technicians, and crew, I've ensured that the dollars have remained in our own community. By bringing together over 10 different dance schools to perform together, I've encouraged collaboration, especially among children, who form the next generation of performers. By teaching classical and folk dances from India to children all over Portland, I've preserved the cultural legacy of the Indian American community.
 The productions that have been supported by RAC have given me the visibility to collaborate with other artists and organizations here in Portland. As a recent example, I co-directed a brand new adaptation of Kipling's The Jungle Book using Indian dance, music, and theater at Northwest Children's Theater.
 Through this production, we have not only been able to give 8,000 audience members and over 5,000 school children a taste of several different styles of Indian dance and music, but we have also been able to reach 600 underprivileged families as well as 250 people through our sensory-friendly performance by providing them free tickets.
 Blazing new trails in an art form that is rooted in so much culture, history, and tradition is no easy task.
 but RAC's grants have given me and my nonprofit organization the encouragement, strength, and power to keep forging ahead to continue to collaborate, innovate, and adapt Indian dance for the next generation of dancers, all of which would not have been possible without the support from RAC and from the city of Portland. So thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much.
 The next three are Andrew Proctor, Bella Trent, and Joe Walsh. Come on up. While we're getting mic'd up, maybe I'll start. My name's Andrew Proctor. I'm the Director of Literary Arts. Thank you very much for having us here. Thank you, Nick. Thank you, Mayor Hales. And thanks to RAC and Eloise for all that they do. Literary Arts is a nationally recognized nonprofit literary center here based in downtown Los
 Portland. It's an intergenerational audience that we have, and we're grateful beneficiaries of RAC general operating support, and that allows us to have a lot of flexibility in terms of who and how we serve the community, and allows us to be really adaptable, so we're really grateful for that kind of support.
 Literary Arts runs Portland Arts and Lectures, the largest literary lecture series of its kind in the nation. It also broadcasts that series once a week at 9 p.m. on OPB, so we have our own NPR show this year. We run the Oregon Book Awards and Fellowships Program, which has supported writers for 27 years here at the State of Oregon. We have given away over three quarters of a million dollars for the production of new work here in the state. We funded every writer you've ever heard of, probably, in the State of Oregon at one time or another in our long history.
 um today i want to talk a little bit about the writers in schools program um which serves 40 has served 42 000 students since 1996 and has invested about 2.8 million dollars in the public school system through our program primarily the school this this year the program serves 11 high schools
 It serves a thousand students with semester-long residencies. These are long and deep residencies where students see writers over and over and over again and really develop and revise their work. It's tied to core curriculum and to the Common Core Standards directly with high school teachers.
 This year, I'm delighted to say that we piloted the program in East County at the Gresham High School, and we'll continue to develop a relationship in other schools in East County as we go forward. Every year, we also bring those students to the concert hall to make sure that students across the county know that the concert hall is there for them and it's part of their city and it's part of their cultural participation program.
 1,400 students last year came to the concert hall, not in sequestered student events, but with the rest of the community in events throughout the year and also with the Multnomah County Libraries Everybody Reads program. We're lucky enough to be able to host that event every single year. Last year, Justice Sonia Sotomayor was here, and there were well over 1,000 students from all over Multnomah County at that event. I just want to say that the program serves a community as diverse as our student body is right now.
 We also host the All-City High School Slam Championships. That's why Bella Trent is here today with us. The High School Slam Championships, 10 schools participate in it all over the city, and they each choose two students who participate in a slam poetry competition. If you ever thought poetry was dead or that young people didn't care about it, I would challenge you to come to the All-City Slam Championships. 500 people are there. Most of them are students. Most of them are in high school, and they basically stand and cheer for two and a half hours. Okay.
 It's alive and well and vital and being made right here in our city by some extremely talented and amazing young people. I'm delighted to introduce Bella Trent. She's a senior at Madison High School. She beat out every single student in the city and is the All-City High School Slam Poetry Champion for 2014. So help me welcome her. Before I start the piece, you should probably know...
 When you are in a slam, you have to have two poems, first round and second round. So this poem is called A Poem About Picking a Poem for Verslandia. I have read through every poem I've ever written, twice.
 And I keep coming up empty-handed. See, choosing poems is a tricky business, because you can't have two poems about love or two poems about being disabled. And so I have decided to surpass the constraints of genre and write a poem about my whole non-compartmentalized self. My name is Isabella Marie Trent. I am 4'11", according to my doctor, but 5'3", if you ask my grandpa.
 I used to be smaller, but now I'm bigger and I'm still trying to figure out how that happened. I was born with an unpronounceable condition and the capacity to love beyond reason. I am still trying to figure out which is worse. I almost died on October 17th, 2012. I used to think the world was worse with me in it. Then I thought it was better, but now I'm convinced she just likes to keep spinning.
 I believe God lies in comfortable silences, and I believe in love in that Dempsey, mow-your-lawn kind of way. I was a vegetarian for a year. I had my first surgery at eight months, fell in love first at 12. My favorite animals are pandas, and I think stars are the peepholes into heaven. I write simple songs in 4-4 with C major as the key. I am afraid of ghosts and love waffles.
 I was born to a passionate mother who loves ferociously and adopted by a man who wishes we'd forget he does too. I can make pancakes if you put the spatula in my mouth, and when I love someone, I never stop. Yes.
 I am talking to you, golden-eyed friend, with my secrets in a shoebox, and you, music-throated man in North Carolina who packed my heart in your suitcase. And there are nights like tonight when tonight becomes tomorrow, and I am still writing poetry where I wish that I was something other than my whole non-compartmentalized self. But here I will lie with an ink-stained heart and a cramping wrist, for I am the poet.
 sitting upon a stage and giving up her soul and I have never felt more alive. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice and we would just like to take a moment to once again congratulate you. This is something you should be very proud of. I hope that you find another cookie jar with more money in it
 We have absolutely no hesitation of you spending any amount of money that the five of you decide. We will support you. We will fight against the criticism of anybody that criticizes you for this issue, because this is a very human issue. This makes us human. The arts are a pathway to the soul, and it makes us human.
 And the more that we publicize it, the more children that are exposed to it, the better we are. And we need more of the arts because the rest of us, the political section, have a long way to go yet before we are fully human. The arts have made it. They are human. And we should look to them to understand that.
 that it is possible for all of us on this small little planet, in this small little solar system, to get along. And we should try harder. And he always teaches us that. So as much as I'm an activist and I will fight with you probably this afternoon, I once again congratulate you. And I know that this is two weeks in a row that I've done this,
 So I know my reputation is going to be destroyed, but the arts are worth it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. The last person who signed up is Charles Johnson. Charles, come on up. Good morning, commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And we didn't have as much fabulous headgear, I think, as at last year's state of the arts presentation. But we had opera, so I'm quite satisfied with the public investment in the arts.
 However, I think many people in the arts community would want to say that it's too bad. They would want to hear a line from probably a famous feminist. It would be a great day when the Air Force has to hold a bake sale or when the military industrial complex has to come begging and parading children through City Hall to get money for great stuff like this. And the reason I mention that is because...
 We are never having honest conversations about how much of our money is going into military industrial complex and prison industrial complex. So I hope that in our presentations about the arts, we will always look to do things like make sure that our funding of the arts grows just as fast and just as much as our funding of the Portland Police Bureau and of the Multnomah County Jail. Actually, much faster would be much better.
 and I encourage you to think also especially with the new great equity statement from RAC that arts spending is public safety spending when people are involved in a vibrant arts community they're less likely to get distracted by the things that may or may not validly get called criminal behavior so I hope that when we come back next year we'll be able to say that
 Arts funding and arts projects were the fastest growing part of the city budget and economic activity in the Portland metro area. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. So I think a motion is in order, Commissioner Fish. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Then a roll call on accepting this report. Fritz? I would like to propose a new slogan for RAC, and that is jobs and joy.
 Because that's what the arts funding actually does. It funds both starving artists. And thank you to everybody who was here today. This was a very moving occasion. Particularly appreciate Dana and your work at Oregon State Hospital. And the slam poetry was absolutely beautiful. Thank you. This is why the taxpayers of Portland invest money in the arts. Because it is part of who we are. And it does provide jobs and joy. So thank you. I. Fish? Yes.
 Mayor and colleagues, a couple weeks ago, I was with a delegation in Houston, and Charlie was joined by your wife, and a lot of cross-section of Portland went on a trip. And Houston's an interesting place. The state motto is we are a low-tax, low-service community. And Houston has no zoning code. The car is king. It's a good thing.
 There's Sprawl. It's 400-something square miles of city that goes on endlessly. They have two beltways, and they're about to build a third. And it was about as different from Portland as any place I've ever visited, with one exception. The people of Houston have invested heavily in the arts. And I discovered a museum district with 20 world-class art museums.
 And I discovered a sculpture garden designed by Isamu Noguchi, which is one of the great sculpture gardens in the world. And everywhere I went, there was public art and celebration of art and culture. So while Houston could not be more different than Portland in many of the ways that we define livability, it turns out that they understand exactly what we understand, that the soul of a great city lies with arts and culture. And so today, I have a very heavy heart filled with
 joy and love and pride in this community. First, I want to thank the mayor for asking me to be the commissioner liaison in charge of arts. That is a weighty responsibility and I follow in the footsteps of our friend Mike Lindberg and Sam Adams and so many others who said we could do better and do more. And it's an honor to partner with RAC and this community.
 I am especially grateful to live in a city where the people have spoken so clearly that they value art and culture. Over 60% of the voters supported the art tax. And when you travel around this city and you meet the young people who are moving here, what you hear invariably is art and culture is at the heart of why they chose to be in this great city. So I am grateful for that. In fact, I'm so grateful, Mayor, that I went online yesterday, and I want to do a shout-out to Thomas Lanham,
 because Thomas keeps making it easier for me to pay my arts tax. And yesterday I paid my arts tax proudly, and I encouraged all other taxpayers of Portland to get it in before April 15. But, Thomas, you have made it just about as easy as possible, although I'm sure there's still future modifications, but I was proud to pay that tax. I'm proud to be one of many in this building that is a participant and work for art.
 And work for art just means that every paycheck, a little something, is taken out for the arts. And I don't have to do anything. And at the end of the year, I get a statement. But I also get this card. And this card gets me discounts on art and culture programs throughout our community. And so I'm grateful for work for art. You know, each year, we get a chance to hear from the very best in our community. And Eloise, in my humble opinion, this was the best presentation we've ever had.
 And I know a ton of work went into this. You and Jeff and Johanna, but I also want to acknowledge Jenny Kalis and my team. Every great performance, when it's successful, happens because of a lot of rehearsals and a lot of time. Jenny, would you please stand from my office and take a bow? So everyone up here, as I've learned, has something about the arts that they love.
 And what I enjoy so much in talking to my colleagues is learning about Dan's passion and Charlie's passion and Amanda's and Steve's. And they will do things without any fanfare. And as patrons, they will go out and enjoy the arts. So as your arts commissioner, I just wanted to note a couple of the highlights from this past year for me. Charlie's a big supporter of the Portland Symphony.
 This past year I got to see Esperanza Spalding, the great Esperanza Spalding, on the stage performing. And it was an even greater honor to actually get to meet her afterwards. Recently I got to attend Portland Playhouse's provocative play, How to End Poverty in 90 Minutes.
 Now, we didn't figure out how to end poverty, but we took a vote afterwards, and Commissioner Fritz, you'll be pleased that we allocated $1,000. That was the money that was to be spent on ending poverty. We allocated that money to our friends at Family Forward so they could continue to spread the mission of Earn Sick Leave for all Oregon workers. I got to go see the new PNCA space in what's our growing cultural district and see something amazing.
 downstairs we recently welcomed the best of art from Portland Public Schools and I hope everyone will have a chance to go downstairs and see that art we celebrated the dance when Northwest Dance Project celebrated a significant milestone and I I was reduced to tears like everyone else when the singers from Fame performed at Fame's birthday bash we kicked off the Montevilla Jazz Festival in
 on 82nd, spreading the gospel of jazz further east. And Andrew, I was among the thousands that cheered when Calvin Trillin spoke at your anniversary bash. I could go on and on, but what I'm saying, I think, is how proud and grateful I am to live in a city that values arts and culture and that provides so many opportunities for us to experience the best on a regular basis.
 So in closing, I'd like to offer my thanks to the dedicated team at RAC, to Eloise and Jeff and Johanna and everybody who worked so hard, to Jan Robertson and the board, and we have other board members here that work tirelessly to keep us on track, to all of our partners
 You know, we're a big team in this state, and we don't operate in a vacuum. So we are grateful for the Arts Commission. We're grateful for the Oregon Cultural Trust. We're grateful for all the advocacy groups and all the nonprofits and all the advocates and everybody who's out there agitating and pushing and singing and pushing to do more for the arts. I'm grateful for the Arts Oversight Committee, and Stan Paikin is here.
 I think the only harder job in town is to be a school board member. And Stan, you're a volunteer, and thank you for your service, and thanks to all the members of the oversight body. I'm especially grateful to the Portland voters who have consistently said that they value this investment. And if we don't make this investment, we may lose something special in this community. And I will close by saying I'm especially grateful to serve on a council that gets it.
 Throughout my seven years on this council, we have always found the resources in every budget during good times and bad to support arts. And when we do so, we're supporting the kids in our elementary schools. We're supporting the budding poets. We're supporting the people who are passionate about dance. We're making...
 arts and culture available to people who have disabilities. We are in bringing everybody in our community under the same tent and celebrating together. And that's a beautiful thing. And I am so grateful that my colleagues consistently prioritize funding for the arts. It makes me proud to be a Portlander. And today I proudly vote aye in accepting the report.
 Well, I want to thank Commissioner Fish for his enthusiasm, unbridled enthusiasm for the arts, and he's doing a great job as the arts commissioner. So thank you for this wonderful report. It was very uplifting, and it's a good insight into the rich and vibrant scene we have here in arts and culture. It constantly amazes me the number of organizations and artists and theaters that manage to make a go of it here in Portland. So it's a great, great indicator. Thank you.
 Novick. Thank you, Eloise, and thanks everybody who was here today. Mayor, the performance by the Decembrists downstairs a few weeks ago and the performances we heard this morning were among the highlights of my tenure on the council, and I suggest that in the budget process we adopt number of days that there is music in City Hall as a key performance indicator. Did you call my name? I'm sorry. Ailes. Ailes.
 Well, first, Mr. Fish, thank you for your energetic, effective leadership on our behalf as a council and on the community's behalf in working with these amazing staff and volunteers and artists to bring us this report today and to bring us this picture of health that we have in our local arts scene. This report sings to me on three levels.
 One is strategic. As mayor, I'm constantly dealing with questions of the economy through the Portland Development Commission or otherwise. CEOs want to talk to mayors. And so I end up having all those conversations. And I just want to affirm what you said, Nick, that not only for the workers but for the decision makers, the quality of the art scene here is a factor in our success.
 And, in fact, it's good for us to all think about that as one of those factors because if you look at the research, it's not just anecdotal conversations with individuals, whether they run companies or work there, but there's really good research that shows that this is a smart and strategic investment.
 This series of reports has come out of an organization called City Observatory and led by Joe Courtright from here in Portland. They've done three reports now, and I encourage people to look at all three of them. The first one was about how mobile talent is and how it's moving around the country. And no surprise there, but it's affirmation that that's going on, and it's those same folks that you were talking with.
 The second report is about how concentration of poverty is getting worse. So this is not all happy talk out of this think tank, City Observatory. And the third one, which was published yesterday, is about how economic activity around the country is reconcentrating in cities.
 Well, if you look at those trends, you realize that we are in a competition with Houston and everywhere else because it's all about quality of place and quality of the urban experience that determines our economic future. And therefore, the arts does play a really important role in that equation.
 And we have a lot going for us, but we have to remain competitive for our own sake, as well as because we are in a global economy and competing on that basis of quality of place and quality of experience here. The second level that this resonates for me on is civic. And that is I see that connection with people that arts makes.
 and that art education makes for our kids. It just happens that in the last couple of weeks, not only did we have this wonderful song from the King School students this morning, but I visited the Park Rose Middle School and listened to their band rehearse. And they're great, and they're a middle school band, and they're great and succeeding in part because of the arts tax and its support for education across our community.
 And then I went to Sunnyside School and saw the production there supported by an artist in residence of an amazing play about Portland's history called Portland the Musical. And those kids learned a lot about Portland history because they sang it.
 And they learned that story in a very accessible way for those kids. So I see how it enriches our lives and equips our kids to be fully functioning people and later fully functioning citizens.
 Then the third part of it is personal. I do love music. I do love drama. I do love art. And I love living in a city where those things are rich and real. One of the most intimidating and exhilarating experiences of my life was because the
 Council chose to restore our symphony in the park summer concert in Waterfront Park. The symphony allowed me the privilege of getting up and conducting a John Philip Sousa march in front of 20,000 of our neighbors, and that was really scary but really wonderful, and the most important thing about it was, regardless of my effectiveness or ineffectiveness in conducting that piece, there were families and people from across Portland out there on a beautiful summer night enjoying music and enjoying community life.
 And then again, all around us in my family, we see the benefits of art. Nancy and I got to sing on the stage with the Fame Academy kids at Pioneer Courthouse Square. And it was just so much fun even to do that. My son Gavin, as a stage manager, has worked at Artist Rep and at Milagro Theater.
 and his life is richer because of that. We adopted a young woman in Nancy's tradition of adopting 20-somethings when they move here, named Kendall, who's a local bronze artist, and she's able to make a living here in Portland because of the quality of our citizens' support for art. And so we see that payoff in our own lives as a family and as people that love this city.
 So thank you all for this success story. You have five people here who are committed to continue it, and we look forward to another great success next year when you come back and tell us even more good things. Well done. Thank you. Aye. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 That's how we get those meetings. It's going to be our new tradition of going opera in the morning. Yeah, okay. Okay, good. That's got to be our opera. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 Ladies? Totally awesome. I don't really know what it looks like. Ladies? I'm so glad. I'm so glad you're all excited. How many more are there going to be? I'm so glad. Yeah. Yeah, very good. Very fun. Thank you. And those? . It's got a slam can. . I have a doubt that I might .
 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, is it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Where are we looking? Looking at Teddy. Looking at Teddy. We're looking at Teddy. Oh, there she is. We got her. We got her. Turn a little more. Yeah. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Whoa. Great. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect.
 I don't even know the following part.
 Thank you.
 We are aware of the... So you want to cover the... You can only talk to me for my age. Christopher. I just want to... That was... That was great. It's done by... Yes, please. Mark. This is the last one.
 It was the most intimidating and exhilarating thing I've done. Hi. Nice to see you. That was great. Yeah, it was fun. Thank you. See you soon. Okay, folks. We'll need to resume in a moment or two. A pretty sociable crowd here. Okay.
 Oh, that was amazing. We need to rush our lunch. How are you feeling? Good night. If I can jump in that way, text you if I can get a room? Yeah. Text me directly. No. Yeah. Okay. I don't want you to rush us. Yeah. It's an awesome job, Bella. World's first. It's an awesome job. Okay. Well, it's going to be – that's literally a hard act to follow. Yeah.
 We'll see how we do. Thank you. The rest of the day we'll do important work but not have quite that much fun. Let's move on then to item 205, please. Adopt a new Portland Enterprise Zone and electronic commerce policy to replace existing Portland Enterprise Zone and East Portland Enterprise Zone policies.
 Thank you. Well, as Chris Harder and Andy Reid come up, let me just introduce this. This is an update to our current policy, and I've had the chance to see, again, in person and talking with some companies around the city how this program is working, particularly since it was expanded into East Portland in 2012.
 We've seen companies invest tens of millions of dollars in outer East Portland, companies like Bridgetown Natural Foods, Leatherman Tool, Triad Machinery. And, in fact, we've seen some spectacular new investments like the $50 million dry dock. Let me say that again, $50 million tool that Vigor Industrial bought to expand the capacity of our shipyard.
 So those are the kinds of investments that this program is intended to support, and it does indeed support, and that's why we're here to tune it up and make it work even better for the future. So I'll turn it over to you, Chris, to start the presentation. Thank you both for being here this morning. Thank you. City Commissioners, Mayor Hales, thank you for the opportunity to present today. I'm Chris Harder, Economic Development Director at PDC.
 As you're aware, business development, PDC's work with local companies to provide direct and referral assistance, is the foundation of our economic development strategy. Annually, my team meets with approximately 350 unique traded sector businesses, and local business vitality is key to sustained economic health as well as quality middle-wage jobs.
 As you'll see during our presentation, the city's enterprise zone and e-commerce program is an important tool to encourage private sector investment, job creation, and job retention. It is also key to our ability to ensure strong community benefits.
 This request before you today is to adopt a new updated Portland Enterprise Zone and e-commerce policy. Andy Reid, my colleague, is the Enterprise Zone manager, and he'll walk through recent program benefits and impacts. I'll close with an overview of proposed policy changes, and we also do have an invited guest from one of the participant companies in our Enterprise Zone. Andy? Good morning, Andy. Thank you.
 Mary Hills, Commissioners, thank you for your time. First, I'm going to give you an overview of the Enterprise Zone, how it works. The E-Zone, also known as E-Zone, is a five-year property tax abatement program where firms who are making new capital investment can receive a tax abatement.
 The taxes continue to get paid on existing land and equipment. You'll also notice that e-commerce, we have an e-commerce overlay, which provides a 25% tax credit on state corporate and personal income tax. It's worth noting that the e-commerce overlay has existed since the creation of the most recent zones. Could you explain the...
 electronic commerce a little more, please. So when a company makes an investment in electronic commerce activity, think online procurement. It could be as kind of traditional as Amazon.com, or it could be a back-end system to support sales and service to clients around the globe, the United States, wherever it is. So...
 The idea is when a company makes an investment in e-commerce-related activity, it's bringing in income into the area, and products are moving out via Portland to other parts of the United States and world. Does it get a state tax credit based on the statute? Correct.
 Correct. And just to add to that, so Internet sales channels, not to be confused with necessarily software technology companies. Many of our manufacturers, product companies use the Internet as a sales channel. So sometimes there's a confusion about industry. It's industry agnostic. Okay.
 So we currently have two enterprise zones. The original Portland Enterprise Zone in blue on the map was originally established in 1986. The most recent approval came in 2008. We have the East Portland E-Zone, which you approved in 2012, and we've seen activity increase since that time.
 Combined, the E-Zones cover approximately 20 square miles of industrial and commercial land in Portland.
 I thought it would be helpful to have a refresher of what the program requirements are for participating firms. You'll notice that companies receiving e-zone or e-commerce benefits have job creation retention requirements, along with minimum standards for wages and benefits. Each participating company is required to first sign a first source hiring agreement and submit a local procurement plan. We'll have more on the impacts of these in a minute.
 It's also important to highlight, as Chris mentioned, that we've got lots of different kinds of firms in the E-Zone. On the screen, you'll see the current industry distribution. The program continues to be an important tool for manufacturing and distribution. Sector is critical for middle-wage jobs. Participating companies are also geographically dispersed. With the introduction of the East Portland E-Zone, we've seen increased activity in East Portland, which we believe is very valuable.
 It's worth noting that it's an important tool also for smaller traded sector businesses. Currently, 16 active E-Zone companies have less than 50 employees, approximately one-third of our participating firms. Can I ask, what's the history behind the 150% of minimum wage standard, and what's the justification for that?
 So that's a policy that we've created. I'll look to Andy for the Oregon State statute explanation. But it is a wage requirement, so they're encouraging certain levels of wage. One important thing around that level and kind of why it was selected, it's both
 a high enough level, or it's supposed to be a high enough level to create career pathways for livable wages, but it's also at the right level that many of our entry-level positions are. So particularly in our manufacturing sector, we have entry-level positions, which may be between $12 and $14 an hour. Robin? Robin?
 may be able to provide some insight from her company on that. Many of those positions are the starting point for what we term as career ladder opportunities, which would then pay higher wage. And we have examples of companies kind of starting with entry level, moving to the higher wage. I'll get into it later, but it's also how we focus some of our workforce training dollars to encourage that career ladder.
 Now, I read somewhere that the average wage, and the companies that have taken advantage of this, is something like $25 an hour, right? That's correct. But there's no requirement that the average or median wage should be at a certain level. The only requirement is that you pay 85% of your people at least $13.88 an hour. That's correct. Thank you.
 Is that a state law requirement or is that our policy? So under state law, every jurisdiction, and usually it's sponsored by a city or a county, and those jurisdictions tie the minimum wage requirements to 150% of county wages.
 As you can imagine, in Portland, that would push it significantly higher than in other jurisdictions where wages are lower kind of going in. So I think I looked at this a while ago, and we'd be looking at about $17 to $20 an hour of a minimum if we were tied to that. State statute has allowed Portland to be exempt from that standard, and instead we've put in place this through the policy.
 So that was written into legislative law a number of years ago. So we have, the city has discretion? Under the policy, the city does have discretion. If we want to make it $15 an hour, we could do that? Yeah. Let's not go there today, okay? We do have that discretion. Okay. Yeah. We have parameters set by state law, but we can operate within those. Correct. Right. Okay.
 So to some of the program impacts, and this one being wages, we've been experiencing in the last three to four years right around $25 an hour average wages with another $9 an hour of benefits on top of that for employees in E-Zone companies. Obviously, that's well above the minimum requirements. As Chris alluded to, though, or spoke directly to, we have jobs that are on the lower end and there are jobs on the higher end getting to that average wage.
 In 2013 alone, participating companies reported local procurement of nearly $60 million. And since 2009, companies have created more than 15, close to 1,500 family wage jobs and have invested or committed investment of $700 million. What is the value of the tax break then over time? Sure.
 So on a, and this is just kind of general scenario, it splits out industrial commercial, but on an industrial investment of $1 million, that would create $100,000 of tax liability over five years. So that would be the tax savings, approximately 10% of your investment. And so the total cost, I realize that the assumption is some of these investments would not have been made if not for the tax break, but since this was adopted, what's been the total cost to the city?
 i haven't looked at the numbers recently we could get that for you though i believe total investments about 1.2 billion since or at least well i should say that's since about 2000 2001 i think we could we could get you the answer to that
 So why a policy change and what is new? The primary goal of the proposed policy is to better align the enterprise zone in e-commerce program with PDC's strategic plan, and in particular the draft strategic plan that we've been working with you guys on, which focuses on promoting job accessibility and widely shared prosperity.
 It's also to reinforce the program's ability to provide community benefits. So a couple examples of how this proposed policy does that. We are recommending that the Neighborhood Economic Development Leadership Group serve as our advisory body for the Community Contribution Fund expenditures. I'll get into a bit more on that fund.
 We've strengthened transit and child care support in the program by lowering the company threshold for requiring participation, as well as creating a dedicated fund. So what that means, and it's one of my favorite parts of this, is the company has to pay for transit passes and to provide child care. So there's a lot of additional benefits that the company is required to provide in return for getting this concession. That's correct, and we've lowered the threshold significantly.
 for that from a company's receiving tax abatements used to be $2 million down to $1 million, and then we're requiring every single company to pay into a fund to support transit and child care, whether or not their company qualifies or benefits from that. Thank you.
 So we're no longer, we would no longer be requiring individual companies to provide child care for their employees. Is that correct? Well, our goal through this fund is to first work with a company. One of the challenges we've had is child care is often determined based on medium family income. That can be a very hard or difficult number to get. Employers don't always know the
 median family income of their employees. So by having companies pay in, if we can have a third party verify for that and work with a company, we'd like to do that directly. If not, we have resources to partner in the community with the organizations where this is their expertise, and particularly those focusing on lower income. So it allows us a bit of that flexibility. Yeah.
 It was my understanding that what we're doing today was replacing the company-specific child care requirements with one that requires every company to contribute 5% of their tax break to child care transit. Is that right? That's correct, yes. So do we have any idea what percentage of the child care costs of –
 employees in these companies would be covered by that portion of a 5% dedication? The policy doesn't specifically get into what percent needs to go to what. As we've contemplated it, we expect that if you look at the 5%, half of it's going to go to transit, half's going to go to childcare, unless there are specific reasons why transit would be more valuable for the company or childcare. Okay.
 The specific requirement around childcare was difficult because it had a threshold of 50% of MFI. And so we, in doing our kind of administering of the program for years, haven't had a single company actually trigger that requirement. So this is a big shift in that we now are going to require every company that realizes more than a million in tax savings to contribute to something.
 How many companies have gotten more than a million in tax savings? And, like, in addition to that, of the total amount of tax breaks we've given out, how much has gone to companies getting over a million and how much less than a million? Off the top of my head, I'd say approximately 10% are over the $2 million threshold right now. Over a million, 25% to 30%. We can get you exact numbers on that soon. Okay.
 As interesting as it happened, I visited two companies the last couple of weeks that were in the Central East Side and typical of the smaller firms that would be using this program. And one of them was almost all, if not entirely, women. And the other one was almost all, if not entirely, 25-year-old men, it seemed like. So I assume that there might be a difference in those companies as to whether there was given
 Given the age and demographics of the workforce and whether they're transit or child care, it was more needed because most of the young men were single. That was my question. It wasn't just gender. It was status. So I assume that flexibility is going to allow the right benefit for the right company depending on what their employees actually need. That's correct.
 A couple more items. We intend to link the Enterprise Zone e-commerce program more explicitly to PDC's equity policy. Specifically, Enterprise Zone projects will adhere to PDC's updated MWESB contracting and apprenticeship requirements. And finally, we are requiring that companies utilizing the e-commerce overlay also contribute to the Community Contribution Fund. Currently, they are exempt. Thank you.
 In addition, the policy has several administrative and technical improvements, such as Andy mentioned. We actually have two policies, one for each of the existing enterprise zones. We're bringing that into one unified policy. We're updating language to better reflect the direction of PDC's strategic plan around widely shared prosperity inclusion, as well as updating terminology that's about 20 years old since the last time we did this.
 As referenced on the previous slide, a key component of the program is our Community Contributions Fund. All participating companies pay 15% to 20% of their tax abatement or tax credit into the fund to support local workforce training and business development. The Neighborhood Economic Development Leadership Group will advise PDC on expenditures of this fund.
 Forecast expenditure over the next five years include the following. In partnership with WSI, we will continue supporting workforce training for pre-hires, new hires, and incumbent workers. Stronger emphasis on career ladder opportunities, as I previously mentioned, and promoting underrepresented populations.
 We intend to provide resources to expand PDC's inclusive entrepreneurship efforts, startup support around mentoring, access to capital and industry networking for entrepreneurs from underrepresented populations, primarily women and communities of color.
 Our NPI and Main Streets have accessed these funds, and traditionally those have been used for organizational capacity building, training of staff and board, as well as equity training. We anticipate similar expenditures going forward. And funds will be used to supplement technical assistance by providing access to small business facilities
 resources such as the Small Business Legal Clinic, Microenterprise Service of Oregon's MarketLink program, PCC's Small Business Development Center Scholarship Program, and the Metropolitan Family Services Credit Repair Program. First of all, thank you for an excellent presentation. I have a couple of questions.
 The first is, so the E's, what's the, remind us again, the duration of the E zone is? Five years. Five years. So a company makes a number of commitments during those five years. Then what happens after the five years with respect to some of these goals that we've established?
 After the five-year mark, we've finished our reporting with the state of Oregon and local compliance, and they graduate and all may go. We don't do any more reporting or requirements beyond that point. We don't have a direct involvement there. Obviously, then their tax is no longer in abatement.
 And, you know, one of the things that sometimes comes up with these kinds of programs is, you know, being sure that we get the full benefit that we bargained for. So how are we doing in regards to companies that are impacted by the E-Zone meeting or exceeding the required goals?
 Yes. So when we experienced a recession, there were a handful of companies that struggled. There are mechanisms in the local policy and also in state statute that when a company doesn't meet those requirements, there are paybacks of taxes or a full disqualification potentially. So if they let everybody go, then they lose their tax abatement. There's a five-year potential clawback. If that happens in the fifth year, they have to pay all the taxes back.
 So for the companies that have failed at those levels, we've probably had maybe three or four or five in the last three or four years. We've used state statute to make sure that the benefits or the taxes were paid back. I manage that along with the tax assessor's office in Business Oregon. We all do compliance together.
 And beyond those, everybody else has been fine. And is there an annual report that memorializes that that you publish? Yes. So we have that data, and at any point we can come back and do an annual report on that information. You see a number of the numbers here from our most recent one. We're wrapping up our 2014 reporting here shortly. Okay.
 It might be good to distribute that to the council. Absolutely. Please. Yeah, and the reason I ask these questions is the council last year was, as you know, involved in discussion about helping to lure a major athletic company, apparel company, to the South Waterfront. And one of the things that we discussed was the E-Zone. And it sparked an interesting discussion.
 more public discussion about the benefits of an E-Zone and are we getting enough in return and the like. So I think having a way to document that on a more regular basis and publish those results is helpful because I think
 As with any of these programs, there's some skepticism out there about whether they meet their goals. And if we've got a good story to tell, I would hope we do that and also share it with the council. As Andy mentioned, we can certainly share the official annual reporting on this. PDC in their annual report.
 some of the higher level metrics and anecdotal of that as well. So there's two mechanisms for that, and we can distribute that. Thank you very much. Other questions for Chris and Andy? We also have Robin Dady from McKenna Metals here. Actually, I just want you to restate the difference between what we do here and what most other places do. I think you said that in most counties in Oregon the requirement to get this tax break is you pay 150% of the average wage in the county? That's correct.
 So that's accurate. But the other thing about the Portland Enterprise Zone program is we have the most stringent, highest level of benefits required of any of the 67 enterprise zones in the state of Oregon. So we ask the most of the E-Zone companies of all of them. In terms of benefits? Benefits in general. Yeah. In terms of benefits, was there any thought to reevaluating the benefits requirement in light of the Affordable Care Act?
 So that could be something that we'll need to revisit where we look at the benefits requirements. We haven't spent any time yet on that yet, though. Yeah, good point, though. Good point. There are a couple of things, I think, at work that might cause us to reevaluate some of these, how to retune this for the next phase. Great. Thank you both. Robin, please come up and join them. Good morning. Good morning. So I joined McKenna Metal as their controller a year ago.
 and they've had a great story. McKenna Metal does custom metal fabrication, and they do work for a number of retail design firms that ultimately work for companies like Nike. So predominant...
 Portion of our business is around retail display. We also did stuff like rip City sign and other sports signs So we've had a great story for being a small company and they open shop on Northwest Nikolai right off the Fremont Bridge in 2008 with only a couple employees and by Middle of last year. We were right around 20 employees. So we've had steady growth during a time where the economy was a
 Definitely hurting. So it's been a good story, but we want to continue to grow. And part of continuing to grow means we need programs like E-Zone, which we signed up for last year, to help us so that we can continue to hold on to enough cash to allow us to invest in more equipment that we need for the type of custom fabrication we do.
 Most of the machinery we use is very expensive. So our laser cutters and our machines that bend metal are well over $100,000 a piece. So in order to continue to grow, we need to be able to invest back in our business. And more importantly, through programs like E-Zone, it allows us to get some training funds to help us continue to train our employees. So as we grow, they can continue to grow with us.
 our line of work because it is custom fabrication it takes a higher level of skills to really understand metal and fabricating metal so anytime we can bring on individuals maybe at a general labor position entry-level position and give them the ability to grow with us last year alone we promoted three employees um and and two of which are now metal fabricators it just helps not only us but it helps employees and it helps the economy as we continue to grow
 Thank you. Questions for Robin as well. Thank you all very much for the presentation. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Charles Johnson signed up. Thank you all. Robin, thanks for coming. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I was very glad that at the end we got one MWU
 SEB, whatever it is, on the record. And I want you to think about your constituents and about all the constituents that were here last week and look around on your desks there and find your equity lens because we don't want a bunch of people of color working for Portland Mall Management and Central City Concern and Clean and Safe sweeping around buildings full of
 white 25-year-old males without children doing e-commerce. So I'm very pleased with the standards that are in here as far as... And especially Dan Saltzman's suggestion that nobody connected to any of these programs should be making less than $15 an hour. But we need to do better at making that connection downtown. I don't know how many square feet Portland Community College rents or owns a few blocks from here. Is my mic on? But...
 This is not just about economic opportunity for a few clever capitalists who can read the tax crediting code, but we need to really make sure that this connects to what we were talking about before when the Arts Council was here and their excellent equity statement, and about STEAM, science, technology, education, arts, and math, because the woman who just spoke, her business is engaged in graphic art and design, so it's not just about geeks. It's also about artists.
 And I hope that you'll keep a close eye on the PDC as the staff diversifies there, and we'll be able to turn this into not just economic activity but multicultural activity. Thank you very much. Thanks. Anyone else? Council questions? So, yeah, Mr. Mayor, I do feel that we should make this a $15 an hour requirement for 85% of the employees after one year of employment. So I would offer...
 A further resolve to the resolution to say that we would change Exhibit A to read 85% of basic wages must exceed $15 an hour after one year of employment. Okay, so that's a motion. Is there a second? Second.
 So, Dan, I won't support that now, but I am interested in looking at the question of wages. I don't think we should do it on the fly, but I think we also have to look at the whole package that we're requiring of these employers. It's not just...
 the wages it's also a huge commitment to benefits but i think it's a fair question given the direction that we as a council have on the wage issue that we should try to be both aggressive and consistent
 in a good economy of trying to raise wages. But, again, what the total package that we're requiring from these employers in order to get these benefits is pretty significant. So I don't want to blow past that in our interest in the wage issue. So my request would be that we not support your amendment today, though we'll take a vote on it here momentarily. I would just say that, you know, we –
 We're offering substantial benefits, both in terms of property tax abatements and income tax credits. And I do appreciate the richness of the requirements on the employers of these packages, and I appreciate the work you have done and the PDC has done. But the current policy of 85% earning $13.50 after one year, I mean, $15 an hour,
 I think is not that much more. And I think, you know, I would hazard to guess that many of these employees, the McKenna Metals are easily exceeding $15 an hour with the skills that they have. And I think it's consistent with the policy discussion we had last week that we try to, you know, increase, bump it up every time we get a chance. And this seems like, to me, a fair part of this package. And I would urge a yes vote. Commissioner, I just wanted to say that I –
 I agree with your instinct. I also think the mayor might have a fair point that we maybe shouldn't do this on the fly. I...
 I wasn't really aware of this program until a few days ago. And the modifications that are being made to the program today strike me as reasonable modifications. But I do have a concern about the wage levels. And in fact, I mean, I was, until my staff talked me out of it yesterday pointing out we shouldn't do this on the fly, I was inclined to come forward today with an amendment saying that the median wage has to be $25 an hour and 85% have to make at least $18.
 I think we are talking about a pretty big tax break, and I tend to be skeptical of tax breaks for economic development to begin with. However, if we were talking about a tax break for companies that pay $25 an hour to provide child care, those sound like pretty darn good companies to have in town. But what we have here is a policy where, on its face –
 you could pay 85% of your employees exactly $14 an hour and 15% less than that and still get a tax break. And as you just said, I think that that probably applies to zero of the companies actually taking advantage of it, but on its face, that could be the result.
 So I would suggest that even if we don't approve your amendment today, we take a look at this over the next couple of months. And I would like to have a discussion with the PDC and hear more of the justification for a program which results in our actually requiring arguably less of our employers in terms of wages than other counties do. But I would suggest that regardless of what we do today, we look at this in some more depth over the next couple of months. Thank you.
 and mayor let me just add one comment um i agree with i appreciate dan raising the issue i agree with your mayor with your view on this um but actually if we're going to start looking at the myriad ways in which we subsidize incentivize or otherwise encourage activity i'd like to start with having a comprehensive understanding of all those programs i suspect that
 The majority of them actually are administered through the Housing Bureau, but I'd like to understand the range of them and then understand our legal authority to set those kinds of requirements and then what the impact would be on the people that we are contracting with. And I'd like to have all that information before I start doing it as a series of one-offs. Thank you.
 all right further discussion on the motion no one stick roll call on the motion then we'll move on to the resolution itself fritz so the resolution that we passed last week was not binding city policy and that was one reason that i supported it in looking at it since then it's very clear that we've made some significant
 errors in adopting that resolution last week and that we need to look very carefully and figure out how much is this going to Cost and how is it going to affect low-income workers what we did last week? Is quite likely to have the effects of reducing hours for low-income workers? So they not only will not be getting $15 an hour, but they also will not be having full-time work anymore and
 And so we need to revisit what we did last week. We should not be making changes on something which is binding city policy with absolutely no investigation as to the potential impacts on the companies, on the program, and on the balance sheet. So I can't support this amendment, no. Fish? No. Saltzman? No.
 Well, I'm quite convinced that no company would walk away from this program, which is quite generous in terms of property tax abatements and income tax credits, for a modest increase in the minimum wage required after one year of employment for 85% of the employees of $15 an hour. That's a modest increase from $13.50. And I also believe many of these companies, being highly skilled as they are, are already exceeding that. But I think it's good that we search out opportunities,
 on the fly or not to make sure that we are paying living wages or that these companies are paying living wages and $15 an hour, you know, barely meets that requirement of living wage, but it is better than the present requirement. So I vote aye.
 No, Vic? I take Commissioner Fritz's implied point that we as a city don't pay all of our employees $15 an hour, but that's something that I feel guilty about and I think we all do. It's not something that we want to be patted on the back for. And the idea that we've got a policy that gives a rather large tax break to companies that might pay $15
 A significant portion of their workforce actually could pay all of their workforce less than $15 an hour. It's something that I have a hard time contemplating. And again, I think that we should have a more comprehensive look at this policy later on. But based with Commissioner Saltzman's motion, I think that I can't imagine not voting aye. Aye.
 Well, Commissioner Saltsman, I appreciate you raising this issue and I'm going to vote no on the motion, but that doesn't mean that I just want to sweep this issue away. We are going to be getting the final version of that PDC strategic plan in front of us within a couple months.
 As you may remember, I said when we started that strategic planning process that I think PDC has to have three missions. One is to build the city, the second is to create jobs, and the third is to share prosperity. I do believe that we should try to use the situation of this economy to create a race to the middle.
 instead of a race to the bottom. So I think we all share that value, and I'm very interested in digging into some of the details of how this might work if we were to raise the wage requirement in addition to the benefits requirements.
 I want to understand a little better the diversity of the employment that we're talking about. I've seen some of these companies. I was at Leatherman Tool last week, and it's just shocking when you look out on the floor there on two levels. One is the amazing amount of capital investment that they're pouring into that company in terms of robotics and equipment.
 And then two is the diversity of the workforce. And in Bridgetown Natural Foods, same thing, very high-tech company that's creating contract manufacturing granola bars and such, they're being
 Their biggest problem on the floor of that business is communication because they have so many different languages spoken that if the wrong lead worker is not there that day, there's a crew that the boss has a hard time communicating with. And they're growing. They've gone from, what, 25 employees to 245 in five years. So you know, this program appears to be part of a successful set of strategies that's
 that's creating high-value manufacturing employment or craft employment like McKenna Metals here. So I like what we've got going on. I don't think it's a giveaway. And, in fact, in most cases, it's local businesses rather than national corporations that are benefiting from this. So I think properly tuned, this is an incentive that fits our values. But I am interested in the wage issue. I'm glad you've raised it.
 I've got my commitment that we'll spend that time looking at that issue some more between now and when the final version of the PDC strategic plan comes back to us, I think in June or July. So not that long from now. But for now, I'll say no to your motion. But more later.
 Okay, now let's take a roll call on the resolution itself, please. Fritz? I believe the enterprise zones are one of the best economic development tools that we have as a city. I'm very appreciative of the report, and thank you for being here to testify, Robin. I'm glad your business is doing so well, and very happy to support these changes. I believe it will make it even better. Aye. Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Thank you, PBC, and thank you, Robin, for being here. And I appreciate these changes and congratulations.
 They're in a good direction, and I appreciate the mayor's commitment to take a look at this $15 an hour issue as we come back to the PDC strategy. Yeah, strategic plan. Strategic plan. Aye. Aye.
 Novick. Aye. Hales. Yeah, it's really interesting to see this growth in the manufacturing and craft sector in the city. I mean, part of that conventional wisdom that's wrong, you know, that all the prosperity was going to the suburbs. Well, part of the conventional wisdom that's wrong is that all –
 high-value manufacturing is moving overseas. I mean, we sometimes fall victim to this caricature picture of Portland. There's all software and restaurants, and they're great, but there's a huge amount of high-value handwork that's done in our city, and Robin's business is one of them. And the more I see of that and the more I see of its growth,
 the more optimistic I am that we're in a good place. So it's programs like this that hopefully will help us build on that strength in a time of, I think, longer-term economic growth, not a bubble but a trend. So this is a great tool. It's being used well. I appreciate the staff at PDC for the work you do and look forward to returning to this discussion soon. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, well done. Thank you. Let's move on to the item that we pulled from consent, which is 209. Well let's wait on that unless Anna's, I think Anna needs to come here for that. Oh, we do have something.
 Yes, 209. Please read me about 209. Ratify a letter of agreement between the City on behalf of the Bureau of Development Services and the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Local 189, that authorizes employees in the Housing Inspector and Senior Housing Inspector classifications retroactive wage increases. Morning, John. Welcome. So explain the amendment to us, please.
 So basically this is to partially correct a historical salary issue with the inspector classification. At one time, housing and senior housing inspectors were an ONI. During that time, the inspector classifications in BDS received a 6 and 6.5% wage increase. This was about 10 years ago.
 And the housing inspectors in Oney didn't. So now the housing inspectors have been moved to BDS, and so they're working side-by-side other inspectors who make more than them. And so we've corrected the issue in the most recent DCTU bargaining to get their wages corrected, but this will kind of help correct some of the historical issues that were created because of that, the inspectors being in separate bureaus. Does that make sense? Sorry. Yeah.
 Okay. Questions? Mayor, I believe we need to move to correct the ordinance. Yes. So we will need a motion to correct Section 1, Item 3 as follows. Effective July 1, 2004, employees who worked at the Bureau of Development Services in BDS, inspector...
 classifications received a 6% across the board wage increase and employees in the BDS senior inspector classifications received a six and a half percent across the board wage increase so moved second any further discussion on the amendment Roll call on the amendment, please Fritz it's just correcting the language in the ordinance and it Now says what was just said in front everybody. I fish I I
 Schultzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. And does anyone want to speak on this item? Do we have a second motion, Mayor? Do we have a second? Oh, I'm sorry, you're right. There it is. Yep, there is a second motion. It just wasn't highlighted on mine. So the second motion is as follows. Moved to correct Section 1, Item 5 as follows. Sometime after the July 1, 2004, 6% and 6.5% across the board wage increases received by employees who worked at BDS, the employees appointed to the Housing Inspector and Senior Housing Inspector classifications at
 at the Office of Neighborhood Involvement were transferred back to BDS. However, the employees who transferred from ONI did not receive the 6% and 6.5% across the board wage increase that the employees at BDS had received effective July 1, 2004. So moved. Second. Any discussion? Roll call on that amendment, please. Fritz. And again, it just corrects the language. Aye. Fish. Aye. Seltsman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye.
 You've got to be kidding. I do think it's important that this item gets spoken about because with BDS, we have an agency which perhaps has a more flexible budget because I believe that fees and permitting flow through that office. And I really don't see any reason why there should have been any disparity in the first place. I don't think we want to have cash cow bureaus...
 with employees getting better wages than more years with more restricted revenue like parks and ONI. So I would appreciate any comment from staff or council that that issue could possibly be touched on. I think this was a glitch, not being cheap on the city's part. To use a technical term. Okay, any further discussion, then roll call on ratifying the letter of agreement.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Thank you, John. Aye. Okay, let's move on to regular calendar item 215.
 apply for and accept a grant in the amount of $25,000 from the Oregon Department of Transportation and appropriate $22,000 for reimbursement for the fiscal year 2015 Motor Officer Training Program. Great. And why don't you go ahead and read 216 while you're at it, please.
 to 16 apply for and accept a grant in the amount of $37,500 from the Oregon Department of Transportation and appropriate $30,000 for overtime reimbursement for the fiscal year 2015 Multnomah County Dewey Intensive Supervision Program. Great. Sergeant Volpel, Officer Balzer, welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning, sir. My name is Robert Volpel. I'm a police sergeant, traffic division. We've got a grant from the state of Oregon, ODOT, for motorcycle training. I'm a motorcycle training sergeant, and this is Officer Balzer. He's our lead instructor for the motorcycle training division. And we currently have 28 motorcycle operators in Portland.
 Part of this grant is training outside agencies as well. So it's a regional training, and it's specifically for scenario-based training, simunitions, things like that, where you're training real-world situations other than riding the motorcycle, but actually riding the motorcycle and making decisions on use of force. So it falls in very, very well with the Department of Justice agreement, and it also falls in with the chiefs.
 plan to incorporate other agencies in with our own agency. And it's really vital that we have this just so we can have that extra cushion so when we have large-scale events, motorcades, things of that nature, we actually rely upon our outside agency partners to work the events. Okay.
 So will this training effort involve our officers and other agencies like State Police and Beaverton and so on? State Police doesn't currently have motor operators. I just talked to a lieutenant yesterday, or not yesterday, this last week, that they will be getting their motor unit back once they get up to better staffing. But Beaverton, we work with Beaverton Hills.
 uh hillsborough washington county clackamas county uh blessed motorcade training we had in last october we had 12 agencies and 75 motor operators there we try to do this on a regular basis and this is just a way we can like put real world real world training into our curriculum can i um can i ask you a technical question absolutely uh my daughter goes to college in los angeles and um
 California law allows motorcycles to go between cars on the highway. Not police motorcycles, but everybody else, right? I don't know. They do. And our position is that's very problematic. Well, I can say as a visitor to Los Angeles, it's very problematic too because there's very little spacing and motorcycles are at a high speed going down. Is that allowed in Oregon? It is not.
 The speeds are supposed to be kept under... That may be news to some of our friends from California visiting in a motorcycle. It is not legal in Oregon. There's a number of... I think there's four on the items this year, trying to get some legalization of that. Why is that allowed, by the way? It just seems so counterintuitive to create another hazard like that. That's our opinion, too. And maybe Officer Balzer can speak to this a little more, but it's...
 more mass down there. There's more traffic congestion down there. A lot of people ride the two-wheel vehicles so that they can do that and get to work and get places quicker. I don't see the value in it. I think I could answer Commissioner Fish's question in a different way, which is having...
 accidentally been in the same hearing room as a hearing on motorcycle helmets being required in the state of Oregon I can tell you that what drives interest in this issue from some is not a rational calculation like the one you just articulated but an emotional idea of riding your motorcycle on the open road which might happen to include all of us in it
 It's that wind in your hair, 65 mile an hour experience that some folks are dreaming of, even if the rest of us are in their way. I continually tell myself I have the best job in the world. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Other questions for our team? Okay. Then let's take ‑‑ anyone else want to speak on this item? Let's take a roll call on 215. Fish? Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. And then the other grant, 216, is for Dewey training.
 It's DUI Intensive Supervision Program, and Officer Balzer will address this. Good morning, Your Honor. My name is Bill Balzer, and I do manage that program for the Police Bureau. It's in partnership with DISP, and I have John Dieter here. He's the director of the program. We work together with this. We have for several years now. This is just an addition to it for this year's grant.
 Essentially, and John, go ahead and jump in if I missed something, but it's a DUI treatment court program for multiple DUI offenders. What our goal and role is on it is to
 have these recidivism rates go down for continually offending DUI drivers. And it's getting them into a program to see why they're doing this. So one, so they don't continue doing it and breaking the law. But the main thing is so that they don't endanger or hurt themselves or someone else in the community.
 And it's a voluntary program that all these clients go into. It's not forced upon them. They pay it themselves. Our role in it is working with the DIS program is that we then go do warrants and home visits. In the past, we've mainly done home visits or warrants. We've changed now, and we're seeing a benefit as home visits.
 And the benefit to this is we get a Portland police officer that goes to someone's house and knocks on a door, and instead of arresting him, we're going in and saying, how are things going for you? How is this program working? What do you need? What's working? What isn't working? And then we go to weekly meetings with the staff.
 with the judges, the treatment providers, the caseworkers, and we can work together. Sometimes they'll tell us stuff, the clients will, that they're not telling them, and we can work together, and the goal is to make the whole program more successful. That's great. Anything to add to that? No, I think Officer Balzer got it right. We're a DUII treatment court. We're forcing people to have three years of intensive supervision and exposure to treatment, and it's been working really well.
 That's great. Great. Thank you. Any questions? Thank you all very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Then we'll take a roll call on that ordinance as well. Fritz? Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 A couple of years ago, I picked up a book called When Brute Force Fails, How to Have Less Crime and Less Punishment by a guy named Mark Kleinman. And one of the things he pounds home is that intensive supervision and treatment as an alternative to an emphasis on longer terms of incarceration are the way to go. So I really appreciate your description of what you're doing. Thank you. All right.
 Yeah, I hope to see more of this kind of effort under the whole Justice Reinvestment Act idea that we ought to be doing just that, investing in these kinds of intensive supervision efforts for a number of kinds of offenses where it's sort of a compulsive behavior problem on the part of the offender. And, you know, putting them in jail doesn't seem to accomplish very much other than getting them off the streets for a little while. So I really like what you're doing and very happy to have this before us today. Thank you for your work. Hi. Hi.
 Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Let's move on to 217. Authorize the city attorney to institute legal proceedings against Pabst Brewing Company to recover damages from Portland, Oregon trade sign trademark violations and enjoin future unauthorized use. Because it appears that we have a settlement in this item, I'm going to, without objection, return it to my office. And there it goes. 218.
 establish the Commission on Equitable Contracting and Purchasing to increase utilization of minorities and women-owned businesses in city contracting and in the workforce on city-funded projects. Mayor, this is a second reading, so it's going to go to both. Who is the likely staff person on your team who will be assembling this? Josh Halpert.
 And so Josh will be sending out an email soliciting nominations or just ideas? Yes. We'll be contacting each of your offices and asking you for nominations for this. Thank you. Any other questions? Then roll call, please. Fritz?
 Well, thanks to Mr. James Posey for his long-time work on this, also to the collaborators at Portland State University, Office of Management and Finance, and particularly Procurement Services. I know that we're all very committed to the goals that this commission will oversee. I also want to thank NAMCO, Andrew Kolos, all the folks who have been working on this issue, and especially you, Mayor Hales, for bringing this forward. Aye. Saltzman. Aye.
 Thanks, Mayor Hales, for bringing this idea forward. I look forward to helping you find some point to use to this, and let's hope it's effective. Aye. No, thank you. Aye. Hales. Thank you all. I think this is an opportunity for us to really make a difference on this, not do a Groundhog Day procedure where we adopt an intention and then never actually see change. So I think these folks can help us get to actual change. I look forward to doing that with you. Aye. Okay. 218.
 Sorry, 219. Amend intergovernmental agreement with TriMet for additional time only to reimburse federal grant funds for the Portland Streetcar Loop project. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, I will turn to Kyle Chizik to describe this highly technical amendment. Kyle Chizik, Bureau of Transportation. It's a fairly minor amendment. We're extending the...
 agreement with TriMet for distribution of federal funds for the streetcar loop project. We're doing this because we're required to do a before and after study of transit operations to make sure that the project has been effective. And we're also including in that before and after study an economic analysis on the absorbing of development and growth in ridership.
 So there is no change in budget allocations. It's just an extension of time for this work to be concluded. And I can answer any questions you have. Okay.
 Questions? Kyle, are you not going to shave until the Red Sox win a championship again? You know, my daughter won't let me shave. It actually gets itchy in the summer. It's more important than the Red Sox. Is that your daughter? She's nine. Yeah. Well, I'll share some secrets of dealing with opinionated children later offline. Oh, yeah. Good luck with that. I appreciate it. Good luck with that. As a parent of a daughter or two, I can tell you, you're not going to win. Okay. Any other questions for Kyle? Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then roll call, please. Fritz?
 I think occasionally it's good to get nine-year-old daughters win, especially on something like hair. Thank you for your work. Aye. Bish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Thanks, Gal. Aye. Hales. Looking forward to the loop being open and that being the aster. Aye. Okay. Two-twenty.
 Grant Bureau of Transportation regulatory program designated employees authority to issue civil penalties in the enforcement of private for hire Transportation and other regulations under their jurisdiction Mr. Novick director treat mr. Jacobs take it away. Oh, thank you I
 Good afternoon, commissioners. Thank you for having us here today. Leah Treat, director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. The ordinance that's before you today is codifying existing authority that currently exists with our private for hire employees. So when the private for hire board, I mean board, the...
 Employees, the regulatory division transferred over to PBOT. Their job classifications allow them to carry badges and issue civil penalties, but it's not codified in the law. So as we did the move, we were looking at things that needed to be cleaned up, and this is one of them. This is simply an administrative measure to codify in law what's existing in class spec. Okay.
 So just to be clear, Director Treat, it doesn't expand or contract the pre-existing authority. It just cures a glitch that occurred when the employees were transferred over and they did not have existing statutory authority to do what they were doing previously. I believe they, yes, correct. Yes, that's correct. It's not expanding or contracting anything. Thank you. Yeah. Questions? Anyone want to add anything? Anything further? Okay. Okay.
 Thank you very much. That was quick. Thanks very much. Does anyone want to speak on this ordinance? If not, then it moves on to second reading. Thank you very much. And final item for this morning, 221.
 Vacate a portion of Southwest Moody Avenue north of Ross Island Bridge, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Second reading roll call. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. We're recessed until 2 p.m. Council, please come back to order. Would you call the roll, Carla? Fritz? Aye.
 i am here over the lunch break i went to the daily journal of commerce newsmakers awards because the bureau of development services got an award for their work over the course of the recession and during the recovery and it was very nice yeah that's great you're here fish here saltzman novick here hales here okay would you please read the time certain item 222. portland streetcar annual report commissioner novick
 So we have the dream team here. Mark, Levine, get to it. Introduction. Welcome. If I may, Mayor and Commissioners, my name is Catherine Levine. I'm with Portland Transportation. Thank you.
 Last April, the first ever audit of the Portland Streetcar Business Unit was conducted and one of the highlights was that we needed to do a better job of communicating fully about the streetcar. Not only to the public and our customers, but also to Council. As part of that, we're here today with an annual report on Portland Streetcar.
 While the Bureau does bring its annual budget to the Council each year, most of the actions brought to you have been related to capital funding and expansion, the streetcar system concept plan, contract amendments, and grant applications.
 In short, I was looking at the library of actions over the years, and I think Portland Streetcar has come before Council on over 100 different occasions. Again, they're very specific items, and today, though, is the first time, to my knowledge, that a report is being given to Council on the status of Portland Streetcar operations, and the report is not connected to an ordinance or request of Council.
 So we'll be here to address questions and hopefully provide you with a good overview of the current business unit. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for this opportunity. I'm Jim Mark. I'm chair of the Portland Streetcar Commissioners Mayor. It's a great pleasure to be able to come to you today. As Catherine sort of outlined, this is an opportunity to talk about not just the plans and process, but a report of how we're doing.
 And as many of you know, this has been a big transition year for us. We hired Dan Bauer about nine months ago, ten months ago, and it was part of a report I think that we have had before through Commissioner Novick of turning the operations from predominantly an outside contractor to all inside.
 And Dan's accomplished a lot over the last nine months. As was mentioned, we went through an audit. We went through different processes. He's also hired all the processes in-house now. We're using very little outside contractors, and that's something he's done in just nine short months.
 The board, we've reconstituted a lot of the board over the last two years, and I'm sort of pleased to report, I am pleased to report, that we continue to diversify the board from people in the community and different disciplines. We have a couple people that we brought into the board that have a transportation background, which was sort of sorely lacking in the previous board. We also have a strong participation every month in our monthly board meetings,
 of nearly 75% of the board showing up every month. So that's an excellent part of it.
 It's also an exciting year because we've got the loop coming up, and the focus is getting that loop up and operating. So when the Tillicum Bridge opens up in September, that's something that's been anticipated from both the west side and the east side part of the streetcar. It'll end up increasing the efficiency, we hope, through the process. It'll make it more connective through, and hopefully the headways, as Dan will talk about in a little bit, will increase too.
 Also, Dan and I plan on attending the National Streetcar Coalition annual meeting. And we're hearing the progress. Of course, Portland really leads the way in streetcar, but we're hearing from Salt Lake, Tucson, Washington, D.C., Milwaukee, Dallas, and Atlanta. And all of them, you know, they've either opened streetcar lines up or they will open up streetcar lines.
 So with that, thank you again for having me here today, and I'll turn it over to Dan to give a more complete report. Dan Rodenburg Thanks, Jim. I just want to start by saying I've been on this job for nine months, and I've had a great pleasure of working with Catherine Levine, who I would like to say that PBOT is very well represented with her professionalism. So thank you. This is a relatively quick presentation. If you guys have questions at any point, feel free to jump in. I think there will be plenty of time at the end as well.
 I'd like to start any presentation about Portland Streetcar in our community with a reminder about how much work it took to actually build this system. This did not happen overnight. And we have literally dozens of visitors a year that come through Portland. They look at our system. They fall in love with it. They go back home. They try and work on it. And they realize it's much harder than they think. This is the result of dozens and dozens, now maybe hundreds, of council actions and council decisions over a 30-year span.
 And you can see here the system has expanded all the way from its original line to where it's going to be next year with the full loop operations. So we're going to have trains running between South Waterfront and the Pearl District every seven minutes and trains on the other portions of the alignment going every 15 minutes. And this will be great. This is going to serve a whole new trip. That trip from Lloyd Center to South Waterfront is not one you can make today by car or by transit. So this will be a really exciting opportunity. Thank you.
 This slide just gives you a sense about how much Portland Streetcar has grown over the time. I think probably the most interesting thing that Jim just pointed out is the last one, which is now we're not alone. And so when I have questions about how streetcars are operating in other cities, I can pick up the phone and call them and ask them how it's going there. And I do this all the time because there's only so much expertise in this country. But as you can see, the system has really grown quite a bit.
 Some quick highlights from last year. We've spent a lot of our time focusing on getting the tools and equipment we need to run the loop operation. So that entails getting our 17th three-car from our sixth from Oregon Ironworks back in November. We worked on the Jasmine double track project on 4th and Southwest Montgomery, and I understand that that came in quite under budget, and PBOT will be returning money to the general fund as a result. Could you repeat that, please? Okay.
 Pretty good news. Seriously, repeat it. That's great. And how much money will we be returning to the general fund? $230,000. Nice. Our project manager, Chris Arms, and her team did a very good job of managing that and bringing it in right around $3.5 million under budget. Commissioner Fritz, could you express that in number of Buckman pools? Not offensive. This is my kind of presentation. All right, good. Thank you.
 so the jasmine block was very important for us to be able to run two trains side by side through that block is it's absolutely critical to running the loop operation
 Back in January, this is a 2014-ish presentation. Back in January of 2015, we ran our first streetcar over the Tillicum Crossing. Very exciting, and I think people are going to really enjoy that service. We also had two mobile music festivals on the streetcar, which are great. If you guys have not attended, I welcome you. I think there's going to be one in May where we invite bands. I saw you guys had the opera here earlier today. We had the opera on the streetcar. They were absolutely fantastic. So look for that again in May. Okay.
 We also had some newsmakers this year. We had a couple of pretty significant events that garnered quite a bit of media attention. Back in August, we had a major derailment on Burnside where a person's van lost its brakes.
 and hit the streetcar. It took us about four hours to get the streetcar back on, and I got an email the next day from a person who was standing at that street corner and thanked us for having such reliable service because if the streetcar hadn't been there, that van would have jumped up on the curb and hit them. So it's an interesting anecdote there. Obviously, back in September, we had a really unfortunate incident with a dog attack on Portland Streetcar. Mayor, you and I kind of thrashed around on this a little bit about lessons learned and what we can do, and part of this, to me...
 These are issues that come up when you have a growing transit agency, and that's really what we are. We're going from having five streetcars to 17, having 12 operators to 54, 55 next year. We're starting to experience some of these challenges that go along with the growing system. We're out there running with a lot of exposure every day. We get nicks and bruises and we get some pretty major issues just like these.
 As Jim mentioned, we had a couple new streetcar lines open this year. And what's important about that for Portland is every time somebody opens a line or makes a council decision about this, the first thing they do is call us.
 and ask for a comment or question or some comparison to Portland's system. Because every one of these cities has been through here looking at our system and has tried to build their system with the best parts of ours. So we get quite a bit of media in other cities. I just spent the last week, I spent a whole day with Milwaukee, Wisconsin's ABC channel, walked around the entire town, and that was all prior to their council vote, which put a new streetcar line in Milwaukee. Okay.
 We also had two audits last year. One came out in April, no, May, and the subject of that was the structure of Portland Streetcar, and the second audit that came out in December had more to do with performance metrics. And then just recently there was a report that came out from the Mineta Institute, which is an independent group that looks at transportation issues
 And the conclusion they reached I think is kind of interesting, which is they conclude that all cities are benefiting from the economic development portions of streetcar. But Portland stands alone in its ability to actually benefit from the transportation benefits of Portland streetcar. Our ridership and our performance measures on the transportation side far exceed anybody else's. So both the audit and the Moneta Institute report really focused on performance metrics. And obviously these got a lot of attention during the audit recently.
 These are things that I absolutely welcome. I thought the audit process was very good and transparent, and I thought that they published a lot of the ideas that we had. So it was nice to read that report. This is also something I've been digging into since I started back in April, and I have to say that having gone through all of our performance metrics, I don't think we have anything to hide here. Portland Streetcar ridership is high, and it's growing, and it's exceeding expectations. Our on-time performance is better than that of a bus, and it's on par more with light rail.
 And things are going relatively well. We are going to continue to have issues with on-time performance as you look at the system across the east side in particular. Getting trains through the Rose Quarter up and down Broadway and Wyler during PMP is extremely difficult for us. So using on-time compliance as a performance metric is going to be a challenging thing for us. And so we're looking at ways of...
 adjusting that performance metric to maybe look at, you know, are we equally spaced or are we where we think we should be at that time? But that will be an issue as the city grows and traffic grows. Keeping streetcar running on time and fast is going to be a growing issue for the city. I would also note I checked today on Yelp. We have three and a half stars on Yelp as a review. Found that interesting. Okay.
 Okay, so next I want to talk about budget. I think most of you guys were actually around when the discussion was happening for the master agreement back in 2012. And the master agreement lays out the cost responsibility between TriMet and the city for operations.
 2015-16 is actually the first year that the master agreement is going to be in place. It was adopted in 2012, looking forward to the loop operations. And essentially what it says is as these streetcar lines look and feel more like a frequent service transit line, TriMet will pick up more and more of the operations costs, up to 85% of any line.
 So what happens there is we look every year at the ridership figures and the economic development reports, and we try and – we don't try. We use those as a benchmark for figuring out how much the city is going to be paying and how much TriMet is going to be paying. So you can see in this chart, TriMet is going to be paying 85 percent of the cost of the north-south line, and the CL line, the central loop, is split 50-50. Dan, if we could elaborate on that a bit. I mean, there's – one of the economic development criteria is investment, and another is payroll, right? Right.
 Yeah, so we have two measures for economic development. One is payroll taxes that TriMet collects, and the other is number of housing units in square feet built. So the amount of development to the extent that translates into additional payroll taxes is particularly important to TriMet and justification for that to make a further investment because they live off payroll taxes. Correct. Correct. And so importantly, this year TriMet's contribution is $4.2 million to operations. Next year, with the implementation of the master agreement, that's going up to $7.2 million.
 And so this is what that relationship looks like over time. This is the annual budget by source for Portland Streetcar. It's tempting to say that it grows exponentially here, but if you look at it, really what's happening is it's a one-to-one relationship with the service we're providing. So as we add more cars and as we add more service, the operating costs are going up hand-in-hand with that.
 So next steps for Portland Streetcar, obviously we're spending a lot of time on the loop. We're retrofitting all of our cars with automatic train stops. We're going to begin training our operators on the bridge in May. We're also looking at fares to make sure that we have a comprehensive fare program and fare enforcement. One of the things I'm working on right now is branding and communications. We have to republish every map in our system this summer because we have a new line.
 And every map in the car has to be reprinted. So for me, this is a great opportunity to look at how we're communicating to our customers and to the public about what we're trying to do and what they can expect with Portland Streetcar. I think you guys are probably aware that we have a pretty large project going on with electronic fares that TriMet is leading. So in the end of 2016, we're going to be moving to an all-electronic fare system across the region with C-Tran, TriMet, and Streetcar all participating. And then planning for the future is always out there. I would...
 joke about how often I get asked this question about what's next for streetcar. Because if I had a dollar for every time that was asked, I would have enough money to build a streetcar line probably at this point. But we're participating in the TSP update, and other conversations are always going on, looking at service and how we can enhance service both on the east and west side. That's really an ongoing conversation that we need to have with the community. It's really in flux right now. And finally, I'm excited to announce that we have an economic development report that's going to be published in May.
 This will be the first time we've updated the economic development figures since 2005. And what's emerging from this and what's emerging from the other cities is Streetcar's role in helping cities achieve their goals faster. And this is a little bit different than just saying Streetcar is an economic development tool and that's good. What we're seeing is it helps move you along even faster than you would without Streetcar.
 So you take a neighborhood like the Pearl District, and one could easily argue that something would have happened there with or without streetcar, but it happened with more intensity and more completely because of streetcar. Before you leave that, past versions of that report have focused primarily on –
 real estate investment and the effect on assessed value base. I don't think we've focused very much in the past reports on economic activity and city business income tax being generated. Are we going to include that component this time? We certainly can. I think it would be worth doing because –
 you know there's always the color of money question you know well you invested this money in the streetcar what is the city getting back well we can track that pretty well on the on the assessed value side and the previous hovey reports you know did a good job of calculating that difference but what i don't think we've done and we looked at the density of development
 And obviously in terms of housing density, it's significantly higher within three blocks of the streetcar. But I don't think we really looked at the density of employment. And given the report that just came out from City Observatory yesterday about the reaccumulation of job growth in city centers across the country –
 then that seems to me to bear on the question of how many more jobs do we have paying how much more city and county business income tax because of the streetcar versus whatever the base case would have been. And I don't think we've calculated that before, but I think it would be useful to the council and to the community to see those numbers. Good. Easy enough. We've hired Eco Northwest to help us with the report. Good. They've been great.
 And so why would a city really care about speeding up development, I think, is a reasonable question. You look at the Climate Action Plan, and it basically says you need to achieve these targets by 2035 in order to reduce your carbon emissions. And I think an attempting thing for people to do is to put that off until 2035. And the interesting thing about carbon is it stays in the air for seven years, and it has a compounding effect just like your retirement plan. So the sooner you can get your communities on the ground and the sooner you can start reaping the benefits of having –
 you know, lockable, livable communities, the sooner you can – the cheaper it will be for you to reduce your carbon. So if we wait until 2035 to solve all these problems, it's like starting your retirement plan and your final year of work. You look at it another way. Streetcar's role in this whole thing is trying to promote density where we want it. It's proven to be an extremely effective tool at steering where growth is occurring. So in this example, you can see here's 220 housing units, one built in suburban land use, one built in more of a mixed use area.
 You can save a million vehicle miles traveled per year under this scenario. And the sooner you achieve that, the sooner you recruit the benefits towards your climate action plan. If you look at it another way, there's real economic value in achieving these targets quickly. What you see here is a chart that shows the amount of parking meter revenue generated in the Pearl District.
 So every year you put off implementing your plans, you're putting off real revenue that didn't exist at one point in time. So, again, the benefits of streetcar is not taking credit for all this stuff, but helping incentivize that it happens sooner and that the city is able to accrue the benefits as quickly as possible. And the point here is really that,
 We often look at just the cost of these things, and we don't look at the benefit. And if you're looking at just the cost, just like you were pointing out, Mayor, you have to look at the other side of this equation in order to have a full conversation about this. Yeah, it's nice having the parking meter revenue. Again, if we could add business income tax to that, I think we'd have all three. Yeah, hotel, motel, probably harder to unbundle, but this is great.
 And the point being generally that we have to look at both sides of this equation. There are real benefits to the city with a capital C for improving these, making these investments happen at a faster pace than they would otherwise. That's it. Questions? Other questions for our team? Yes, I don't know if it's within the scope of work already for ECO, but I'd certainly urge you to try to include that business tax piece if it's possible. I think that would be very useful.
 What's the status of the competitive bid process for the operational side of streetcar? We have council's permission to issue the RFP, but it has not yet been issued. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions? Dan, I just want to – when we close the loop, that's going to mean that we have more frequent service on 10th and 11th, right? Yes.
 Well, not from today because both lines run on it today. Where you're going to have more frequent service, if you look at the map in front of you there, is the connection essentially from – the CL turns around to the Clay right now. It's going to continue all the way down the south waterfront and across the bridge. So you'll have trains essentially every seven and a half minutes between Northwest 11th and Marshall and the Tillicum Crossing. Right now that just goes on 10th and 11th to Clay. Mm-hmm.
 How many minutes was that? Twenty-three, did you say? Seven and a half. Oh, seven and a half. Both are running on 15-minute service. Yeah. Okay. One more. Sorry, go ahead, Commissioner. Looking out over the next five years, to what extent are you thinking about approaching the council and raising the question of whether we should shift some of the costs of streetcar from PBOT to the general fund?
 I don't necessarily have a dog in that fight. I think that's a question for the city to grapple with. I think the city needs to think about what this investment is worth. The color of money from where I sit is not terribly relevant, if that makes sense. I was looking at the slide you had of the accident with the streetcar. The other day I was on the number 12 bus crossing the bridge.
 And I was standing up because it was full, and the driver hit the brakes, and I almost went through the windshield. And I looked down, and there was a little VW love bug and a well-known developer at the wheel who had tried to cut in on the bus.
 And fortunately, because the bus, I guess, has a little more maneuverability, we avoided a calamity. But had it been a streetcar, I think it would have been an unhappy ending. We can't turn this quickly. Yeah, don't pick fights with a 65,000-pound vehicle. I guess I'd have a question for Jim, who I had the great pleasure of spending some time with on the Houston trip. Jim, anything that's not part of the report that you want this council to know about streetcar? Sure.
 You know, I mean, I'm extremely proud with the team that we've put together on Streetcar over the last few years and sort of what's been done, and I think to address some of the issues that we've had over the years. You know, no question we've gone through somewhat of a rocky time of getting everything, but, you know, you look at it today and you look at our headways, you look at the system in general, and you look at the Tillicum Bridge and seeing a streetcar go over it and the amount of access that we'll have.
 I'm extremely proud of what's happening. And then I look at the future of what Streetcar can do for the city of Portland. And I've been in the commercial real estate business for 34 years, and it's nothing more than a miracle to see what's happened in downtown Portland and around the region. And I look forward to seeing it. I mean, I wish I could see it 34 years from now. Hopefully I will. But just what's happened. So very excited. Thank you.
 One more asterisk put on the report, and that is we'd love to hear back from the Commissioner and from PBOT and from you about, given the change in operations when the Tillicum Bridge opens, there are some places where we didn't, in effect, switch on the capability of the streetcar to operate better in traffic. Right.
 originally. For example, the three lane sections of 10th and 11th are over capacity for cars. We could stripe those right hand lanes right turn only except street car. We could use signal preemption at more intersections or signal priority at more intersections than we do. I think if you're carrying 15,000 people a day through the central city
 You kind of deserve a little courtesy from the rest of the system. So if there are places where, in your opinion, Steve, or in the opinion of your team, you think that we ought to give the streetcar a little more priority getting through what will be a more crowded city, no question about that. But if it's a question of getting 15,000 people to their destinations on time or a few dozen, I think the greater good should prevail. We appreciate that invitation. All right.
 It's consistent because the bus can put its yield sign on and bust its way through. Yeah. But the streetcar can't. Exactly. I'll just note that the Citizens Advisory Committee, which we staff as well, is in step with you there. We're going to be spending the entire next meeting. I've given them every piece of data I can find about on-time performance and driver breaks and everything else. And we're going to spend about an hour and a half walking through those recommendations because there are four or five that we could do today that would work.
 I hope what you're hearing here is don't be timid about those recommendations. One of them will be on Broadway. Do you have a stop by the Veterans Memorial Coliseum? Yeah, we have a stop at Broadway and Ross. And does the sign say Veterans Memorial Coliseum? No, it's called Broadway and Ross. Thank you. Yeah, it's not – it could –
 Well, I asked because I had to ask TriMet to change the MAX train. It used to just say Memorial Coliseum. And so when I brought it to their attention, they changed it to Veterans Memorial Coliseum. Good, good. I just wanted to be consistent. Thank you very much. Good report. Thanks for your time. Thank you. Anyone else that you want to call to speak on this? We'll just take general testimony then. Anyone signed up to speak on this item? Joe Walsh. All by your lonesome. Joe, come on up. Thank you.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. It would seem on the surface that the streetcars are very clean, and that's what we kind of want in our city. So that's a positive. But one of the questions that came up was, where does the energy come from to run the streetcars? It's electrical. So who generates it, and where does it come from, and is that figured into our environment? Right.
 Good question. I don't know if we're specifically buying green power for the streetcars or not. I believe that we are buying green power. So I'd be happy to get you a summary of, say, the kilowatt hours for last year. Did that figure into your presentation as far as the energy that we use? So sometimes creating the ability to move something is more hazardous than
 than actually moving it. You understand what I'm saying? So we were kind of interested in the substance of where the electrical power comes from. Does it come from coal? Does it come from oil? Does it come from sun power? So that was one of the questions that we had. The other question that we had is we don't understand why,
 Why the TriMet does not run the streetcar? That was a question I was asked a number of times, and I obviously didn't have the answer to that. I can maybe after counsel explain that history a little bit. Pardon? I can maybe after counsel I can explain that history a little bit. But suffice it to say that when the streetcar was originally proposed, there was one high-level official at TriMet who called it the donkey trolley. So it didn't get off to a good start with TriMet, but they're great partners now.
 So TriMet rejected it originally. They didn't think it was. So is that a legitimate answer to the question that TriMet threw it out? I think originally there were some at TriMet who didn't see its value. Okay. And since that period of time, I would imagine that TriMet has changed their attitude? I think that's a fair statement. So I can take that back? Cool. Yes. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 thanks very much any other comments before we accept a motion to approve the report so move second further discussion roll call fritz thank you very much for the presentation i think it does very much help to clarify to the public what the streetcar is what it does where the funding comes from what the plans are so i appreciate the report thanks commissioner hi
 Fish? Mr. Novick, thank you. To the presenters, thank you for the report. And when Jim Mark and I were in Houston, we saw the light rail system that was being put in.
 And the interesting thing is the light rail from downtown to the museum district, along the way there were cranes at each stop where new housing was going in and obviously having a profound effect on leveraging density along that. It's also an area, Mayor, where...
 Instead of the fights that we have extending certain transportation options regionally, they just have a suburban congressional delegation that puts riders into federal appropriations that blocks any of these light rail things from going into their district. So a different level of clout. But, Jim, thank you for your volunteer service on the board and your leadership as well. Aye. Schultzman. Well, thank you for the good report. It's indeed a lot more good news than last year's report, so thank you. Aye.
 No, thank you. Catherine Jim and Dan. Hi Hales well great success great report and appreciated Dan's mention of what's happening in the rest of the country You know, this has been by some measurements and I don't think it's hyperbole to say this Probably the best investment that the city of Portland has ever made in terms of cash on cash return in real estate value
 It's about 13 to 1 or a 1300% rate of return, depending on how you calculate. And that's not including the parking meter revenue and the business income tax revenue that we were just discussing.
 But on another basis, given what's happening in the rest of the country, if imitation is, as the saying goes, the highest form of flattery, this project has given Portland more flattery than anything else we've done. And I think that counts for something as well. So it's a great success story. I think we should all be proud to be part of it and look forward to more. Thank you. Aye. And we have a break in the action until 3.05. So we have a half hour off for good behavior, and we're recessed until 3.05. We can reconvene.
 Council will return to order, and let's go to get you to read item 223 so I can reschedule it. 223, adopt the West Quadrant Plan as direction for updating the Central City Plan. Okay, and if there's no objection, that's going to be rescheduled for March 5th at 2 p.m. Okay, so now item 224, please. Okay.
 224, enter into a memorandum of understanding to become a member of the local Joint Terrorism Task Force in conjunction with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Okay. This is a council action this afternoon, but there was a request last week that we leave the record open so people in the community that wanted to be able to communicate with the council could and have access.
 We have received some comments and we appreciate those. There have been people who have expressed an interest in changing the actual language in the memorandum of agreement. That's not before us today to change the language, though I appreciate the concern. Frankly, we have to express the community's concerns through my instructions to the police bureau and to the officers who will be involved in this work.
 That's probably the most important thing I can do to reflect the division that we have in the community about this issue. The words on the page, however, are standard from one city to another. So if we're going to sign a memorandum of agreement, we're going to sign the one that's in front of us. So I would propose that the council take action this afternoon on this item with a vote.
 But again, with an understanding based on a very important hearing that we held on this and a very heartfelt concern in the community, which I think all of us share, that if we're going to do this, and obviously it was not unanimous that we're going to do this, but if we're going to do this, that we do it in a way that our officers know that this police chief and this commissioner in charge of the police bureau have some very specific concerns from Portland about how we as a community function.
 perform our police work, and there are ways that we do that that we believe in, in terms of building relationships of respect with everyone in our city, and that there are going to be perhaps times when those values are in conflict with what they might be asked to do.
 by their partners in the Joint Terrorism Task Force. If that moment ever comes, those officers will be under instruction to come to their chief and their mayor. And we will come back to this council if that's not a resolvable problem. And I will change my mind about whether we participate in this. But for the moment,
 We have a majority of the council that wants to proceed, so unless there's any further discussion here today or any proposals to make, then I'll suggest that we go ahead and take a roll call vote. Thank you for the opportunity. I would just like to say. No, this is not a hearing. We had the hearing last week. No, we asked for comments during the intervening week, so we've taken those, and now we're going to vote. Prince. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 So I have here a 121 page report titled, With Liberty to Monitor All, How Large Scale US Surveillance is Harming Journalism, Law, and American Democracy. This is from the Human Rights Watch of the American Civil Liberties Union. I mention this because I was tempted to read it, but I won't. Instead, I will have a fairly long speech, but it's not 121 pages.
 So it is interesting to note that the FBI's definition of a terrorist is a person or organization known to influence the policy of government by intimidation or coercion. This could be applied in many ways to citizens who peacefully express their objection to government policies by corporations through their lobbyists, by Wall Street through its engineered defaults and domestic law, and by domestic law enforcement agencies through their own interpretations of what is a public right.
 The FBI interprets terrorism in the broadest manner, and that is a presumption that a person may commit a crime. I think all of us could be easily put in that category at one time or another and not even know it. With a direction of this nature, it is not hard to see why civil rights such as those related to free expression and rights of due process are easily trammeled to fight terrorists.
 As was just explained, I don't have the right to make amendments to this agreement, or at least if I do, it won't be supported because the FBI says we can't change it, which of course defeats the purpose of having an MOU up for discussion.
 The fact is this is a template which is used by the FBI for all jurisdictions wishing to enter the JTTF and it cannot be changed. I do appreciate the input at the ACLU in their memorandum dated February 25th, which points out some of the problems with this MOU, which if had been possible, I would have liked to have changed.
 For instance, the draft MOU says that the police bureau members of the JTCF will be subject to Oregon law and police bureau policies in addition to those of the FBI. But the very same paragraph provides conflicting language, providing that when there is a conflict between the standards or requirements of the participating agency and the FBI, the standard or requirement that provides the greatest organizational protection or benefit will apply unless the organizations jointly resolve the conflict.
 Since the FBI will have total discretion to resolve any conflict as it sees fit, I appreciate the Mayor's suggestion that you bring back to Council an ordinance to withdraw from the JTCF if you are aware of any such conflict.
 It also states that any non-FBI members of the JTTF must adhere to the same rules and regulations as FBI employees while conducting JTTF business. That seems to be completely contrary to all the assurances that we received last weekend at the previous hearings that our police will be subject to more under our control rather than their commanding officers in the FBI.
 And in addition, the ACLU points out that our personnel will be documenting on FBI forms, and so that that will be contrary to ORS 181-575. So I'm very concerned that this memorandum, in fact, enshrines many of the things that we are most concerned about.
 This was the problem with the previous negotiations with the FBI under Mayor Adams, where we crafted an agreement that we reflected our community values of free expression and transparent information sharing. With that agreement, I hoped that we would have some ability to observe and interact with the FBI in a way that was more transparent and knowledgeable for counsel, the mayor, and the chief of police, and more constructive for our community.
 We attempted to get annual reporting. We attempted to get secret clearance for the mayor. We attempted to have more control over our officers and their allegiance to the city and state law. We failed on at least two of those three aims. It could be said that the mayor will get reporting from the FBI at least when they want to share, and there is no need for top secret clearance because we trust those involved to be upholding the law, and that our officers will uphold state law even though they are under the direct supervision of the FBI."
 I do trust the people, especially Chief O'Day and our officers. I think that they are being put in an untenable situation of serving two masters. We find that new and probably that good, transparent communication is not what the FBI does. We should have known that. Even our own police are going to be put in the position of not communicating everything to us because it ostensibly jeopardizes our security.
 The word security is an easy concept to stand behind. You can justify pretty much anything. Surveillance, tracking citizens, profiling us, collecting data, keeping that data as an indictment of critical intent, whether it was or was not. Potentially arresting people for no other crime other than being poor or peacefully expressing their dissatisfaction with government policies. We are becoming a society that uses the same techniques on our citizens that we rail against in other regimes.
 Every single one of us is subject to the power of fear in a mortal world. And that includes FBI agents, mothers and fathers, police, corporate CEOs, and the husbands and wives of corporate CEOs, you and me.
 It's assumed that all the parties in these investigations are operating in the best interests of the citizens of the U.S. However, there are numerous examples nationally of stings, setups, surveillance, profiling, arrest for civil protest, manipulation and intimidation of and by the media, and arrests for simply researching and disseminating information about public policy. It makes this often a messy affair and one where public trust continues to be eroded.
 If there was a perfect world where people had what they need and there wasn't such a massive difference between those they have the right to laud their wealth over the 99%, where gun proliferation and use were not so prevalent for the accumulation of wealth and proliferation of fear, then we probably wouldn't be in this situation where we, as human beings, often cannot communicate with each other about our collective needs, and we must turn against our neighbors, our citizens, to fight each other.
 The very meaning of the word fight is indicative of our problem. It means to struggle, to keep in check, to control, to stifle, to confront, to combat, to quarrel with, to argue with, all of which keeps us further and further from peaceful, constructive solutions, and each side digs in.
 When it comes to the actual reality of terrorists, secrecy may be needed sometimes to stop a violent crime in our community. I understand that there are bad people out there, or people who do bad things, and to catch them we must be smarter, which includes some level of secrecy. Unfortunately, we all get caught up in the wake of that deception and fear, and particularly,
 We know that it doesn't necessarily make us safer. The city of Boston was participating in the JTF when the Boston Marathon bombing happened. We are not following the advice of our own duly appointed Portland Human Rights Commission, from whom I read a quote, "...federal guidelines governing FBI operations expanded to grant greater permissions and flexibility to the FBI for surveillance and investigation activities."
 The new guidelines have loosened previous restrictions, allowing greater agency discretion, permitting intrusions that erode civil liberties in the interest of protecting national security. The absence of oversight, accountability, and transparency inherent with a JCTF collaboration will exasperate longtime tensions stemming from racial profiling, the use of force, and negative perceptions about Portland's police.
 With the passage of this MOU, we officially enter the world where information is purposefully hidden from public view, and the City of Portland agrees to be complicit with that deception. I believe that our biggest challenge is gaining public trust, and it should start first here at home. As evidenced by the need for the DOJ agreement, we have a long way to go to gain that trust.
 With the approval of this agreement, we are taking a step back from any progress made, and that to me is the most crucial concern that I have, that we have to start within our community and fix things for ourselves with each other and trust each other to look after each other. As I mentioned last week, that's what we did when the IRA were bombing in my hometown and my friend's hometown, and that's how we should be sticking together, not how
 imagining that some federal oversight is going to somehow magically save us from ourselves, each other, from what? I cannot condone this approach, and therefore I respectfully vote no. Aye. Feltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye.
 Last week, I expressed my opposition to this action, and I read a letter from a number of leaders in the Arab and Muslim communities that urged us not to join the JTTF. And I had discussions with some of those leaders about the possibility that if we did not join the JTTF, then they might be interested in reintegrating.
 reconstituting the Arab Muslim Police Advisory Council, which was apparently a very well-functioning group some years ago. I don't know if our having taken the action to go into the JTTF
 those folks will still be interested in pursuing that but I am pleased to say that I've talked to Chief O'Day about this in the past week and he said that absolutely if those leaders are interested in reconstituting AMPAC he's very interested in engaging with them so I really appreciate that commitment by Chief O'Day and again I appreciate the Mayor's what the Mayor has said about how he intends to engage with the JTDF although I respectfully disagree with the decision to join. Neh?
 Hales. I hope that those who have listened to me know that I'm serious about my reservations about this relationship, but that it was a difficult choice for those of us that made the choice to go in doesn't mean that we will do so uncritically. And without hearing the fears and concerns that we've heard from the community, we have heard them, and they will influence the level of scrutiny that this relationship gets from me, and it will get it. Aye. Aye.
 And we are recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m. That's who you want to be in bed with.
 it's that that's this is on the website yeah Lisa what's it okay so I could find that on the ACLU website yes okay and so for your report I'll put it on my blog on my on the city website okay and you'll be called what I haven't figured
 I haven't figured that out yet. Speech about the JTTF or something. Okay. If you know, if it's identified, you can ask the same thing. I already emailed him. Congratulations. When you were reading it. Yay. Well, thank you. How do you make it? Holy great job.