Mostly Oregon recovers and Zenith? I think so. Good morning, everybody. Welcome to Portland City Hall. This is the Wednesday, September 18th, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning. Carla, please call the roll. Good morning. Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here. And now we'll hear from Robert on the rules of conduct. Thank you. Good morning, Robert. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you, Robert. And, Carla, it's my understanding the first four people on communications would like to come up together. I can read those four, yes. Item 869, request of Leslie Cochran to address Council regarding Zenas transport of tar sands into Portland. 870, request of Lori King to address council regarding Zenas transport of tar sands into Portland. Lori is ill and Elijah has requested to speak for her. Request of Elijah Cetus to address council regarding fossil fuel infrastructure. He has given his spot to Dr. Theodora Tsongas. Yes. And 872, request of Deneen O'Rourke to address council regarding the findings of three and a half months of talking to Portlanders about the threats of zenith crude oil in Portland. If you want to come on up. Good morning. If you could just restate your name for the record, please. How is this? That's perfect. Is that good? Okay. You bet. Thank you. So, hi. My name's Leslie Cochin. I'm here today on behalf of Climate Jobs, a project of Portland Jobs with Justice. Climate Jobs urges the city of Portland to fully integrate the needs of workers into its climate change planning and implementation process. We have three recommendations. First, the city's climate action plan and climate emergency resolution should acknowledge workers who are on the front line of climate change. These workers include those who are exposed to dangerous air emissions and spills due to their work in fossil fuel or fossil fuel dependent industries. They include petrochemical workers, diesel equipment operators, and asphalt paving workers, among others. and they include those workers who are adversely affected by hotter weather and extreme weather events. For instance, construction workers, letter carriers, firefighters, and responders to flood waters that may contain hazardous materials and pathogens. Second recommendation, the action plan and emergency resolution should acknowledge frontline workers who are in need of a just transition. We laud the city for its support of a Green New Deal with a just transition for workers in its emergency resolution section M. However, elsewhere in these documents, workers are not included as members of the just transition community. This omission of workers is ironic, as the term just transition comes from the labor movement. In 1993, oil, chemical and atomic workers union leader Tony Mazzocchi coined the expression, Superfund for Workers. This was based on his understanding that workers should not be abandoned as jobs are lost during the transition away from unhealthy and dangerous industries. In 1997, the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Union endorsed the term just transition in lieu of Superfund for Workers. Third recommendation, the City of Portland should bring labor unions to the table to develop plans and strategies that support frontline workers. Labor has a role to play in the creation of a stronger and more inclusive climate plan and emergency resolution. Labor has the expertise necessary to develop robust health and safety strategies for those workers who face dangerous exposures and extreme weather. The city should commit to working on such a strategy. Labor has the knowledge to assist the City with its role in a just transition for workers as part of the Green New Deal. The City's support for implementation of the Portland Clean Energy Fund is but one example of how cities can support meaningful change that will benefit all frontline groups and should serve as a positive starting point for future efforts. Thank you for considering our comments. Thank you and those are excellent comments. I appreciate it. Excuse me, Mayor. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you so much for those comments. I just want to correct one thing you said. It wasn't a city that did the Portland Clean Energy Fund. It was the people of the City of Portland. No, I just wanted to thank the City for supporting that effort though in the form of Portland City, Portland staff in particular and the process that's going on now. Thank you, yes. I know a lot of front line organizations led that effort. Great, thank you. And could I get a copy of your written comments either by email or if you have an extra set today? Yes, I can leave a- If you wouldn't mind leaving it with Carla and then we can all get a copy. I will do that. I appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning, welcome. Hi, good morning, mayor and commissioners. I'm Dr. Theodora Songas. I'm speaking on behalf of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility and the Center for Sustainable Economy to call your attention to the health effects of exposure to methyl diphenyl isocyanate, or MDI. CNI plans to apply for a permit to the City of Portland to build a pipeline to transfer MDI under Front Avenue. MDI is a member of the family of hazardous chemical isocyanates. Most famous of these is methyl isocyanate gas, the material released in Bhopal, India in 1984, which killed 3,800 people and harmed many thousands more. Concern raised by that devastating incident about lack of community preparedness, communication, and knowledge in preparation for industrial accidents resulted in the passing of the Federal Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, also known as SARA Title III. This law is designed to help local communities protect public health, safety, and the environment from chemical hazards. MDI is a di-isocyanate. Diisocyanates are highly reactive compounds used in the production of polyurethane foams, elastomers, paints, and adhesives. They are skin and lung sensitizers and are one of the most important causes of occupational asthma worldwide. MDI binds to DNA and has been shown to induce gene mutations and chromosomal damage. A metabolite of MDI, methylene dianiline, has been found in MDI-exposed humans and is a carcinogen. Exposure can occur by inhalation and also by absorption through the skin. Sensitization may result from a single high exposure or intermittent low exposures. People who become sensitized to MDI may experience life-threatening asthma attacks when subsequently exposed to even extremely low levels of isocyanates. Do it yourselfers without appropriate personal protection are also at risk from these products. We must also consider possible differential effects on the health of infants, children and other sensitive populations who might be at greater risk of exposure or be more sensitive to toxins than healthy adults. In view of these health concerns, it's incumbent upon the city to give careful consideration before approving a permit that will allow Zenith to build a pipeline for MDI. There would always be the risk of accidental or intentional releases of MDI during storage or transport of materials to or from the Zena facility in Portland. We do not want to run the risk of becoming the next Bhopal. The city must consider requiring companies engaged in moving toxic or flammable materials through the city to report to city officials the exact amounts and type of materials that are being moved prior to moving them. This minimal level of public disclosure is necessary to save lives, and it should be required here in Portland. Thank you for your consideration of our concerns. Thank you, Dr. Songis. We appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Ella Schreiner. I'm 17 years old, a senior at Grant High School, and a founding member of the Portland Youth Climate Council. And good morning. My name is Danina O'Rourke. I'm 24 years old. I'm an organizer with 350 PDX and the Sunrise Movement. Four years ago, we were both inspired when Portland enacted resolutions opposing fossil fuel infrastructure and oil trains, the first of their kind in the nation. We felt real hope. I was right here when that happened, testifying in support of these resolutions to the city council. And when it passed unanimously, I felt true pride for my city. But now, Mayor and Commissioners, we wonder what that all meant. We now have a Houston-based company importing tar sands oil mined destructively on native territory known to many as Alberta, Canada, and coming into our city on bomb trains that could explode at any moment. We know you all know these threats, and many of you are working hard to try to stop this company from doing business in our city. We thank you for your efforts so far, but we need more. I want to take a moment to congratulate you, Mayor Wheeler. on being selected as a speaker at the C40 Mayor Summit in Copenhagen next month. This is a great honor. However, I do not believe that any city or mayor can be described as a climate leader if the most polluting form of energy on the entire planet is still allowed to be imported by train and stored for export within our own city. It's that simple. The city of Portland is committing a crime by allowing Zenith to operate in our city for this long. This is nothing to receive accolades about. We need you to take risks that seem unimaginable for a city government to do. This is what these times demand of us. We need you to accept that you could be sued by this company and take that risk anyway. Is the threat of thousands of Portlanders being vaporized by an oil train derailment greater than the threat of a lawsuit? What are our lives and our futures worth? So in two days we'll be back, but with thousands more behind us, adults and students, people of all ages going on strike from our day-to-day lives to demand bold, creative, courageous action to stop this crisis. That is what I've seen this council do before, four years ago, and that's what I need to see you all do again now. Our community is standing behind us in this room right now and across this region echoing the call to stop Zenith now. We today are presenting to you 6,436 names and also 500 more just mailed to us this morning. All gathered by community members across the region who for months had face to face conversations with thousands upon thousands of people. Educating them about this issue and the city's responsibility to stop it. Are you looking for a way to stand in solidarity with us on Friday while we are striking? We, along with all 6,936 of these people here, urge you to deny any upcoming permits that Zenith applies for and issue an immediate stop work order on Zenith's operations. We'll see you here in two days. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. I just wanted to thank you so much. I am so proud that we have young people who are leading in our climate crisis. And I appreciate you being here. I appreciate your knowledge about the need for us to do something bold. We absolutely agree. We need to do something bold, but we also have to do things that are legal. And of course, I just want you to know that we are looking into every opportunity that we have to make Oregon the most un- attractive place for companies like Zenith to operate in. Right? So thank you for being here. Just know we're on it. Even though you're not seeing it or hearing it, know that we are working on this. Okay? Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. And I remember that day four years ago too. And we knew that we were facing an uphill battle because we don't regulate the railroads. And with the federal government and the state it is, we not only want to do something legal because we're not afraid of getting sued. We've been sued almost all the time. In fact, we were not expanding fossil fuel infrastructure. We need to do things that are actually going to be effective. And so we can't stop the trains from coming in, I believe. encourage you to continue doing what you're doing and raising the visibility, raising more people to speak out about this because there's a great power in public shaming and public outrage as well as in government actions that as from our end we're doing what we can. So thank you for the 6,000 signatures for making people aware of this. We are in a climate emergency and I appreciate that you are doing your part and we will do ours. A couple of quick points. I wasn't going to talk on communications today, I promise. But this is a really important issue. It's an important week. And I appreciate our young people being here. I appreciate our experienced, dedicated people who've been fighting this battle for many, many years being here as well. Number one, with regard to the climate emergency declaration, we were actually going to pass that today. That was the original plan. We wanted it to coincide with this global movement But an interesting thing happened is people saw the emergency declaration. They said, wait a minute, we want to participate. And so we've seen a broader and broader array of community groups, organizations, leaders, community members and others wanting to participate in this and provide specific action steps along the lines of the kind that you proposed around labor. Which by the way, I'm receiving very well. I think those are really good ideas. So we decided we would slow it down a bit. It wouldn't be ready this week. We'll take a little more time. We're going to include more community organizations. And that includes a lot of people who've historically not had the opportunity to participate in the development of these kinds of declarations. And there's a real hunger for them to be more specific and action-oriented. So we decided it was worth it to slow it down to include more people and frankly generate more enthusiasm in the community for the work we're trying to do. You also raised the question of what happened after my colleagues passed the 2016 ordinance limiting the expansion of fossil fuel. What happened was key components of it were remanded by the courts back to City Hall. I'm pleased to say our legal counsel, including Robert sitting over there in the box, have been working very hard on it. And in the very near future, we will be bringing back a A new ordinance that we believe addresses the legal questions for which it was remanded back to City Hall. So we have not forgotten about it, we haven't given up on it, and I am bringing it back and I wanted you to know that. We appreciate you being here. There's a lot of people here in the audience who are also here supporting your comments and I thank you for your leadership. I thank you for the action you're engaged in on Friday. I'm sorry I personally will not be here, but you have my support, and I'm really proud and appreciative of what you're doing to raise awareness for these important issues. One more thing and then I will stop colleagues. I had the privilege of meeting with, I think it was about 45 students late last week. They were predominantly from Lincoln High School, but there was also a contingent of young people who had come from Germany. And what they all had in common was they were taking courses on environmental justice. And they wanted to come to me and express their opinions and their thoughts with regard to the climate situation, the climate emergency, Zenith, The work that we're doing around fossil fuel ordinances and what they underscored to a person, regardless of what their specific objectives were, it was the sense of urgency. The sense of immediacy that you've expressed here. The need to think bolder, the need to be willing to take risks. I want you to know, I heard that message. I hear it today, I heard it then, and I understand that message. And I appreciate you bringing it here today to underscore it again. Thank you all. Appreciate it very much. And I'm going to keep the signatures. They're nicely boxed, by the way. I appreciate that. And we'll put them in a prominent location up in the mayor's office for all to see. Thank you. Carla, I believe we have one more individual on communications. Yes. Item 873, request of Stan Herman to address council regarding being honest with your constituents and why you refuse to answer the question. Is Stan here? Let's go on. What? Let's move forward. Is he not here? He's here. He didn't get a seat. He's coming. Oh, he's coming from downstairs, or upstairs. How's your research going? Oh, it's good. I finished mine. Oh, very nice. Thank you. I look forward to it. Maybe you can talk to whoever. I'd like to take it home this weekend if I could just repeat. Okay. Very good. Thank you. Good morning, Stan. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. I think we're probably getting a little tired of this. It wasn't a good soccer game the other night either, was it? It was good to see you there, Stan. Like I stated before, you know, I've got to switch this from a business communication to a political agenda. Something happened a few weeks ago. The city of Portland BDS, Mr. Shoemaker, asked for my company to provide him some information to BDS and the fire department. Okay. in a meeting regarding extraction processes and to educate them of the process. My top management responded and we met with BDS and 23 people to go over some issues and clear up some questions that the BDS had. I get no response from their top manager, the mayor and the council members when I have a need. I want you to be honest with your constituents. 34 months now, Portland Oregon's mayor, council commissioners will not answer the constituents questions. As of September 18th today, 464 days ago, Mr. Mayor, you said that you would arrange a meeting with me. Stan, I'm sorry to interrupt, but as you know, I did meet with you. I met with you. Can I finish? Go for it. You said you would arrange a meeting with me and the attorney from the police department. We did meet. That did not happen. Why no meeting? You did have me meet with Mr. Robert King, and we started off in the... with some great conversation and a great meeting. But the last email I sent him on July 30th, 2019, was received and not answered. I just want you to be honest with your constituents. Tell me, all the constituents watching this meeting, why you're not giving me an opinion to my question. Who would like to respond first? Does that complete your testimony? Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Next up is the consent agenda. Carla, have any items been pulled? Yes, we've had 87. Mr. Herman, I have copies of my response, which I can give you. And I could send them again, but it's going to fall on deaf ears. No items have been pulled off the consent agenda? Yes, 878 was pulled by Dan Handelman. Very good. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Hardesty? Here. Yes. Brits? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? I'm also here, and I vote aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Next item, please, is first-time certain item 874. Proclaim September 2019 to be recovery month. Colleagues, today we have... I- You might just wait for a second because people are moving around. I'm sorry, yeah sure. Moving in, moving out. Changing of the guard. Here should we invite people forward while we're waiting? Yes, why don't we go ahead and do this. This is somewhat different and exciting because Oregon Recovers is sponsoring this proclamation to bring awareness around Oregon's rankings, fourth in addiction rate and 50th in access to addiction treatment. They're building a coalition to help make Oregon a recovery state. Mayors in Ben, Medford, and Eugene have all issued similar proclamations. And I know that Multnomah County is expected to take this up on the 19th. So this is truly an organic community-led proclamation that's coming here. I think it's very exciting, and we welcome our first speakers here. I also want to acknowledge that State Representative Tana Sanchez is here as well. And we're appreciative of her leadership. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Seatim Edmo and I'm the co-chair of Oregon Recovers. And I'm here today to kind of act as our MC, I guess, for lack of better words. A child of a person in long-term recovery. My dad's been in recovery all my life. He's originally from Celilo, as many of you know, up the river. And... I just want to thank you on behalf of Oregon Recovers for giving us some time on today's agenda, on behalf of many of your constituents who are involved with Oregon Recovers. And I'd just like to take a moment to acknowledge those folks in the room. If you're a person in long-term recovery, I would love for you to please stand. Organ Recovers was launched two years ago. We came together, and our main mission was to fix the fractured and incomplete addiction recovery system. So we're made up of folks who are in long-term recovery, their friends and family, and the folks who care for them. So our treatment providers, our peer mentors, et cetera. And, you know, as a daughter of a traditional storyteller, I like to say that words are important, and it's important to us that we say fractured and incomplete and not failed or broken. We want to recognize that there are a lot of providers out there who are doing hard work every day to save lives and recognize those folks in their work as well. But we all know that Oregon families and families certainly in the Portland metropolitan area are hurting because of addiction, because of this disease. And my own personal involvement is because I've lost family members, my uncle, not a couple of blocks from here because of addiction. So that brings me not only personally but professionally to this work. Today, you join city council colleagues in Bend, Medford, and Eugene who are also recognizing addiction as a public health crisis and are moving in solidarity with their local communities as well. More cities are expected to officially join this movement before the year's end, as well as the other thing that's happening right now is the statewide Alcohol and Drug Policy Commission is looking to... come out with a strategic plan to begin to address the issue of addiction and come up with some more robust recovery based metrics. To hear more about Oregon Recovers and the landscape right now, I'd like to turn it over to Mike Marshall, our Executive Director. Thanks Adam. Good morning Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. Thank you so much for having us today. My name is Mike Marshall and I have the honor and privilege of serving as the Executive Director of Oregon Recovers. I'm also a person long-term recovery. I have 11 and a half years and I'm not Johnny Gage. Johnny Gage was supposed to be here today from the Executive Director of Miracles Club and he's more eloquent and better looking than me, but so I'm filling in at the last minute. And my job is to present the facts, and the facts are dire. And honestly, the purpose of us, of Oregon Recovers, coming to the different city councils and the county commissions was to help educate both you and then ideally the public through the media that are here today as a consequence of this. Of the fact that according to the federal government, Oregon has the fourth highest addiction rate in the country. Almost 10% of the residents of Oregon suffer from substance use disorder. Okay. and we rank 50th in access to treatment. 50th. Dead last. And as a consequence of that, we have one to two drug overdoses each day in Oregon. We lose one or two Oregonians to drug overdoses. But we lose five people a day in alcohol-related deaths. Five people in alcohol-related deaths. That's a combined total of over 2,100 a year. So at the height of the AIDS epidemic in 1994, Oregon lost the worst number of people, 364 people. Compare that to 2,100 people. And I say that as a gay man who lost many friends in the AIDS epidemic. I'm not here to diminish the impact of the AIDS epidemic. What I would like to do is convey we do not think of untreated addiction in the crisis level that it has found us. And that's just the fatality rate. It's really important, and you guys know way better than we do because you're on the front lines of it. But our foster care system is completely overwhelmed, and more than 75% of the kids that are in that system right now are there because of a parent's untreated addiction. We're the third highest youth incarceration rate in the country. And 76% of the young men at McLaren will tell you that they were drunk or high when they committed the crime they're incarcerated for. And the same number will tell you that they come from intergenerational, multigenerational addiction issues. High school graduation rates, homelessness. I think we're this, as you well know, we are the second worst in the country. So there are all these symptoms of this disease that Oregon has not been successful in addressing primarily because we have pretty much abandoned 20 years ago an effort to deal with this disease and that's changing in the end Oregon Recovers is part of that change and um the the proclamation uh Mr. Mayor that you're issuing today in tandem and shoulder uh shoulder to shoulder with the other mayors and city councils around the state is helping us turn the tide on that and um helping the public to begin to understand that we're going to have to make some important choices. But really at the end of the day, what it's doing is it's getting the folks in Salem, whether they're in the elected bodies with the leadership of Representative Sanchez, who's been extraordinary, or within the buildings of OHA and DHS and the Department of Corrections, coming together around this strategic planning process, that we will have a new blueprint for a continuum of care that collectively looks at reducing the addiction rate from the fourth highest to the lowest and increasing the recovery rate dramatically in the state. And we're proud to be a part of that, and we're really grateful that you have become a part of that as well. Thank you, Mike. Appreciate it. Good morning. Next, we'll hear from Jay Miles about his own personal story. Hello, Mayor Wheeler, honorable commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to address you today My name is Miles and I've struggled with problematic alcohol use and methamphetamine addiction for my entire adult life Several times in my life. I've lost everything that I've worked hard for I've watched my life Fall apart leaving me unemployed homeless friendless with my family unwilling to talk to me and without the resources to access treatment and Everyone is different, but for me the cycle was always the same. After a period of abstinence, I would start drinking. After a while, I'd find my way back to crystal meth. Twelve-step programs worked for me for a while. Treatment programs worked for a while. But eventually I'd end up back where I started, with all my belongings fitting into a duffel and a couple of garbage bags. It wasn't until I discovered on my own naltrexone, a medication available since the year I was born, used for treating alcohol use disorder, that I was able to break the cycle. I used to have a lot of shame about my addiction or what I now know to call internalized stigma. People told me and I believed that it was my choice to do drugs, and my fault, my life was ruined again. And now I know it doesn't matter how much I want to say no, how much I care about myself, my family, my life, my job, anything. Because addiction damages the part of the brain that allows a person to say no. For me to be able to say no, I need skills and resources. I work in a homeless shelter. And every day I see people who don't belong in a shelter. They need to be in treatment. And it's a high barrier shelter. So when people show up, they're generally abstinent, what most people call clean. Uh... But shelter life is stressful and it's a different kind of stress than being out on the street. And so many times I see people relapse and because of the lack of treatment beds, they get put onto waiting lists. They don't make it to the front of those lists a lot of the times. Before their number comes up, their addiction takes hold and they go out the door, we don't see them again. Maintaining motivation in the face of addiction is complicated. And when we can't get people into treatment right away, we often lose the window of opportunity to get them help. I hear in their words that internalized stigma that I'm so familiar with. I'm just weak. I don't want it bad enough. Clearly I don't care about myself. I don't care about my family. Whatever they've been told that they've held onto, and it's heartbreaking. You know, I love my job because I get to provide a counter narrative and tell them that it's not their fault that they're addicted, but they do have the power to recover. They just need those skills and those resources. All over the country and especially here in Oregon, those resources are in short supply. So I'm here today to tell you we can and we do recover. I see it every day. And to ask that we do something to address this deficit so that we can all have the opportunity to have happy lives of fulfillment and purpose like I have. So Mayor Wheeler and Honorable Commissioners, thank you very much for standing with Oregon Recovers and the larger recovery community here in Portland. And we hope that today's affirmation of our work is just the beginning of a partnership to address the public health crisis of addiction. Thank you. Mayor. Mayor. Normally we read the proclamation, then we do a photograph, and that's the end of it. Will you entertain some questions now, or do you want us to wait? Well, this is their presentation. Would you like to entertain questions now or would you like to wait until prior to reading the proclamation? I think it would be fine to entertain some questions now. The next thing that we have on our agenda is a song and then some closing remarks from our local organizing committee. So as the folks from our Portland Wellbriety Movement set up, I think we can take some questions. Great. Commissioner Fish. Well, thank you for a very powerful presentation. And, you know, all of us... have family members, friends, loved ones who have experienced addiction that have shaped our lives. It's ubiquitous. I guess the question I have for you, Mike, and it flows from one of the events I went to, Oregon Recovers events, where we talked about a legislative agenda. Okay. We share your interest in moving off of the 50th out of 50 position in the nation in access to services. Two-thirds of the people that we interview on the streets when we do our regular federally mandated check-ins self-identify. Two-thirds self-identify as either having a mental health crisis, an addiction, or both. And anecdotally, when you walk downtown, you see people that are in distress all the time. So it reminds me that we have a similar agenda with you in terms of transforming the system at the state level, because that's what it's going to take. We have to do fundamental change. We have the benefit of having a wonderful government relations team. What I want to just propose is a closer alignment between your governmental agenda, your agenda that you bring to Salem, and our agenda. Because I think, I don't think we highlight enough this issue, but we're getting slammed, obviously, with the opioid crisis. We're getting slammed with addiction. We're losing too many people on our streets who have addiction. So I welcome your response, Mike, but I think it's a good time to revisit the question of how we can better align. because I know you're doing great work in setting the bar very high in terms of where you want the state to be, and that's not 50 out of 50. Right. So any thoughts? Yeah, Commissioner, thank you very much for that. This process that the state is going through that we urge the legislature and the governor to focus on is creating a new blueprint for a total continuum of care, and that process is going on right now. And so I think it's – we – Oregon Recovers has convened a bunch of about 50 stakeholders from around the state to participate in providing input to that. We don't have city representatives or county representatives, for the most part, as part of that. But that doesn't mean we can't do that. We're planning in November to have a statewide summit where the Alcohol and Drug Policy Commission will bring their draft plan. And we want 300-400 stakeholders to sit down and give it a final one over and say, this big piece of it is a problem for us. And either we can resolve it in the plan or we can recognize that as it moves through the system. But we would love very much so to have the cities and counties be a part of that input process. Well, and let me just say that there is obviously this process of input. But once you've settled on a strategy, there's an opportunity for us to put into our legislative priorities. Yep. a couple of these things and then unleash our A-team. when they go down to Salem to be lobbying because obviously it's playing out on our streets in ways that are very detrimental to human beings and we want to we want to better understand what the what the long-term plan is in Salem so I would urge you as we start developing our legislative plan maybe maybe think less about involving us at the table and shaping the plan but sharing the plan with us right so that we have an opportunity as a council to decide what portions of it we can prioritize and put into our legislative agenda, both federal and state. Absolutely. Commissioner, the one thing I would add as well is once we have a plan, a comprehensive plan, we have to pay for that plan. And there's going to need to be new money in there. And so having the cities and counties and Oregon's thought leaders back up the legislature and the governor on some hard decisions is going to be very, very important. And I don't know what those hard decisions are right now, but I want to start to put down markers that we're not going to solve this just by reorganizing the system, although that has to happen as well. We're going to need to get new revenue. Once we have a plan with very clear outcomes of how that money is going, what that money is going to cause and effect and ultimately save. So absolutely we will coordinate so that we provide you all with what our agenda items are, but also we'll come to you to back up the political infrastructure in Salem to make sure they have the political will to do this. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you all for your presentation. I hope that as the blueprint is being developed, that we're also looking at the burden we're putting on community social service agencies because we can't keep pretending that somehow are actually treating those employees fairly when we're delegating the most vulnerable people in our communities care to people who are living on the edges. And so the plan can't just be about the service. It has to also be about the people who are providing those services. And let me just say, as you know, the city is not supposed to be involved. I mean, you know, we have these clear governmental boxes. And both the Oregon Health Authority, the governor, the legislature, and all county health departments, right, are the ones that get those funds from the state. But having said that, every single day we are experiencing people who are suffering on our street. Right. And we have an obligation as a city to make sure that we are helping people repair their lives, right? Right. And so I'm on board, but I also want to say our last legislative session limited local governments from being able to raise funds to do things they want to do in their local communities. So we have to hold our legislature accountable when they take away our local tools to be able to make things happen. And so thank you all for being here. Didn't have a question, but just wanted to make sure that we were all in lockstep and not forgetting the most vulnerable workers who are working with our most vulnerable people. Commissioner Fritz. I just wanted to echo Commissioner Hardesty's comments. We did have enough in our state agenda this year to urge funding for more, funding for mental health care and addiction and to have some of that go to paying our workers better. We cannot continue to expect people with master's degree to be making $15 an hour or less with no job security and that's not good for the people in treatment either because the the providers move on. So it's really great that you're bringing us this grassroots effort, and we will continue to have in our state and federal agendas support for funding for these services, and definitely you've got a friend in city. You've got many friends in Portland City Hall. Thank you. And I think your support, support like this is exactly what we need to begin to make those systemic changes and shifts happen. So I'd like to turn it over to our Portland Wellbriety folks for a song. Hello, my name is Kurt Jim, a member of Wellbriety. The song we're going to sing is the Chief Joseph song. In the history of it, it's when they went to battle and war and he had casualties in their tribe when they lost warriors or something. The chief would come back and let the people know that they had casualties by singing this song. And then the families would know that they had deaths in the war party and they'd come see who it was. And this is his way of telling the people that They had deaths in the tribe. And with this song, it's got meaning for other people. But in my way, you know, we lost a lot of people to this disease. And this is how I perceive honor in this people's spirit with this song. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The The Oh, my God. oh Hey, yo! Hey, yo! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! ¡Viva la alegría! ¡Viva la alegría! ¡Viva la Iglesia! ¡Ven a la vida, ven a la vida! Gracias. Buenas tardes. que fueron amables y bienvenidos cuando nos acercamos a la trabajo de asistencia, la mayoría de nosotros sin experiencia. También quiero agradecer a los comisionados que respondieron a nuestra solicitud de reunirse uno a uno. Esas sesiones eran muy significativas para nosotros. Un año atrás, el año pasado, no podía haberme imaginado estar aquí con ustedes hoy. Estaba en un espacio completamente diferente, nuevo en el rol de padre de una niña adulta con adicción. La última vez que estuve en este cuarto, ella estaba siendo adjudicada como una persona de Multnomah County. Gracias. En el Summit de Recuperación de Oregon el año pasado en Eugene, nosotros de Portland empezamos a encontrarnos. Compartimos nombres y teléfonos y nos resolvimos a hacer algo. Nos reunimos como comité y nos conocimos diariamente sobre pizza este verano para crear datos y lenguaje compartidos sobre la adicción como crisis de salud pública. So we are pleased and grateful to you for your proclamation language, recognizing addiction as a chronic disease, often requiring multiple episodes of care and a lifetime of support, and recognizing that addiction is a treatable condition as exemplified by the millions of people who identify as being in recovery. Thank you. Thank you. This morning, you've heard about the cost of addiction, both at the personal and population level. But because of the scale of this issue, I have no doubt that you've already felt the impact of substance use disorders. If not through people that you love, then through the most challenging policy issues that you address in your offices. Addiction affects housing, incarceration, the foster care and educational systems, and Portland's public spaces. It affects the most vulnerable people in our communities. The rate of untreated addiction in Oregon and our under supply of capacity to treat it pose a problem that few other states face to the same degree. Our lack of national visibility in these terms stems from the fact that in the midst of an opioid crisis, alcohol and methamphetamine addiction are largely ignored. But like Ohio and West Virginia, we can become nationally known on this issue. Not because of our plight, but because of the way that we respond to it in this upcoming legislative session. Like Megan, I was inspired by the summit and the mission of Oregon Recovers. Oregon Recovers has taken a group united formally by stigma and created a constituency united by a desire to take action. I became involved with the committee because addiction is important to me personally. And as a medical student, I found that it is the gravest issue facing the patients I hope to serve. Nearly everyone's life has been touched by addiction. I've learned that through this work. But more importantly, I've learned to be optimistic because of the incredible change that recovery has worked in people's lives. We believe that this state can change through recovery. We want to thank you again for your partnership in issuing this proclamation. Please consider Oregon Recover as a resource in your ongoing efforts to address addiction at the city level. Lastly, we ask you this coming February to join us in advocating to Oregon's state legislators for a well-funded strategic plan to address the addiction crisis. Lack of access to addiction treatment is a problem that we, together, have the wherewithal to solve and one that is killing Portlanders every day we wait. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. So that concludes our presentation. Before I read the proclamation, I just want to say one thing. First of all, I want to thank everybody who came in. I want to thank Oregon Recovers. I want to thank you for orchestrating this in a way that I think it will have an impact on the legislative session in February. And I especially want to thank those of you who have shared your personal stories around either addiction in yourselves or your families or others. I just have to say one statistic that has not been mentioned yet, but I know you're well aware of this because I heard you mention this yesterday on Think Out Loud, which is that of the dollars that do go into addiction services in our state, only 3% is going towards prevention. That's a big part of the problem. We are an addicted society. We are. And we have not acknowledged that yet through our priorities. And it's also not clear to me who is in charge. And I think a big part of the problem we have in the state of Oregon is not enough leaders have stepped forward to say, I am in charge. And I take personal responsibility for this. I want you to know, I do. Even though the city of Portland, we're not technically in the addiction services prevention or recovery business, but everything we do up here at this dais is in some means impacted by addiction and our lack of prioritizing it. our lack of taking it seriously and our lack of coordinated leadership on this important subject and the lack of funding that it truly needs to get us out of that completely bottom of the pile slot where we currently find ourselves in terms of providing access to addiction recovery. I'm very passionate about this, as I hope you can tell. Yes, addiction has impacted my family. It's impacted many people that I interact with on a daily basis. and it is overwhelming us as a community. We do need that action plan, and you guys are leading it, and I'm really proud of you, and I thank you for it. I'm in, so let me know how I can help. So we as a council have these proclamations. They are more than words. They are a statement of our values. And so it's a real honor for me to be able to read this proclamation and understand that this proclamation on behalf of this city council has been read by other city councils. And it will be read by many more before we go down to Salem together in February. Whereas addiction is a chronic disease often requiring multiple episodes of care and a lifetime of support. And whereas addiction is a treatable condition as exemplified by the millions of people who identify as being in recovery. And whereas according to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, SAMHSA, Oregon has the fourth highest addiction rate in the country. And whereas, according to SAMHSA, Oregon ranks 50th in access to addiction treatment. And whereas, according to an Eco Northwest analysis, untreated addiction costs Oregon taxpayers $5.9 billion annually. Okay. And whereas five Oregonians die each day in alcohol-related deaths, and one to two Oregonians die each day from drug overdoses. And whereas more than 2,100 people die each year in Oregon from untreated addiction. And whereas addiction disproportionately impacts marginalized and underserved populations. including veterans, rural populations, native communities, the LGBTQ plus community, and communities of color. Whereas, the City of Portland supports addiction services in conjunction with its efforts to reduce homelessness and recidivism through the Portland Housing Bureau, Joint Office of Homeless Services, and the Portland Police Bureau. And we should have added the Parks Bureau to that as well. Whereas the legislature has tasked the Alcohol and Drug Policy Commission with producing a strategic plan to address addiction in the state of Oregon. And whereas Oregon will be the first state to measure a recovery rate, a metric which can be used to track the success of alcohol and drug policies per the commission's strategic plan. Now therefore, I Ted Wheeler, the Mayor of City of Portland, the City of Roses do by to hereby proclaim September of 2019 to be recovery month. The city is committed to reducing our untreated addiction rate and providing public health support and services for individuals experiencing addiction issues alongside its partners across the state and across the nation. Thank you. We'll get a quick photo up front. So folks involved with Oregon Recovers come on forward for a photo. Thank you. Come on, stand next to you. Thanks again. Friendly, everybody. Yeah, come on. Come on, we like each other. Come on. You're tall. You don't get to sit in there. Hey, tall. Thank you. Yes. Nice track. Hey, Tom. How are you doing? All right. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, everyone smile. One, two, three, four, one, two, okay. Thank you, everybody. Go get them. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Tell them I said that. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I really appreciate it. Appreciate it. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for watching. I was . I totally agree. You know, 100% . All right. It's this one? Okay. I can do it. Jessica? Yes. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. All right, Carla. Folks, as you're filing out, I'd ask you to please be quiet because we have a very packed agenda. Carla, could you please read time certain items 875, please? Yes. Item 875, the 2019 Portland Insights Survey Final Report. Colleagues, I'm excited to share with you the results of the 2019 Portland Insights Survey. This new 56-question comprehensive survey was administered by the City Budget Office and opened for all Portlanders to take in May of 2019. Notably, there were 8,814 total complete responses, enough to draw statistically significant conclusions in order to compare responses across geographies and across several racial and ethnic categories. Using a new online opt-in and a community-based canvassing approach, the survey resulted in comprehensive data on community perceptions as well as budget and service priorities. The final survey reports represents the culmination of many months of collaborative work between the City Budget Office, the City Bureau staff, community leaders and the people who live, work, and play in the city of Portland. I look forward to continuing the conversations with my colleagues in the community about how these findings can help the city focus our collective efforts and improve our operations to better serve Portlanders. And I will also just say, since this was the first year that we did this, It's certainly not perfect and this is also a good opportunity for us to share our thoughts, our insights in terms of how we can make this even better the next time we do this. So I'll now turn it over to Jessica Kennard, the Director of the City Budget Office and her team to walk us through some of the high level results of the survey. Good morning, welcome. Good morning, thank you Mayor, morning Mayor and Council, Jessica Kennard, City Budget Director. I'm joined today by two members of my team who worked on the Portland Insight Survey, Shannon Carney, our principal performance analyst, and Michelle Rubin, our financial policy analyst. We have 30 minutes together today for our presentation and discussion. The presentation we've prepared will provide a brief overview of the project origin and goals, the survey process and design. Then we will move to highlight select findings from the survey results, and we'll close by presenting potential opportunities and next steps to maximize the value of this project and this information. Our goal today is for you to find this information interesting, useful, and engaging. Please stop us with any questions at any point in the presentation process. And we've just handed out copies of the updated presentation. You should also have a copy of the report as well. For folks following along in the audience or at home, the report as well as additional survey resources are featured on the City Budget Office's website at www.portlandoregon.gov backslash CBO. So we can get started. So with this survey, Portland joins the rank of other cities such as Kansas City, San Jose, Seattle, and Tacoma that are actively using citywide perception data to better inform organizational priorities and operational decision making. Citywide surveys provide an opportunity to gain feedback on big picture priorities, community satisfaction with various services, and community insights on potential service improvements. As it says in the slide, this data can help shape organizational priorities, create feedback loops for program improvement, identify emerging trends and track improvement over time, and bring more objective information and more voices into conversations that may otherwise be subjective. These results have the power to tell cities what community members think- Commissioner Hardesty had a question. Yes. I just realized that the buzzing, is that just in my head or am I hearing it as well? Oh, it was just the wheelchair. Oh, the wheelchair. I had the same thought, Commissioner. I was looking around to see if any lights were flashing. What if we had said yes, it's just the buzzing in your head? That would have been fine. What buzzing? Thank you. Sorry. Thank you. Thank you. So last year, CBO received $60,000 in one-time resources to pilot a new citywide satisfaction survey. Our primary project goals were to build upon the value of the former longstanding auditor's community survey to address various methodological concerns and to ensure that the data was useful to council, to bureaus, and to the Portland community. Thank you. We built this survey with the goal of providing useful information, and we're excited about the potential that this data affords us. However, no single data set can tell us everything. It's important to recognize what this data can and cannot tell us. This information does offer a powerful new data set that highlights perceptions of over 8,000 Portlanders on city services, satisfaction, and budget priorities. This data allows us to see citywide patterns and trends, which can provide even greater value over time if the survey is continued in the future. Thank you. And since responses are available by community identifiers such as race, geography, age, gender identity, disability status and residency. The data provides nuance into who our city is perceived to be serving well and who we may not be serving as well. This high level overview of how different groups perceive and prioritize city services is critical to decision makers and bureau staff in empowering us to serve all Portlanders and to achieve our strategic goals. There are a few things I want to note that the survey cannot tell us. The survey methodology was opt-in, not a randomized sample of Portland residents, and even though we employed several new efforts to ensure representation from historically underrepresented populations, respondents still skewed white, older, female, higher income, and more educated. Steps were taken to address this over-representation in the report, which Shannon will elaborate upon later in the presentation. It's also important to note that in many cases, responses do not provide the why behind the results, which is obviously important to informing the right course of action. We can attempt to glean the why by cross-referencing this data with other available data or through follow-up engagement. So I'll now turn it over to Michelle Rubin, who will briefly provide an overview of the survey process and design. So the 2019 Portland Insight Survey employed an online opt-in approach, as the mayor mentioned. It was available to the whole Portland community to take in the month of May. The online survey was supplemented by a community-based canvassing approach. In this, 37 multilingual community data fellows were hired to bring the survey into the field, with a focus on surveying historically underrepresented populations. This group included students from Portland State University, Portland Community College, and also local community leaders. In developing the survey, CBO met with all bureaus and council offices to solicit survey question input. We convened a multi-bureau evaluation committee and provided an opportunity for final review to citywide stakeholders. CBO also worked with the Office of Equity and Human Rights to ensure the demographic questions on the survey aligned with proposed citywide expanded demographic standardization categories. CBO also worked with representatives from Smart City PDX and the Attorney's Office to conduct a comprehensive privacy review. And lastly, CBO worked with the Office of Community and Civic Life to test the survey instrument prior to going into the field and solicit feedback from selected advisory bodies. CBO deployed the survey via three main outreach strategies. We conducted digital outreach through city and community networks, and we also had the community data fellows in the field collecting survey responses. They canvassed at various events, including the Rainbow Night Market, Filipino Night at Portland State University, and Black Community of Portland meetings, amongst others. And we also handed out physical flyers at libraries and community meetings. Notably, with the survey's online approach, our team was able to analyze responses midstream during the survey and redirect our canvassing approach as necessary. Now Shannon Carney and I will walk through a high-level overview of the survey results. Great, thanks Michelle. So before we do get to the results, I know that's what we're all waiting for, first we want to say just a few words about the people that took the time, about 10 or 15 minutes of their time to fill out this survey and give us their perspectives. So thanks in no small part to your work in supporting and distributing this to your constituents. We far surpassed our goal of 6,000 total responses. At the close of the survey, we actually had over 10,000 responses. But after data cleaning, things like removing incomplete surveys and duplicates, our final number was 8,814. Perfect. It's worth noting that a significant number of the surveys were conducted by our community data fellows and those were actually the most common way to meet non and limited English speakers as well as communities of color. And due to the strong response, we were able to draw conclusions, as Jessica mentioned, for several different race categories, but also for those living with disabilities. Residents over 16, over 1,000 respondents actually identified as living with a disability. The report itself includes specific sections with statistically significant findings for both non-residents, it was open to those that live outside of the city as well, if they work or belong to a community group in Portland, as well as respondents living with a disability. Those start on page 61 at the end of the report. I also want to note that we'll be including an addendum with results specific to the Native American, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian Pacific Islander populations over the next few weeks. And then the other piece to note is because we did not achieve a representative sample despite our efforts with canvassing, we corrected for that by weighting the results with data from the American Community Survey. Okay, finally on to the findings. So the report and presentation are actually organized into six broad themes. The first is community sentiment where we ask these big picture questions. Civic participation is second. We ask about housing and economic development. We ask a few questions on safety and perceptions of safety. And we have a category on infrastructure which includes transportation. And last we ask questions about parks and nature. So today I want to note that we're highlighting just a few of the findings. There's a lot more information in the full report, especially if you want to dive into one or more of the sections. So we'll start with the community sentiment section, which provides overarching trends of life in Portland. A key thing to note here in this section is that some perceptions are broadly consistent across race and ethnic groups, and age, and things like how long you've lived in Portland, while other areas show pretty significant differences of opinion and perspective. And the first finding we wanted to note here is that a majority of respondents are satisfied with Portland as a place to live, raise children, work or go to school, or be part of a community. That said, longer tenured residents and black respondents were more likely to be dissatisfied. Next up, we asked, new this year, entirely new, we asked questions about Portlanders' budget priorities directly. And in this category, we saw respondents showing both significant similarities and some real differences as well. So as you can see from the chart, respondents, regardless of race and age, chose increasing housing affordability and addressing homelessness, that was one response, as their top budget priority. So that's the dark orange bar that you see across each category up at the top. Excuse me a second. Sure. I'm going to hold my questions to the end because I want to see the whole, I want to get the whole thing and I have some questions. But I'm going to just... I know I'm a broken record on this, but I can't read the PowerPoint. It's too small. And I think there's too much information on this slide. The font is too small. And ironically, you said this skewed older female, blah, blah, blah. Older folks can't read this font. So I just have a standing request that when you hand out a PowerPoint, that it be large enough so that we can read it, minimum of font 14, maybe 16, because I need a microscope to read the handout. And I appreciate the effort you went to to do this, but please consider the failing eyesight of certain commissioners when you give it to us. Thank you for the feedback. That's all. So I will continue, I will do my best to describe the graphs too for those that can't see it quite as well. Thank you. So just talking about the budget priorities, right? So we did note that increasing housing affordability and addressing homelessness was the top budget priority. The second most cited budget priority was investments in city streets, sidewalk, and transportation. That's the yellow bar that you see across the different categories. The third is where things differed. So the third most cited budget priority varied actually according to race. White respondents chose police services, represented by the green bar. However, Asian, black, and Hispanic respondents selected economic development above police services, and those who identified as multiracial selected parks programs as their third highest priority. Okay. So talk a little bit about how our respondents felt about the future of Portland. Here we found that optimism about the future of Portland to be mixed. Approximately 45% of citywide respondents felt positively about, reported feeling positively about Portland's future, while another 45% did not. Respondents with disabilities and those that have lived in the city longer are less optimistic about Portland's future compared to others. And that's represented by the blue graph on the right. You can see how pronounced that trend is as the respondent's length of tenure in the city increases. That's interesting. So we wanted to ask a question about advancing, how we're doing around advancing racial equity since that is such a big priority of the city. And to this end, we asked respondents to rate the degree to which they agreed with the statement. And I'll read it. In Portland, we are making progress on becoming a city where a person's outcomes are not based on their race. And here we found that responses were evenly split on whether we're making progress. Approximately 40% of respondents citywide agreed and 40% disagreed. And here we saw some differences in race groups as well, and that's what you see on the chart. So here we see that black respondents and those identifying as a gender other than male or female were most likely to strongly disagree. This is apparent. You can see about 30% of black respondents strongly disagreeing with the statement. That's the dark green on the chart. So another new category of question, we're again sticking with these big picture questions. We asked this entirely new question that asked respondents to identify the city's greatest challenges. And here we heard loud and clear homelessness is perceived to be the top challenge facing Portland according to our respondents. This perspective was shared across every race and age group. You can see that by the tall blue bars in each category. Homelessness was also cited in multiple sections of the survey, including as a reason why people moved and why they did not participate in parks programs. Also, from this question, it's interesting. We found that the high cost of living was the second most cited challenge, and that's shown by the orange bar. Concerns about affordability also reflected in other sections of the survey. So reasons why people moved, the value of their utility bills, and as a way to improve parks programs. The third biggest challenge varied by race. So black residents scored the lack of racial equity as the third biggest challenge, studying this issue more than any other racial group. And that's in the dark blue bar. On the other hand, challenges with population growth were the third most cited challenge amongst most other racial groups, and that's the gray bar. I also want to note here, this isn't something that you see in the graph, but it's worth noting that we had a significant number of open-ended field responses here. Nearly 1,500 people wrote in responses in the other category, citing the biggest challenge. And there we noted that homelessness and drugs were the most commonly mentioned topics in that category, in that field. All right, I'm going to turn it over to Michelle for a few of the findings on civic participation. Great, so hopefully the maps are a little easier to look at. They're similar color patterns. So on the topic of civic participation, the survey asked if respondents felt they had power to influence city decisions and felt they could easily access information from the city. The red map on the left shows the percentage of respondents per ZIP group who strongly disagree with the statement, I have the power to influence city decisions about issues important to me. With the darker red geographies being those who more strongly disagree with that statement. Mayor. In total- Commissioner Hardesty. So if I understand this map correctly, there is no segment of the city of Portland that feels that they have the ability to influence their government. So, yes, this map is a little confusing. Basically, the average response in every geography was strongly disagree. And so the variation in color is the variant. How strongly they disagree. Right, so that's the average response. Not saying that folks don't all... Some people might agree with that statement. Okay, that helps. Great, yep. So in total, 61% of respondents did disagree with the statement, though. And so the map on the right is showing us responses to the statement, I can easily get the information I need from the city. Here, the lighter green is being somewhat agree, the yellow is neither agree nor disagree, and the orange is somewhat disagree. So those geographies who most feel they do not have the power to influence city decisions also tended to find it difficult to get the information they needed from the city. Responses for both of these questions, as you can see on the maps, were especially negative in North and East Portland. So then we'll be moving into the Housing and Economic Development section of the report. The survey asked about respondents' experiences with jobs and self-sufficiency. The pie chart here in the center shows responses to the question, I can find a job in Portland that pays enough to support myself and my family. Responses are relatively split here with more folks agreeing. So 47% agreed with that statement and 39% disagreed with that statement. In conjunction with that, more than 40% of respondents in every race and residency length group identified the high cost of living as a top challenge. Great, so this one, I apologize, is cut off a little bit at the bottom, but this is showing the reasons for moving. So the survey asked if respondents had moved within the past two years, and if they had, asked why. So this is that question showing why. citywide, one in five respondents had moved within the last two years. And we see the responses here disaggregated by race. So for white respondents, and that is the group all the way to the right hand side, the top reason for move was wanting a different type of home, followed by wanting a more affordable home as the second most cited reason. However, affordability was the most cited reason for moving among Asian and black respondents. And that is the left, the farthest left group is Asian respondents, and second to the left is black respondents. And for Hispanic and Latinx community respondents said being close to work, school, family and friends was the most cited motivation for moving. So you start to see some variation there. And the next slide will look a little deeper at moving and affordability concerns. The map on the left, similar type of map as before, so it shows the percent of respondents who moved within the last two years who identified affordability as the reason behind the move. So the darker red are the geographies that had a higher percentage of folks identifying affordability as a reason for the move. The map on the right shows responses to the question, I feel worried about losing my home due to costs. With orange being somewhat disagree here, yellow being neither agree nor disagree, and that light green being somewhat agree. So the map on the left shows respondents moved more often because of these affordability issues in northeast, east, and southwest Portland's. Of these, northeast and east Portland on the map are shown as the geographies where respondents are more likely to indicate that they are currently worried about losing their home. Okay, so moving on to the safety section, there were several notable findings about Portland's feelings of safety. Perception of safety is measured by how respondents... feel when walking either during the day or at night is a standard indicator for effectiveness of our public safety services and was tracked by the Auditor's Community Survey for many years. So this survey indicates that people that responded to the survey feel more unsafe in the central city than in their own neighborhoods. In fact, less than a third of respondents feel safe walking at night in the central city. This is indicated by the red and dark red colors across nearly all the geographic areas on the map on the left. However, a majority of respondents, and that's 57%, do feel safe walking in their own neighborhoods at night, as indicated by the mostly light green areas on the map on the right. It's interesting that people who live in the central city feel safe walking in the neighborhood. Right. Yeah, we saw that as well. And another interesting thing you can see with the patchwork of colors on the map, that it not only significantly differs how you feel depending on where you live, but also residents of East Portland feel both less safe walking in their own neighborhoods and in the central city. So similar to the central city finding. Thank you. And finally, this isn't on the map, but perception of safety did differ by gender while walking at night, but not during the day. So women felt less comfortable walking at night. So we also asked a question about how respondents would choose to improve police services from the city. And this had some notable findings. So survey respondents were posed with this question, what might we do to improve police activities? Black respondents placed discussing local concerns with police as their highest priority, while white respondents chose increased police personnel in their neighborhoods. Interestingly enough, decreased wait times are either the top or second most cited response for all race groups. And you can see that's the gray bar across each category. Commissioner Harsky. So this is the map that really, like, I wasn't shocked because I expected that white respondents would want to see more uniformed people in their neighborhoods. But I was really shocked at the big contrast between the communities of color and white respondents to this question. When people wrote in responses, did people write in more details about either why they felt safe or unsafe and what role they thought police were going to play in them feeling safe? You know, that's something that we are going to, we have not fully analyzed the open-ended responses to the survey yet. So that's certainly, I think this question, as well as the question about challenges facing Portland, are going to be ones that we really dig into and maybe even compare the two. So we'll be following up on that. Or maybe actually do maybe some interim questions. updates on what people are saying about this because I this is a tension constantly that the city has to address because we have people we need more officers we need more officers and there are too many communities that don't feel safe with armed people walking through their neighborhood so I really appreciated that particular information thank you. Kenan could you put the slide back up please? I also noticed that Commissioner, but I noticed in particular that it's black and African American people who are so different from the white people. The other communities of color, many of them have more police as their second choice. So it really shows what you are constantly reminding us that within the communities of color there are the black community is the most impacted. There's also contradictory data in these different pages contradict each other. And again, we're dealing with perceptions here. Perceptions certainly have their importance and their value. But the same people who are prioritizing more police personnel in their neighborhoods are also the ones saying they feel safe in their neighborhoods. That's a good point. And so... It could be just how the questions asked. I often wonder, as I look at some of these slides, if you'd ask the question, if the homeless problem didn't exist, how would you feel about the following statement? Because I feel like the urgency and the magnitude of the homeless crisis is probably overlaying all of these responses. That's just my guess. I don't know that. Yeah, and that's the trick is there's a lot that we don't know, right? And this data I think is really useful and really interesting but to be responsible stewards of the information, I think we do have to dig deeper and sort of cross-reference it with other pieces of information that we have or that are in the survey to try to figure out that why. And you're right, Mayor, that with any survey, how you phrase the question, how you order the question, all of those things can influence the response. You know, we worked with our bureau partners and the consultants sort of advised us on the language. One of the reasons why we asked things the way we did is we tried to make the language as simple as possible so that somebody didn't have to necessarily understand or know government speak to be able to participate in the survey. But certainly it can influence the responses. And just one other comment on that. This is so interesting and thank you for presenting it at Council. I encourage everybody to go onto your website and look at it. When I did the survey, I marked no for feeling safe at night walking in my neighbourhood, not because I'm worried about crime but because there are no sidewalks and no streetlights. I would imagine that for East Portland might be part of the reason some people said no, that they actually are fine with their neighbourliness but not so much with the traffic. Absolutely. Yeah, and so we'll talk a little bit about this at the end of the survey, but I think what we are hoping is that this survey really elucidates and sort of inspires what we would say are calls to action, right? Either they're confirming things that we thought to be true already or they're highlighting new trends, and then we dig deeper. And then we decide, you know, how do we know what the next steps are? Do we need more analysis? Do we need to do subsequent engagement with certain communities? How can we make this information really actionable and lead to improvement? Yeah. Great. Thank you. Okay. So just a few more findings and switching gears here a little bit, just talk about transportation. So as I mentioned before, the infrastructure section included questions not only on transportation. We also asked a question on utilities and on – solid waste services. So there was some particularly interesting findings about who was being served by our public transit system. And so related to the graph you see here, this isn't in the graph, but there was a question earlier in the survey about what respondents value most about living in Portland. And one of the findings from that question is that communities of color, as well as younger and senior respondents, when we disaggregated by age, ranked the access to public transportation quite highly compared to other options. It was second only to parks and natural areas, is what they love most about living in Portland. So then what you see in the infrastructure section, when we asked directly how, you know, what are respondents doing to get to work or school? And we find that, here again, communities of color are more likely to use public transportation. And, again, not in this slide, but younger Portlanders, those aged 16 to 29, are also more likely to use citywide transportation, public transportation than citywide respondents. So that was worth noting. So commute satisfaction. So we asked several questions that we worked with the Bureau of Transportation on to get at Portlanders level of satisfaction on their reliability of their commute, the safety of their commute, and the level of crowding or traffic. And what we found, I think the big takeaway here is that for drivers, which is most of our respondents, so 57% of people that responded to the survey said that they drove to work or school, they were the least satisfied of any of the responders. So, you know, less satisfied than those that take public transit or bike or walk or telecommute, for that matter. And then, interestingly enough, two-thirds of the respondents felt that traffic accounting was worse than last year. So, born out by the survey. So from there, we have some findings on nature and parks. Yeah, so the last section that we will present today is nature and parks. This slide here shows that 97% of respondents reported visiting a park or natural area in the last year. And 50% of respondents participated in a parks program in the past year. And this was consistent across race. However, younger respondents, those in the 16 to 29 age group, and those who have lived in Portland less than a year, were less likely to have participated in a parks program. So the map is showing the recreation or parks program, those who said that they participated in a parks program. And the darker blue are those that participated, the geographies that had more participation. This shows that respondents who are the north, northeast, central northeast, and southeast were more likely to participate in a parks program. And our last finding slide. So we also asked about respondent satisfaction with the safety and cleanliness of Portland's parks. And we found that 70% of respondents are satisfied with the safety and cleanliness. And the satisfaction was the lowest in East Portland. And lastly, the survey asked about potential improvements to recreation programs. And most respondents chose that they would like to make them more welcome to people of different cultures and also more affordable. And these choices were supported especially by non-white respondents and those in the younger age range, so in that 16 to 29 age range again. Thank you. And by the way, I'll be coming back to council in the fall bump with a bold idea that tracks, comes off of this finding about more affordable. People want programs we can't pay for, and they want them to be more affordable. It's going to require in the short term a change in how we budget, and we're going to put an idea on the table that I think is going to get people's attention. Thank you. So those are all of the findings that we are highlighting today. Again, you have the report. It's available online and there's a lot more data to dive into. We obviously learned a lot from this process of conducting the survey in this way for the first time and have identified several areas for improvements if we are able to conduct the survey in the future. These include increasing the canvassing operation to ensure a more representative sample, strengthening community and city relationships to help conduct survey outreach. Adjusting the timing of the survey to better align with the city budget process in order to use it more as an input into that process. Conducting follow-up qualitative research such as community listening sessions on priority areas identified by the survey. And adjusting survey questions as necessary to gain additional insights. Okay. So I will now walk through briefly a few opportunities that we have identified to utilize this data to improve our decision making and our service provision. So it should come as no surprise, the first item is related to budget development. One of the reasons why the city budget office took a role in developing the survey was the potential usefulness of this type of data to inform budget analysis and budget development. Having thousands of Portlanders provide their perceptions of city services supplements the hundreds of voices that we typically hear during budget outreach events. Using this information in our budget development processes can help ensure that budget priorities and decisions are informed by a greater number of Portlanders' opinions. Some ways that we would look to use this information includes considering survey data as one input in our budget conversations for this next fiscal year. We'd also recommend engaging our Bureau Budget Advisory Committees with this data to enhance the findings. For example, bureaus may ask BAC members if they agree or disagree with the report findings. BAC members and other advisory groups can also be a source of more qualitative or follow-up information in areas where we would like to dive more deeply. Finally, CBO will look to include this data in our budget and performance analyses as a complement to other available data that we consider. As mentioned briefly before, we also believe there's an opportunity for bureaus to individually work with their commissioners in charge to address findings that are seen as calls to action. So the key question we would pose to our individual bureaus and our citywide leaders is, what does this survey tell us that we must address to achieve our service level and strategic goals as bureaus and as a city as a whole? Answering this question would ensure an additional level of community input to help influence program design and to bolster the feedback loop for city services. What we also discovered through this project was that there are numerous ways that we as a city, often only as individual bureaus and programs, ask Portlanders for their feedback. We've heard that there's fatigue in the community around our request for their input and involvement, and that what folks want is action. We believe that there's opportunity to increase our collaboration and our sharing of the data we are collecting to better lead to action and to reduce the community engagement fatigue. So to this end, CBO would recommend that we support the continuation and improvement of this surveying effort as a centralized citywide community data collection point. And we would continue to work across the city to ensure that these findings supplement. I have to ask you a question. I'm sorry. I was going to hold off, but I just can't resist. Absolutely. So the very first slide you showed us was red because people felt that they did not have the opportunity to be heard or interact with the city. Okay. And overwhelmingly people say we do not feel that we have that opportunity. And that they are entitled to that perception as their true perception reported accurately. But they're also fatigued from getting, giving us feedback. So what we- Two things work together. What we saw, I think the way that the question was phrased, do you feel that you have the power to influence decision making? Okay. Which is different than the opportunity to engage. Yeah, that's a, that is fair, I appreciate that. But is it the quality of the engagement then that they're fatigued by or simply being asked they are fatigued by? Is it they're fatigued because they're tired of getting calls, emails, text messages? Or is it because they feel like it's a futile effort responding? So I think that that's a question that I wouldn't be able to answer here today. I would look to work with Office of Community and Civic Life and the PIAC and other groups that advise us on community engagement to really understand again the why behind that question. But I think, again, to the point of looking at calls to action, I think this is a call to action. And I think that we can do better as a city to make sure that when we are engaging folks that people feel like it's meaningful and impactful. And if it's not impactful, they understand the reasons why not. Correct. Quickly, as a supplement, we did receive feedback from our community data fellows that were canvassing in the field on their experiences and on what respondents said to them about the experience of being surveyed or kind of their relationship with their survey. So we have that qualitative information. It's a small scale, obviously, not citywide, but a lot of folks said that it was the type of engagement and the fact that it wasn't the follow-up, the feedback loop aspect. So exactly what Jessica was just speaking on. Great. Great. Thank you. That's helpful. Commissioner Hurst. I'm sorry. Are you just about done, or should I be asking questions? Go ahead. Two more slides? Yeah, let's get to it. All right. So we recommend the support that continued. continuation and improvement of this surveying effort. We would also recommend the continued investment and support of data governance efforts to empower data sharing across the city and the utility of that information. And then, again, we know that the city is not the only one tapping the community for engagement and input in the region. There's many other governments that are also frequently doing their own surveys. And so we recommend further exploring regional partnership for community surveying. So one of the last recommendations that we have is also born out of the process of conducting the survey and in conversations around the findings. We discovered that there's a need to have better processes to answer some of those missing why questions. So especially in relation to our high priority programs so that we can ensure that our city investments are best positioned to achieve the intended outcomes and catalyze new approaches. So one opportunity could be to create and support standardized practices or policies around program evaluation. Some examples of high priority areas identified by the survey are listed on this slide. The dissatisfaction with the city's response to homelessness despite significant program expansion and racial disparities in access to jobs, despite economic development programming specifically for communities of color. I think, you know, we... There's a question that can be asked about if making progress and real sort of visionary outcomes based progress in these areas is more a matter of scale as in we need to just do more of what we're doing or if it's a matter of approach as in we need to do things a little bit differently. It's possible that the answer is both but having a consistent evaluation framework can help connect our larger visionary goals to our program and our investment performance. So that's one thing that, one suggestion that we'd like to leave you with. Very briefly, in terms of next steps, I want to close with a brief review of what's been done with the survey data to date and what's yet to come. We held a city budget office internal workshop discussing how we can use this information. We also organized a citywide workshop on August 15th with bureau staff to present the results and discuss how the data can be used to improve our services. We've been reporting back to the community data fellows and community groups that we've engaged throughout the process. And we've put a version of the survey data up for open download on our website. Looking forward, we're currently working internally on an interactive survey dashboard and are partnering with Smart City PDX to display the survey results on the Portland Maps interface. These tools should be available within the next few weeks. We'll also be incorporating pertinent survey data into our prior year performance report this fall. And lastly, CBO has been and will continue to consult with bureaus about how the survey results can be used as an input for their performance management strategies, for their advisory committees, using frameworks like results-based accountability, and in bureau budget equity tools. So in closing, I want to thank you for your support and your engagement with this important work. Now we have some time for discussion. Very good. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Jessica and your team for A, conducting a survey and B, being intentional about doing canvassing to reach out to communities that wouldn't traditionally respond to a survey. I'll go from almost the end backward. When we're talking about people's perception of whether or not they were fatigued from all the requests for information, I'm curious if you have information about whether or not the fatigue comes from one-way communication, right? Does the fatigue come from we come out constantly saying, what do you need, what do you want, blah, blah, blah, and then you don't hear from the city or other governments again until we need something else? For me, I hear that a lot from community members. It's like it's one thing to come and ask me questions, but it's another thing to let me know what the outcome of you asking me those questions are. Do you have any anecdotal data based on the surveys around that? So it sounds like the canvassing, the fellows did hear from the community members that they felt like there wasn't a feedback loop, that they didn't really understand what happened to the information, that it was, you know, a smaller sample of the respondents overall, but they did hear that. We can look to cross-reference some of the information, such as the question, the response, do you feel like you have the power to influence government? We can actually take that data and look at the respondents who felt more strongly that they didn't have power and cross-reference that with other questions and responses and try to glean some additional information that way as to the why. And I wonder if, you know, words are powerful, so I wonder if the word power – actually made people respond in a way that would have been different if we had, say, used another word, right? And I don't know the answer to that, but it just made me think about that when I was reading it, because most people feel powerless when it comes to making government do anything, and that's a very broad, across-the-board statement, right? I would hope that we would be more intentional, right, and think about really what is it, right? Are you able to, I don't know, are you able to influence, right, the city council votes as an example, right? Because I think most people really, and me included, like feel like they, you know, it's like if you look at the federal government, you know we can't do a lot there. I appreciate the desire to use this as we start moving into budget issues But I guess my caution, I have two cautions. One is that because this is a new survey, I think that there will be some tweaks that we'll have to make. And so I don't know that I would invest a lot of time actually trying to match this up to the budget process this year. But I would like to know how you're going to direct us to actually be able to take what's useful from the survey and actually inform the work of developing our budget. What is that process going to look like? Okay. So that's an open question. I think, you know, we know that we want to utilize some of this information in this analysis, the data as a supplement to other data in our analysis and our recommendations. So responding to whatever bureaus are putting in their requested budget. In terms of how the council would like to use this information, I think that's part of the discussion today is, you know, now that you have this information, you've heard an overview of it. What are the areas, what are the findings that you would really like to look to dive deeper into and look for further analysis and or look to take some action through the budget process? I think part of what we can do is help educate the public through the survey process. And so I'm concerned when we think about community safety that the only entity that we mentioned were police. And as you know, we have a lot of first responders that actually don't have guns and uniforms. And so when we talk about community safety or public safety, I think it's important to actually list out. all the agencies that the city has that has a responsibility to both be first responders and actually create a safe community. Because I would like to, and the other thing I'd like to know is how many times people call 911, right? Because as you know, we have a real problem with people using 911 as their removal agency. entity, right? And that's not an appropriate use of 911. So, and I don't know if that's possible. And I, you know, it's not just about me. I understand my other colleagues might have questions that they need as well. But I'm concerned when we believe that public safety is only police, because that's only one small piece of public safety. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Well, first of all, thank you for the presentation. And I think... On a number of levels, I think this survey is an improvement over the auditor survey. But I think we're still struggling with some of the same challenges. And first and foremost for me is how scientific is it? I mean, you put the disclaimer in early on about it's wildly overrepresented with certain groups of people in terms of who opted in. And it's an opt-in, not a representative sample. So, Mayor... If we are going to look to next year to be the year to refine this and then to get some data that shows patterns, because that's really no matter what flaws there are in this survey, there's a huge benefit to us to see patterns, trends year to year, because you're adjusting for those flaws. Within those flaws, we're seeing how do people's views shift. I would strongly urge us to consider buying some time from Tim Hibbets and his shop or however we'd have to do it, to have them sit down and review this and give us some feedback. I haven't done a poll in any of my campaigns since I was elected in 2008, so I'm a little rusty on the question of how you pose questions and how you prompt answers and other kinds of things. But I think we'd get some interesting feedback if we went to a professional. And here are some of the things that I'm interested in learning more about. When people choose the neither satisfied nor dissatisfied, what are they communicating to us? Is that I don't have enough information to comment? Or is that I don't care? Or is that I'm not sure? So I don't know what neither satisfied nor dissatisfied means, but But if you add that category to the plus side on a number of these survey results, it significantly boosts the numbers. So I'd like to know what does neither satisfied nor dissatisfied mean and how should we realistically review that. Number two, I think some of the questions are biased in the way they're worded, biased in the sense that they almost inevitably provoke a certain response. Right. And I think a number of these questions have to be reviewed, particularly around homelessness, so that there's no prompt in the question, that there is a more generic question, and therefore we get an answer that's based on people's response to a generic question, not to one that's a little loaded up. I don't know anymore what the term trust in government refers to. My sense in talking to a lot of people in the community is, is that when they disagree with the council, they express the disagreement as a trust issue. That's a big shift over the last 10 years, and I think it's a big shift over the last 30 years, and we've seen that in the Pew surveys. Increasingly, people frame their disagreement around trust rather than just a disagreement as to policy outcomes. But I'd like to know more about what do we mean by trust in government. Thank you. Our numbers don't seem to be very bad, actually, in trust areas, but I'm not sure quite what people mean when they say trust. When we ask them, you know, do you trust? I don't know. I'm not quite sure any of us know what people mean. I don't have a lot of context. We don't have a lot of context for the answers to these questions, meaning compared to what? I mean, we know that... When close to half of Portland says they generally feel satisfied, generally think city council is doing okay, we know that that's an extraordinarily different set of numbers than we get for Congress. It almost seems like the further away, the more remote the government, the more people's attitudes shift. But when people are rating Congress in single and low double digits, what does it mean that we're close to 50%? I don't know. What's the context? How do we compare to other jurisdictions? What's a benchmark? I don't know the answer. And then finally, I found that there was, I wasn't sold on the methodology we used as to whether we started with prompting someone with a strongly agree or a strongly disagree. And when you look at some of the results, I think they're skewed by virtue of which came first. If you ask someone a question and you say, do you strongly disagree? You are inviting the negative response to the question. If you ask, you strongly agree, you're inviting the positive response to the question. I think the sequence of whether we start with disagree or agree skews some of the results. I'd like to know what a Tim Hibbets or a pro in the field feels about that, because I think that's just textbook. There's a lot of stuff in here for us to review, but I want to echo something Commissioner Hardesty said. I don't think this is going to be as helpful to us until we have worked out some of the bugs and we have year two data to review, including trends. So I'd be reluctant to build this too much into our budget process, particularly because you have been very clear about the disclaimer that it over-represents older female homeowners and therefore over-represents. Even with the adjustments you've made, I'm just not sure how representative it is. So I'd like specific feedback, not necessarily today from you, about how scientific is it, whether you agree that we should spend a few dollars on Hibbets or someone like that. Obviously, there's a procurement issue. What neither satisfied nor dissatisfied means, whether putting the negative response first skews the results, whether any of the questions are biased in the way they're worded, what trust in government means and what's the context for us to evaluate this. And we'll have more context, obviously, just on a trend line next year. I think it's a good start, and I think there's some good data to mine here. But I think it has a long way to go, and I strongly urge us to make an investment in bringing a pro in now to make sure we're on the right track. So thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner. We are happy to look into all of those suggestions, and we'll get back to you on that. So I'll let Commissioner Hardesty ask her question. I would suggest this is a good starting point, and I'm greatly appreciative of this. And obviously there's a lot more follow-up that needs to happen. And I would suggest that perhaps we could take this, digest it, think about the questions as Commissioner Fish has suggested. But at this point, I'd recommend we move the report and then continue those conversations. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Fish. Any further discussion? Sorry, wrong meeting. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? I really want to appreciate the intentionality that you used in creating this survey, and I want you all to know that my questions have nothing to do with my confidence and what your vision was as you move forward. And I look forward to working with you to make sure that next year it gets better, and a year after that, and a year after that. I vote aye. Fritz? Very interesting. Thank you for the presentation. If anybody's interested, they can go to PortlandOregon.gov slash CBO. Fish?
 Yeah. Thanks for an excellent presentation. I do think it's an improvement. And the kinds of issues we've flagged in this hearing, I think, will give us greater confidence in how we use the data going forward to shape decision-making at council. So that's our ultimate goal. So thank you. Bye. Wheeler. Wheeler. I think this is a really good first step. And, yes, we're going to have to continue to massage this. We're going to have to think about how we can elicit more specific answers through the way we ask the questions Commissioner Fish had suggested. But for right now, I just want to give you kudos and thank you for all your hard work. I vote aye. The report is accepted to be continued. Thank you. Next item, please, Carla. 876-6. appeal of Raymond Burse Senior and Raymond Burse Junior against the hearings officer's decision to revoke the land use approval for a type B accessory short-term rental use limited to three bedrooms and six guests within the existing house located at 2946 Northeast 9th Avenue, LU18-118937CU. Colleagues, Council tentatively voted on this item on August 28th, and we're back for adoption of our final decisions and findings. I'll take a motion to deny the appeal, uphold the decision of the hearings officer, and adopt the findings. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you, Rebecca Esau, Director of the Bureau of Development Services. Thank you, Margaret Forrestanger, who's here today, Justin Linley and Mike Leefield. Thank you, Linley Rees in the City Attorney's Office. And thank you especially to all the community members who voiced their concerns about livability and took the time to testify on this matter. And thanks also to Thomas Lanham in the Revenue Division working to get better compliance across the board. I wish. Thank you. I just want to associate myself with all the thanks that Commissioner Fritz just gave. We've had a good hearing. We had a good discussion. And I'm going to vote aye today. Wheeler. I vote aye. The motion carries. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty will be back in a minute. I'll move to second readings. 883, please. Thank you. Do you want to start with 879? I have to amend that. So 883, please. 883, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract to procure electrical switchgear and medium voltage substation transformers for the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant. Project number E10897 for an estimated amount of $3.5 million. Colleagues, item 883 is a second reading. We've already had a presentation and taken public testimony. Is there any other business on this item? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 884, also a second reading. Thank you. authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Columbia Slough Outfall 100 drainage retrofits for water quality project number E10689 for an estimated cost of $1,760,000. Thank you, Carla. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Back to 8.7.9 please. create a new represented classification of facilities worker and establish an interim compensation rate for this classification. So, colleagues, this is one that I mentioned last week. I need to make a motion to move substitute documents so that we have the correct union listed. Could I get a a second for my motion to move the substitute documents for 879. So moved. I'm going to second. We have a motion. We have a second from Commissioner Hardesty. That substitute document also Robert includes an emergency clause. Is that correct or do I have to add that? It's on the substitute. It's already on the substitute. Very good. Any further discussion on this item? Okay. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye.
 Wheeler? The substitute ordinance is adopted. Next item, 880. We're going to move it. We should call it. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University to conduct disability engagement and equity research not to exceed $75,000. So colleagues, I've had a request from Commissioner Udalli since she could not be here today and this is her item to move this. to September 25th. And is that just the morning session or do we have a time certain there? Just the regular agenda in the morning. Very good. So without objection, we'll move that to September 25th per Commissioner Udaly's request. Very good. 881. authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the State of Oregon for administrative review services related to the open and accountable elections program. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, this intergovernmental agreement will allow the city's open and accountable elections program to use the state's administrative review services for appeals made by participating candidates and their campaigns. We have been in discussions with the state regarding the use of their services since last spring and are ready to move forward with finalizing the agreement. Here to provide a brief presentation is Susan Mote, the Program Director. Thank you, Council Members. As Commissioner Fritz said, this is an intergovernmental agreement that will allow the program to utilize the state's administrative review services for program appeals of director determination, such as certification, matchability, and penalties. The city has used the state's services for administrative review in the past. The cost model is per service, so we'd only be paying for appeals that the state actually heard. Since this is the first election cycle, we are not sure how many appeals there will be. But in order to save costs, we did create a mandatory interim step prior to appeal in which the campaign or member of the public first has the program reconsider its decision before we move to an appeal that actually costs the city some money. We have asked this to be in effect immediately as candidates are already able to file for certification, and I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. I'll just add one more thing and that is now that the auditor, the reason that we're doing with the state is because the auditor said she would not accept the responsibility. Even though the auditor has now asked for the hearings office to move elsewhere, we still believe it's the best thing to do to contract with the state because wherever it is, it's going to be under an elected official and we want to make sure it's really clear that this appeal is completely independent. Very good. Commissioner Harstead, did you have a question? Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have, I believe, three people left. Maggie, Mike O'Callaghan, and Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. Very good. Good morning. Good morning, Mike. Go ahead. Good morning. Good morning. I just have one simple thank you for getting this through. I'm going to participate. I have one question, a very fundamental question, and I asked Multnomah County about this. Why is the program that counts the ballots secret? It's proprietary. I know that. Okay? All across the nation. Okay? All ballots are counted by secret programs. Okay? I've litigated this in Alaska, and probably six of my nine cases I took to the state Supreme Court, a number of them were about this issue. Okay? It's a big deal. That's how Trump won. I've only got three minutes, so I can't tell you all of it. Okay? But... This is a fundamental problem. Now there is an open source code program that can be used to count the ballots. And there is a way that we can cross-check the program to make sure that it is accountable. At present, there is no accountability as zero. If nobody checks the test, it's always right. I have a fundamental problem in a so-called democracy when votes are counted in secret. I would appreciate it if the council would change that process. Mr. Callahan, this ordinance is about contracting with the state for appeals of the open and accountable election system. We're not in charge of the county's election system. I understand that. You're right. So do you support having the state do the appeals of the open and accountable elections program? I thought I would talk to the council about something that they're ignorant about. So thank you for the opportunity, and I'll cease my testimony. So actually, we're not ignorant about it at all, sir. I will tell you that... that we have one of the most secure election systems in the country. And if you ever had any questions, you could actually go and watch people count ballots at the Multnomah County Elections Office. And so we are very aware because all of us actually want need people to count ballots to make sure we get elected, right? So we're not ignorant about the issue. It is a county issue. And I believe that we have one of the best most public systems in the United States of America. So thank you for bringing the issue, but luckily Oregon is a non-issue. It's a secret program. Nothing secret about it. Good morning. Maggie, do you want to go next? Good morning. Charles Bridge, and I want to thank Amanda Fritz for moving this forward. I would say that because we've just gone a little sidebar on transparency in elections. On like the third page of the PDF, where I think it's actually the state's document, you'll notice that at the bottom, we've completely X'd out a bunch of, literally, a bunch of capital letter X's block out the identifying information. I think it's page three of the PDFs. It's a not quite full page of... the state's response, but there's supposed to be some identifying information for a city official that's responsible, and everything, their email address, identity, is X'd out. And it's just strange. I don't think it's any reason to vote against having the state office do this. The one thing that I wasn't able to really be clear about is the locations where, if a candidate does take this up, You know, the state obviously has a lovely office building with a pseudo dome on it across the river. So where does a candidate go for this administrative process? If they go to the Open Accountable Elections Office. The reason it's X'd out is because this is a... a standard format dish if the if the if we were to put six currently it will have Susan Matei's name in it but their ordinance gotcha so it's like a sample form and then whatever's appropriate at the time there's a new director then they still use that form and that's why it's not that there wasn't a name there in the first place it was just an opening there's a blank okay thank you very much for all your time people can go either to the open and accountable elections folks uh which will uh We'll have a location as soon as we get that figured out. But also, in the meantime, they can come to our office if they have it. But when the state runs, if somebody does use the hearings, they won't have to go to Salem to have their hearing. The state can telepresence it or do it on the state facility here in the Portland city limits? I'll ask the director that question. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, Maggie, Portland Homeless Town Hall. Joanne, I really liked your response. about open elections and we do comparatively to other states. However, we could always use improvement here and there. And we should never stop monitoring or let up. And it goes back to Fish's question about trust in government, which is, In a democracy, no, of course we should never trust government. We should always be monitoring government. So we should always be checking to make sure that they're openly counting those ballots even when they say they're doing it, we should really check, you know, citizens should check and make sure. So that's all I want to say about that. So I'm for open and accountable and more open and more accountable and more fair. The fairer the better. So that's all. And can I just say real quick on the addiction thing? I'm so glad that was here today. That was an honor and a privilege to have the Wellbriety people here. I've been sitting Shiva for someone who passed away on September 2nd. And this morning, I had the opportunity to witness someone shatter their meth pipe in front of me. And I'm not an addict. That's not my issue. However, I have had addiction in my family, and I've seen it. And so to see this woman come to this point, and hopefully now she will have the support she needs to continue her liberation. that concern and Ted I want to say I was shocked about your honesty about you saying 3% of the budget goes for actual services Yeah, I would like to hear more of that type of thing from you because I would like to talk about percentage of budget that actually goes to services for all sorts of things and So, okay. Thank you. Thank you both. Maggie, that was the most succinct presentation that you've done in some while. And you actually covered four areas. So I'm very impressed that you got all four areas covered in your three minutes. And time to spare. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Okay. Very good. Director Matei, could you come up and answer the question, please? Very good. Yes, the question was whether appellants have to travel down to Salem in order to have their appeals heard, and the answer is no, there are Portland locations that the state administrative judges use. Thank you. Terrific. Any further discussion on this item? It's an emergency item. Please call the roll. Hardesty? I just want to really appreciate Commissioner Fritz's hard work to be very intentional about making sure that we're crossing all the T's and dotting all the I's. And this is just one more component to make sure that regular people have the opportunity to run and serve on this prestigious board. I vote aye. Fritz? I am really excited that several candidates are now using the program. They're out there collecting their signatures so that they have to file by petition. And I encourage people to get to know who's running and participate in our democracy. Thank you very much to Susumote, to Senior Policy Advisors, Christina Nieves for all of your work on this. Thank you. Aye.
 Bish?
 Aye.
 Wheeler? I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for her continued leadership and I want to thank the folks at the State of Oregon for also working with the city on this. I think this is a very, very good arrangement and I strongly support it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 882 please. Authorize a construction contract with North Bank Civil and Marine Inc. in the estimated amount of $4 million for the investigation and repairs of a sub-drain in the Bull Run Dam 2 spillway under the auspices of a declaration of an emergency per ORS 279C.335 competitive bidding. Exceptions and PCC 5.33130. I'd like to pull this back to my office, please. Well, that's no fun. Very good, Commissioner Fritz. Without objection, we'll pull it back to your office. And that leaves us with item number 878 from the consent agenda, which was pulled. pay bodily injury lawsuit of Daniel Martinez in the sum of $15,000 involving the Portland Police Bureau. Very good. And who pulled this item? Dan Hendelman. Dan did. And do we have somebody from the police bureau here or from risk management? Very good. Dan, why don't we hear from you first just so we understand what your questions are and then we can hear from the other folks. Why don't you come on up, sir? Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Copwatch. And I actually would prefer for the presentation to happen before I speak. If that's the case, I'm happy to do it that way. Okay. Okay. Very good. Come on up. Good morning. Thank you for being here. And if you could just identify yourselves for the record, we'd appreciate it. My name is Jessica Byrd and I'm a senior liability analyst with risk management and today I brought with me acting Lieutenant Nathan Shepherd with professional standards. Thanks Lieutenant. This lawsuit arises out of a suspect misidentification. On November 13th, 2016, Mr. Martinez was walking on a sidewalk downtown at the tail end of a procession of protesters who were engaged in an anti-Trump march. Three nights earlier, a protester had caused significant property damage to city businesses by smashing their property with a baseball bat. A Portland police officer observed Mr. Martinez in the crowd and broadcast over the police radio that they believed they had identified the suspect from the earlier property damage case. Mr. Martinez was taken to the ground, handcuffed, and released 20 minutes later when it was determined he was not the suspect in the property damage case. In his October 11th, 2018 lawsuit against the City of Portland and the Portland Police Bureau, Mr. Martinez alleged battery, that the officers ignored his complaints, that his handcuffs were too tight, violation of civil rights, and negligent supervision and training. He alleged that as a result of the encounter, he sustained injuries to his knees, chest, left shoulder, nerve damage to both wrists, mental anguish, disruption of sleep, and humiliation. In addition to his medical expenses of $944 and wage loss of $215.25, he demanded non-economic damages totaling $75,000. The parties engaged in a mediation and were able to reach an agreement for $15,000, inclusive of those medical expenses, wage loss, and attorney fees. Approval of this ordinance will allow risk to pay Mr. Martinez through his attorney for the agreed settlement totaling $15,000. Very good. It's my understanding, somebody handed me an email earlier, that there's been a change to policy since that time. That's correct and... So what mine says is it now incorporates a two officer identification requirement. So it cannot just be one officer. In addition, it looks like on-scene supervisors also have to determine if an arrest is necessary. Is that correct? That's correct. And it says taking into consideration the totality of the circumstances. So it sounds like there has been an effort to address this issue from a policy perspective. Yes. Lieutenant, anything else to add? No, sir. Very good. Any questions? All right. We'll hear from Mr. Handelman. Thank you for being here. Thank you for the presentation. Once again, Mayor and Commissioner, I'm Dan Handelman with Fortin Copwatch and I appreciate having discussion first because now I've learned that at least some of the concerns of our organization may have been addressed by this policy change. You know, I'd read the news article about Mr. Martinez being mistaken for an African-American suspect in this case. I mean, he's Latinx. There were previous cases that came before the Citizen Review Committee. One of them, I think was 2014, Lisa Haines was a African-American woman who was mistaken for a Latino male who was a head taller than she was and Another came the first case that ever went to City Council through the citizenry committee was a man named um Merrick Bonneau, whose brother, Merrick is mixed race, his brother is white, but Merrick was mistaken for his brother and he was arrested and taken down brutally by the police. So I'm hoping that this new policy is going to stop this from happening, albeit we've only seen a few of these cases stretched out over the years, but these are the ones that we've seen publicly. A lot of these cases happen, we don't hear about them. But also, you know, I'm here two weeks after I came before you after pulling a shooting settlement off the consent agenda and saying these are cases that should be talked about in public. And this is exactly why, so that we can learn about the things that the police are doing to make sure these kinds of things won't happen again. I really appreciate that we're having this discussion, but we wouldn't have if I hadn't pulled it off. pull this off the consent agenda. So I'm hoping, you know, there are a lot of cases of police car accidents including one that you considered this morning that come before you. We don't pull them off the agenda to talk about them. They're usually not about misconduct. I counted in the last two months six settlements for $358,853 that have come before you. Now, that could be another trend that could be looked at and talked about. I'm not urging that because we're interested in an accountability issue, but that might be an accountability issue if you're having that many accidents with police cars. And I'm not sure how much when we had this discussion about – Mr. Perkins' settlement a few weeks ago, why there was no discussion among council members about this most serious kind of case with deadly force, whether the city attorney has warned you against seeing anything. I would like to hear them cite a single incident where a discussion at city council about a settlement has adversely affected the outcome because I really think we need to have, like I said, we really need to have these public discussions about these things. And just following up on what I testified about last week, well, we had to submit written testimony, but appreciate Commissioner Fish reading some of that into the record about the police review board that cases like this, the officers who misidentify or the officer who misidentified Mr. Martinez, maybe have had. a misconduct investigation done and how outcome would have been in a police review board report, but we haven't seen a police review board report this year. There's supposed to be two every year under the ordinance. It's now almost the end of September and there's still no police review board report for this year. Thank you Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Dan, for your presentation. As you know, normally I pull police settlement agreements off the consent agenda because, like you, I agree that we should have those conversations in public. I did not pull this one because I'd already been informed that you had requested to have it pulled. And I absolutely agree that I think risk management is a very important part of the process. needs to do an assessment of just how much money we pay out on settlements for auto accidents, especially. Because like you, I'm very concerned that that seems to be just a never-ending process, right? And sometimes it really can't be helped, but I think that there should be service improvements that come about because of that. and any settlement that we're paying out having to do with personal injury to an individual, I agree should be a public conversation. So thank you for being here. Still good morning for five minutes. Good morning, Commissioners. Charles Bridge, Grant Johnson, for the record. Mostly, I just want to be on record to thank Mr. Martinez. for seeking out Richard Davis and strongly advocating for his civil rights and police accountability. For every one plaintiff that does this, I think that many of us believe, and there's evidence of other people who've had civil rights violations by the police and just have not had the wherewithal to come through and make it go on the record and to get a monetary form of justice, even if they don't see a complete apology. There's some of the bigger picture that's involved with Mr. Handelman's testimony. I think while the OIR report is focused on hopefully prevention and elimination of officer-involved shootings, I think maybe in the future there should be constituent responses, if not from the police department, at least from risk management, so that we also see, in addition to the tragic human impact when people are hit by Portland police bullets, the negative impact that taxpayers have. So I don't know if we've ever paired that information about OIR, reviewing in the past which people have been involved in officer-involved shootings, and also at the same time said, and this has led to 14 tort litigations that totaled up to X number of dollars, which of course is a burden borne solely by taxpayers because we don't have police accountability where individual cops are hardly ever held responsible for their actions. So thank you for your attention to this matter with Mr. Martinez. And I was curious as to how the other larger dollar settlement didn't get pulled, but of course it's, It's just traffic, but those are also situations where the bodies and families of our friends and neighbors have incurred pain and trauma. So hopefully we can keep raising the bar and see real progress in the decline on incidents like these. And also in one of the earlier things, when we talked about the survey and the 50% local approval, We need some baselining information to know how is the city's risk exposure, the amount we're paying out, are we at least doing better than the average for other municipalities in the country, or are we not getting good results from our efforts to manage risk and we're actually paying out a disproportionately high amount compared to other municipalities? Thank you. Thank you. And with that, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Hardesty. Fritz. It's regrettable this event happened and we're sorry and I'm glad that policy changes have been made. Aye. Fish. Aye. This is obviously a regrettable situation, but I want to somewhat disagree. In fact, I want to strenuously disagree with the assumption that police are not held accountable for their actions. This is a situation where, in fact, the police bureau is being held accountable for its actions. As the police commissioner, I get the stack. of police discipline memos and they range from very small transgressions to significant transgressions. And even truthfulness can be a cause for termination of a police officer. And I will just say there's no bureau where individual accountability is taken more seriously, where people are not, where people are held more accountable than in the police bureau. The second thing I want to mention is that we should not assume malice in this or any other case. It is very possible that the officer thought with good reason, with good intentions, that this was the correct individual and that they were looking for the individual. It obviously turned out it was not the right individual. And that is a problem. And I'm glad to see that the police borough in response to the problem did change policy to make sure that going forward we don't have this kind of regrettable situation like we did in this particular case. The final thing I want to point out is the reason these come to council as problems. consent items is that this is already a negotiated settlement. This is what the victim in this case, the individual who is wrongly identified as being a perpetrator of a crime, and we all acknowledge that he was wrongly identified and we're all sorry that he was wrongly identified. But this is what he and his representation is. have met and agreed to with the city's representation. So really the question before us is do we accept what they have collectively come to as an amicable or an acceptable agreement, or don't we? That is a separate conversation from the policy discussions that Mr. Handelman raised. He raises legitimate policy questions, I do not deny that. And it is important that we be transparent and clear with the public about how policy is changing to address these issues, why policy is changing to address these issues, and how successful those policy changes ultimately are in solving the problem. But I want us to keep separate the question of a settlement which has been agreed upon from questions around policing policy, which, while important, is somewhat separate from the question of whether or not we accept the settlement that's been agreed to. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted, and we are adjourned. All right, good afternoon everyone. Welcome to Portland City Hall. This is the Wednesday afternoon, September 18th session of the Portland City Council. We welcome you all. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Here. Udaili. Here. I mean, sorry. I just assure you. Sorry. Take two. Take two. Sorry. Carla, good afternoon. Good afternoon. Please call the roll. Artisty. Yeah. Udaily. Fritz. Here. Fish. Wheeler. Here. And now we're going to hear from legal counsel on the rules of decorum. I think we can give the short version today. The shortened version. I'll wing this then. Welcome to City Council. The City Council has an opportunity for all Portlanders to speak, so please speak when your turn is given. Please don't boo or hiss. If you want to express agreement, raise your thumbs, and if you want to express disagreement, you can give a thumbs down. Perfect. Well done. Thank you. So, Carly, we have one item this afternoon. Can you please read the item? Item 885, Proclaim September 15 to October 15, 2019 to be Latinx Heritage Month. Colleagues, I'd like to start by thanking Commissioner Fritz and our entire team for bringing this proclamation to the city council. I'd also like to thank Ivan Hernandez, Pepe Moscoso, Moscoso. Moscoso, thank you, sir. Javar Requena and Tatiana El Halde for coming to council today to speak in support of this important proclamation. It's important for us as a city to recognize how members of our community have contributed to economic growth, culture, and civil rights. I'd like to take this moment to recognize the sheer number of Latinx civil servants and their many contributions to our city. Thank you for your service to our community. Thank you for your service to the city of Portland. I'm proud of Portland's status as a sanctuary city. Under my leadership as mayor, the city of Portland will remain a welcoming, safe, and inclusive place for all people, regardless of their immigration status. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for bringing this forward today. Diolch am ysbonsoi'r cyflwyniad o'r flwyddyn o'r Ddeddf Cymru heno gyda mi, Prif Weinidog. Mae hefyd fy modd i ddod i gael cyflwyniad i'n holl gwestiynau, gan gynnwys ein siaradwyr, Ivan Hernandez, y rheolwr cyfathrebu ar gyfer organiadau hawliau cyflwyniad, Cawsa, a Pepe Moscoso, artist pop sy'n gweithio mewn galle, a chyflwyniadwr. Diolch i chi i gyd am fod yma os hoffech chi ddod i fyny. Mae'r thema ar gyfer y mis Gweddoriaeth Isbaneg 2019 yw Ysbyty Americain, Ystod o Weithredu ein Cynulliad. Mae'r ddyniaeth yn gweithio â llawer o weithredwyr, yn ogystal â Havar Recoyna, sy'n ymuno â ni heddiw. Havar wedi gweithio yn yr Armi, yn gweithio ar gyfer y Bwrw O Gwasanaethau Dynol, ac mae'n aelod o'r Grup Affinity Latinx PDX. Mae'n hyfryd i weld i chi i gyd yma, ynghyd â Tatiana Elihalde. A byddwn ni'n clywed o Ivan yn gyntaf, os gwelwch. Diolch. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda. Mae A hoffwn i chi gael gwybod ychydig am Gawsa. Yn y flwyddyn diwethaf, rydyn ni wedi cymryd ymgyrch wedi llwyddo am wahanol gwahanol polisi, gan gynnwys HB 2015, sy'n adnodd arwain arwain sy'n cael ei gynnal arwain arwain i bob un o ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ymwneud â'r ym pan oedd mwy na 63% o'r Oregonwyr wedi cytuno â ni, gyda'r ddinas Portland, nad ydyn ni am fod yn cael ein profilio gan y ffordd rydyn ni'n edrych, neu'r ffordd rydyn ni'n siarad. Hefyd, rwy'n hoff i ddiolch i'r dinas Portland nid yn unig am fod yn ddinas, ond hefyd am y tasffwrs a'r grwp gwaith sy'n gweithio i'w diogelu. Hefyd, diolch i chi am eich cefnogaeth am gyfrifolrwydd, sy'n galluogi i bawb ym Mheiryddol y dde, chi'n gwbod, cyngor llaw pan maen nhw'n ei angen. Fel rydyn ni'n gwybod, mae rhai pobl yn anffodus, 2 mlynedd yn ôl, yn rhaid i gynrychioli eu hunain yn y Llywodraeth Gwledig. Ac gyda'r arian a'r cefnogaeth hwn o'r ddinas o'r Portland, you know, people have legal assistance and have an attorney that are present with them now to be able to defend themselves. And we're also happy to announce that we were able to expand that because of our work here in Singapore and statewide. So thank you so much for that. and also mention that we have come a long ways, but we still have a long ways to go. We have to protect the gains we made and strive to do more. But thank you all for being here. Thank you for, once again, acknowledging our community, acknowledging our culture, and thank you for what you've done for our communities, and we hope to keep working together. Thank you. Thank you. I'll let you go. Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and City of Portland commissioners. My name is Pepe Moscoso. I'm a visual artist, cultural art producer, creative consultant, and as well lawyer in Mexico. I have been living in Portland for the last 14 years. And as I said, I'm originally from Mexico. Maybe you noticed my accent from Portland. I'm just kidding. For me, it's a pleasure to be here and talk about the importance of the Latinos in our community. You know, as immigrants, we wear many hats. Why? Because we are moving from our own culture to be the best version of ourselves in the place that we are now living. As an immigrant wearing these hats, we try to bring the best of our own nation, and not just as hard workers, as well as artists, producers, all the cultural elements that create our own identity. For me, being involved in all these projects and programs during the past 14 years in Portland, Oregon, helped me to understand how important how important we are here in the nation and how much we are putting on the table to create and build a better nation. And as well, you know, every person that move and install themselves in a new place to live, they have challenge and opportunities. And as an artist and as a producer, we learn from this challenge and we take the best opportunity to do the best for the community and for our families. Now we have many Mexican Americans living in the United States. 100% Mexican, I now want to give the best to my kids to tell them where are the roots and where are we coming from and what we are now doing here as Latinos living in the United States. It's a pleasure to be here and I want to finish my conversation with one quote that has been very important for me. The need for connection and community is primal. As a fundamental as the need for air, water and food. We need community. We need to build relations. This is the time that we are changing. We are becoming world citizens and we need to accept each other. And I'm going to end my conversation with this question, why we don't accept the change? Why taking us so much to understand that now we are building a nation of many people from many places and many colors? Thank you. Gracias. Thank you. Appreciate it. How are you doing? My name is . I am from the United States. I am an immigrant. I came here on a visa. Well, actually, it was already in the States, but I had a green card growing up before I joined the military. I spent eight years in the military in the 8th Airborne Division out of Fort Bragg. I've been to Iraq, Afghanistan, traveled most of this world to defend this country. Being a person that comes outside of this country and defend it as I am an American, because I am, that's what I feel like that I am. I shed blood like everyone else did. Carried bodies through the medevacs, through taking bullets, taking and coming fire, the whole shebang. War is hell, to be honest with you. And it doesn't matter, the bullet doesn't matter what color, race you are, where you come from. It doesn't matter. It matters the person on your left or your right, make sure they come back home. That's what matters. It doesn't matter, can they come from the same country you come from, the United States of America. And those things are important. I think as a country we've lost those ideas of partnership, brotherhood, and everything else that comes along with living the American way. I know everything that's saying is America is American pie, but I think that's changed a lot because it's a melting pot of different cultures. I think we need to accept those things as something that, as a country of immigrants, we've lost that. We should do more to accept one another because that's what makes America great, is each other. Everyone comes with different unique differences, different backgrounds. The cool thing about the 82nd was it was called the All-Americans for a reason. That's the nickname of the 82nd Airborne Division. It was people from across this country. My best friend was a Caucasian fellow that was Irish from West Virginia, and we shared a lot of different similarities there. we both grew up poor. He had a taste for Mountain Dew I could not understand. He couldn't even explain to me why that was just his drink of choice. But we became best friends and I still talk to him to this day. I still love that guy and it It's the bonds you build, the brotherhood you have, those blood brothers that you'll never forget. You remember the times when times are hard, when it's difficult, when you are in enemy fire and stuff that you can't really truly get out of, but there's the people to your left and your right who you depend on. And those are the things that matter. That's America in a nutshell. It's depending on one another. And being an employee within the city, I'm thankful for... is having this platform to express those ideals. I've been in the city for five years as an employee, but I've been living in the city for 10 years. And as a city of Portland is progressive, I mean, of course, a lot of things need to change like anything else. But as a city entity, we should do more for veterans. I think I've been on this platform before explaining that veterans need help. But there's a lot of us that's out here just want to be part of something bigger. We just don't have the opportunity or know how to reach out to even do those things because we're not from that. We're very selfless. In other words, we rather let somebody else put their life on the line. to take a position in ourselves because in our minds they deserve it more. But we all deserve to kind of be selfish sometimes to actually take a step and move forward. But I thank you for giving the platform. Thank you for the organization. Thank you for allowing me to talk. Thank you so much. Thank you for speaking. We appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to thank you for your service. Thank you. As a former Navy vet myself, I can tell you that you are absolutely correct that we don't honor veterans enough in this city. I spoke at the stand down on September the 11th, and it kind of breaks your heart to think people gave so much and get so little back. And so I really appreciate you being here, and I appreciate you sharing your story. And we can and must do better by veterans. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you all for being here. Now, Mayor Wheeler is going to, that's the end of your presentation, right? Yeah. Yeah? And I believe that the next, what I've got in my instructions, which I... try to follow my staff's instructions, is that Mayor Wheeler is going to read the English version, then Tatiana Elahaldi of the Office of Equity and Human Rights and also a Latinx PDX member is going to read the Spanish version. After that, we'll have council comments and then photographs and cheering and celebrations. Very good. So I like to start these off by saying these are more than words to us. These are values. Thank you. that the council has ascribed to that we agree with and by extension the community. Whereas Portlanders self-identify as Hispanic, Latino, Latinx, Chicano, Indigenous, or country of origin American, and this heritage extends historically over five centuries, thriving as a consistent and vital influence in our country's food, culture, language, economic growth, and prosperity. And whereas Latinx culture is tied to indigenous African, Asian, and Iberian ancestry and historical roots, the rich tapestry of our culture recognizes that Latinx are multiracial, multicultural, and multilingual. The Latinx population represents people with origins from the Caribbean, Central America, North America, South America, and many, many other places around the world. And whereas, growing at the same pace as the nation, Oregon's most recent data shows that 13.3% of the state's population is now Latinx. Since 2010, Oregon has added nearly 91,000 Latinx residents. In Portland, there are 67,551 people of Latinx descent, making up 10.9% of the city's population. While Portland's overall population grew by 1.3% between 2016 and 2017, the rate of growth for the city's Latinx population was 3.8% during the same time period. Whereas in 2017, 66.4% of Latinx in Portland were native-born, growing by 12%, while the foreign-born population has grown by 1%. The median age for Latinx in Portland is 28.4 years. One in four kindergartners identify as Latinx. And whereas Latinx have supported Portland's economy with myriad of contributions in the fields of commerce, science, technology, public health, health, agriculture, winemaking, dairy, and many, many more areas. Today their purchasing power in Portland is nearly $4 billion and 15,000 businesses are owned by Latinx entrepreneurs. Whereas people of Latinx heritage are often subject to discrimination and underrepresentation, And whereas Portland recognizes the many organizations, institutions, and people supporting the Latinx community to overcome disparities in economic and housing opportunities, as well as health and educational outcomes, working tirelessly to ensure that they remain a flourishing community. And whereas continued access to jobs and livable wages for Oregon Latinx is essential for our state to thrive, Latinx currently make up 7.1% of the city of Portland's workforce. To help connect more Latinx to city jobs and to support them throughout their careers with the City of Portland, the Latinx PDX City Employee Affinity Group was re-established in 2014. Latin PDX has reached over 80 members and continues to grow. And whereas city staff members in the Latinx community stand in solidarity with other communities of color and members of marginalized groups who continue to face discrimination and underrepresentation and are committed to working in unity to dismantle systems of oppression. And now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of Roses, do hereby proclaim September 15th to October 15th, 2019 to be Latinx Heritage Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I'm Tatiana Lejalde, proud immigrant from Colombia and work for the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Considerando que los Portlanders se auto-identifican como hispanos, latinos, latinx, chicanos, indígenas o orígenes estadounidenses, y este patrimonio se extiende históricamente a lo largo de cinco siglos, prosperando como una influencia constante y vital en la comida, la cultura, el idioma, el crecimiento económico de nuestro país y prosperidad. y considerando que la cultura Latinx está alijada a orígenes y raíces históricas indígenas, africanas, asiáticas e ibéricas. El rico tapiz de nuestra cultura reconoce que los Latinx son multiracial, multicultural y multilingüe. La población Latinx representa personas con orígenes en América Central, América del Norte, América del Sur, el Caribe y muchos otros lugares del mundo. Considerando que el crecimiento al mismo ritmo que la nación, los datos más recientes de Oregon muestran que el 13.3% de la población del estado hoy en día es Latinx. Desde el 2010, Oregon ha agregado cerca de 91,000 residentes Latinx. En Portland hay 67,551 personas de origen Latinx, que representan el 10.9% de la población de la ciudad. Si bien la población general de Portland creció 1.3% entre el 2016 y 2017, la tasa de crecimiento de la población Latinx de la ciudad fue de 3.8% durante el mismo periodo. considerando que en el 2017 el 66.4% de la población Latinx en Portland nacieron en el país, creciendo en un 12%, mientras que la población nacida en el extranjero creció solo un por ciento. La edad mediana para Latinx en Portland es de 28.4 años. Uno de cada cuatro niños de kindergarten se identifica como Latinx. y considerando que la población latina ha apoyado la economía de Portland con miles de contribuciones en los campos de comercio, ciencia, tecnología, servicio público, salud, agricultura, producción de vinos, lácteos y más. Hoy su poder adquisitivo en Portland es de casi 4 mil millones y 15 mil negocios con propiedad de empresarios latinax. y considerando que las personas de herencia Latinx a menudo son sujetas a discriminación y subrepresentación, y considerando que Portland reconoce a las muchas organizaciones, instituciones y personas que apoyan a la comunidad Latinx a superar las disparidades en oportunidades económicas y de vivienda, así como los resultados de salud y educación, trabajando incansablemente para garantizar que sigan siendo una comunidad florecente. Y considerando que el acceso continúa a empleos y salarios dignos para Oregon Latinx es esencial para que nuestro Estado próspero. Latinx actualmente representa el 7.1% de la fuerza laboral de la ciudad de Portland. Para ayudar a conectar a la comunidad Latinx a más empleos con la ciudad y apoyarlos a lo largo de sus carreras, el Grupo de Afinidad de Empleos de Latinx PDX City se restableció en el 2014. Latinx PDX ha alcanzado a más de 80 miembros y continúa creciendo. considerando que los miembros del personal de la ciudad en la comunidad latina se solidarizan con otras comunidades de color y miembros de grupos marginados y su presentados que enfrentan discriminación y su representación y se comprometen a trabajar en unidad para desmantelar los sistemas de opresión. Y ahora, por lo tanto, yo, Ted Wheeler, alcalde de la ciudad de Portland, Oregon, por la presente proclamo que del 15 de septiembre al 15 de octubre del 2019 será mes de herencia cultural Latinx en Portland y animo a todos los residentes a observar este mes. Gracias. Gracias. ¿Y eso completa la presentación? Eso completa la presentación. Si queréis decir algo y luego tengo algunos comentarios finales. Quiero agradecerles a todos por venir aquí. Y creo que es absolutamente fabuloso que el comisionado Fritz y el mayor Wheeler co-esponsoraron esta ordenación hoy. Es importante que reconozcamos todas las culturas que llaman a Portland a casa. Y así, gracias por estar aquí. No tengo un gran discurso, pero solo quería decir gracias. Agradezco esto. Y estoy curioso, ¿cuántos de ustedes son miembros de LatinxPDX? Sí. So quite a few. That's great. And so we'd like to obviously see that continue to grow. Speaking now as part of the city team here, I think it's really important to help not only expand the reach of our our community here in Portland and potentially share ideas about who else we should be encouraging to come and work with us here on our important mission at the City of Portland. But it also, I think, helps people who are coming from other places who work for the City of Portland to feel more welcomed and more connected to what we're doing here. We know that we're pretty good at recruiting. We're less than pretty good when it comes to making sure that people feel connected and supported in their jobs here. And so retention really needs to continue to be something important that we do. And I really resounded with the comments about the importance in this day and age of feeling like you belong. At a time where it just seems as a society we are hell-bent. on dividing people. This is an opportunity to really bring people together and stand not only for diversity, them as individuals, but also stand for really important values that are being tested during these difficult times. So we are trying to counter the tide of negativity and hostility and hate and division by being supportive and inclusive in bringing people together. And this is one really cool way that I think all of us here at the City of Portland are working with community groups and leaders in the community to really try and live that value. So my hat's off to you. I salute you. It's not all sitting in City Hall. I've been handed this little memo. There's fun associated with this. And it says, following the council presentation, all are welcome, welcome. to join us in the City Hall Atrium for refreshments and entertainment. So that sounds like a lot of fun, particularly given that we have a relatively short agenda today. So the atrium is downstairs. Fun, refreshments, music, a DJ. It should be really cool. You going to sing? No, I'm going to do you all a favor because I like many of you here in this room, so I'm not going to sing today. But I would have a simple request. I'd like it if we could please gather here in front. Commissioner Fritz, I'm sorry. It's all right. I apologize. It's all right. After Commissioner Fritz, if we could just gather for a photograph, that would be a lot of fun. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. You do usually get to have the last word, but this time I thought I would. You've earned it. You've earned it. And we do want to thank the refreshments are courtesy of El Coki, which is Puerto Rican cuisine. And there are special performances by Joaquin Lopez and Michael Cavazos and DJ Chach. So we appreciate them for sharing their time and talents. I am really grateful to each one of you for coming today and for Havar and Tatiana, our Great City employees, for the work that you do each and every day. Our Latinx community is resilient, diverse, brilliant, has so much to offer our community and indeed does give so much to our community. And I'm really grateful that each of you took the time to come today for the work that the Latinx PDX and the Affinity Group does with our city jobs in providing support. I've been a long time supporter of the affinity groups and I think it's really important that not only do we share our diversity in different situations with different kinds of people, but occasionally we get together and talk about the ways that each of our affinity groups has similarities and challenges and how do we address those and celebrate those. I've seen the value that Latinx PDX has done. You co-created a culturally specific leadership development program. You coordinated a Know Your Rights panel. You... hosted a deferred action for childhood arrivals exhibit, curated an interactive art installation in the Portman building, you've informed policy developments and much, much more. And so I'm very grateful. All of this has been on personal time. We really appreciate that. We're going to be bringing to council a recommendation created in as well with the partnership of human resources to actually have paid time for attending affinity groups meetings so that people don't have to feel torn between their job and putting in this extra, this other special work We also thank Biketown and the Portland Bureau of Transportation for sponsoring Heritage Month activities, including a lunchtime bike ride from Terry Shrunk Plaza to Kiosko Coffee tomorrow morning. Commissioner Udaily and Commissioner Fisher both stick this afternoon. I know that they are both wishing they could be here, and we thank them. Portland Bureau of Transportation in particular. Oh, here's something interesting. Biketown is rolling out a limited number of Latinx cultures themed bikes as part of their culture collection. One of the Latinx bikes will be displayed downstairs during the reception following this presentation. So there's another reason to go down and have a look what's going on there. A, yn olaf, diolch i chi am y Cymuned Cynllunio Cynlluniau Cenedlaethau Cymru 2019 ym mis Hedwrn, Cynthia Castro o fy swyddfa, Linda Castillo o Cyfweliad Cyfrifol, Tatiana Elihaldi o'r Cyfarfod Cyfleol a Gwerthu Dynol, Francisca García o'r Swyddfa Llywodraeth a Phiniaeth, Samuel Garcia o'r Bwrw Rhanfod a Chynhyrchu, Tony Garcia o'r Swyddfa Gweithredwyr y Stidion, Eric Pacheo o'r Bwrw Hwyddo a Michelle Rodriguez o Civic Life. Diolch i chi i gyd am yr holl amser rydych chi wedi'i roi i mewn a chrannu yma heddiw. Nawr gallwn ni wneud y llun. Diolch. A Carla, rydyn ni ar gael.