Okay. You don't think a presentation is needed on 976? Matt, we're ready to get to work. So we don't have any time certain, right? That was just a question I had. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the September 23rd meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Seltzman? Novick? Here. Prince? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning.
 Good morning, everyone, and welcome. We'll get to the council's regular calendar in a moment. I just wanted to make an announcement of something that's going to be coming to council because of the rising concern highlighted once again on the cover of today's Oregonian about housing affordability in the city and about homelessness.
 The county chair and I have been working together in a wonderful partnership with Home Forward to address the issue of veterans' homelessness. We started with about 690 homeless veterans in our city, and we're down to about 230. So by a concerted effort on something of an emergency basis, we've proved that we can actually move the needle. And I think we have to do that even more for even more people other than just our vets. I'm happy about that, but that's just a start. Thank you.
 So I'm going to bring forward to the City Council a proposal to declare a housing emergency in Portland, and that will produce authority for the city to do things better and faster than we're doing now. Similar efforts are underway in Seattle and in Los Angeles, where Mayor Garcetti has gone to the L.A. City Council and asked them to declare a housing emergency.
 and Mayor Murray in Seattle is doing similar things. So I believe that the West Coast cities that are dealing with housing affordability problems, with rising rents, and with intractable homelessness need to work together, and that's why I've invited those mayors along with the other West Coast mayors to a West Coast Mayors Conference here in November, and we'll continue our discussions together of those issues. But in the meantime, I think it's time for the Portland City Council to act
 and I believe October 7th is when we'll bring the ordinance forward for community discussion and for council action. So because that's going to be an important item for the council and an important item for the community, I just wanted to announce that it's coming. There will be some more information coming out of my office today, and again, the council will collaborate on the specifics of what we do under that declaration.
 So with that, let me proceed to the council calendar. We have some folks signed up for communications. We allow citizens to come in and make comments.
 statements to the council on any issue they're interested in, and we have five people signed up to do that. We'll call you in a moment. After that, we have the regular council calendar, and I don't think we have any time certain items, so we'll call each of those items in turn on the regular calendar. If you're here to speak on one of those items, you need only give our clerk your name. You don't need to give us your address. Again, we typically allow people three minutes to testify.
 If you are in the audience and want to support somebody's point of view, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand, or if you disagree, a thumbs down. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view here so that we get to hear them all. So with that, I want to welcome everyone and take up item number 967.
 967, request of Nollie Sethavongsack, Tori Eaglestaff, and Tyrell Como to address council regarding Roosevelt High School homecoming activities. Good morning. Come on up. Welcome. Hi. Hey. I'm Tyrell. And at our school, a continuous success of our athletic teams with over 40% of RHS students involved in athletics. And in our reestablished leadership class,
 We have been helping plant events at RHS with our student government to keep the school spirit alive and active. In theater, award-winning production, the Yellow Boat was selected as a main stage production at both state, top three in the stat, and nationals, top ten in the country. Every year, students win awards in acting and theater design at regional, state, and national levels.
 We received an invitation to perform in Scotland at the Enderberg Fringe Festival, the largest performing arts festival in the world.
 Hi, my name is Nali Sattavongsak, and I'm the all-student body of Roosevelt High School. And currently, our school is going through a mass reconstruction. Our auditorium has been torn down, as well as our gym, and our health center has been closed off. But even through these changes, we're continuing to strive with attendance and enrollment through our school, through our staff and our students, and now our...
 Our theater program is thriving in a new arts area created for our arts. And our gym students are working with the temporary gym outside. And just outside of the temporary gym, we have our health center that's open to all of the students. And our school at Roosevelt is continuously giving us these great opportunities to thrive through the reconstruction of $100 million that's occurring right now. And speaking of opportunities.
 Roosevelt offers a wide variety of AP courses that range from AP Biology, excuse me, tech courses to student inquiry which offers 15 college credits. These allow us to give our students opportunities to gain college credits through their high school careers. College
 AP courses specifically are very vigorous, and so we're so thankful to have a well-established writing center at Roosevelt that has very passionate mentors that aid students in resume building and scholarships and just everything.
 Hi, I'm Tori Eagle Staff, and I'm the All Student Body Vice President. Last year, Roosevelt students were awarded $6 million in scholarship money, and each year it increases. In the last three years, we've had five Gates Scholars. Also, students are awarded hundreds of college credits each year prior to graduation, and we have students attending college all over the nation, ranging from Rice, Brown, Oregon State, UW, and many more.
 Thank you. Great. Excellent. Thank you. I just have one question, because the gentleman who kicked us off said that you've been invited to go to Edinburgh next summer. Is that correct? The theater program? Wow. And so Park Rose was also selected for that. And are you now raising money for that trip? Well, I know our school does some fundraising. And Park Rose has to raise about $90,000 to send the entire troupe. Have you settled on a figure that you have to raise yet? No.
 Can you keep us posted on that? Let us know. We want to find a way to help. Yeah, we can help publicize that for you. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Roosevelt's doing well, so we're very happy to have you here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, we can wave the rules and applaud. For students, we'll always wave the rules. Let's take 968, please. Request of Abby Knott and Noel Gullickson to address council regarding Roosevelt High School homecoming activities. Good morning.
 Hello, I'm Noelle Golickson, and I'm from Roosevelt, and I'm a student leader. And in spite of all of the remodeling going on, there is no dip in our enrollment, and it's still steady with all the students. And...
 We're still going strong with all of our partnerships, including Sun, Neighborhood House, Multnomah County School-Based Health Clinics, University of Portland with their tutors and their student teachers, and along with our Southlake Church who helps support with clothes closets and food pantries for students. Since Roosevelt has rejoined as one school, we have had many teachers who have earned certificates from the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards.
 considering the gold standard for teaching excellence. Those teachers say that teamwork is definitely part of the excellence in culture at Roosevelt, and students continue to show the excellence of teamwork. We always work together just to show all of our spirit and communication through Roosevelt, and we always are.
 asking help from our local, like, our son programs. And we always really encourage students to use their resources wisely. And along with all of that, we're really, really proud of all of our teachers who help to, they help us strive to want to graduate and get through all of our programs and just help us with everything that we need. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Abby Knott and I am currently the junior class vice president. I just wanted to touch on what Roosevelt really embodies as a school. Our most unique attribute is the fact that we are extremely diverse, considered the most diverse in the state of Oregon as a whole.
 As a student body, we make up 28 countries and 27 countries and 28 languages, which is extremely amazing. It's something that we're extremely prideful for because we feel that it's a unique thing for Roosevelt and it sets us apart from many other high schools around us. Another extremely important attribute of Roosevelt High School is the fact of how involved we are with our community and how involved they are with us.
 If there's anything Our community of St. John's is extremely Involved in any athletic program We have they come to all of our games Even if they're at Jefferson this year Or they're away games because we don't have a field to work with
 They support our theater department by making sure that they have a large attendance, even despite that it may not be as recognized as our sports program. Also, the local businesses will help donate and fundraise with us for anything we deem possible. So I feel that both our diversity and our community involvement is an extremely important part of Roseville, and we just wanted to share that with you today. Thank you for listening to us. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. We have some more students. 969.
 request of wesley katie and josephine law streeter to address council regarding roosevelt high school homecoming activities good morning good morning i'm wesley katie i'm actually a member of our leadership class and a co-president of roosevelt's thespian troop 7289 and um josephine actually couldn't be here this morning so i'll be speaking to you um and i wanted to talk to you a lot about the construction and like the barriers that that's brought for roosevelt but also the abilities that we've had to come from it
 And with the support of our teachers and our staff and the wonderful ability and kind of backbone we've been building in the few years that we've been leading up to this construction, we've really been able to hold our students and everyone else accountable and also lifting each other up through everything and making sure that this really isn't as much of a change in the sense that it's disruptive as more as it is growth.
 And I mean, Roosevelt's been given $92 million out of a $482 million bond to rebuild our school, which is an immense amount of money and we are extremely grateful. And looking at that amount of money, it's not just spending an amount of money, it's investing an amount of money in North Portland. And I think that that's extremely important even as a senior, not being able to see any of this finished work. I'm so excited to see what will breed out of it and the students that it will come forward from.
 And we have so many new spaces coming forward, a new auditorium, two new gyms. We've got so many wonderful things and programs that are going to be coming forward from that, and I just really can't wait to see all of that. And also, to talk about what you said earlier, as the troop co-president, we've actually decided not to...
 not to try to go to Edinburgh this year because we weren't able to make the first deadline payments, but we are pursuing a trip to England to visit and study more theater. Or if we couldn't go to England, we kind of have a stepping stone. If we can't go to England, then we'll go to New York. And if we can't go to New York, we'll go to our Thespian National Festival in Lincoln, Nebraska. And so we've got a level of things depending on how much we can fundraise.
 Also just working forward, as everyone has said, as an arts program, looking towards the community. And like Abby said, really pushing in that community and reaching out to our community for help in this time that we need them. And they've done a wonderful job. And I just want to thank the council for being here and representing the city of Portland in such a wonderful way. Just a comment, Mayor.
 First of all, let's thank the taxpayers for passing the arts tax, which has meant that 30,000 elementary school children now have an arts instructor in their curriculum.
 But just because you're being very modest about the Edinburgh invitation, the Edinburgh Theatre Festival, particularly the Fringe Festival, is the leading summer arts festival in the world. And literally the city of Edinburgh is taken over with the arts. And I think at some point, Mayor, if we have enough critical mass of festivals in the summertime, we'll actually have our version where August is like Edinburgh.
 It's very prestigious to even be considered for being invited to come to Edinburgh and perform. And so congratulations to you and the young actors at Roosevelt for this milestone. And whether you go this year or you defer another year, you bring great distinction to our city for this recognition.
 Thank you so much. Have you already told them that you can't go? I believe we have, yeah. Our first payment deadline was back in July, if I'm not mistaken. And because the payments were of such large sums, we were really not able to, as far as the terms between getting accepted and the time that we'd have to fundraise the amount of money, we weren't really able to pull that together. We did try to work with Park Rose in a fundraising
 group together to try and get us to go, but it was just really too difficult for us with the construction and also finding spaces for us to perform this year. But moving forward from that, we're still extremely grateful. Like you said, it's extremely prestigious to even be considered for it, and we are extremely grateful of all of the opportunities that we've been provided for, and we continue to grow and still hold that close to us and use that as a form of growth.
 Well, I think you're hearing a message here from all of us that the next time you get one of these invitations and these opportunities, that we encourage Roosevelt to reach out to other community leaders like the five of us and ask us to help.
 because I think you've got folks here that would be very willing to do that because we love what's happening in our schools, and Roosevelt in particular. The way Roosevelt's been rising the last few years is a really amazing story. So we want to support that. So don't hesitate to ask. Thank you so much. And given a longer time frame, maybe if you can ask them for an early entry for next year, we'll be happy to help and see if we can publicize and help you with that. Thank you so much. Have a great morning. You too. Thank you. Thank you.
 okay 970 please request of rayana seamster and madison newendorp to address council regarding roosevelt high school homecoming activities good morning hi i'm madison newendorp and rayana won't be with me today so i will be speaking by myself um so again i'm madison newendorp and i'm a student leader at roosevelt high school
 I would like to say thank you to the mayor and the council members for allowing us and giving us the opportunity to meet and talk with you about the things that are going on in our school. We would also like to thank them for their support of RHS and...
 Our hope today was to share with you information about homecoming, the remodel, the diversity of our school, our community connections, and the success of our students. So that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Okay. One more presentation, 971. Request of Grace Asen and Josiah Green to address council regarding Roosevelt High School homecoming activities. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Okay.
 Who wants to start? Good morning, I'm Grace Aston and I am, along with being a student leader, I am a senior class treasurer. I'm Josiah Green and I'm a student leader and a junior representative. So despite the construction at Roosevelt, we're still keeping the spirit alive and we still have spirit days and we keep traditions going at RHS and we call it Rush Week and
 with the construction we're not able to bring all the students into the gym for an assembly so we had to bring all the students around the school which is we're pushing like a thousand students into the football field or it's 90 degrees for an assembly and in a lot of students opinions that was one of our best assemblies and so despite all the construction all the bad things that were happening not so bad but all things that were happening we still pushed through and kept the spirit alive
 Yeah, we had our first home assembly on Friday of last week. It was very successful. We got a lot of positive feedback from the teachers and staff at Roosevelt. Although we don't have a home field, football field, or gym, we have been, due to the construction, we have been very grateful to have the opportunity to partnership with Jefferson and use their gym and their home field for our games. So we're very thankful to them.
 And also this Friday is our homecoming game. We're super excited to go out and we're playing against Lincoln. And then the following day will be our annual Roosevelt High School homecoming dance. This year it's called the Roosevelt Kick Bash. So we're very excited to be able to still under the construction be able to go out with our peers and represent Roosevelt very well and still have the high school experience that every kid wants. So we're super excited to have our fellow Rough Riders be able to go to this game this Friday and dance. Thank you.
 Thank you both. Thank you so much. Thanks very much. Thank you. Well, we appreciate hearing from Roosevelt this morning. Thank you for a great presentation and great organization of what you brought to us. You know, for those that are watching, you know, of course the city council doesn't directly manage the schools, but we're such an important partnership between city government and our schools and the multiple school districts actually in the city of Portland that we work with.
 But one of the most amazing things that's happened in Portland, I think, politically, is that the voters stepped up and passed this enormous bond measure. I think it's the largest bond measure in the history of the city for any purpose. And to support the incredible renovation at Roosevelt and similar projects at Franklin and Grant
 It's really a proof that the whole community supports your school and supports all of our schools. And I think that's one of the best things about Portland. So it's pretty disruptive in the short term. And you've given us a picture of what that's like. Assemblies outside and no place to rehearse and no place to have a number of –
 normal activities in the school your successors will get to enjoy all those things in great new facilities but the spirit of the school is so evident what we heard from you all this morning so thank you so much for coming let's hear it for the rough riders thank you
 Mayor, if I may just add something. One of the great things about Roosevelt is the Roosevelt Rough Writers Freedom Fighters Project, where students interview civil rights leaders from around the community. Some of them people that we've all heard of. Some of them are sort of unsung heroes.
 and have had the opportunity to go to the presentation of the result of those interviews where you honor the civil rights leaders, and that's just a wonderful thing. So thank Roosevelt for doing that as well. Mayor, just one other historical note, which Steve will appreciate. I have a personal connection to the Rough Riders. You know the story of Teddy Roosevelt and you know the Battle of San Juan Hill.
 What you may not know is that the first casualty of that battle was an officer named Fish and is buried in our family site, Hamilton Fish in fact. The first casualty of the battle is San Juan Hill. So that's my personal family connection. It's a great uncle.
 He is remembered as probably the bravest member of my family, but was in the front lines taking the fire and therefore was the first casualty. That's a real story. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks again for coming this morning, and I hope homecoming is wonderful. Thanks. All right, we'll move to our consent calendar next, and I think we've had three items pulled to regular, 972, 975, and 976. Any others? Yes.
 If not, then let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. 972 at the end? Okay. And we could go ahead and take those if you want. Yeah, let's take them. Take the polled items now. Let's take 975. 975.
 Authorize a contract with Portland Streetcar, Inc. to provide operations assistance services for a not-to-exceed amount of $3,290,908. Good morning.
 Good morning. Commissioner Novick, sorry. Colleagues, for a number of years, as you know, we've had an agreement with Portland Streetcar, Inc. to provide operations assistance for the streetcar. Last year, we went through an open competitive solicitation process to solicit other applicants for operations assistance. The recommendation is to contract with a successful proposer, which is Portland Streetcar, Inc.,
 The contract, I think, improves on our previous contract with PSI in a number of ways. It clarifies our roles and responsibilities, in particular clarifies that they are an independent contractor and not the city's agent.
 We addressed an issue about the collection of public funds that was causing our treasurer heartburn. Some fair revenues have been collected by PSI itself. Now all fair revenues will come to the city instead of any being collected and deposited by PSI.
 So, well, another thing that was particularly important to me is this PSI has always raised sponsorship funds, but there was no specific requirement for them to raise a specific amount. This contract does specify that they are expected to raise at least $300,000 a year in sponsorship funds. So with that, I'll turn it over to Catherine Levine.
 Good morning. Good morning. The report from procurement to you today is in regard to a solicitation and a new contract for operating assistance services for Portland Streetcar. And the recommendation is to contract with the successful proposer, Portland Streetcar Inc., 501 Corporation. I can go into quite a bit of detail about the process if you would like me to do so.
 i think a summary would be better okay we'll be short and sweet we uh advertised in april uh through the city system and then we also solicited and advertised and notified through the transit industry to the american transit association community streetcar coalition and transit talent
 Near the end of April, we held a pre-proposal meeting. We had three prime contractors and one subcontractor represented. During the course of the solicitation, we issued four substantive addenda to address questions and clarify which contract terms were negotiable and which weren't.
 Solicitations were due on May 18th. We did receive one proposal from PSI. We had an evaluation committee of five. It included a non-city participant with a financial background from our minority evaluation program. We also included a representative from TriMet because they are a key funding partner in Portland Streetcar Operations.
 and we included a representative from the city's citizen advisory committee for streetcar they found the proposal to be responsive and acceptable we issued notice of intent to negotiate in June the
 The period of protest passed with no protests. We began negotiations in July with a formal kickoff meeting with the board chair of PSI, as well as their executive director and PBOT staff. We worked through completion of the contract in August and are here today with the recommendation from procurement in order to complete the contract. Questions for Katherine?
 Do all the PSI employees get $15 an hour at least? I do not know, but I can find out. I'd like to check on that and also if there's a built-in cost of living adjustment each year for them.
 What we have done at a contract level is provide an assumed 3% increase of costs. We've not specified where that goes, but I assume that could cover personnel expenses. I'd like to make sure that it does. I think we have an overall issue where some of our pass-through money staff get cost-of-living increases and some don't. Okay. So if you could check on that. I can. Can those –
 Would the answers to those two questions affect the not to exceed amount? I don't believe so. It's not an emergency ordinance, though, right? So we could find out next week. I understand the process. This is the procurement's report back after which the chief procurement officer can execute the contract. Okay.
 So we can respond to you probably today with answers to your questions on the hourly wage and the cost of living. So usually the contract is roughly in compliance with whatever was before us. I don't have the actual contract in front of me. I don't think procurement included it as an attachment. I did get copies of the documents that they submitted. Well, we can always amend it if necessary. Yeah. Thank you. Definitely. Okay. Other questions for Catherine? Okay.
 Thanks very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay, come on up. Mr. Walsh and Mr. Johnson. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We have a number of concerns. First of all, we don't like you doing this underneath the table. This is consent agenda, no discussion. But somebody that prepared these documents wrote regular agenda. So there seems to be a conflict right away.
 It's $3 million of tax money. Stop putting this stuff underneath the table. We wouldn't have to pull it. There are legitimate questions on this, Commissioner Novick. And the streetcar, if we didn't have the streetcar, we wouldn't be spending this $3 million. Because when we looked at this, a lot of this is administrative. So you're spending $3 million on administrative stuff.
 So we don't like that. The only good part about this is you didn't make it an emergency, which we like. We don't like emergencies. So this should have been on regular agenda. And the questions that the good Commissioner Amanda Fritz raised are good questions. The people watching this have a right to know what their tax money is going to be spent on. I thought we had an agreement.
 Commissioner Fish, that anything over 100 grand, we would have a discussion. This is $3 million more. A couple hundred thousand. What the hell? You know, you guys spend money and you don't even give us the courtesy of talking about it. No discussion. Consent agenda. Underneath the table. Slide it through. And I see the commissioner dying to ask a question. Yes, ma'am.
 I asked about this yesterday, and my understanding was it was a mistake. It was intended to be on the regular agenda, and it was pulled yesterday. So, yes, when you see in the report that the X was on the regular, it was a human error. A mistake, a $3 million mistake. No, it's not a $3 million mistake. Come on, guys. It was a clerical mistake, Joe, so she's right. It's a $3 million mistake, because if it went under consent agenda, nobody would have known about this. Nobody. I believe the commissioner pulled it.
 well you know you guys when we pull them then you all of a sudden pull them no no he pulled it yesterday well you didn't say a word there commissioner how come mr walsh i found it unproductive to respond to everything you say because you say so many things what's that respond to the three million don't respond to me we pulled it we we pulled it it should have been on the regular agenda it is down the regular agenda okay joe thank you
 Am I out of time? Yes, Mr. Lightning, I think you're next. I would like to have another hour. I know you would, but we don't have one. So who's next? Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the concerns I have on this agreement is I always have an issue on agreements being extended out too far. I don't like the five years. I'd rather have possibly a three-year. I do not like the option to be renewed, at least without...
 Hopefully, you'll all have a say on that, on a final vote on that. So even putting that option to renew, I don't think it's even necessary. A couple of issues I have on this, too, is that I really want to start watching on the financial reporting that is being done. I feel that the streetcar, TriMet, the bus transportation issue,
 We need to start monitoring this very close on their financials due to the fact that Uber and Lyft are entering the market. I feel they will have a direct effect on their financials, and I want this to be monitored very closely. And that's why I do not want this contract extended over five years, because if we need to make adjustments, if we need to start funding more money toward this type of transportation –
 Due to the fact of these TNCs coming into the marketplace with no caps, I want this documentation to be taking that into an account. I want to be looking at other states at this time to also see what effect it has on the overall public transportation. And again, any of this public transportation, any federal funding that may be granted in the future, I want to be looking at other states at this time to also see what effect it has on the overall public transportation.
 i want to make sure this documentation is very well prepared to understand if we begin losing money on these type of projects we don't need to be funding these projects in the future and it is the city council's position and understanding pertaining to the transportation and
 any new type of transportation entering this market system, we must understand and look at how it will affect every other type of public transportation system and the funding that we got through federal grants and other various forms. We are required to make sure that we do not begin to lose money because of the decisions we make. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Director. My name is Charles Johnson. And Commissioner Salsman-Gon will say Lashana Tova and wish all our Jewish citizens a good Yom Kippur. Sweet year. I'm extremely concerned that Portland Streetcar is not earning their money. And we link to this through the agenda. There's only a two-page summary through Christine Moody. There's no direct link to the Portland Streetcar contract that talks about
 how we put teeth into the contract for quality control. There isn't any, and I hope Commissioner Fritz will just simply vote against this. We haven't seen any improvement in customer relations since Cameron Witten had his experience on the streetcar.
 The idiots that run the Portland streetcar cannot fix the sign in front of the library. They neglect it so much that citizens tore it down. So we have the reverse of broken windows policing here. We have the city doing a crappy job while citizens maintain things. So for a long time, in front of the library, perhaps the most popular streetcar stop, the stupid little sign said registering for about a month.
 The idiots at Portland Streetcar wouldn't fix it, so somebody tore the whole LED thing down, and it's been missing. It might be up yesterday. I don't know. I haven't looked for about two days. That's going to happen next on the southbound 11th Avenue streetcar at Safeway, where under a construction stop, the sign wasn't working to tell you when the streetcar was arriving. So there need to be direct sanctions, money taken out of the contract when Portland Streetcar has egregious issues.
 situations where they ignore obvious problems, every operator can look a little bit to their right and see, oh, look, the sign has been stolen, ripped out of the streetcar stop. The next thing they need to do when they get this contract is at the top, they need to print some vinyl stickers and say, customer service is our number one priority. Our 24-hour number is the
 800, or no, yeah, it should be 800 actually, but maybe you won't pay for that. So 503 PDX SCI R or something like that. Obviously, that's part of the reason you're hearing about these issues now is because
 It's not a friendly system to talk about quality control. And I encourage all of you, actually, to vote no on this measure until presenters that actually come from Portland Streetcar, not a city staffer, but if Portland Streetcar wants $3 million, you would think they could pay some of their highly paid employees could show up and say, we enjoy doing this work. We want to do it well. But it's not. It's a pork barrel contract. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. One more. Dan Power. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. It's replacing. Okay. Thank you very much. Does Irish get excited? No. Hi, I'm Dan Bauer. I'm taking a second question. I'm Nick Arink. Clarify three points for you. First of all, the sign was not ripped down. We took it down, and it's up yesterday. Okay.
 Can I just add more of that? PSI is not responsible for maintenance of the facilities. That is something Portland Streetcar does, and we currently have a system that was based on 2G that's being upgraded to 3G, and on some of the older signs, we've actually had to send them back to the manufacturer to be repaired. Thank you.
 I believe your two questions were my wage and cost of living increase. We always have a cost of living increase. This year it was 2.1%. Our wages for our lowest paid person, just customer service person, which we hired last week, is $14.40 per hour per month.
 If we want to do 15, that's fine with me. That was not set on anything in particular. That's just the rate we've been accruing at. So would you please increase it to 15? Sure. I'd be happy to hear that. Good idea for all of our contractors, for us to systematically keep advancing that into other contractors. I appreciate you bringing that up, Commissioner Fritz. Okay. Other questions? Other things that need to be followed up on? Okay. Thank you both. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, any further discussion? And if not, a motion, please, on the report. Second. Roll call. Okay, Carl. I really appreciate Catherine's and the procurement office's work on this, and we've got a contract that is significantly better than the one we had before. Aye. Prince. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Hales? Thank you very much. Aye. Okay. Let's move to 976, which was the other item pulled. Well, one of the other items pulled. Then we'll go back to 972. Is that okay, Nick? All right. 976, please. Yes.
 Authorize charitable organizations eligible to participate in the city's 2016 charitable campaign and authorize exemptions from umbrella requirement for Portland Parks Foundation and Portland Fire Bureau Toy and Joymakers. Good morning.
 I don't know if there were specific questions about this particular item, but we actually plan an event. Tell us who you are, Jane. What? Tell us who you are. Oh, I'm sorry. Jane Brayton, Business Operations Division Manager. And have with me Carol Whalen. I am the Charitable Campaign Coordinator. Thank you.
 And sorry about that. We actually have an event planned at Council to kick off our campaign and ask for a proclamation and have a full briefing planned for that time. This allows us to approve of the charities who've applied, who've gone through our review process, have met and signed off on all of our code requirements,
 It allows us to start our marketing materials for the campaign. We plan to have our campaign start on October 21st and actually conclude just before Veterans Day. And we are offering all of our city employees an opportunity to select from one of our 16 eligible charities. Those are mainly umbrella organizations. So employees can choose up to 500 different organizations that they can give money to.
 The city has supported this campaign for years, and it really allows employees an opportunity to choose to a charity and have that taken care of through a payroll deduction rather than sort of have end-of-the-year financial constraints. They can choose an installment for their charitable donations. Thank you.
 We have 16 charities participating. We are recommending that the Portland Parks Foundation and Portland Fire Toy and Joy Makers, they have historically not met the umbrella designation by contributing to nine different organizations, but they have had a longstanding history with the city and a connection to our city services. They do receive a fair amount of our city employees' pledges and are collected through
 connected to our service, so we are again asking for the exemption from that nine organization umbrella requirement for those two organizations.
 Again, we have almost 500 city employees donating almost a quarter million dollars through this campaign. It's a way that employees feel very good about giving back to their community in addition to their public service. They have enjoyed participating in this campaign, and we ask for you to recommend. We are recommending these charities to participate and then have a full slate of campaign kickoff activities planned with bureaus in your portfolio.
 I just want to make one comment, which is thank you for providing this benefit because it makes the act of giving a lot easier when you can check a box and have it automatically deducted from your paycheck and go to a cause that you support. And so I think it's great that we do it. I think it's important that we screen the organizations that make the list.
 but um i'm proud of the of the generosity of city workers and and really grateful that we have a system that makes it so easy where it just automatically comes out of our paycheck so thank you very much thank you commissioner other questions thanks very much we're looking forward to the campaign thank you thank you so does anyone want to speak on this item mr lightning come on up yes my name is lightning i represent lightning watchdog pdx as you know in the past i
 I've done speeches on the different foundations, and of course I support the foundations and hope they do very well. One of the issues I have on this whole situation here, again, is that when we're talking authorized to use the payroll deduction system, is that, as Mayor Hale stated earlier today, is that we are in a state of emergency pertaining to the homeless, to affordable housing issues.
 And until we start putting that at the top of the list, and as Commissioner Salzman has created the housing fund, which I don't see on this list, and number one, I'd like to know if payroll deductions can go toward the housing fund, which I thought was originally set up to do. I'd also like to have this at the top of the list due to that's a state of emergency. I'd like all the employees of the city of Portland to understand that.
 that when you have homeless people scattered around on the sidewalks and the doorways, that is also your responsibility to make sure that there is a solution for that. Your salaries, your COLA, your pensions, everything has an effect on that situation. And I could sit here and start going after your salaries, your pensions, and your COLA, but I'm not doing that because you earn every penny. But you need to take into consideration that.
 that when we are in a state of emergency and other foundations can look to other areas to obtain their funding, the city and Portland's employees' first responsibility should be the homeless, should be to affordable housing. And that is my position. Thank you for your time. Lightning, Dan's not here to respond, so I'll do so on his behalf. The fund you're referring to is the Housing Investment Fund.
 and it is an entity into which Dan has proposed putting general fund and other resources to build and preserve affordable housing. Yes. It does not qualify as a charitable 501c3 under this ordinance. I think you're raising a good question, and we'll make sure Dan hears your suggestion. And I think the broader comment you're making is that there's wonderful community nonprofits listed here,
 But there aren't any that are nonprofit housing providers. That is correct. Like Join and all the others. And I think what you're doing is suggesting that we go back and see whether we can add an organization or two from that family to this list. And we will take that up with the folks who run the child-reviewing campaigns.
 That is correct. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, I like that suggestion. So obviously, Jane, you two might want to respond to that now, but I think there's obviously an interest in making sure that's an option for people. There are great nonprofits that do have their 501c3.
 And just to provide a little bit of a clarification, the organizations that you see on the ordinance are all, as the city requires, umbrella organizations. So what we can provide to the council is a complete list of all of the organizations that are under the umbrellas. So an employee can choose,
 umbrella organization or any one of their affiliates. So we do have many of our local organizations participating under one of those umbrellas, including Street Roots, Sisters of the Road, Oregon Food Bank, and of course you see the Sunshine Division. We'll also check and make sure that JOIN is there, happy to provide that information. Like I said, that
 That may not have been as clear in people in the audience reading the ordinance with the 16, but those 16 actually represent 500. Well, that's very helpful. So can people designate?
 When they make their charitable campaign decision to participate, they can designate where the funds go. Yes. If you could follow up with us on that, because I think lightning probably reflects a broader maybe confusion on that point. We think of the United Way as the umbrella, and you want to put money into that United Way account. But as you note, they also fund lots of organizations. So to the extent you can direct your money directly
 to one of the discrete recipients, I think we should get that message out. I think, Portland, you've supported a charitable campaign that, as we understand it, has one of the broadest array of choices that people can participate in. So thank you again for that support. Thank you. Okay, any further discussion? Then let's take a vote, please, on the ordinance.
 This is a great program. It's a lot easier to give on a paycheck-by-paycheck basis rather than in one lump sum. So I really appreciate this program and appreciate your work on it. Hi. Thank you. Hi.
 fish thanks very much hi thank you and look forward to helping encourage all our fellow employees to make use of this option to do the right thing thank you hi okay let's go back to 972 if you're ready commissioner fish okay appoint marie walkowitz alice brawley chesworth and cindy deets as ex-ficio members to the portland utility board for terms to expire june 30 2016.
 Mayor, this shows up under your name, but you and I agreed to tag team this morning, and so I'll take the lead. A little bit of context. When we adopted the legislation that created the Portland Utility Board, Commissioner Fritz proposed an amendment, and it was a very thoughtful one. She thought that during budget season,
 we should expand the membership of the pub to include three ex officio employees who would be resources to the pub and essentially be the local experts on what's happening in the front lines of the bureaus to be resources to the pub. And we memorialize that in the regulations, and I'll just – since I have them in front of me –
 I'll just note that it's 3.123.040, sub C, the mayor shall in consultation with the commissioner in charge, which is me, appoint three non-voting ex officio members annually to engage utility bureau employees in the budget process. The ex officio members shall serve for a period equal to the budget process and they may be reappointed up to three times.
 Council thought that that proposal from Commissioner Fritz was a good one. It was accepted and incorporated into the legislation. Before us is the mayor's recommendation in consultation with me, and the three names are listed on the ordinance. Marie Walkowitz is the Environmental Program Coordinator with Johnson Creek Focus for the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 Alice Brawley-Chesworth is a management analyst with the Environmental Policy Division of the Bureau of Environmental Services, and Cindy Dietz is a manager in the Water Bureau's Development Services Team. All three were selected by the bureaus to be representative of the employees in this process, and they are before us today for the purpose of confirming their appointment as ex officio non-voting members. Claudia, did I miss anything? No, that pretty much sums it up.
 Okay. Questions for Commissioner Fish or Claudia? Thank you for being here. Stand by, and we'll see if there's someone who wanted to speak on this item. Mr. Johnson. Okay. Come on up. Good morning. I'm glad that there are staff members assigned to go to the utility board meetings and to be there to interact with volunteer commissioners.
 However, I think after yesterday's big story in the Oregonian, people are very skeptical about the utility board. We have holes in the ground. Then we plug them up and we build some more holes in the ground and pour money into them.
 The responsible thing for the city to do is not to change anything at the Washington Park reservoirs until the President of the United States sends the National Guard, spending over $100 million. These people should quit their job and protest. That's what they should do. They should get on the board and say, this is an insane procedure that we're doing at Washington Park. We can't do this job in good conscience. We all quit. And nothing should change at Washington Park. I understand lots of people will get jobs when
 when we tear down Washington Park Reservoirs and drive trucks through there. It's an insane thing to do with an unlimited price tag. We had the stuff on the agenda many times over the summer. I don't know how many utility board commissioners can speak competently about what the public input was, but
 I know, Commissioner Frisch, that as a water commissioner, you feel that you're in an awkward position because of the requirements of the EPA, but I think that the due diligence and responsible thing is for you to not proceed with Washington Park and for you to convene the utility board and have a large public forum where you can hear that people are now...
 very skeptical of what can be done with Washington Park and that anything needs to be done. And I will be engaging with the utility board commissioners to find out how they can possibly rationalize staying in their job with such a boondoggle. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, any other comments? So we need a motion, please, to accept the report. Second. Further discussion? Roll call. Novick? Aye. Aye.
 Mayor, I want to thank all three employees for agreeing to take on this assignment. It will be time consuming. It will be challenging. And they will be working in concert with one of the nine board members that has been already appointed who actually was designated as a representative of represented employees.
 The additional three employees will ensure that the voice of the workforce is reflected as we go through the budget review process next.
 And they are, in effect, replacing folks that used to serve on the BACs, the Budget Advisory Committees. But as you know, we folded the BACs in with the pub. So Commissioner Fritz, I think, astutely observed that we ought to add the ex officio members at budget time to make sure we have that staff input. It's a good idea, and we're grateful that these three folks have agreed to serve. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Yes, I appreciate that these folks are willing to serve. It's always important to have employees on our budget advisory committees. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, thank you. Now we'll go to the regular agenda, Item 980. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet for transit police services. Modica is here, I believe. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Tell us about how this agreement works and what's ahead. Certainly. This was originally scheduled for June, but we asked for an extension, which we were granted so that we could focus in on specific language, providing selection criteria for the management of the policing. So in the city of Portland and –
 With TriMet, Portland Police Bureau is an umbrella agency that provides law enforcement services for the transit system. That's bus and rail platforms, bus stops, and railways.
 This ordinance covers for five years of those services. It's the prime agreement. There are 18 other agencies that participate in transit policing with us, and there's a revenue value total for the contract with TriMet of a little over $30 million. So TriMet actually contracts with each of them as well? That's correct. With each of those other jurisdictions, and so they basically accumulate contracts
 a police force by contracting with multiple cities and sheriff's offices, right? That's correct. It's considered best practice in the nation is to have a multi-agency task force model. We're the umbrella for that, so we provide the logistical support, bricks and mortar, and supervision. Okay.
 And then in terms of, you know, we've heard questions from citizens about how these folks are deployed, how they spend their time, what they're focusing on. How is that determined? What the police work is? Is that totally under TriMet's control? Is that a collaborative process? How do you and the leadership of our bureau interface with the leadership of TriMet to say, well, we should be spending our time on this, not on that?
 I would like to describe it as collaborative. We really emphasize time on the line, so that's on the bus lines as well as the MAX lines. And ultimately, we use some data to help drive our deployment, and we listen to the customers, right? And if the customers are identifying and the citizens are identifying particular issues, we'll revisit those areas. It's a very large system.
 There are five rail lines and 80 bus lines. Max alone is 60 miles. We cover three counties and over 19 cities, and we do that with 68 officers and supervisors from multiple agencies. But we are always open to being flexible on how we deploy. Okay.
 And then the other question we've heard a lot is, and maybe you can give us sort of a rough proportionality, how much time and effort is spent on fear enforcement versus more classic rider safety issues? I think percentage-wise it's probably 30%, 60%.
 You know, fair is fair. People really should be paying their fair to ride on the line. I think what many people don't recognize is that TriMet also has fair inspectors.
 So if you encounter somebody in a uniform on the system that's asking you about your fare, it's not necessarily a transit police officer, although we do do that. But our officers are also equipped with courtesy tickets and or warnings. You know, we really try to emphasize a safe, clean environment.
 respectful experience on the system. There are chronic issues, as we all know, on the transportation system, but those are also national issues as well.
 people seeking shelter and those that may have some addiction problems that seek space at the platforms or the bus stops, that type of thing. Thank you. Other questions for Assistant Chief Marika? Well, so 30% of the time is spent on fare enforcement, and Mayor's Police Commissioner said,
 Going after folks who are stealing a $2.50 ride doesn't necessarily seem like a good use of our scarce police officers' time. You know, we know that our police officers, we have fewer per capita than many big cities our size. I would much rather the officers... LAUGHTER Well, sorry. LAUGHTER
 That's what we have to deal with with the media. So, Commissioner Fritz, would you go back to the media? I don't know what's wrong with Siri. We all understood you. I have my Siri set up with an English accent. Let's go back to the beginning on this. Okay.
 Commissioner, can I say that I certainly appreciate your perspective. I also ask for people to understand that it's a multi-agency task force, so it's not just Portland police officers. And in fact, it's the chronic issues and the safety issues and then just presence.
 time and presence. I think that what we've experienced many times is those without fare are those that also have other presenting issues. And when we say fare enforcement, there's a
 a large span of what that really means, to include, as I said, either courtesy tickets or warnings or sometimes a citation, but that is also something that can be mitigated. We do recognize that it's a low-level offense. It does inject people into the system, and especially with regard to our young...
 community, our kiddo community. We endeavor to do everything to not inject them into the system. But certainly all of our time cannot be spent on just fair inspection or enforcement. There are park and ride lots and then there are other issues along with such a large transportation system. We consider it very safe nationally as a transportation system.
 It sounds like you're using fair inspection almost like a pretext stop to then go after folks for other issues. And maybe those are low-level offenses also. I'd like to get the data on how many of your fair inspections do result in catching serious offenders.
 I'd also, Mayor, like a discussion of with the amount of money that we're spending for 30% of these officers' time on fare inspection, if we were to use that to help subsidize TriMet so that we had a fareless system, would that be more cost effective? We know we're currently giving TriMet over $900,000 for students in the Portland Public School District to ride the buses free.
 You mentioned the issue with young offenders. If all young people got to ride the transit system for free, maybe they could get to their job interviews and their activities, such as the ones that you set up this summer for the teen programs at the community centers. We have a big problem in East Portland right now because their schools don't get the free bus pass. They can't get to Montevideo Teen Center because they don't have fares. So if those folks are riding the MAX and then...
 walking all the way along 82nd to get to Montevilla, wouldn't it be better, instead of spending the money on the police officers' time, to subsidise tri-mats?
 Commissioner, I have to say, I don't know what the number is, but I think that making TriMet a fearless system is going to cost many, many times $900,000. Well, maybe we can make it fearless for anybody with a school ID for under 18s. I'm very troubled by our police officers being involved with fair inspectors. The fair inspectors, when they're on the buses or by themselves, come along and ask, may I see your ticket? I've been on the map.
 the MAX twice at the Rose Center where there were officers, both fare inspectors and police officers, rushing onto the train, obviously targeting folks who may appear to be young or homeless. Frankly, it was a very frightening experience. I don't think that's a good...
 way for us to get trust in our police officers when that's happening on our public transportation? Well, I certainly understand that, Commissioner, and hopefully I haven't kicked the can down the road for you. But that 30% is spread out over three counties and 18 cities, and really it's just a part of what we do. We really, as a police force,
 focus on crime and criminal activity, but also keeping the system safe and...
 preferably enjoyable way to commute part of our work is to ask if you have fair I think one of the things that it will experience is with the updates to TriMet system for fair payment with tap cards and digital payment and so forth there will be
 less fair evasion. But that is part of the burden that we do share in keeping the system safe. I do recognize that there's been comments and observations about how the work is done, how the officers focus, where do they start.
 It's very simply just paying attention to the community's needs and concerns, which we do every day. We're obviously in a position where improvement is always sought. But I will say this, that the efforts that TriMet has made to provide fair for students that are enrolled in our program
 schools has just been tremendous. So certainly appreciate your comments. And we do have a certified crime analyst on board with our division, so data is forthcoming so that we can look at other issues that may be impacting how we provide public safety on the TriMet system.
 You and I have had this conversation before, and I've had the conversation with Chief O'Day, and I continue to get, no, we're going to continue doing this level of fare enforcement. Mayor, as the police commissioner, do we really want to have our police officers enforcing over $2.50 fares? I hear the concern, and I've heard it, and I share the worry that we have too much of our effort going forward.
 into that particular need. I have a great deal of respect for Assistant Chief Modica and his ability to balance the
 the use of fair enforcement as a way to keep it safe and fair for everybody and not simply be chasing people around for money. Absolutely. But I think both he and I and the Chief have heard this concern and I share it. Now, we again have a contractual relationship with TriMet here. They want us to do certain things.
 They don't call the tune, as that's why I asked him the question. It's a collaborative process. So we get to go to the table and say, here's what we're hearing from our constituents. Here are the issues that we want to focus on. Here's how we think the priorities stack up and have that understanding with TriMet. Okay.
 So that's why I wanted to air this today, because Assistant Chief Modica has heard this concern from you and from me and from others. And it is heard and understood. And then the question is, again, how does he on a day-to-day basis strike that balance in terms of what people are doing when they're out on a platform or riding on a train or a bus? I would like to see that in the contract. This is where we're reauthorizing the contract.
 So now is the time for us to be not just having the conversations, but to be getting it in writing. So what would it look like? I don't know. I just saw this when it came on to the council again on Friday. If I can help you out here, deployment strategy really can be derived without delaying the contract any longer. Okay.
 We hear the concern, and quite frankly, if you ask the officers and the deputies assigned to the division, they would too echo what I'm saying is that we really focus on crime interdiction and crime prevention. Fair inspection and fair enforcement is just a piece of that.
 And the 30% number is an estimate if you spread that out over the total system over the total year. We're not hired as fair inspectors. We're hired as law enforcement officers that provide public safety for the transit system.
 sir can i ask you just a procedural question because um at some point if commissioner fritz has a concern about language and wants to propose it we may not have the votes to pass an emergency measure in which case we'll come back next week this is listed as an emergency is there some reason that it has to be adopted today
 It was delayed in June. I understand, but it's already out of date. And so the dates for the contract, this needs to be approved by the 30th of September to have the contract meet the date. So that means I'm just – I'm not –
 I don't control the time here. We have to have a unanimous vote. But that means technically it could go to next week with an amendment and still have an emergency clause on it and meet your timeline. Is that correct? Yes. Mayor, I think it may be more fruitful to have that discussion so Commissioner Fritz gets the briefing she needs rather than to do it on the fly. I'd appreciate that. Thank you. To see if we can put some language into the contract proposal.
 All right, well, let's take... The intent would be to come back next week with language that we could... We would just set it over with the emergency clause so that the intent is to put it to a vote next year. Sure. Let's take testimony today, because there may be people here who want to speak on this item, and then Assistant Chief Modica and I will follow up with the council with some language that may be...
 clarifies what the rules of engagement are. Right. And, Chief McGeagher, I do need to emphasize I have the utmost respect for you and for Chief O'Day and for all of your officers. This is a policy question that the council is engaged in. This is the point where the whole council gets to engage in the policy issue. So thank you for all of your service and for your leadership of this division. We certainly appreciate your comments.
 All right, we'll see if there's anyone who wants to speak on this item. We have two people, Joe Walsh and Charles Johnson. Come on up. Thanks, Kevin. Appreciate it. You're welcome. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. Commissioner Fritz asked a lot of the questions that we had. However, let me give you some anecdotal information. I ride the MAX all the time. I ride the buses. I ride the MAX trains.
 And one of the things that we see is Portland police checking for fares. And we have the same reaction. What is that? $70,000 cop checking for a $2 fare. And on my case, it's only $1.25. We don't like them doing it. They have guns. They scare people. I pass through Gateway all the time. TriMet has their own police department.
 Let them do it. Let them hire people to do it. They did it on the cheap. They built the damn thing on the cheap so they didn't have each station taking the tickets and verifying the tickets or somebody there taking the tickets. What they did was they said, okay, let's hire a bunch of cops. You have much more goodwill with this police department. This police department is under investigation by the Department of Justice.
 When are you going to realize that? There's no goodwill here, folks. You cannot believe this police officer when he comes and tells you that 30%, maybe 30, maybe 25, maybe 40, you don't know. You represent the people of this city. TriMet is supposed to be an independent entity. Am I wrong on that? My God, why do we have to bail them out?
 These guys got guns! They got mace. And they treat people at Gateway for the dictatorship. Got your fare? Oh, it's an hour over. Here's a ticket. He's got courtesy tickets. He's got... they give them out. How much? Good questions. How much? What percentage? When they make the contact with a little old lady or a little arrogant Irishman,
 Do they give them a courtesy ticket or do they say, go to court? A couple hundred bucks it is. A couple hundred bucks and you want to take their word face value? My God, I do no shame. If I do not do that, I'll get excluded again. Good morning. Good morning, counsel. My name is Stephen Entwistle. I'm the founder of the Healing Man Sanctuary and I'm also a whistleblower for the less fortunate people.
 Yeah, the $900,000 that is going for this enforcement aspect, you've got to remember that we used to have a fairless square.
 And that the Fairless Square was a pretty good deal, and it helped a lot of people get around. My issue with the Fairless Square, the problem with that was it didn't expand. It should have expanded up to Washington Park so that people with disabilities and such can have a free ride up to the park. Because people that live on a fixed income, even $250,000 is not...
 It's too much. And students, people that need to get around, people that need to make their meetings, people that need to go to work, people that need to go to school, people that need to get around and do the things that they need to do. And any time that you get a subsidy for fare, that helps people get around. And it actually lowers the cost. It lowers the crime rate down when people have transportation to get around and get the things done that they need to get done. And I commend Amanda Fritz for recognizing that fact.
 especially for the young folks and the folks that really need it bad. The subsidies should be there. And the reason it's not, I think, is quite obvious, quite frankly. And we should really take a hard look at the needs of the people that really need this transportation the most. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioner.
 Good morning, commissioners. Maybe not. It's working. Thank you. I think it is. We've got weird reverb going on in here. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I have direct experience, as I mentioned. But the main thing that I think Commissioner Fritz has highlighted through her questions is we have this 29-page of information here. We have, because we live in a society that's –
 obsessed with lawyers and litigation. We have vehicle information numbers from vans from 1987 in here, but we don't have any performance goals. We don't have any commitment from TriMet to give us information about how many times the MAX is delayed so that four or eight police officers can block all the doors, hold the MAX in position, and come on and do a fare inspection.
 I think the city should use its authority to have some public review on whether this is really a way to accomplish the public policy goals of the greater Portland area. When the Fairless Square was taken away, we never really got – Mr. McFarland continued to collect his big check as director of TriMet –
 but we never really got any public information about what was going on. There was some publicity about how they were going to reach out to TPI and help people in serious need. But I think that you could actually withhold this contract. You could just not partner with TriMet, and everything would be just fine. We do need police on there. When somebody snatches an iPhone or a purse or something like that, that's an issue for police involvement. But TriMet will run just fine without police. Actually, one of your...
 Armed security guard who comes here also works for G4S. TriMet can contract with G4S at a better rate. So actually, you don't need to approve this contract at all. It doesn't save lives. Chief Modica does good work, and I would rather he be relieved of these duties and be able to work on improving Portland police performance under the DOJ settlement. So I encourage you to think long and hard about whether this contract needs to happen at all. It doesn't even need to be approved.
 There are public policy issues where it might be useful to talk about getting some statistics and to try and influence things, but the best way you can influence this is just say, try it. G4S is enough for you. And when G4S workers need police, they can have a communication system that will get them there. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Yeah.
 Okay, so I will plan to continue this for a week, give the Bureau a chance to follow up with you, Commissioner, or anyone else on the Council that wants additional information. We'll bring it back next week. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to the next item on the regular agenda, 981.
 accept bid of James W Fowler company for the southeast Hawthorne salmon sewer reconstruction and green streets project for four million two hundred thirty seven thousand seven hundred dollars is moody good morning
 Is that on? Okay. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to J.W. Fowler. The engineer's estimate on this project was $4.5 million. On August 4, 2015, six bids were received, and J.W. Fowler is the low bidder at $4,237,700. Stop right there. Let's just let that sit in. Thank you.
 I mean, the one thing we've noticed, colleagues, is that in this period of construction boom, our bids typically come in above the estimate because there's such competition in the marketplace. There's a scarcity of supply. So we should acknowledge that we actually came in under the estimate, which means we're going to save ratepayers a few dollars. How many bids again? We received six bids on this project.
 okay thank you commissioner this will be noted uh salary review that would be part of your private sector that would be true but we'll split okay we'll split it with you i was gonna let's not even negotiate we'll just divide it in half okay
 So the Bureau of Environmental Services has reviewed the bid items, and they accept the proposed pricing, as the commissioner stated. The city identified 10 divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. The MWSB subcontracting participation on this project is at 78.5%, with work being performed in concrete cutting, hauling, traffic control, and landscaping.
 I'll turn this back over to council if you have any questions. And Scott Gibson from Environmental Services is here to answer technical questions as well. Okay. Great. Questions for Christine? Thank you very much. And any questions for the Bureau? Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Then a motion, please. I'll still move. All in favor of approving the report, roll call, please. Thank you.
 Fritz. Thank you. I. Fish. Thanks to the Bureau and thanks to Procurement Services and Christine for their great work. I. Hales. I. Good work. Thank you. 982. Authorize up to $20 million of interim financing for local improvement projects. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, Jennifer Cooperman, City Treasurer. Good morning.
 This ordinance authorizes a revolving line of credit in an amount not to exceed $20 million and for a term no longer than five years to provide interim financing for local improvement district projects located throughout the city.
 This request will authorize a new line to replace an existing line of credit that expires December 21st of 2015. Approval of the ordinance will ensure continued funding for local improvement district projects throughout the city. Amounts borrowed on the line will be repaid from assessment payments from property owners and from proceeds of long-term bonds. We will be selecting a commercial bank to provide the line of credit through a request for terms process.
 Jennifer, I just have one comment. Yes. And you know that I hold you in the highest regard. Are we correct on that?
 You've told me. Okay. I'm a big fan of your kids. I love your work and grateful for your service. This isn't really directed to you, but when I saw the schedule, the agenda, I had no idea what 982 was, reading off the text. And all I'm going to ask is that if we can go the extra mile when we write these up to provide a little more detail so that the public doesn't have to read the underlying documents.
 a little bit more about what we're doing and why, because $20 million to fund local improvement projects is very, very generic. And we have made a lot of progress in making sure that our descriptions actually put the public on notice as to what we're going to do. Okay. I will note that for the future. Thank you. Good suggestion. Thanks. Any other questions for Ms. Cooperman?
 I just have a comment in that I do appreciate that that information was in the impact statement. So I think maybe what Commissioner Fish is referring to is to put more details in the ordinance just so that it comes up front. But I appreciate your attention to the financial impact statement. Particularly the title.
 That's what I'm hearing. The part that's actually on our agenda. Because that's what people, the public triggers off of. Sometimes we just put authorized money for financing, and it doesn't really give the public enough information about what and why. Okay. Any other questions? Thank you very much. We'll see you again tomorrow afternoon. Yes, you will. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it passes the second reading next week. Item 983. Thank you.
 amend contract with motivate international ink formerly Alton bicycles share ink to implement the bike share system not to exceed $2,000,000 second reading any comments Commissioner Novick or others before we vote yes colleagues and it
 This is, of course, the second reading, or as Joe Gibera would say, it's deja vu all over again. But I'm glad we have two opportunities to talk about the fact that we are finally going to have Bike Share in Portland. I want to give a shout out to two members of the world's greatest Bike Share band who are here, lead singer Steve Hoyt-McBeth and lead guitarist Margie Bradway. Our drummer Gabe Graff was here earlier but had to leave. Thank you.
 I know that some people have a concern about Portland based on another Yogi Berraism, which is people are afraid that eventually nobody will come here anymore because it's too crowded. And people might be concerned that adding bike share, which is among other things a tourist amenity, will contribute to that problem. But I would note that bikes take up less room than cars, so their contribution to overcrowding is minimal. Okay.
 And finally, I want to note that in honor of Yogi Berra, anybody who rents a bike share bike will be instructed, if you see a fork in the road, take it. Aye. Did you call us? We're doing a roll call. Roll call. Did you call us? Yes.
 so that was the other right so it's been several years since the council made the policy decision to apply for grant money for a bike share program in portland at that time i opposed the request for various reasons first and foremost because i believe the funds would be better spent on safety projects that would save lives other issues i was concerned about include the lack of helmets safety of pedestrians with inexperienced cyclists on riding on sidewalks and protecting the city's general fund
 Later, when the contract to implement bike share came to Council, I voted for the contract because the policy decision to move forward had already been made and the contract implemented that. So I'm going to support this ordinance for the same reason. The policy of bike share has been made, and as Commissioner Novick mentioned, your team have worked very diligently on trying to address the issues I've raised. I remain very concerned about the lack of progress made in finding a bicycle helmet
 solution. I appreciate the commitment of 120 days to figure one out. We recently adopted Vision Zero, putting cyclists on the street without helmets available to riders who may be tourists who didn't bring their bike helmet and who might not want to purchase one is counted to Vision Zero.
 And similarly, inexperienced cyclists riding in the wrong places downtown, particularly on sidewalks and along the MAX tracks, creates a dangerous situation. I personally witnessed a cyclist crash on the MAX tracks right after the Orange Line opening and it wasn't pretty. I obviously, of course, also see a lot of cars driving in the wrong lanes on 5th and 6th as well. They have a little more protection than a cyclist or a pedestrian. And so I'm voting for this.
 contract amendment, and I will look forward to working with the Bureau and the Commissioner on a very strong education component, encouraging helmet use, giving directions on where helmets can be purchased, and giving directions that it is illegal to cycle on sidewalks in the downtown area, and it is very dangerous to drive on the tracks. Thank you for your attention to my concerns. I appreciate it.
 I want to begin by just acknowledging all the hard work of Leah Treat and the professional team at PBOT who brought this home and congratulate them. And also acknowledge that Commissioner Novick has worked tirelessly to bring us to this day and thank you, Commissioner. I first started working on this in 2011.
 And that was the year in which there was a contentious debate at Metro about how the federal funds would be divided. And that's when I really first had a chance to learn about bike share and the benefits to our community. But frankly, what sealed it for me were two things. One was just the experience of visiting other cities in the country where bike share is a huge success. And I've mentioned New York, Washington, San Francisco in particular.
 But the second really was the opportunity to meet with the proposed new operator. And I could not have been more impressed with their team and their commitment. And it, frankly, brought some of my concerns down about what happens in years four and five. I think we are linking our fate to a professional operator that gives us a great chance to be successful.
 I guess just a point of pride, I wish we weren't the 65th city to adopt bike share. I think we'd all wish that we were in the top 10, but we are now joining 64 other cities that have experienced bike share and have provided this additional transportation option to their residents and to visitors, and I agree.
 I am confident that this will be a success, and I also appreciate all the steps that the Bureau and the Commissioner have taken to ensure that the general fund is protected in this enterprise. I wish you the best of success, and I can't wait to be one of the early adopters. Again, congratulations, Commissioner. Hi. Mills? Great.
 Great work, Commissioner and Bureau. We often say that we should measure twice and cut once. I think this time we measured three or four times and cut once, but it's a good piece of work, and it will make a difference in a city where we've long believed that we ought to give people transportation choices and make them attractive.
 And this one will be, too. As I mentioned last week, you know, we've heard lots of predictions over the years of failure every time we've done something in terms of transportation innovation from gubernatorial candidates who said we should lock up the light rail and throw away the keys when it was open because no one would ride it to a friend of mine at TriMet who I'll protect.
 his anonymity for the moment, who used to call the streetcar the donkey trolley and also predicted low ridership. Every time we've done this, it's proven that choices attract people to take them, and this is a good one. So I look forward to having it on our streets.
 And although I still have the sticker on my bike that says Portland is just an avenue in Minneapolis that was supplied to me by one of those cities that's done this before us, that's okay as long as we're all still going in the right direction and more quickly. So well done. Thank you very much. Aye. Okay. We have a couple more regular agenda items left. 9-84.
 adopt regulations for marijuana license procedures and requirements. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. As requested by Council after the hearing last week, we are returning with amendments to limit locations to 1,000 feet across both medical and retail areas.
 We are also amending the fee schedule to cover the cost of the program with fewer successful applications likely. And we're adding a severability clause to the ordinance so that if any part of the proposed code is found to be unlawful,
 The rest of it still stands. With that summary, I'll turn it over to Teresa Marchetti. Thank you so much. Good morning, council members. I'm Teresa Marchetti. I'm the livability manager for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. And really, I'm just here to answer any questions that you may have. Questions for Teresa or Victor? Sure.
 Do others have the amendments language and also the ordinance change with the severability clause in it? Yes. I believe we do. So do we need a motion, please, for those amendments? Is that right? So moved. Second. So further discussion of accepting the amendments in our packet dated today. Okay. Roll call on accepting the amendments. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Aye. Okay.
 I believe we need to provide the opportunity for anyone that wants to speak on the amendments. Okay. Thank you both. We have a sign-up sheet. I think Joe Walsh left. We have Nathaniel Williams, Alex Povich, and Rainey is the last name. Good morning. Come on up.
 How you doing? My name is Nick Daniel Williams. And one of the issues that I feel like that the city lack in inviting this amendment is that regulations on schools, basically because my nephew's 12 years old. He's in middle school. And he says the teachers, when the kids are on break, they're smoking pot. And I know the industry now is growing large in the city of Williams.
 in the state of Oregon. So the thing is, is that they're advertising more, and it's leading kids more to...
 do recreation drug abuse and leading away from education. And when schools are allowing kids to do these things at school and no one's enforcing it, the city should look more in close into getting superintendents and school enforcements in these things and having control over these things. And also, I'm really against putting regulations on local businesses because these are businesses and they have a right to make a living.
 And that's what voters pass these things for. But one of the things that the industry, the cannabis industry, is taking into consideration is that they should promote more on advertising, basically, hey, don't do drugs at school. You know, go talk to schools and say, hey, drug-free zones. More things like that instead of posting marijuana attractive everywhere in all communities, wherever you go, they're promoting smoke pot.
 That's basically my concern on that issue, that schools should be the number one focus. Do not lead our kids astray. Education is the key to success.
 Marijuana is a gateway drug to a lot of more things and I know a lot of kids start off smoking at 14, 15 years old and they should be focusing on their schoolwork. And industries are now freely promoting it wherever you go and they're passing out flyers and saying, hey, come smoke. And a lot of our kids are doing it. And schools should be held accountable for those things and should be enforcing
 Teachers, allowing kids to smoke, because probably teachers probably smoke pot as well. It happens. They're not enforcing it. And I feel like that's a concern for my nephew if he's telling me, hey, kids are smoking weed at school. I'm like, wow, and teachers do anything? He's like, no.
 So, I should really take that into consideration and give that a really, really strong look into the school districts in the city of Portland. Estetti put more regulations on the kidnaps industry and come to an agreement on promoting it. Thank you.
 Thank you. I do think it's maybe not an either or. It's both. This is the regulatory system, and we are going to be having a big education campaign. If you could talk to Rachel Wiggins, who's behind the council clerk, and let her know which school your nephew attends, because we do have school police officers, and absolutely it is not legal to use marijuana in public, any kind of public place, and that includes any place that you can pay to get into if –
 anybody can pay to get into it. So there's a lot of education that we need to do. It's not that, hey, this is legal and we can do it anywhere we want. So I really appreciate your comments. Yeah, teachers should be held accountable for those things, and the superintendent should be really, really strict. You could talk to Rachel, who's right behind the council clerk. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. Thank you. That's very helpful. Thank you.
 Good morning. Thank you, Commissioners and Mayor Hales. My name is Alex Pavich. I'm a city business owner here in Portland. I'm here to represent the citizens and marijuana patients that strongly urge you to vote no on this last-minute, poorly thought-out ordinance that duplicates current state laws and regulations, but also includes higher standards and guidelines that are already existing on an Oregon state level.
 The people understand there is a fear for lack of regulations in this new industry, but this ordinance is an unnecessary overregulation at a city level that duplicates two state agencies that have already set laws and have already been regulating the marijuana industry for almost two years.
 Creating a duplicate oversight committee and division at the city level is a waste of taxpayers' money and valuable city agencies' time. This ordinance will create such overregulation in city bureaucracy and an industry that is already facing overregulation more stringent than any other industry at this time. This ordinance...
 undermines the state agencies, the OHA and the OLCC that have been working tirelessly to create new divisions, agencies and educational programs to help teach our public. More importantly, this ordinance creates conflict between city and state laws which will inevitably increase conflicts, black market sales, potential lawsuits against the city, which is a further waste of taxpayer money.
 The people understand the city want more oversight and regulation, and we can agree on a city fee for a business permit, but it should not include more stringent guidelines that already are outlined by state laws. I also urge you to review these fees so that they are fair to business owners rather than the noted fees listed at greater than 10% higher or 10 times higher than any other business fee in the city to date. Thank you.
 do not use these fees to help rate i'm sorry do use these fees to help raise awareness and educational programs uh since the gentleman was mentioning there please help fund schools help the homeless situation fix those transportation and streetcar sign problems do not fund a new city division or program that wastes time and money duplicating already in place state laws i again note that conflict will rise when already licensed state businesses and invested business owners
 potentially fail to receive a new city permit under this more stringent guideline outlined in this ordinance.
 In conclusion, please don't make a haste decision based on fear of the unknown, but do take the time to propose a logical guideline for the marijuana industry at the city level. Do require a registration of business in the city. Do require a fair business city permit fee. Do require these businesses to comply with local business and building codes. Do require this list of businesses to be accessible to other agencies, businesses,
 but do not require these agencies to waste more time and taxpayer money having to approve each application under this ordinance. And please do not conflict with current state laws and regulations. Do require the city attorney to review a proper ordinance so as to not conflict with current state law. And please do not use taxpayer money or monies collected from fees to fund duplicate oversight committees and programs at the state level that already exist... at the city level that already exist...
 at the state level. Thank you. There's one comment you made I just want to respond to and maybe give you a chance to comment. I've been on the council for seven years. This is the first time I've ever heard someone from the public say that when the city proposes to regulate in the public interest in a way that's more stringent than either the OLCC or some other state regulatory body, that we are, quote, undermining them.
 And just from my vantage point, the typical testimony we get in this body is that they haven't gone far enough in protecting public health and safety. So we are urged to step in to the breach and to adopt local standards and community standards consistent with our values.
 So I'm a little surprised. I understand you have a disagreement, and I would also quibble a little bit with your comment, this is poorly thought out. Just about everybody who testified last week said they thought this was the best public process they had ever participated in, which is not surprising because Commissioner Fritz supervised it. And we also had a hearing in which a lot of people testified and led to these amendments. So I don't think it's poorly thought out. I think we have an honest disagreement, and you're free to have a disagreement.
 But the notion that we're going to do something different and therefore it undermines the OLCC, I just don't understand that perspective. And maybe take a second just to help me understand your point. MR. Commissioner Fish, have you actually read the ordinance in full and compared it to the current state law guidelines? I mean, there are more the city is trying to impose more stringent guidelines.
 that are out-minded. Right. And, sir, whether you agree or disagree with that, the city is a separate entity with its own powers. And if the city chooses to regulate at a higher level than the state,
 We're usually applauded for doing that, not criticized, but I'm just curious why you think that undermines the OLCC. You may disagree with the level of regulation. It might be a personal interest, I mean, being that if I owned a business that was currently licensed by the state and I've been operating for numerous years with numerous employees and now the city comes in and requires further regulations and says that I am unable to obtain now a city permit, even though I've been operating for years under state law,
 Basically, you're telling me that I've just lost my investment, I've lost my employees, have to find new jobs. And that you're superseding that statement. Let me just ask a question about that. So you're a medical marijuana dispensary? I own a medical marijuana dispensary, correct. And the amendments that we're making today were made at the request of multiple medical dispensaries.
 And I'm not arguing that. And like I stated, there's numerous things in this ordinance that I do agree upon, you know, fees and certain oversights that, you know, making sure that agencies are aware that we're doing business in the city. I wholeheartedly agree with that. I wholeheartedly agree with the gentleman here stating that there are going to be bad apples in our industry that are putting out horrible representations of what we're trying to do. I
 This is something that cannot be over-regulated, though. You're just going to push people back to the black market. Once again, imagine a business owner saying that, oh, I've been operating here for two years, and now you're taking away my ability to operate because I can't get a permit through the city.
 That individual is going to be left without jobs. We'll have the staff come back and address your concern. Thank you for raising that. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Hi. Thank you, guys. My name is Aliga Rainey. I am not only an OMMP patient, a resident of Portland, but I also sit on the chair for the ACMM and for the OLCC for the RAC Committee. I appreciate your time.
 I feel that the regulations and licensings of the application fees being put out are extremely unjustified. I agree with the City of Portland that we do have to have some sort of limited involvement with the marijuana facilities. There must be more appropriate happy medium for both of us. Dispensaries have proven that they can exist for over a year and a half without causing any concerns in regards to the public health and safety. The City of Portland would like to have the marijuana businesses, which means that you would like the taxpayers' money, which means it should also be accepted that the OHA and the OLCC has already done their regulations.
 HB 3400 granted local government to adopt an ordinance prohibiting the sale of limited marijuana product. From SB 460 and HB 3400, the local opt-out section, which you may allow to do if you would like to do.
 It is not granted to the local government to then create its own set of rules, which you are trying to do, and regulate for the business to submit to. This is why we have the state agencies in place and ready to go. If the state clears at a PRF for operation, there should be no further testing that a person should have to operate a business here in Portland. I don't understand that what the personal history form could provide after residency, background check, and more is then cleared by the state.
 In response to your ordinance in Part 14B-130080, Oregon's existing dispensary law can protect an OMIP patient who works at the licensed medical facility to consume marijuana. Again, I don't believe you as the City of Portland should have the override of what the state law has already set in place.
 I don't think the city of Portland understood the implications of what it meant by premises and any room of the property of the location. You do not have to have your ID checked at the door of a liquor store, just at a point of sale. By not allowing minors into the premises or even a waiting room of a medical dispensary and or rec at your choice would make it very difficult for many patients to either get transportation and or their medicine to their dispensary. For the patients who need information and all those for the minors that come in, we need to allow that space.
 The marijuana is in a separate room and away from the public so you guys understand. Air filterations are...
 regulations also seem to be excessive, and it is shown to not be deemed that smell is a nuisance. There's also a link that I could quote for you guys. Portland Police Bureau's inspection is also an unnecessary allotment of our taxpayers' money and a huge waste of time. Facilities have already been met regulations and regarding to the locations and security set in place by OHA. It seems unnecessarily to implement this large applications and license fee on the businesses to carry out unnecessarily oversight on a small business is what you were trying to promote here in Portland."
 It seems unnecessarily intimate such large application fees on a business to carry out unnecessary oversight. I would like to see that both reach an oversight and fees to come down to a regional point for both of us, at least for the medical side, at least because they serve the patients who need this. You cannot develop a program to try to regulate in October sales. It is too late, you guys. Regulations and fees have been set, and they should be set until 2016 and forward.
 If it is not necessary or it is necessary to not allow new marijuana facilities to come into existence within the 1,000 feet of the school or existing medical marijuana dispensaries, they have been saving their populations and they've already been serving them and fulfilling their needs. They should be able to serve those patients and now choose to serve the general public as if they needed.
 Please do not pass this ordinance and please take extra time to read this. I don't know how much more I can hope that you guys would actually read this. And I don't know if you guys have actually read the OHA or the OLCC, but you guys are super redundant. And I think it's a huge waste of time as a patient and an advocate and the city of Portland.
 This is my hometown. I've been born and raised here, and it makes me sick to my stomach to see this go in. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Are you here as individuals or representing a trade association? I'm representing about 45 patients that could not be here. I'm also representing myself as a person, as an OMIP patient, and I'm here representing as an operator of a medical marijuana dispensary. Right. And I...
 again, been doing this long enough, that your testimony sounds like a tort claim notice, and you have every right to put that in the record, but you've laid out what is potentially a legal challenge.
 And it sounds to me like the crux of your argument, and I'm not judging your argument, I'm just trying to understand it, is that you don't think we have the legal right to do this under state law. It's not that I don't think you have legal right, but I don't see how you guys have legal right to go against what we've already been putting in the effort for, what OHA and OLCC has already been working and spending tons of money on. You're creating a program to create a government.
 a job for a director that already exists by the state. And you stated in there that you were solely, it says right in the amendment of your ordinance, that this is solely to fund the program that you are solely creating. So why are we creating another program and more fees for programs that are already being set? I'm going to ask you a couple of questions because I'm trying to understand. And I get you've been very clear in your testimony, so you don't have to state it over and over again.
 Is your view that we don't have the legal authority to adopt these regulations? That's up to an attorney, Commissioner Fish. In fairness, sir, you've both been reading. As a person and as a. You've been reading testimony that's been crafted, I'm guessing. I believe. With an attorney. I'm just asking your opinion. Do you believe we have the authority to adopt these regulations? No. I believe the city is trying to oversight already imposed Oregon law. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 i think you guys are going overboard yes so i'm i'm anticipating a legal challenge and you have every right to do that and then what specifically we won't be alone just so you know okay
 And what specifically do you want us to change in the ordinance that's before us? I don't think that the ordinance should be involved in anything. I don't think the ordinance should have to be passed or be brought up. I don't believe that the neighborhood has involved. That's clear. Okay. That's clear. There you go. Great. Thank you both. Thank you. Okay. Others that want to speak? Yes, we have Charles Johnson and Lindsay Reinhart. Come on up. Please go ahead. I talked a lot. Okay.
 Good morning.
 I also asked for the right to consume my medication on-site in an enclosed locked room the way that the state law reads. That has not been changed. And I also asked for businesses to not merely be registered with the state but to be licensed. And that's the crux of the argument against you.
 The dispensaries that are licensed with the state have already paid a $4,000 fee. They've already been operational since 2014 or longer. And they've already got a patient base and an employee base that they already serve. These dispensaries already provide wages for between 2 to 15 people, depending on the size of the facility. And they are already providing medicine for anywhere from 200 to 4,000 patients each. To let a registered business...
 Open prior to allowing a medical business to open under Portland licensing is exactly the problem that you're facing. And the people that testified before me saying that you will have legal problems are absolutely correct. If
 A medical facility that's already been operational is forced to close because a recreational facility is merely registered with the state but not licensed with OLCC. You will force small businesses to close their doors. Patients will lose their access, recreational users will lose that access, and people like me will lose their jobs. Okay?
 This job provides for my family of four. I'm the sole person that provides income for my family. If a recreational facility opens their doors across the street from me as a registered facility but not licensed, and they hit enter before the PRF of my medical facility, you are effectively closing the medical facility and allowing the recreational facility to open in its place that has not done their due diligence. They have not been serving this community.
 They have not been providing jobs. They have not been providing medicine. And frankly, the argument is that's not fair. It's not. These licenses were already approved by the state. So when people are saying that you're superseding the state and the OLCC, that's probably likely where I come from,
 is that these businesses were already operational. They're already licensed. You're going to force people to close their doors the way this is written. That's why we testified the way we did last week. And to come back and see the amendments worse is not okay. So when you say worse, the amendments say that...
 we're going to treat both classes of uses the same for purposes of the anti-concentration rule, the one-mile, whatever it is, thousand-foot rule. Are you saying that as you read it that an existing – and there's an interpretation that an existing operator, let's say a medical marijuana dispensary –
 would have to close if someone opened within 1,000 feet of them? Yes, sir. That's the way it reads. The language says licensed or registered. So if you're licensed with OHA, you have paid a $4,000 fee and you've gone through everything. So we'll ask staff that question. We had a clear intent when we were talking about this, and we'll come back and have that conversation. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your very clear testimony last weekend, last week. Charles? Good morning, Commissioners. Charles Johnson. Yes.
 I don't have near the breadth or experience. I'm not a consumer or a medical marijuana patient. But I do think that we should sit back for a moment and look. We know that our city, even though the economy is rebounding, is always looking for new sources of revenue, even though we don't know what we're going to do about the streets since the legislature let us down. But I almost want to ask the auditor to review what's gone on here. How many hours...
 and how much wages of city workers, which will hopefully be recouped by these fees, is going into marijuana while people are still being killed by drunk drivers and people are still dying on the streets of Portland from heroin. I think that there's, you know, it's a little bit of a rabbit hole because this ordinance comes with a funding mechanism. And, you know, we can argue that that's a problem.
 argument why Portland should be in the lead to adopt a better drug policy, like many cities in Europe, to deal with our heroin problem. But that'd be a big fight against the federal government, which can't even figure out what to do about marijuana yet. But I do want you to listen to the voices of these people who've said that there are problems that could impact existing medical marijuana dispensaries. I think that nobody in any neighborhood wants to see
 a dispensary that's been around for a year or more and which they have some comfort level with be replaced by a recreational marijuana facility. So consider not passing the ordinance. And also, it's just marijuana, people. We really have more important things to worry about. Let the process – don't make this person or staff that's hired –
 Bust their butt. Have them sit by the phone and wait for complaints and get input from neighbors so that they can really find out. Nobody really cares, unless you have extreme sensitivity to the smell. Nobody really cares about marijuana. What they are worried about is other criminal activity, which the police should be taking care of without any fancy 15-page marijuana ordinance.
 So please, regardless of whether you have the sense to strike down this ordinance or pass it, make sure that the enforcement is complaint-driven and sane. We all know that there are occasional people who process complaints for the city know that there are some intense complainers and that the complaints need to be put in a broader perspective of the neighborhoods. Thank you.
 May I ask one question, please? Is there any way, I heard you all discussing before, delaying a vote until next week that could still be done in an emergency? Is there any way you could please delay this vote until the language is clear? We'll check on that. We're going to bring staff back up and get some answers to some of these questions. Thank you for being here, King, too. I appreciate that point. Okay, if there's no other public testimony, anyone else? So come on back up, please. Okay.
 So, yeah, walk us through this based on the testimony that we got last week and the amendments in front of us. Okay. There was this concern raised that, and we've heard it again here today, that we have existing medical marijuana licensees located with or without a 1,000-foot fence.
 spacing standard somewhere, right? Let's assume there's nothing within 1,000 feet. Okay. So they're located here and there. Right. Are any of them within 1,000 feet of each other now? Yes, some of them are. Some of them are. Okay. So the state didn't enforce... No, they didn't. The state didn't enforce a consistent 1,000-foot spacing standard on their own. Correct. And we're not... Well, hang on, folks. We've got a chance to answer. Sir, please, you don't score points...
 talking over others, and you're going to get the same respect that they're going to get. So please, it does not help your cause. I can see your thumb. It does not help your cause. So we have existing – You made a point, but just to piggyback off it, why are we not grandfathering people in who find themselves in that circumstance? I mean, our rule is 1,000 feet. Right. But to the extent there are people who, through no fault of their own, would be caught – would be within 1,000 feet –
 Why aren't we grandfathering existing licensees in it?
 So we don't currently know where all of the licensees are because up until this last legislative session there were confidentiality parameters. So there are some licenses or some dispensaries that are operating as dispensaries that don't even have a registration with OHA. We don't know who those are until we actually receive their paperwork and can make that phone call to OHA.
 It's one of the challenges that we're trying to work out with that agency. The other – go ahead. I was going to try to simplify the question because I appreciate the thoughtfulness that you're answering. But let's assume we knew where everyone was. Okay. Okay.
 So we've also been asked through this entire process to apply an equity lens to this. And the medical dispensaries, again, before last legislative session, really existed in an unregulated market. They had a registration. And the philosophy behind the medical dispensary –
 the medical dispensary's existence was that they provide medication for their patients. So there is not necessarily a history of compliance that we can look back at and say, okay, these businesses, therefore, need to be grandfathered in. In fact, we give them a leg up over a population of a lot of individuals that we've heard from that –
 Look at that as a barrier. We have no history of either compliance or noncompliance, right? I mean, we know that there are dispensaries here, there, and everywhere. Some of them are located within 1,000 feet of each other. Many of them were licensed by the state, right? Correct. Maybe not all, but many of them were. Okay, and now we're going to have a city standard.
 that I think the way this reads now that says regardless of whether you're a medical dispensary or a recreational dispensary, you must be 1,000 feet from everybody else in that business. Right. That's what the words on the page say. We'll figure out if it's good public policy or not. I think it is. But that's what the words on the page say. Then the question which Commissioner Fish has raised is, so what?
 What about the people who are already there and who weren't subject to that standard at the time they located their business? What happens to them under this approach? Right.
 There is the possibility that aid, I mean, as it is right now, if we were to accept on a first-come, first-served basis applications that came into the city, there is the possibility that we would say no to an existing medical dispensary. So they would lose their ability to operate in that location? Correct. Okay. So now I understand it, and thank you for your clear view.
 If the council decided to tweak that, I can think of two possible options. The council may not want to, but let me just put them on the table for discussion. One is to grandfather existing entities defined a certain way, because we'd have to be satisfied they met minimums, you know, some qualification. Or two, if we didn't want to do a blanket approach like a grandfather, we could just have a –
 provision that says that you can, if you're denied, and the reason you're denied is because there's someone else within 1,000 feet and you weren't first to mark it.
 There is a process to seek a review of that and get an exception. And the exception would go to someone who can show they've been operating, paying taxes, don't have any complaints against the business, those kinds of things. They would then be eligible for an exception. That's not the blanket grandfathering. That gives us a little more latitude to make sure that we're only extending the exception to the good actors.
 Steve, can you think of another option? I like that option. I like your exception option. I kind of like the exception, too, provided we're on solid legal ground, which means we'd have to have a clear standard that you would apply. We can't put you in a position of saying, yeah, maybe not. It would have to be provided they meet two or three or four criteria, they'd be eligible for the exception. I like that, too. Again, what are we trying to accomplish here? We're trying to make sure.
 We don't have a concentration of licensees for marijuana because we've been there before with other state licensees. And as I mentioned last week, I'll try to say this respectfully to our state agency partners, it hasn't always been ideal to have a state agency regulating a business that then has neighborhood side effects.
 Um, we've been there before. It's not pretty. So, um, I,
 see Hayden Island so therefore that's why we're exercising what's one of the reasons why where the city is exercising its regulatory authority here is is once burned a little bit shy we've also heard a lot of testimony from the community and in the public involvement process that Commissioner Fritz led that created this ordinance we've heard a lot of genuine concern about impacts on schools and all the rest so we tried to capture all that and say a reasonable spacing standard is
 is going to work for everybody plenty of places where you can locate either a medical or recreational dispensary and we're making sure that they're not so concentrated that they change the character of a neighborhood commercial district in ways that most people would find unfortunate that's what we're about here well we're as far as i know we're not over concentrated with dispensaries today
 Correct. So the ones that are on the ground doing business, we're not getting a lot of complaints about. Maybe they're not all exactly 1,000 feet apart, but we're okay, in my opinion, based on the lack of...
 screaming and yelling, at least in my office on this subject. Plenty of other subjects elicit that, but not this one. So I'm being a little playful here, but my point is I have not heard in these two hearings or otherwise that the existing situation on the ground is terrible. That's true. So, you know, 1,000 feet is a nice number, but it's a standard for getting a result, not something that's mathematically pure. So, Commissioner Fritz...
 How would you feel about a carefully crafted exception that says if you've been operating a responsible small business and you meet a certain set of criteria, you can get an exception to the rule? Again, if you meet a standard that we established for demonstrating you've been operating and operating in a responsible way, there would be an exception to enforcing the 1,000-foot rule.
 for an existing business? I'm certainly open to that. I think in addition to the public safety issues that the mayor raised, we've all been very clear that we want to support medical marijuana continuing to be available to patients and supporting existing businesses. So I'm wondering, on page 4 of the proposed code, we've got a definition of medical dispensary, which means a business located in a city that is registered with the Oregon Health Authority under ORS 475314.
 I'm wondering if there's a way to reference that in the next page on page 5, where we talk about minimum standards and the medical dispensary. What we want to make sure of is that we are talking about licensed businesses. So for businesses that are properly licensed with the state now, then yes, I believe we should grandfather. If there are businesses that haven't been licensed,
 None of us are okay with that. What I've heard a lot from the businesses and the advocates is that we want to go through the proper steps. We also do have on page 16 of the code the administrative review by the director and appeals to the code hearings officer, which you'll remember that we amended last week at the request of the auditor.
 So it's possible that we could put something in there, but I'm wondering, staff, how quickly could you craft an amendment with the city attorney? I know that Ben Walters is out today. He is. You know, in terms of setting a criteria for an exception, and correct me if I'm wrong, but
 I don't think that that needs to necessarily hinder the adoption of the rules with direction from counsel to develop a criteria for exception by rule that comes back to you for approval. And the reason that I say that is because I think that there are –
 that there are probably a pretty good set of criteria that we could come up with that would be very fair and equitable in its practice, but I wouldn't want to do that in a rush necessarily. Definitely in time and in place for when we decide to roll out the program on December 1st,
 but having these regulations in place, the comprehensive scheme, is quite important for addressing some of the concerns that we've started to see across the country. It is an emergency ordinance. You may be being very modest because you've done a ton of work in one week to bring this to us, and I actually don't think this exception has to be a complicated exception. I think we just establish –
 the sense of what you've heard here, that you're an otherwise licensed business. We don't want a bad actor getting the benefit of the exception, but I think everyone sort of knows what we're talking about, and we just come up with the simplest way of stating that, to give you the right to, on a case-by-case basis, make an exception so that people are not put out of business. And the safety valve is, if they disagree with that decision, it goes to a co-hearing.
 to give you the decision, delegate to you the right to make an exception, and if the applicant disagrees with you, let that go to code hearing and just agree that we won't take any negative steps against you until that code hearing is completed. For the city attorney, are we allowed to do that kind of an exception by administrative rule, or does it have to be in the code? Ellen, I was going to ask you, senior city attorney. I was just looking at it. I mean, I think...
 The policy intent is very clear, but I think we're going to have to look at an amendment because what you need to do is to delegate that authority to the director. Right now what we say is that if the minimum standards are met, the director shall issue the license. Even though we provide for an appeal, we would need to craft an amendment to make the exceptions
 something that you've delegated to the director. There's already Section 14B130120, right, that talks about appeals. So the mayor likes to say measure twice and cut once. I think we've measured about 16 times at this point and still. Could you remind us, please, Teresa, of the timeline of when things are going to happen? Sure.
 Recreational sales of marijuana in limited quantities will start from dispensaries as of October 1st. And I think that the variation in compliance will be more evident then. There have been many anecdotal complaints, or I'm sorry, anecdotal stories about individuals who are looking to push the bounds with that new ability to sell recreational as of October 1st. I think that these, our intention to get this done
 to get these regulations in place for the City of Portland before that October 1st date was specifically to address that spectrum of licensees that's looking for, okay, so what's going to fly here? So as of October 1st, only medical dispensaries will be able to sell record.
 Yes. And I did want to clarify one point that we heard from the community. The OLCC has not developed their rules. I am part of their rules advisory committee. We just had an eight-hour meeting on Friday to look over a subsection of them. We're going to have another one in October. Hopefully there will be something going before the commission by the end of November for their licensing scheme starting in January. So there really is no –
 There's no framework at this point at the state level. MR. Could you help us understand one procedural point, which is if we adopt the rules today and we come back a week or two to deal with the additional component that is under consideration, would any of the folks who testified today and expressed concerns be prejudiced? I mean, they might disagree with parts of the rules we're adopting today, but in terms of the overall concern, they could be prevented from doing business or put out of business.
 Would they be prejudiced? No, not if we're coming back in two weeks to address this exception. So just let me continue asking you about the dates. So on October 1st, do the medical dispensaries have to apply for a recreational license, or are they allowed to sell recreationally by right?
 No, Commissioner Fritz. They simply need to notify the OHA of whether or not they will be selling recreational items. Okay. And is any recreational retailer allowed to apply for a license on October 1st? No, ma'am. The availability for those licenses for even to receive the application isn't until January 4th with the OLCC. So we don't actually have to adopt this before October 1st even? No.
 We don't have to, but the regulations that are in place here with regards to the environment in which the service is occurring, which means the hours of operation, the standards by which consumption can or cannot happen, those kinds of elements will not be in place as of October 1st. So those would apply to the medical dispensaries for how they can sell retail. So as long as we were to adopt them next week,
 which is September 30th, and we all have had a very robust discussion of what that should be. Actually, we could adopt them today because since we're not going to have the issue of anybody applying to us for a retail license as of October 1st, that's not what's being contemplated. That's true. All we would be doing is setting the standards. Correct. So we might get advice of legal counsel on that point, but it would seem to me...
 given that there will always be someone who questions the city's authority to do something, and that there is an important turning point in this issue on October 1st, that it would be wise for the city of Portland to have its regulations in place on October 1st.
 Yes. And I think that given that we can still amend those regulations later or we could adopt them on the 30th, I don't think either of those choices makes any difference. I think that we could probably craft another amendment and bring it back next week. I'm looking at my staff.
 who look like they're about to cry. Because it's been a very long road. The benefit of that is it's a comprehensive package. Well, yeah, I think it's actually better to get it as close now that this issue has been brought to our attention and I, again, appreciate all of the constructive comments we've had. And some of them we'll be able to accommodate and some of them we're going to choose not to. That's
 why we have these public hearings. There is this tweak that I think we can craft some language on and bring it back again next week. It's still adopted on the 30th. I'm looking at my colleagues because I want to make sure that we are going to be adopting it on the 30th. And obviously then there's still time between December is when other new dispensaries can apply, new retailers can apply. Is that correct? Yes.
 Commissioner, I just want to note we wouldn't just be adopting this. We'd be celebrating an important birthday that day, too, so we'd have to find time for both. Indeed so, sir. I think if we set this over a week, we can do both. And then to the extent there are folks here who still have concerns, Mayor, I found it very useful last time to signal that we'll certainly be reading our e-mails and any comments that come between now and then because we will, in fact, be taking a vote next week.
 I believe, actually, many of us have the same interests at heart. We want to continue to make medical marijuana available. We want to be clear in our rules. Some people don't like the rules, but from my perspective, I want to be clear in the rules. And we want to have a program enforced by or in effect by October 1st so that the staff and everybody else knows what the rules are. I'm going to be out next on the 30th.
 But I think Commissioner Saltzman is going to be here. Okay. So we'll still have a quorum. Is that right? We'll have four on the 30th? Yes, we will still have a quorum. Okay. So that sounds like we may have a consensus that we're going to continue this item a week. Okay.
 We're going to give people in the community a chance to continue to communicate with us by e-mail or phone call or any other way you can, street corner conversations, whatever means you want to make yourselves available to, to let us know if you think we're getting to the right place. That's the intent here. So, again, I appreciate the testimony. I think if I can capture this, it is the council's intention to amend this ordinance to allow existing businesses to continue operating
 even if they happen to be located 1,000 feet from another such business. As long as they're licensed. As long as they've been properly licensed.
 before, you know, a date that we'll specify in the ordinance. Right. So that's the goal here is to not put people out of business, to establish a reasonable spacing standard going forward, and to assert the city's ability to regulate beyond the level that the OLCC regulates. That's, again, an area where we might disagree philosophically, but I think certainly that's my feeling, and I think that was the intent of the draft, so.
 Thank you, colleagues, and thanks, everybody, for your testimony. This is a rare occasion where I wish we had an afternoon hearing this afternoon because I think actually it's not going to take a great deal of time to craft this amendment, and I do appreciate all of the time that's been put in. That means there will be a lot more testimony and comments and such, and this is going to be a process of us figuring out what's legal, what do we want in our community for the wise and useful use of this new substance, which is going to be legal.
 okay thank you all very much continued one week until next wednesday thank you okay we got one more item on our regular calendar which is 985 and that's the second reading assess property for sidewalk repair for the portland bureau of transportation
 comments concerns roll call please I better not we're recess till tomorrow 2 p.m.