choice at that time. The wage, the total benefit package was worth putting in the time and applying for the city. Now I'm going to fast forward 20 years. The E&I staff has doubled in size to nearly 30 employees, and I'm still the fifth youngest in the shop. Why is this, you may ask? Well, it's very simple. Really, the retirement that once was helped balancing out the lower wage, even 20 years ago, I took a $4 or $5 cut an hour to work for the city, but the total benefits package offset that.
 So at that time, the city had the draw to bring younger, career-minded, long-term employees. Now, I know that PERS is not totally under your control, but other things like benefits, especially wages, are so. It is up to you and the city to make the city no longer the employer of no choice, but back to the employer of choice. Thank you for listening. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Rich Thalheimer. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and members of council. And I've worked for the city of Portland since 1999 as a parking code enforcement officer. I'm a member of the DCQ bargaining team, and I represent AFSCME 189. There's a lot of green back there.
 I'd like to acknowledge my coworkers in the parking enforcement division for all the hard work that they do because they have one of the most thankless jobs in this city. In addition to generating over $6 million in citation revenue a year, their enforcement helped generate a record $33 million in parking meter revenue last year as well. We respond to 2,500 calls a month for service, and we've addressed 23,000 abandoned auto cases this year. I think they deserve a big thank you for the hard work that they do.
 In addition to writing parking citations, they also perform many other duties. We collect all the meter money from every meter in the city. We reserve all the spaces in the metered areas downtown. We do booting. We do first responder duties. We tow vehicles left and the right of way during snowstorms so the plows can get through. And more recently, we were on the front lines of the homeless crisis. We're out there dealing with the people living in their RVs, knocking on doors, giving them the social services and assistance they need.
 We're one of several classifications requesting a selective increase. Our request is based on our added duties and the city's own class comp study that shows the code enforcement series has paid at least 10% below market. We perform code enforcement work, but since we have the stigma of being meter maids, I don't feel that we're recognized for the code enforcement work that we do and we're not paid on the same scale as the other code specialists.
 The DCTU has been clear on its stance about an across-the-board increase for all of its members. We gave up the first-year cost-of-living adjustment in the previous contract, and we gave up half of the cost-of-living adjustment in the current contract because of a bad economy. The economy has now rebounded, and our members are asking to get back what they've sacrificed. Thank you.
 What we've seen in bargaining so far is a lack of movement on the City's part. We submitted our financial package early on in bargaining, yet it took the City another 70 days for the City to respond with a financial proposal. I feel that the City is engaged in bad faith bargaining again. It appears to have been a calculated move, though, to draw out bargaining in order to settle contracts with the laborers and PTE 17, and then to force the DCTU to accept what they settled for.
 Well, I've got news for you. That's not enough for the DCTU. We're bargaining our own contract. We're not bargaining a master contract for all of the other labor organizations in the city. But if you do want to force a contract on us, feel free to force the police PPA contract that gave them 3% a year for three years. We would be happy to take that. So several things our members are asking for is an across-the-board increase, no HIPAA release. They value their health insurance information.
 full retro payback to July, and keeping the internal promotion language from being eliminated. In all my years working for the city, I've never seen this amount of underlying resentment for how employees have been treated. Every day I get asked, when are we going on strike? If we're pushed to a strike, here's a few things to consider. Who will perform the several hundred inspections at BDS, and how many construction sites and jobs will be delayed because of it?
 Who will make sure that the water is flowing to the faucets and ensure that the water is clean? Who will write the $20,000 to $30,000 a day in parking tickets? This is what our membership wants and deserves. Please step up and be our employer of choice. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Tony Bush. I work for the city fleet. I'm a member of the DCTU bargaining team, and I represent the machinists.
 I'm going to touch on something Rich mentioned, and that is I've worked for the city for ten years, and in those ten years I've been on the previous two contract negotiations as well. And a pattern has changed.
 come to my attention. I mean, I'm a limited time employee, but it seems as though contracts get drug out substantially long after the contract has expired, and this year seems to be no different. However, the biggest difference between
 this negotiation session and the previous two is the previous two the city has come to the table and we've seemed to have been able to work out and continue making progress throughout the bargaining which makes it a little easier to justify dragging it out as long as we do this time however we were asked to bring a financial proposal to the table early so it could be looked at and as others have mentioned
 it it has taken a long time to get that back it took i think something of the tune of 70 days to get a response which was just a supposal that was good for that day and the supposal was nowhere's in the same stratosphere as what ours was nor did it touch on any of the issues of why the differences were so great i think that
 To me, that was showing a start of the bad faith bargaining that was to come was waiting so long to get back. And then when we do come to the table, it's for two hours a day, once a week. Well, I'll give the benefit of the doubt, maybe three hours some days. But it seems as though the city has a hard deadline that they leave the table at...
 4 o'clock or they leave mediation at 5 o'clock when there's room to be made on our We have issues that we can talk about there's movement that can be made. Why leave then why can't we get this done? You're you're saving money off of the backs of the employees that do all the hard labor work for the city and To us that's not right. We just want to get this we want to get a fair contract and
 We want to get it resolved soon so everybody can get back to work. We can put the sideline grumblings that are happening in all the shops in the past, and everybody can focus on the future. That's not even at all what I wrote down, so I'll just give the rest of my time to someone else. That's a good statement, though. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Chris Montgomery with Local 701 and the DCTU. I represent the Water Bureau and the FMTs that keep the lights on in this facility. I'm going to piggyback on my brother here and sort of on my brothers and sisters here as well. Although this is my first bargaining session with the DCTU in the city, it is quite frustrating that I work a salary position.
 The city management team comes to us and they work a salary position, I would assume. But if I can get up at 5 o'clock in the morning and go to work and then go home at 9 o'clock at night to bargain sessions, bargain contracts and things like that, then why can't they? Why does it seem that they have banker's hours in order to leave? It doesn't make sense to me. The other thing is you send...
 A chair that has little to no power. So he comes in for a couple of hours. Half the management team shows up. And then they leave at a selective special time with no work being done.
 It doesn't make any sense. This seems systematic to me. It really does. Over the last couple of years, it sounds like this has happened over and over again. And I have to tell you, even though this is my first time as a newcomer, it seems very frustrating. So it's got to be very frustrating to all of the members in Green and the other hundreds and hundreds of other members for the city that work hard for you every day.
 The other point I want to make is that the HIPAA release that you guys are asking for, why would I expose or they expose their health to the public? And when I say that, I say that there's no open, there's no closed-loop system to protect that. You're asking the members to do something preposterous. It's ridiculous. As I said, and I mentioned that I represent the FMTs,
 You have offered no raise for the FMTs for this contract, although the CPIs went up and up and up, and now it's 2.9%. What are you guys thinking? What's going on here? I don't think you guys understand the impact you're creating for the DCTU and our members, but I believe that you'll soon understand. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 My name is Mary Protzman. I'm a DCTU bargaining team member and part of the professional staff at the Police Bureau. In November 2016, we began trying to pick dates to meet with the city. We agreed to meet on December 8th. That meeting and a few dates in January were canceled due to snow.
 On December 22nd, we received a final order from the Employee Relations Board ruling that your labor relations manager, Jarrell Gaddis, bargained in bad faith over the implementation of the $15 an hour minimum wage that this council agreed to in 2015. I was part of that interim bargaining team and can attest to the obstinate lack of conversation regarding the impacts, never mind actual negotiations. We finally met our current contract negotiator.
 for our current contract negotiations on January 5th, agreed to ground rules, and agreed that January 12th would be the start of the 150-day bargaining timeline required under the Public Employee Collective Bargaining Act. I left feeling optimistic that BHR was possibly going to be something more akin to a partner navigating the process rather than a barrier as has been our past experience. On March 30th,
 March 30th was the deadline to approve new offers. We provided a complete financial package that day, shooting blind with no idea what the city might or might not be willing to even discuss.
 On January 8th, we received a supposal, which is a type of non-binding proposal, and the first we had actually seen of anything resembling the city's financial package. This happened three days before we passed the 150-day bargaining timeline on June 11th. On June 29th, we received an actual complete counterproposal from the city that was titled as such. It was essentially the same previous supposal retitled. The union's team provided a counter the same day.
 On July 27th, we provided yet another complete proposal to the City, bargaining against ourselves and continuing to try different ideas to spark productive dialogue. On July 31st, the City requested mediation. On July 17th, we received a second complete counterproposal, virtually the same as before. On September 6th, the Union's team provided yet another proposal to the City.
 And this last Monday, September 25th, the City provided a counterproposal during mediation, moving a little and offering back pay to January 1st, 2016 for police classifications they failed to bargain in good faith over back in 2015. Here is what we, the unions of the DCTU, are asking. Justice for the police professional staff for your labor relations manager's failure to bargain in good faith. Address the class comp issues, most of which have been outstanding since we raised them in 2010.
 Provide some additional increase to offset the COLAs that we have given up during the lien times and to account for the out-of-control Portland housing market. This includes a retroactive COLA for these negotiations. Everything else, we're fine with being status quo. When you see this long list of issues, that's what we need to accept the concessions the city is demanding. You have given lip service to trying to become an employer of choice. We are already employees of choice, and we make this city work, and our demands have not been made in a vacuum.
 We continue to be far apart on issues most important to your employees, and the city's team seems to be too overwhelmed to have meaningful conversation that will inspire movement, compromise, and settlement. They have even professed to have no strategy for this round of bargaining. It is for these reasons, and those my fellow City of Portland employee representatives have already shared, we declare impasse.
 So we have the consent agenda? Oh, yeah. My understanding is there are four items that have been pulled for discussion. And we have one more also. One more. So I have 1058, 1062, 1063, 1064, and what do you have? And then this morning, 1061. And 1061. I'll call the roll on that, Mayor. Saltzman. Aye. Aye.
 Udallie? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Let's go back to the time certain 1053, please. I
 1052. 1052. I'm sorry, 1052. I apologize. 1052. Appoint Candace Alvarez to the Citizen Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review, a division of the City Auditor's Office. Good morning. Good morning. Another day in paradise. Yes. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Anika Bental, Assistant Director of the Independent Police Review. Good morning.
 I just want to state your name. Candace Avalos, candidate for Citizen Review Committee. Excellent. And Rachel Mortimer, the other assistant director at the Independent Police Review. Thank you for being here. So we are here before you this morning to seek the appointment of Ms. Carmen Avalos to the Citizens Review Committee, CRC, which is a volunteer advisory board to the Independent Police Review Division. Thank you.
 CRC members are responsible for gathering community concerns about police services, developing policy recommendations to address patterns of problems with police services, conducting, reviewing, and advising IPR on the complaint handling process.
 and hearing appeals from community members and officers regarding the recommended findings of completed administrative investigations. The appointment of Ms. Avalos will serve to fill a vacancy resulting from the resignation of one member of the CRC. We're very grateful to have Ms. Avalos' interest in serving on the CRC. Do you have any questions for us? Colleagues, any further questions? Very good. Any public testimony on this item?
 We have three signed up to testify. Okay. It looks like you can cool your heels for us and we'll hear public testimony. Okay. Thank you. Shedrick Wilkins, Joe Walsh, and Dan Handelman. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I support people, different minorities seeking the police review board. Also, I strongly support that our mayor has chosen to make decisions
 the first woman African American police chief. I think these are good steps to deal with some of the criticism of the police handling of different racial issues even across the nation. I also support the mayor's, in this guy named Tyrone Poole, who wants to have a faster way to rent. One of the issues is some people have past police convictions.
 Now here's something you ought to think about. Up until the year 2014, marijuana was illegal in this state. And there were a lot of minorities dealing with marijuana, although it does have medicinal value. And they may have police records that may deny them housing, right? And then be pushed into a corner and that involves the police. And so that's important and it's also important to realize that marijuana is now legal, right?
 You know, and even Joseph Kennedy, John F. Kennedy's father dealt with illegal alcohol during Prohibition, but then Prohibition was rescinded. So some of these crimes are crimes of the times. And I personally like President Kennedy and the fact that his father was a bootlegger in Prohibition doesn't bother me. So these are cultural things, things that change.
 I do believe that marijuana is a medicine and that people in the past 10 or 20 years that have dealt with marijuana and sold it illegally may have been doing the right thing. Thank you. If it pleases the presiding official, I would like to defer to Dan. Good morning, Mayor and City Commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman from Portland Cop Watch. And we were here, I was here on August 9th, and you appointed another member to CRC, Daniel Schwartz.
 who I mentioned at the time had attended more CRC meetings in the past year than Mr. Jim Young, who is being replaced today. Earlier this year, in April, you appointed Mr. Young to a seat after he had missed 10 of the previous 15 CRC meetings.
 We objected to that. The Mayor asked that Mr. Young attend future CRC meetings by electronic means. He did not do so. He voluntarily resigned. But as a result, basically the seat has been more or less empty since April.
 Several years ago also, the CRC was dominated by retirees, and most of the members were age 50 or older, and Mr. Young was, until he resigned, the only retiree on CRC and the eldest member, and he was one of four white men. The appointment today will create a CRC that will have four women of color, three white women, and a Latino man, and a woman who identifies as LGBTQ. Okay.
 Candice Avalos, who's up for today, I don't know anything about her other than what I read in her application, which I know you all read because that's part of the city code. We have no specific objections to her appointment today, but I just want to point out that since she's in an 18- to 25-year-old age bracket, that nine out of the 11 members of CRC are under age 45 at this point.
 So we went from having too many older and retired members to having the pendulum swing completely the other way. And I've mentioned this before, and I think there's a value to having people who have extra time on their hands given the amount of work the CRC has to do.
 Also, I should mention that CRC was the subject of much debate and Council made a couple of tweaks to their abilities earlier this year, but there was promise that there would be a work session to talk more about the structure of IPR and CRC. I haven't heard anything about that. We asked to be included in that. I have attended more CRC members than anybody on the planet. So I'm hoping that we'll be invited to the table when and if that happens.
 Ms. Avalos mentions wanting to work on policy, which is very important. CRC has really dropped the ball on their work groups because they're spending so much time on their appeals. But one of their work groups works on crowd control, and we've been attending those meetings. In fact, there's only one CRC member sitting on that work group right now, so I'm hoping she'll join that one. And we sent out our analysis of the current crowd control policy yesterday, and we hope you all got a chance to look that over.
 Also, Mr. Schwartz, the last person you appointed, as I said, attended more meetings than Mr. Young. I don't think I've ever seen Ms. Avalos at a meeting. I've checked the minutes. I don't see her name in there, but that might not be meaningful because my name wasn't listed in one meeting, and I've been to all of them. So thank you for your time. Thank you. And you sent that email yesterday, is that correct? I'm not sure I got it, but I'll check and make sure I did. All right. I didn't see that yesterday, but...
 I'll look into that and I appreciate that. Thank you. Good morning, sir. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh and I represent Individuals for Justice. And we take no money from you. We testified last week about nonprofits coming before you and we would like them to make the same statement or at least disclose how much money they are taking from you so we know who's paying who. We take no money from anybody. Thank you.
 We also have no money. The reason that I'm testifying on this today and defer to Dan is individuals with justice would really like it just once. When Dan and the AMA and other people that are really interested in police accountability come before you and say, you know, we had a really great time.
 connection with you guys, and we worked out all the problems of these appointees. You know, we never get that. What we get is objections, objections, objections, and then you guys just rubber stamp it anyway.
 And that gets tiring after a while. So we looked at the application, and the application is impressive. You know, I can't figure out how you get people to volunteer 18, 20 hours a week when they have that kind of a resume. How do you do that?
 You know, she's a really impressive woman. And we have a lot of impressive people on committees. And then I asked my last question is, then why are we in so much trouble? You know, got a lot of bright people running around and we're in a lot of trouble. So we would like, again, to say to you, think about at least giving stipends to some of these volunteers.
 at least reimburse them if they're suffering payouts, parking, and gas, and stuff like that. You ought to consider that on every committee. I know that sounds like, whoa, that would be huge. But we are going to talk about today, Amanda, you're going to give a million dollars to TriMet via the schools. A million dollars. So it seems like you guys got money.
 And I used to kid Charlie Hales about going down into the basement to find new money. So go down to the basement again and give these volunteers some stipends or reimbursements. You know, I can't figure out why you don't have more problems with volunteers showing up.
 So I was a volunteer and you asked me to do 20, and it's never 20 hours, it's always 40 hours, it's always doubled. So then we ran into a co-op. They were working like crazy with nothing. So we support what Dan is saying, and we're suggesting to you that this is a really good volunteer. And you did a good job on that. We give you that one. However...
 You must continue it and you must figure out a way to reimburse these people. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. I do approve of the candidate Avalos for the Citizen Review Committee. One of the questions on the application, have you or your family member ever participated in an organization that advocates a position regarding the police?
 or the criminal justice system? No. I have worked for the Office of Judicial Affairs at James Madison University in which I worked with police to review cases and taught alcohol education classes to at-risk students. Maybe I'm reading that a little bit wrong, but that appears that you have worked with the police directly and you have worked alongside of them. Issue number two,
 Working, also being involved in the sexual assaults, I want to make it very clear to you, the Portland police have been a disgrace pertaining to the rape kits. They should have never had a backlog like that. It was one of the worst in history. Pathetic performance. Any commissioners up here that were involved in that, I would remove them from their chairs if I had the authority. I do not at this time.
 Again, just so we have an understanding. But when we get ready to vote for them, there are ways to remove them. And when you look at the facts behind what I'm saying on the rape kits, anyone sitting up here siding with the Portland police on their conduct, on having kits not tested for over 10 years, you shouldn't be sitting up there. You should have the ability to say, I'm not satisfied with that. I couldn't be satisfied with that.
 There were people that raped people that were still outside on the loose because of the conduct. How could you be satisfied with that and sit up there and side with them? You can't. You shouldn't be an elected official if you did. And I'm making it very clear. Since you were involved in sexual assault and reviewing that, make a stand on Portland Police on those rape kits. Make a stand to make sure they're tested and timely. Make a stand on that and understand. Thank you.
 Portland Police made a lot of big mistakes there, and it should never happen again. Just on another issue from my position is that I noticed on the application that you write in there, would you be willing to participate in a 9-11 sit-along? Yes. Would you be willing to take six hours of equity diversity training, which I do agree with, absolutely. Would you be willing to participate in at least one police ride-along each year you serve? Yes. Yes.
 I don't know if I agree with that. I don't know if I agree with them sitting alongside the police on ride-alongs. I want it independent. I want them separated, and I want them to analyze the police and remain completely neutral. Thank you. Thank you. Does that complete public testimony? Please call the roll. Solicitor. Well, thank you, Ms. Avalos, for your willingness to serve. It is a big-time commitment, and it's a very important position for the residents of our city to help us
 carry out our responsibilities with respect to policing in the city of Portland. Thank you. Aye. Udaly. Congratulations on your appointment, and thank you for being willing to serve our city. Aye. Thank you.
 Fritz? Thank you so much for being here, as well as being willing to serve in hearing some of the testimony that we had. And for the record, we did take action when we found out about the rape kits, and there isn't a backlog anymore. And there's also many things that are not resolved. And so we need to engage your partnership in telling us what to do about the policies, as well as the individual things that you do on the Citizens Review Committee. I hope to continue to have a liaison that will report to me directly often.
 Because I believe in what you're doing, and I know that the community wants you to be there and wants you to really dig in and give us your plain advice, which I believe you will have absolutely no difficulty doing. Fish. Well, thank you very much for your willingness to serve. And you'll now be interacting with the city in two fundamental ways. One, helping us get the police reform and accountability agenda right.
 But also, you work at Portland State University, which we see as central to the future success of our city. And so we're delighted that you're in two leadership positions and that we'll have an opportunity to work with you. Thank you for signing up to do this work. Bye. Wheeler. Well, I appreciate Candace. I think you're a very strong candidate for this. And I agree with those who...
 provided testimony. When I looked at your resume, I was blown away. I think you're going to be a great addition. I think you bring a good perspective, and I look forward to your leadership. So welcome and thank you for your service. I vote aye. The appointment's approved. Thank you. Congratulations.
 Next item, please. Let's see. Yeah, we're at 10 o'clock. Go ahead. 1053, please. 1053. Authorize amendment to propose transaction terms for expansion of stadium with Peregrine Sports LLC for the expansion of Providence Park. Colleagues, I'm pleased with the progress that's been made so far to move forward with the expansion to Providence Park. You'll recall that we approved the right-of-way encroachment recently, and I understand...
 that the permitting process is moving along very well. The resolution today is the next step to assure a timely start to construction activities. As you know, the time frame is quite tight.
 This is all expected to get underway within the next week or two. Susan Hartnett with the Office of Management and Finance is here, and she's going to provide a brief staff report. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Commissioners, for the record, Susan Hartnett, Spectator Venues Program Manager, Office of Management and Finance. I am just going to do a really quick introduction.
 overview of the resolution and why we're bringing it to you now. Mike Golub from Peregrine Sports is here as well. He's not planning on joining me, but if you want more details or have questions, he's happy to come up. I do have a question for Mike when you're finished. Okay, great. So as the Mayor said, we are making great progress on all necessary fronts, and it's a multi-pronged approach here to bring this expansion to fruition and actually get it into the ground in the next couple of weeks.
 Staff in numerous bureaus, and I would call out in particular BDS and PBOT, are really working very diligently to meet the schedules for the various reviews and permits that are required.
 As the Mayor mentioned, to date we've got design review completed and approved, and the major encroachment in the right-of-way was approved by Council a couple weeks ago. The project has been broken into a couple of phases, and that's been done in part to facilitate permitting so that the initial work can start.
 early and that is on target for October 2nd was the date. I'm not quite sure if we're gonna make that but we won't be far behind that. The item before you today is also needed to make sure that that early October construction start can happen.
 You may recall back in June when we brought the original term sheet to you that we thought we would be here with formal agreements for your review and approval prior to what was the
 initial construction start date of November 1. But that schedule has advanced. As you know, the window between the two seasons is very short, and Peregrine and their contractor, Turner Construction, need to take advantage of really every minute available to them. So the resolution authorizes the mayor to sign an amendment to the term sheet,
 And what that amendment does is it gives Peregrine and Turner permission to begin construction activities, including demolition, so they will actually be starting to take apart parts of the stadium. As soon as certain conditions, and the conditions include insurance and contracts being approved by the city, we are working very fast to try and do that, email exchange constantly happening.
 and I expect, well, we will get there in the next couple of days.
 The amendment also makes these terms binding, and in particular what's of interest to the city is the make-whole obligation on Peregrine is now a binding obligation. So if for some reason, and we don't anticipate this, but if for some reason the project were not to move forward, Peregrine would have to put back together the parts of the stadium that they're going to begin building.
 taking a part in advance of the formal agreements being signed. We do expect to be back with the formal agreements in early November.
 But the schedule of work that we attached to this amendment actually covers work that's anticipated through the end of November. We figured let's give ourselves a little bit of breathing room. So they have sufficient approval from the council with this action to work through the end of November, and we are certain we will get back here by the end of November with those documents. So.
 So I'm happy to answer any questions if you have any questions, and I'm sure Mike will come up and answer them. I have an unrelated question for Mike, so let's first address our questions to you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to make sure that my particular seats are not going to be affected for October 7th, which is when the Thorns will be playing their semifinal game. Yeah, that is absolutely correct. It is stuff that will be happening down, out of sight. People will not know what's happening unless they got a tour of the dark underside of the building. Yeah.
 Thank you. Just to clarify, that was a joke. I'm certainly not saying that you need to give me special privileges. I know that everybody is driving for the finish of the season, and I'm glad to hear that all of the stadium will be in good working order until after we've won both cups, maybe. Absolutely. That would be great. Two questions for Mike. Mike, why don't you come on up? If you could state your name for the record, please. Good morning. Good morning. Mike Gala, President of Business for the Portland Thorns and Portland Timbers.
 Mike, both of your teams, the Timbers and the Thorns, are having really terrific years, and we're getting toward the end of the season. So could you remind us about what the plan is at the end of the season and the potential plan for playoffs?
 The Thorns have one home regular season game remaining this coming Saturday against Chicago. We've clinched either second or first. Four teams of the ten qualify for the playoffs. There's a slight chance if we win and North Carolina loses out that we could win the shield, the best regular season record. Most likely we'll finish second, which ensures the home game that Commissioner Fritz referenced will be October 7th, 1230. Both Saturday's game is...
 And that game, the semifinal game on the 7th, will be nationally televised on Lifetime Network. Should we prevail on the 7th in the semifinal game, which will likely be either against Orlando or Chicago again, we would then travel to Orlando, which is the neutral site location for the championship game on October 14th.
 knock wood, when there we would come back, fly the team back the next day, the 15th, and do a series of celebrations in town. So that's the Thorns picture. That's the Thorns. Give us a preview on the Timbers. Timbers, we have three games remaining. We currently sit in second place.
 we've had a very good last couple months and uh... to those three games are home and it's very likely will have a home game at least a home game and we continue to have a kind of run that we had a fifteen several home games so both teams are seem to be peaking at the right time uh... such exciting time for us and our supporters and is is diego valeri in the run for uh... mvp and and uh... mentally he's thinking about running for dan c and i thought about uh... that was a little
 So Diego Valera actually leads the league in goals scored with 20, most goals scored by any midfielder in the history of Major League Soccer. He's scored in nine consecutive games, which is the longest consecutive streak in the history of Major League Soccer. He broke it two games ago with his eighth goal in eight games. So he and New York's player, legendary Spanish player David Villa, are really the only two...
 legitimate candidates for MVP. So if Diego has a really good last three games and we continue to do well as a team, we could have the MVP trophy right here in Portland. When does that get announced? It gets voted on after the regular season. It gets announced during the playoff season. I don't know exactly when, Nick. I'll follow up with you. Thank you. Thank you, Mike. Very good. All right. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Sounds good.
 Well, congratulations on the great season the Thorns and the Timbers are having, and it's very exciting, and this is very exciting to get this thing underway as soon as possible. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. It's very good to be doing this in collaboration, in partnership, and with the city's only fees being the negotiations fees and the oversight rather than direct taxpayers' intervention. So thank you very much. Aye. Fish. Mike, congratulations to you and the whole organization.
 Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you. So, colleagues, what I'd propose we do at this point, we have 15 minutes until the next time certain. I'd propose we go back to the pulled items on the consent agenda, and hopefully we have people here for each of those items. We'll start with item number 1058, I believe, is the first item.
 Well, I'm sorry. Yeah, we have 1058, and that is Commissioner Saltzman. Was Andrew Scott going to testify on that? You know, I have a note here that he's not able to make it until after the regular agenda. Very good. How about 1061? 1061. 1061.
 Good morning. And who pulled 1061? And Lightning pulled 1061. Let me read the title, please. Authorized application to the Oregon Department of Aviation for a critical Oregon air relief program grant in an amount of $123,000 for downtown Portland heliport modernization project.
 Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Michael Jacobs. I work with PBOT. I manage the smart park garages, and the heliport happens to be on top of the NATO and Davis smart park garage. I'll just be very brief. The grant application, the intent of the grant funds is to upgrade critical systems at the heliport, including landing lights, the pedestrian lights, the weather monitoring station, and new windsocks and masks.
 The city is required to match 25%, about $40,000. That money will be used for some staffing costs, but mostly for upgrading the fire suppression equipment. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Any questions? Public testimony, please. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X.
 I want to have a clear understanding the downtown Haleport currently has the distinction of being Oregon's only public use Haleport. Now, it's my understanding, I absolutely approve of any type of work that's going to continue to be done on this.
 One of the things I might have a problem is on the grant application itself is having to use this for public use for 20 years in the application itself. I don't know if that's really necessary to have in there. Another issue I have on this is that I want to have a study done on in the event any type of accident takes place at the Halaport,
 What is the response on that type of an accident? Say a helicopter has a problem. What is the response and what will be the plan if something happens? Because in the first six months of 2017, you had approximately 1,500 landings. Now in 2016, you had 3,000. So it appears, though, your landings are actually decreasing a little bit because
 I wanted to have a clear understanding on this too, is to make sure that the city has outright ownership of this heliport. And Northwest Rotorcraft Association does not have any ownership. I'm not quite sure where they fit into this agreement, if they're on some type of a lease to overlook it. Now, another question I have on this heliport is that...
 This is being currently used in 2016 as 59% transient general aviation, 39% air taxi, and 2% military. I don't have any issues with the military or any type of emergency type use. I have a little bit of an issue in understanding the qualifications requirements.
 of the pilots as far as air taxis or general aviation type use. I want to have an understanding how you check out the pilots, who's landing on this landing, what are their qualifications, and I want to have a clear understanding on what you expect
 Considering that this heliport is located by a new office building on one side, an office building on the back side, the MAX train also going underneath on the other side, I want to have a clear understanding from safety issues, from noise to environmental issues,
 on what plan you have to safeguard this haloport. And I want to have a clear understanding that if we're looking at more type of use as far as air taxis, such as Uber Elevate, such as my good friend at Google, Larry Page,
 We want to have an understanding on where you want to start looking at this as far as on that type of use in the future and what type of costs that will be to these companies to utilize this heliport downtown Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning again for the record. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice, and we still do not take any money from you.
 One of the things that I would like to point out to the people listening to this is these grants, it's almost like somebody has a job of looking at all the list of grants and say, oh, that's kind of interesting, let's go for that one. These grants are not free. The testimony, if I heard it correctly, and my hearing is also going, it's going to cost us $40,000 if we get the grant. Right.
 Which isn't too bad. I mean, that's 3 to 1, 4 to 1. But it's not free. And $40,000 to you guys is very little money. It's not even a drop in the bucket. I think you'd consider it a miss in the bucket. But it's $40,000. And the people that are listening to this are struggling. And they say, you know, do we really need this? Nobody's telling us why we need this. I don't know. I haven't heard...
 Anybody up there know why we need a heliport in the middle of downtown? Nice. New York has it. But New York also has 8 million people. So we get the feeling sometimes on these grants when sometimes Mayor Hale would lecture us and say, no, no, no, no, no. You know, we're just asking for the money. You know, we're not spending the money. Yes, you are. If you get the grant, you will spend the money.
 So I think that a little bit honestly would be nice if you tell the people that this is not a free ride, not a free lunch. The state's not giving us free money. Neither does the Fed. We have to put up a proportion, 5%, 10%, 25%, whatever they require. But it costs us. And you guys do this a lot. You go after these grants a lot.
 And even when you get it, it seems to me that it's a lose-lose. But it's not a win-win. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Is there any further testimony, colleagues, any further questions? Call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udallie. Fritz. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Could you read items 1062, 63, and 64 together, please? Aye.
 All right, and also 1058, Director Scott is here. All right, Andrew, do you have a few minutes? Can you wait? Okay, very good. 62 to 64. 1062, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with David Douglas School District for $306,797 to support a student transit pass program to provide TriMet transit passes to lower-income high school students.
 1063, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County School District 1J, AKA Portland Public Schools, for $588,000, $128, to support a student transit pass program to provide TriMet passes to all Portland Public School high school students
 1064, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Park Rose School District for $72,075 to support a student transit pass program to provide transit passes to lower-income high school students. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm really excited to do this. I'll be introducing Ginny Gates, who worked on it, in just a second. I just said we started, the City Council started giving Portland Public Schools, the largest district in Portland, funds in 2009, where the beginning of the recession was a way to help that school district at their request to get transportation on TriMet.
 As we kept doing it over and over, always with one-time money, it became increasingly clear that it was a very inequitable thing to do, just give money to Portland Public Schools and not to David Douglas and to Park Rose, which are the other two school districts which are entirely within the city of Portland.
 So in this budget, the council chose to have the same amount of money that would have been allocated to support in public schools and to have a process to decide how to divide that up between the three districts. And so I'm delighted to turn it over also to Commissioner Udeli for some opening remarks because she and Winter Johannes and her staff were very important in that process to help figure it out in partnership with the youth of our community.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. I'll keep it brief. I'm just really pleased and proud to see years of advocacy by OPAL and other community advocates translate into increased transit access for students in East Portland. As we all know, transit access is critical for keeping students connected, not just to their schools, but also to jobs, recreational opportunities,
 extracurricular programs, and the larger community. I'm thankful that Portland Public Schools has decided to provide youth passes for all of their students this year, and I look forward to seeing the reports from David Douglas and Park Rose about their first year implementing a youth pass program in their schools. Good morning, Council. I'm Janine Gates, and I'm the Constituent Services Specialist for Commissioner Fritz.
 So I was part of Multnomah Youth Commission when I was in high school at De La Salle North Catholic High School. And I was on the committee to get youth passed to Portland Public Schools. And on that committee, I remember saying, well, we're doing a disservice. All Portland High School students do not attend Portland Public Schools. And so I feel like a dream is coming true.
 So I want to thank you all for thinking about East Portland and also tasking us with meeting together with the Portland Public Schools District, Darhita-Vit-Douglas School District and Park Road School District, as well as Multnomah Youth Commission and OPAL's Youth Environmental Justice Alliance Group. We met in June to discuss how should we allocate $967,000 in an equitable way.
 And from one meeting with Brad Taylor as our facilitator, which was very helpful to me one time to discuss that in three hours. That was pretty phenomenal to me.
 And so in the meeting, we went back and forth about ways to split the money and decided that we should base the $967,000 on how many low-income students are attending the school. And that didn't necessarily mean that only low-income students would get the bus pass. It was just a way of measuring how can we use it in an equitable way.
 And also the money was decided that it would be used for TriMet monthly bus passes only, which will allow the students to get to and from school, as well as extracurricular activities, such as work and whatever they're doing with their schools.
 The meeting was fruitful. I think that it was really great. We all left pretty happy. And so I would like to thank everyone that helped get this where we are today. Commissioner Fritz for advocating for Youth Pass in East Portland for the last several years. Commissioner Daly for ensuring the youth voices were centered and respected.
 Godin Salazar who works with Commissioner Fritz and went to Johannes who works for Commission daily For getting youth passed to council today and working with me to make sure that voices were all heard school districts For coming to the meeting and being open and Portland Public Schools were being open to splitting that money after receiving it several years Which they will have to figure out how they will use their budget to make sure that every student has a bus pass and the
 And then Brad Taylor, he was an amazing facilitator. It's always nice to work with him, so I appreciate that. And then Pooja Bhatt and Claire Adams-Dick, who was also in Commissioner Fritz's office, for helping me file my first council item. That was very difficult, so I really do appreciate them. And I appreciate the support and the many hands that helped us get here today. So thank you, council. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions? So, yeah, I just – so the money can only be used for –
 TriMet bus passes? Correct. Correct. Okay. Great. Thanks. Very good. Any public testimony on this item? We did not have a sign-up sheet out for this one. So let's say we're on consent. Good morning again. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. First of all, I'd like to congratulate the concept of moving money and having the students ride TriMet buses.
 and pay for those monthly passes. I like that idea. And even though the expenditure, if you add it up, and I did it really fast, and since I majored in psychology, I'm a terrible person at math, it's about a million dollars. You're saying you're giving it to three school districts. No, you're not. You're giving it to TriMet. We are three school districts. TriMet ends up with the money.
 Otherwise, why bother? TriMet has to get the money because they're the vendor. So why not give it directly to TriMet? Just do it. You know, get the passes and at least that would be honest. But you're putting out the school districts first. Now, our question on this is, is TriMet doing anything or are they just receiving the money? Okay.
 So, like, when I buy a pass, because I'm an old guy now, it's pretty reasonable. And student passes are also reasonable. And, again, we should support the students, but that's not what you're doing. You're paying off TriMet. I mean, are they saying, look, these are students. Normally it costs $2 for a pass or $1.25 for the students.
 Let's knock it down to 50 cents and let the city reimburse us. Now that would be cool, but there's nothing in the documents, and I'll grant you. The three school districts, there's a lot of documents and a lot of pages to read on that, and contract language will put you to sleep in about five minutes.
 So it's too long. You can't read it in one session. You really need some time. And also, those are three individual items. We should be entitled to nine minutes. I know we're not getting it, and I know you're doing this under emergency, and I know you're going to pass it, but we're going on the record of saying we like the idea of what you're trying to do. We don't like the way you're doing it. And we think you're dishonest.
 And Commissioner Fritz, I know you want to say something. And please, if you say something, answer that question. Is TriMet stepping up on this or are we on our own doing something that we really don't have to do? It's a nice thing to do, but we don't have to do it. May I answer? Oh, sure.
 In the past, Portland Public Schools, TriMet, and the city have put in equal amounts so that all the students in Portland Public Schools could get bus passes. So that's what I believe Portland Public is planning to do. Oh, thank you. It's lower.
 That's what I believe that Port and Public is going to do this time, that the district will be supplementing the money that the city gives them and then TriMet will match that or provide the final third.
 In the other school districts, they still provide yellow school bus service. So when we talked with them, their boards and superintendents were not interested in providing them for everyone. And they weren't able at that time to put any of the school districts money in for their 1 third, 1 third, 1 third.
 So it's left open to the school districts as to how they want to either supplement and get into an agreement with TriMet or just use that money for the bus passes. What was the second question that you asked, Mr. Walsh? The second part of my question is it would be helpful if we understood that the city is donating, in a sense, a million dollars. How much is TriMet donating?
 In the past, when they were matching the $967, they were giving one-third, so another $967, and Portland Public Schools was giving another $967. And that was so they could give passes to all students, not just those on free and reduced lunch. Okay.
 You're right Mr. Washington, I want to read from ORS 2307043, when a district is required to provide transportation. A school district, this is state law, is required to provide transformation for elementary schools who live more, for elementary students who live more than one mile from school and for secondary school students who reside more than 1.5 miles from school.
 So yes, it actually is the school district who is required to provide that. As I said, during the recession we were helping out Portland Public Schools because they asked, and previously the other districts had not. And there is a part two to this transportation requirement which says, notwithstanding what I just read, the State Board of Education may waive the requirements
 on the high school students if they present to the board a plan providing or identifying suitable and sufficient alternate modes of transportation, transporting secondary school students. Your second point, that the city doesn't have to do that, I absolutely agree with. We're past the recession now. Of course, we're going to have a difficult budget as always.
 We have responsibilities as a city council that we are not paying for because we are giving this $927,000 again to now three school districts divided equitably. It's something that I think the city council cannot continue to sustain and we'll be having that discussion in the next budget. But certainly this particular three items is for just this year. There's no promise that we're going to do it again.
 Okay, I'm willing to waive the nine minutes. Just let me answer that, and then I'll shut up. It's still not clear to me who's paying for what. If the city is paying the $900,000, or as I do as a liberal arts major, round it off to a million dollars,
 Is the public schools putting up another million? I mean the three districts. And is TriMet equaling that? If the three of us go to lunch and we split the lunch, it's $10 a piece. That's what I'm interested in. I'm not interested in the city giving money to the school district or to TriMet, no matter how you slice it, and then next year,
 and I suspect we're going to be in a lot of trouble next year, pull that money, and the school district's screwed. So that's what worries me all the time. So if the three entities are equally contributing, at the worst case scenario, you drop down to two if the city pulls out. So they still have $2 million.
 You see what I'm saying? I'm just saying I don't want the city to take the burden on their shoulders and next year saying, too bad. And by the way, I have a granddaughter in David Tucker's. So, you know, when I read this, I just thought, okay. I mean, we need to move this along. Don't go negative on this. I would be happy to discuss it with you. Excuse me? I'd be happy to discuss it with you or Jean. I didn't hear what you said. We're backed up, and I think your point is very well made. We have nine minutes on this, technically.
 And I said I would waive it if you let me finish. Excuse me, you don't get to make that decision. Yes, I do. Good afternoon. I want the nine minutes. You don't get nine minutes. You don't get nine minutes. I want the nine minutes. You don't get it. It's three. Okay, how are you doing that? A minister says I have nine minutes. Excuse me. You're interrupting. And if you continue to interrupt, Mr. Walsh, you'll be asked to leave. You know the rules. Good morning.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. State law does not require you to pay this, but it requires the Portland Public Schools to pay it. They came back with an exception to that rule with a plan with the city stepping up and putting up approximately a million dollars to match TriMet a million and them also a million. But that was during...
 times of hardship. That was during a recession. We are not in a recession right now. This is not a hardship time for the Portland Public Schools. Now, granted, they do need funding. I do agree. But this is a totally different type of a situation here to where we need funding at the city.
 The mayor's talking about maybe having to not fund homeless projects at the full amount anymore. He might have to start restricting some of the funding. So where you take funding from one area, you take it from the other. And the reality is that at this point, Portland Public Schools should step up. You're making this decision yourself in violation of state law.
 because originally you stepped in when there was a recession. There is not now. So it's hard for me to understand how you can sit there and say this is a legitimate cost to pay. This is legitimate when state law says that the Portland Public Schools should pick it up. There's no hardship here. There's no recession. So I am absolutely against this. And there is no reason why this should be paid anymore. This should have been stopped.
 This should not be going forward. And I'm saying, vote no on this. State law, they'll still be funded, I can assure you. Even if some private investors out there from some non-profits will step up and pay this, which they should. They should, and they have the money to do it, and this is a worthy cause to do it.
 But this is not something the city of Portland needs to be paying at this time. There is no recession. There's no legitimate reason to be paying it. And we're looking at maybe other costs in other areas which are reasonable, but we shouldn't be losing that money toward TriMet passes to the public schools. What's more important? What is your jobs up here to do?
 You want to represent the public schools? Go work for the public schools. You want to make sure they get funding? Well, go fund them. Go work for them. Go raise money for them. You're the city of Portland. You're the city of Portland. And again, I always want to see the kids get funding, and they would get funding if you voted no today. I can assure you they'll get their funding. Thank you. Very good. Please call the roll on 1062. Southman.
 I just wanted to commend the capable staff work of Ms. Gates and her first council documents. Aye. Udaly.
 First, I'd like to thank all the young leaders who have successfully advocated for the council to include Park Rose and David Douglas as recipients of Youth Pass funding. I was impressed not only by the successful campaign they ran, but also by their thoughtful proposals for how the money should be allocated among the three districts. In particular, I want to thank the following Multnomah Youth Commissioners, Lexi Moyer, Manuela, my little pronunciation key is gone, Eskimo,
 well, I'm going to truncate it, Perez and Jessica Monet Perez, as well as Andrea Marquez and the Youth Development Coordinator. Also thank you to Maria Hernandez Segoviano and Jennifer Fung for Opal Environmental Justice, as well as Anna and Maylena from the Youth Environmental Justice Alliance.
 In addition to the youth and community advocates, I'd like to thank the districts for their participation in this process. Thank you to Portland Public Schools representatives Anna Richter-Taylor and Courtney Westling, David Douglas representatives Rolando Flores and Barbara Keenly.
 and Park Rose representatives, Dr. Karen Gray and Christine Blauk. Finally, I want to thank city staff, including Goldann and Janine from Commissioner Fritz's office. Thank you to ONI staff member Brad Taylor for facilitating the work session just to decide how the money would be allocated. Thank you in particular to Winta Yohannes from my office for working so diligently on this.
 And finally, thank you to Antoinette Toku in the Grants Office, who is brand new to the city and for whom this is the first item she has prepared for Council.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Udaly, not only for your partnership in the process, but also for reading the entire list of the people that we jointly thank. And so I'm not going to read it again. It has taken a lot of people to get to this point. So obviously, Janine, this is her first presentation with me, at least, not before the council, and I appreciate that. And Winsett, you're harnessed in your office as commissioner. It's always very community-given.
 communicative. Brad Taylor no longer with the city unfortunately but has proved his worth as a facilitator
 The other thing I want to do is go back to the start of all this, which was Sisters in Action for Power, which started at Jefferson High School when my kids were in school, where those young women started the ball rolling about we need help to get the bus to school. And it's not only the yellow buses, because at that time...
 I think that we may still have had yellow buses in Portland Public Schools. But it's also that you can't do activities, you can't use the yellow buses to get to your job if you happen to miss the yellow bus. This year we heard from Parkhurst High School students who did a survey, and I think it was something like 40% of their students had at least once missed the school bus and either had to walk a very long way or missed school. And so...
 As we're all invested in our high school students getting to school and doing the learning that they need to do to graduate, I do appreciate this appropriation, and I also appreciate that we're giving a rapid heads-up to the school districts that we appreciate their partnership this year, and it's unlikely that we're going to be able to continue it in perpetuity. Fish. Thank you all for your good work. Aye. Wheeler. So, yeah.
 I'll just say this. It's always unfortunate to me as the presiding officer when we have testimony that goes the way the testimony went. The irony is I actually agree with Mr. Walsh. And to be clear, we looked very hard at not funding the program in this year's budget.
 And while it is very important that young people have access to transportation to get to school, the reality is this is way out of our lane. And it's something that was done in the midst of a crisis. It was done out of benevolence for all of the right reasons. But here we are years later, and we are still supporting transportation programs.
 for kids going to school. And the reality is, as Mr. Walsh and others have mentioned, there are core responsibilities that we have as a city, as a municipal government, that we are not meeting.
 And we did not want to just drop this in the laps of TriMet or the school districts or anyone else. We wanted to give a clear runway. The reason we chose to fund it this year was because students are allowed to start signing up for the bus program in July, if I remember correctly. So we would be finishing our budget in June, and then July would come around October.
 a month later, and we just decided logistically that was not enough notice. That wasn't going to work. Commissioners Fritz and Udaly took the lead on at least making sure that this last contribution is an equitable contribution between the three districts, which I absolutely support. I think it's the right way, and I appreciate the long list of people that you worked with to make sure that we did it right here today. I, the ordinance, is adopted. 1063, please. Saltzman. Aye. Aye.
 Udallie? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 1064, please. Saltzman? Aye. Udallie? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Andrew, can you make 1058 fast for us? We're about 15 minutes behind. Thank you.
 10-58, authorize a request for proposal to obtain the most responsible and responsive proposer for a new budgeting software system. Great. Good morning. Good morning. Andrew Scott, City Budget Director, and I'm here with Jess Eden, who is our project manager on this replacement proposal.
 Yeah, I will be very brief. So last year in the 2016-17 fall bump process, Council allocated a million dollars as a placeholder to replace our budget software. The current budget software we have is unsupported and has an end-of-life date in 2020, and so it does need to be replaced.
 In the meantime, over the last year, we've engaged in quite a bit of due diligence on the project. We've talked to numerous vendors to get a sense of what's out there. We've convened city staff to discuss system requirements and other potential enhancements to the system that they might want to see.
 We did contract with an outside consultant to help work on these RFP requirements, which will be in the RFP that will be issued if council moves forward with that. We have discussed this with the city's technology executive steering committee, which is an internal group, and they were actually the group that recommended we go more broadly than the current vendor that we have and look outside, which is what we're doing. We also met with the technology oversight committee,
 which was an early meeting. They usually don't engage with projects until after we've contracted and moved forward, but we wanted to talk to them early, sort of pre-RFP for just a review and consultation to get the Technology Oversight Committee advice as well.
 And then we also have a plan to consult with Gartner Technologies and BTS staff as we move forward. And what we're asking today is just Council's approval to move forward with that RFP, which will allow us to then get concrete proposals from vendors, which will allow us to figure out what the actual cost is of this. And then we'll come back to you with that information before moving forward with the project.
 Very good. Colleagues? I'm sorry, Commissioner Seltzman? Well, I had asked this item be presented because I was concerned. I didn't see any reference to the Technology Oversight Committee in the resolution. Okay.
 So they have been involved and will continue to be involved? Yes, I have requested that they continue to be involved. To be frank, the project's a little small for them. They usually engage with larger projects, but as the city budget office, we don't have a lot of technology expertise, so I am absolutely asking them to be involved and anyone else who wants to be involved in terms of oversight of the project.
 Well, we hope it will remain a small project. Yes. That's the trouble with software projects is they often cross that threshold at some point and become suddenly large headaches. Right. So we did consult with them, and they were very helpful. And we're going back to them on their October meeting. Yes, we'll be talking with them October 23rd after they've had an opportunity to review our initial draft of the RFP and give us suggestions. Okay. Well, thank you. Great. Thank you. Very good. Any public testimony on this item?
 We did not have a sign. Seeing none, call the roll, please. Solzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Back to the time certain, 1054, please. 1054. Accept report of the 2017 Disability Leadership Academy. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. I am very pleased to introduce the 2017 report on the Disability Leadership Academy.
 From February through June of this year, the City of Portland's Disability Program facilitated our 2017 Disability Leadership Academy. This was Portland's first ever city-developed, community-engagement-focused disability leadership program.
 Academy. Its intentional recruitment of people with disabilities from diverse cultural communities, inclusion of social justice topics, and efforts to remove economic barriers to participation were also a Portland disability
 community first. This experience brought together 15 community members in a cross-cultural, racially diverse, multi-generational group to learn from community leaders about disability culture and how to be part of creating the city they want to live in. The skills and knowledge gained from this experience provided members with a foundation to effectively engage in local and regional policy,
 educate their communities about how to create change, and advocate for vital issues in our community.
 The leaders that we will hear from today demonstrate through their hard work and dedication to staying involved how critical the City of Portland's efforts are in building the capacity of Portland's disability communities and moving Portland toward greater disability equity. I'm excited to welcome Joanne Johnson, Disability Program Coordinator, Vakta Gurung, Sara Hirsi,
 Jerry Patti, and Cynthia Wojak up to present the report. They will also be joined by Napoli and ASL interpreters. Welcome, everyone, and please remember to state your name for the record. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner and City Council. My name is Joanne Johnson, Disability Program Coordinator for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement with the City of Portland.
 Disability Leadership Academy came from years of community requests for a cross-disability leadership development opportunity. Portland's disability communities have long recognized that with cross-disability collaboration and leadership capacity, people with disabilities in Portland could more effectively engage in Portland's civic and community life, adding unique perspectives, ideas, and energy to our city.
 Disability community organizations had tried to support this kind of leadership development in the past and found that they did not have the capacity to do so. And so they asked the disability program to take it on. The City of Portland agreed that intentional disability leadership community capacity building has long-term value that benefits the entire city. And Disability Leadership Academy was funded in the 2015-2016 budget for $10,000.
 The remainder of the expenses were covered by the disability program. As you will soon hear, we had a very successful 2017 Disability Leadership Academy. Members of our academy are here to share with you what we did in Disability Leadership Academy and how it impacted them. I'd like to be the first to thank our city commission for making it possible for us to offer this excellent opportunity.
 I know you will see today the power of this work and the gifts Portland's disability communities have to offer. Good morning, I'm Jerry Patti. I'm a retired person and I participate on many different disability boards and groups. Here are three basic aspects of the Academy. The applicants were chosen through a competitive application and interview process and from over 50 applications, 15 spots were filled.
 During the four-month period we met across ten different Saturdays. Most of them were pretty tiring Saturdays. And through those we gained basic skills, communication skills, and also we came up with a community engagement project. We also met at four different locations around town just to provide diversity. Those included City Hall, Independent Living Resources,
 Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization and the Latino Network. Namaste. Hello. My name is Bhakta Guru. My name is Bhakta Guru. I live in Portland City. I'm going to tell my story. This body, they're cheap.
 We met through Disability Leadership Academy and we built relationship with other people in the community.
 We build good relationship with each other now. I was very happy to meet him in his meeting.
 I came to lead a civic academy and I learned so much and got to meet so many friends and people in my community.
 I also learned about American Disability Act.
 I have come from a poor family.
 Being part of the Leadership Academy, I feel very thankful, and I want to thank everyone who is involved and supported the Leadership Academy. So one of my friends will be speaking now.
 Good morning. My name is Cynthia Wojak. I'm a retired Portland public school teacher.
 And I applied to be on the committee because I'm looking for something to do with this part of my life. And I have to say that overall, it really was a wonderful experience. I'm just going to talk a minute about some of the training sessions that our leader, Joanne, put together for us. One of them was an overview of the disability movement.
 We saw films about the bravery and the strength of people with disabilities in fighting for important causes. And it brought back to mind some news that I just saw this week about, in Washington, D.C., people with disabilities demonstrating to keep their health...
 coverage and that brought back some very strong movies that Joanne showed us and that got the ball rolling for our other meetings. We had people in the community who are considered leaders in the disability movement
 talk with us about their own personal experiences and what we might bring to the present time. That was very powerful. We did go around town to different places, as Jerry talked about, our Hispanic community, ERCO,
 out in Northeast Portland. We met a couple times. And we even came here, and you guys weren't here on Saturday, I don't think I saw any of you, but it's okay for this time. So we were all over the place seeing what Portland Disability Movement is doing.
 We looked at how to work with the city government and other local places and trying to cut through some of all that red tape that you guys are always having to deal with. We saw a little bit of how we might work within that. That was very useful.
 and problem solving. We had a few meetings on actually listening. That's something we, you know, yes, yes, yes. We need to listen more, and we had people talk with us about how to do that effectively, how to communicate, how to problem solve. And I think we reflected on that
 very, very strongly. That was a high point. And then I think overall, throughout all of our meetings, meeting each other, and we're all very different people coming to different places with our disabilities, just constantly seeing that and reflecting on ourselves and what that means among our group was really very powerful.
 I appreciated that very, very much, and I want to thank Joanne for being our leader and working on that throughout all the meetings. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. Hello, everyone. My name is Sarah Hirsi, and I'm a student at Portland State University and getting my Master of Social Work. I speak English. It's my second language also.
 People with a disability experience intersectionality. This includes race, gender, cultural language. We know everybody has, we all have multiple identities. Each of our identities can be cited for beverage or abortion.
 So, people with a disability, we overcome our own entirely challenges. We also experience in educating our own family, leaders, community, and also educating our own system in everything.
 So before Disability Leadership Academy, I worked so hard. For me, as an English second language, I came to this country working hard. I thought I was supposed to do everything I was supposed to do, and everything would go the way. Okay, so I went to the English class, got a GED, worked at BCC Community College, got a bachelor, and still have a question if this is possible for me to have opportunity to get a job or something. Because...
 I learned through the whole process that it's not the only issue is the disability, but the issue is society which is not, and not physical period is a challenge, it's institutional, it's a challenge, because if we don't have, if we're not included, because we also are really, really problem solver, like we know how to solve something because
 When you are struggling in one area in your life, you always have to find solution to accommodate with people. So the leadership academy for me was very, very experienced to see different people who are struggling in different area and intersectionality at the same time. Awareness, like some of them was fighting for the basic thing
 in the language. For example, if you are second language and arrive this country and you can hear and you are deaf, you have to learn both language, which is the sign language and the English. And at the same time, you also have to, it's hard to even to get the basic resources. For our academy, we have a Napa language and sign language.
 that person can be precipitate that whatever we doing it. So as the disabled community, we really, really want to be part of the society. We also have a lot to offer. And if you guys missing us, you're missing a lot. So we will be included. Thank you for having this opportunity. Thank you.
 Just a couple final comments regarding our project. We linked together all of our various disabilities so that the project that we would come up with would benefit the most people. And so we've decided to work on a disability equity resolution, putting together all of our communication skills that we gained in the academy. I have a disability...
 After the disability leadership academy, I learned that I need to help my community as well.
 We need to encourage other people who have disability to do more. So Juan will speak.
 So now each of the members of Leadership Academy will share just a couple of sentences in particular about how Disability Leadership Academy impacted them. For me, it just started me reflecting on what I should be doing with this part of my life and with all the information and experiences that we had, where do I go from here? So for me, I'm still looking at that.
 And I'm grateful for Joanne's opportunity that she gave to us. For years, increasing needs and decreasing resources have divided the disability community rather than uniting them. So through the Leadership Academy, I was brought together with people with disabilities that I normally would not come in contact with, and it created a greater feeling of unity for me.
 I have a hope and you know it's possible. First I didn't know if it's gonna happen anything because I did everything I was supposed to do it but the Leadership Academy gave me that still if something can happen so I have a hope now so and people who are isolated home in second language can have the opportunity to have the education here and I also think that I have
 I can make a change to continue what we're doing.
 So I want to thank everyone here for supporting the Disability Leadership Academy and also Juwan for helping us to build our leadership.
 So, disabled person from Nepal and American person have a hard time communicating. And so, in the future, I hope that there is a way that we can communicate better. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Mayor, can we make a few comments? Please. Oh, you have a question. Yes, we should have said that. I don't have any questions here.
 This is a beautiful report. Are you still going to do the program with the stipends to be applied for so that some of the members can report back to their community and share some of the things they've learned and then...
 give that information to the program? Yes. One of the things our Disability Leadership Academy members were too modest to share with you is that each of them, in different ways, have begun to be more involved and engaged in their communities after, and sometimes even during Disability Leadership Academy.
 We had several members get elected to the Portland Commission on Disability. We've had members serve internships in commissioners' offices, specifically Commissionary Daily.
 We've had members become presidents of boards. We've had members commit to educating their communities on things that they've learned in Disability Leadership Academy. I have an ongoing meeting with Vakta and another member, Durga, on different things that they want to do because they have so many ideas and want our support in implementing them.
 And so members did receive a stipend for being part of Disability Leadership Academy. And in my estimation, and I hope in yours, they're earning it many times over through their increased engagement in Portland, not only receiving information, but also sharing perspectives. But you don't have the money for the ongoing post-leadership graduation to do targeted outreach?
 I'm just trying to figure out. Tell me more about your question. Well, obviously, Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Saltzman and I funded this program in last year's budget. And part of the way it was left when I was no longer in charge was that there would be opportunities
 the stipends could continue, that there would be applications to continue to be the ambassadors. Yes. So did that get changed? So the structure did get changed. Kyle Moses had been the Disability Leadership Academy project coordinator prior to me, and he had a structure where people were coming in for trainings –
 and then after the trainings had concluded, they would go out and do a community needs assessment. Coming in last October, when Leadership Academy was initially slated to start,
 I realized that I really wanted to support Disability Leadership Academy and being offered to the community as soon as possible. And that I didn't yet have the relationships to be able to use resources effectively and do an accurate and useful needs assessment within a few months of arriving here in Portland.
 and so next year actually part of what Leadership Academy is going to do is they're going to be supported to have specific connections with local organizations and they're going to be asking organizations for their disability related data and that data and those connections will be brought back to the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and we are setting the foundation in future years to do a more full scale needs assessment. Fabulous, thank you very much. Yes, thank you.
 Mayor, I'll hold off and just make my comment when we accept the report. Very good. Is there any other questions? Very good. I would like to say a few words. Thank you to the mayor, mayor, and the commissioner for coming to the Chippy Hall and talking about our work. Thank you.
 We can still do a lot for our people who have received this treatment. We are here today to give you this treatment.
 I would like to thank you, Portland City Mayor and Commissioner, for inviting us to share our stories to all of you. And also, we hope that we get support, similar support in the future as well. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? I'll accept a motion. So moved. I move to accept the report. Second. I have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Kemp.
 fit Fritz and there is no public testimony. We had one sign up to testify, Shedrick Wilkins. Is Seder still here? Very good. All right, come on up. On this item, Seder? Oh, yes. Okay, very good. Thank you all. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. We'll be voting in just a minute. Thank you. Yes, I'm Shedrick. I do have sympathy and support for programs for the disabled, but
 I think I was somewhat disabled in school because I wasn't fully developed mentally or whatever physically until I was 22. Generally, our high school is processed. People, when they're from the ages of 14 to 18, they get scholarships. But I just wasn't with it. Maybe I had a form of autism. It's true, too.
 just because I think I can't read very well, I listened to the radio and didn't hear about Thomas Edison. Edison was, if he was in the 1780s, he was an inventor, light bulb and all that. He actually had attention deficit syndrome. If he was in the school system now, he would be diagnosed with that. But for the time he quit, he went out of school and he...
 His mother homeschooled him and he worked for the railroad where he learned how to be a telegraph operator. And a very good telegraph operator, and he started taking telegraphs apart and he learned how to invent things. So his disability worked to his advantage.
 So there are, then there's a third example. So people develop at different rates. Sometimes people have obvious social disabilities and they achieve outside. Then there's a final thing about people with disabilities is Stephen Hawking, the English physicist who was a super achiever, and then when he was in his 20s he got some form of muscular dystrophy. He had to be in a wheelchair sometimes.
 Hawking did say that he actually wished he wasn't disabled, but sometimes he can internalize in his mind he can't walk or anything, and he thinks about physics things like black holes, and he can focus more. But certainly he wished he wasn't. He could walk like a normal person. Thank you. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, I want to thank all the – first of all, I want to congratulate the graduates. This is our first academy, correct? Okay. Okay.
 Congratulations to our graduates. You did a great job today presenting. And I just want to really commend Commissioner Fritz because I know she advocated for funding for this and Commissioner Udaly because she actually executed this academy and made it happen. And it looks like it's really very important work to empower people with disabilities to change our society for the better. So I appreciate the work you're going to do and the work you have done. Thank you. Hi. Udaly.
 Well, before I launch into my long list of thank yous, I just want to really emphasize something that I may have glossed over in my opening remarks, which is how unique and innovative this program was in bringing together people across multiple disabilities. In the disability community, we often experience...
 well, isolation because the general public doesn't necessarily understand the unique needs and challenges we face. But often groups are separated. So the academy included people with physical disabilities, intellectual disabilities, neurological differences, people who experience mental health,
 issues and as Jerry mentioned, I think that was just a vitally important aspect because together you represent a sizable group of people and I really hope moving forward we continue that tradition.
 First, I want to congratulate the participants and just thank you for all the hard work you put into completing this program and for all the hard work you're going to be carrying out in our community. Special thanks to everyone who presented today. I know there was a tremendous amount of time and effort put into the report, so I want to recognize a few specific individuals.
 Starting with Sara, who interned in our office this summer and was a wonderful addition to my staff and is someone I really look forward to continuing working with, particularly around how to make the City of Portland a more welcoming and inclusive employer for people with disabilities. So thank you again, Sara. Of course, Joanne Johnson.
 our disability program coordinators. She worked very hard to pull this all together, including developing the program and the curriculum, coordinating and conducting the selection process for participants, facilitating the sessions before and after the trainings, and providing ongoing support for our new disability community leaders in their engagement work. So thank you very much, Joanne.
 I also want to thank former project coordinator Kyle Moses, as well as the equity policy and commission on disability coordinator Nicole Sharon for laying the vital groundwork for the Leadership Academy to begin with.
 There were several community contributors who volunteered their expertise to the academy to enrich the learning around disability culture and activism. These include, but I'm sure are not limited to, LaVon Heaster, Ian Jaquis, Jan Campbell, and Barbara Dirks, Kyle Moses and Todd Ray, and Renee, I'm not sure if it's Beauvais or Beauv...
 Nobody? Okay. Well, Renee, hopefully I got one of those was right. And Keela Johnson, Celeste Carey, Jerry Jimenez, and Anne Casper. Having the last name Udaly, I'm rather sensitive to names being pronounced correctly. Not to my own, though. You can say it however you want, as long as you say it. Finally...
 Well, I want to thank the past council for recognizing the importance of this program and for funding it and all your hard work in getting it established. And finally, our wonderful staff at ONI. I want to thank you all for contributing your time, energy, and skills to helping to make the academy a huge success. Aye. Fritz.
 It's wonderful to see what you've done with this inaugural program. It's really succeeded beyond my wildest dreams, and I hope it continues. Thank you to Commissioner Udeli for stewarding it and having the passion for it that I do as well.
 I want to thank Brian Hoop who will be leaving only shortly and Brian for all your work in the community the neighborhood involvement system over many years you've taught me so much I really appreciate it and it's not surprising that you're part an integral part of this program as well so thank you. Joanne you're doing amazing work and I'm very happy to see you flourishing also I appreciate how many community events I see you at.
 And Patrick Philpott in the Office of Equity and Human Rights, who does the Helps with a Disability newsletter. I don't even know if he's still employed by the city. I know he retired once, but maybe he does that on his own time now. Once you get involved in this programme,
 The people who are part of the program make you want to just continue to be involved. I've learned so much from the Portland Commission on Disability. I'm so happy that we now have a cadre, the first cohort of graduates from this program who will then be informing city decision making, being appointed to various commissions, not only the Commission on Disability, and continue to advise us. The way that you do it is so gracious and helpful.
 and inclusive. I can't remember another time at council when we've had somebody who had a voice interpreter for the language and a sign language interpreter so that he could hear responses in real time.
 That's what Portland's supposed to look like. That's what we're supposed to be providing as a city government, is opportunities for everybody to be included, for everybody's voice to be heard, whether that voice is spoken or signed or just a smile or a frown as far as whether things are going well or not. So thank you very much, everybody who's involved in this. Hi. Fish. Well, there's nothing I can add to the beautiful words of my colleagues other than to thank Amanda and Chloe for their leadership. Thank you.
 Thank all those who have brought this academy forward. Thank the first graduates of the academy. And colleagues, I was struck, and I apologize, but it was the second person in the sequence wearing the striped shirt, ma'am, who was testifying. And she talked a little bit about the power of the disability rights movement in Washington, D.C., and their efforts to stop Graham Cassidy. And I think it's worth reflecting that that really did get a lot of attention.
 People were forcibly removed from a Senate hearing room. There was a big ruckus. And the reason I think we should acknowledge that, and I'm so glad you did, is that that legislation would have given the states so-called flexibility to go backwards on preexisting condition laws. And the great reform in Obamacare was we would not tell people with a preexisting condition that they had to pay more. We created an equitable system.
 And that would fall, and 19 states refused the Medicaid money. So for those who had confidence in the states fashioning a system that was fair on preexisting conditions, I think the disability rights movement understood what was at stake. Whether you are disabled, whether you are alive today because every day you take almost a miracle drug because you're HIV positive but you have a drug that allows you to function, whether you're suffering from MS, whether you have cancer.
 No matter what the challenge you face, the idea that this country was going to leave it to the states to determine how much you pay for your health care on preexisting condition was appalling. And we owe a great debt of gratitude to the disability rights movement for framing that issue so effectively. So thank you, colleagues, and I'm pleased to accept the report. Aye. Wheeler. Great work, everybody. Aye. And the report is accepted. I want to just acknowledge the young people who are –
 filing out. Is this the Jewish Academy? Yes. Excellent. So how was your visit today? It was good. No free ice cream in the city hall chambers though. There's candy in my office. Yes, stop by Commissioner Udaili. Just making around. Third graders. Well behaved third graders. Excellent. Yeah, it's nice to have you here. Come back.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. So, colleagues, we're going to dispose of a number of the next items relatively quickly. Please call 1055 and 1056.
 1055, consider the proposal of Sarah Radley of Strata Land Use Planning and the recommendation from the hearings officer for approval to change the comprehensive plan map designation from low-density multi-dwelling to neighborhood commercial and the zoning map designation from residential 2000 to neighborhood commercial 1 for the property at 5901 Southeast Belmont Street.
 Colleagues, may I have a motion to accept the hearing officer's recommendation and approve the changes to the comprehensive plan map and zoning map? So moved. We have a motion. I'll second that. And we have a second from Commissioner Udaly. Please call the vote. Call the roll. Saltzman, Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Bish. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The motion to accept the hearing officer's recommendation is passed 3-0, and the application is approved. Now the council will vote on the ordinance to amend the comprehensive plan map designation and amend the zoning map. Please call the roll. And that's item 1056? Correct. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is therefore made. Okay.
 Why don't you read 1066? I'm pulling it back, but do you need to read it first? Oh, okay. Amend the comprehensive plan map designation and amend the zoning map. No, I'm sorry, 1066. Oh, 1066. Yeah, we moved on. Sorry. Excellent. Amend contract with Enviro Issues in the amount of $35,000 to provide additional police review board facilitator services. Colleagues, I'm pulling this back to the mayor's office. 1067. 1067.
 Authorize a contract with Squire Patton Boggs, U.S. LLP, for federal lobbying. This is a second reading of a non-emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Southman. Aye. Aye.
 Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. And with Commissioner Fish's agreement, we will bypass 1068 and 1069 for now and go to item 1070. 1070, please.
 Item 1070, authorize a grant agreement with all hands raised for $194,940 for the Cradle to Career Partnership to provide the framework, coaching, and tools that empower schools and organizations to improve educational outcomes for more than 220,000 children and youth. Colleagues, as you know, I serve on the All Hands Raised Council. The City of Portland and the Portland City Council has been a –
 very important partner to this effort. So today we're going to give you a brief update. I'll be participating in this brief update, and I'll let my colleagues introduce themselves. Hello, I'm Dan Ryan with all hands raised. I'm the CEO. Michael Birch, Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters, and a board member. So I serve with Dan and Michael. We are three members of a much larger board.
 And, Dan, are you the genius working the overhead today? I am. Fantastic, because you don't want me even attempting it. So from the beginning of the work, as you can see, we've had a focus on what I describe as holistic support from kids going from cradle to career. And we've embraced a countywide focus.
 Currently, what you see on this particular slide, it's a snapshot of the entire population of young people from 0 to 24 years of age in Multnomah County.
 If you take a deeper look at the demographics of our school districts, PPS is home, Portland Public Schools, sorry, is home to about half the county students, but we have other critical partners, including Centennial, David Douglas, Parkrose, Reynolds, all in the city of Portland, and of course Gresham Barlow is also part of this partnership.
 As you know, East County districts have all seen rapid increases in students of color and immigrant and refugee families. And as families chase housing affordability eastward, poverty is also shifting eastward. Countywide, more than half of our students are low income, half are students of color, and about one quarter are English language learners.
 The work started with identifying the measurable outcomes that effectively will lift more students into successful lives and good careers. The organization All Hands Raised regularly publishes data on these metrics. You'll see how we're doing on each item in the chapter three publication in your seat. I'm sorry that this slide is a little bit difficult to read, but you can actually go through each of those areas.
 From the very beginning, we have explicitly prioritized racial equity in education as being our top goal. So throughout the document, you'll see data is broken down by race. The disparities, unfortunately, are stark, as we know, but we can't look away from those disparities, and the data helps anchor the conversations that we need to have.
 The flags that you'll see over the various indicators indicate the bodies of work that we've launched to improve these specific outcomes. One of the most interesting charts in the document from my perspective is this one. And again, I'm sorry on the overhead. It is very, very hard to see. It shows where we are now.
 on every indicator when we first launched this work compared with where we actually are today. Some progress has clearly been made, and in other areas, frankly, we remain stuck.
 A bright spot is our rising graduation rates. Improving graduation rates was the main rallying point that got this whole partnership going in the first place. The good news, since our baseline year, we're up about nine percentage points, and the gaps impacting kids of color continue to narrow.
 This is due to a collective effort by teachers, school leaders, nonprofits, government programs, and private sector leaders working together. I'm now going to hand it over to Dan, and he'll help explain how All Hands Raised helps to manage our collective efforts. Dan, thanks for being here today. We appreciate it. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Thank you, Commissioners. Thank you for your public service.
 So it was November 30th, 2010, when there were two groups, Leaders Roundtable. They'd been meeting for 28 years. And then the Mayor's Education Task Force decided to dissolve, merge, and birth the All Hands Raised Partnership. The goal was to build a long-term table.
 And I'm proud to say that we've survived. Well, there's a better way to say this. We have thrived through three mayors. I didn't do my math on the amount of commissioners. I apologize for that. 17 superintendents later, the table is stronger than ever. And that alone is a big feat because we had a tendency in this great city of ours to build a new table about every two years. And that's kind of crazy. And so it's just been great that we've been able to sustain that effort.
 We knew that this work would be new and different. So if you look at the slide, you can see this area called middle space. And the reason why we focused on that is because we have a lot of great services, direct service organizations, and also our teachers are educating the kids in the classrooms.
 We provide shelter for people that have homeless families. And then we have the Big P policy at the top where you all do your due diligence work with Big P policy. But there's this vast world just below Big P policy and just above traditional direct service. And that's where all hands raised tends to live. You can think about it this way. How many times have policies been passed, but we seldom have the systemic efforts to implement them to fidelity? And so that's an area where we continue to show up.
 And you also can think about it in other ways as well. But the middle space is an opportunity for us to just thrive in building this system that I now put up in front of you.
 Okay, so after about 20 revisions of this, because there's no blueprint for this, we're actually one of 70 sites around the country. And just a little boastful Portland moment, next week is the gathering of the Cradle to Career sites in Phoenix, and we are being featured as the ones that have come up with what they are calling a very innovative systemic change, because we really want to build the system from the bottom up. So if you look at this slide,
 civic infrastructure, which we call it, you'll notice there are community, school community sites that are at the bottom.
 And that is where the innovation begins. Too many of our reforms, our efforts, our improvements start at the top down. And they seldom ever land in the classroom. And the teachers seldom experience it. So it's very important for us to have the teacher voice at the table, the counselor voice at the table, and the social worker at the table. Another thing that I'm very proud of is the integration of the community partners working with the school communities. Too often we'll pass contracts where there's a Sun contract in the school
 so they can take care of the kids after school. But what really matters is the relationship between that school community group and their personnel with the principal and the school community. So we've helped integrate those relationships so decisions are being made collectively. What we do is we look at data. We don't worry about, we don't do lagging data. We work at getting data that's looked
 looks at the child that's November, it's November and we want to know what's happening November of that year, as opposed to waiting for a year to look at it. It's not perfect, but it's coming from them. A lot of this work is about building capabilities on the ground with those sites, so that they can be empowered to eventually be the ones that will spread the practices upward.
 So where do we do this work? It's throughout the county, but you could say that throughout the city. Actually, most of it is in the city and it's in the far east part of the city and the far north. That's where most of our sites are concentrated. We concentrate them at school communities and we do that because we're basically an education intermediary and we know that the schools can't do it alone, but we want to bring the community groups to the schools to build this intelligence.
 And when the Mayor talked about the flags and where we have our work, I'm going to quickly go through the different areas of work. And if some of you know me, it's really hard for me not to tell a story about each one, but because of time, I will go through this and you'll see in Chapter 3 there's some great stories. Starting with racial education equity, we have seen tremendous results and one that I just want to
 I'm already doing it. So one story is, if you look at a school out in David Douglas, they were looking at actually the difference between boys and girls. It was a gender difference in referrals. And so, novel idea, they decided to add 10 minutes of movement every day
 I'm the youngest of eight, seven brothers, and my mom knew that you had to run your kids before dinner. It's not a big earth-shattering. This is radical common sense work, trust me. But the good news is we implemented it after a false implementation. We found that only 20% of the teachers were doing it. We did a survey. We did a professional development day. Three months later, all of the teachers are doing it, and we saw a 46% decrease in referrals. Okay.
 Kindergarten transition. I think there's a number of community events where we could learn from the teachers. How do you get everybody to settle down again after that 10 minutes? Do a movement exercise prior. Yeah, that's a good idea. Kindergarten transition works. Take some of our...
 Head Start programs and actually helps integrate those relationships with the kindergarten communities in their neighborhood. Too often parents experience a real shocking transition from their Head Start where they feel welcomed and then they go to traditional school and it's jarring for them.
 Attendance is another area where we have sites, and I think on this one it's not too surprising that all roads lead to trauma. The kids want to come to school. It's a really good day for them when they arrive at school. But there's conditions, there's factors, whether it's housing insecurity, food insecurity, domestic violence, drug abuse, all of that. So we're really going below the iceberg to work with our community partners to provide more mental health supports in that conversation.
 Ninth grade transition, this is what really kicked the graduation rate up. We know that the data says if a child in eighth grade, if a student in eighth grade is having attendance problems, is not doing well in their math courses, there's a really strong indication that they will not graduate from high school. And so we've targeted those kids to be involved in a summer program called Ninth Grade Count.
 Post-secondary access is where we now are launching into our work, and we started with doing the FAFSA, the federal aid forms, and we've seen a really big uptick in 14 points in Multnomah County, and the state's actually leading the nation on FAFSA upgrades, and we'd like to think that as goes Multnomah County, so goes the state. Sometimes it's really wonderful to say that, right? What does the 14 points refer to?
 Pardon me? You say up 14 points. Yeah. What's up? It means that 14% more students are filling out their FAFSA forms. Okay. And particularly focused on communities of color and those with English language learning. Yeah. Great.
 For the record, that was the most difficult form I have ever filled out. So I think it really can benefit everybody to get the tutorial on how to do it. Mr. Fritz, we've heard that over and over again from folks, that it's hard enough for somebody that has a college degree that speaks English to fill out the form. Imagine what a lot of our first-generation families go through. I'm glad you're providing that support. Thank you. Yeah, absolutely. So I'm going to turn it over to the Vice Chair of the Board, Michael Birch, to talk about our other work in post-secondary.
 So, Mayor, Commissioners, thank you for having us here today, and I appreciate the work that you've done with All Hands Raised. This is the last work that I'll talk about, and I'm really passionate about this piece. Of course, I'm not going to say it's the last piece.
 I've been here before under different circumstances, but of course, pathways are the important part. You get kids to school, you have them listen, figure out what they're going to do, and typically the trades are not part of the discussion. College is part of the discussion, absolutely. Well, actually, college is the only discussion that kids are hearing about today, and we know that 80% of our kids aren't going to college.
 So the education case is clear, as the data at the top shows. When kids get hands-on relevant education, their graduation rates soar. I mean, all the data that we've collected over the years indicates that if you have a kid
 As Dan said, if they're active, they settle down. If they have some physical activity, they settle down. And it also shows that if kids have the opportunity to work with their hands in a class, maybe the only class that they really enjoy, they need to others, but they enjoy this, their graduation rates go up.
 About that, there's no question. So that's why All Hands Race is on the ground working with these schools, these three schools, Benson, Centennial, and Reynolds High School, to strengthen their programs and build better hands-on, hands-off, to build better hands-on post-secondary, hand-offs, excuse me, to post-secondary training programs.
 And of course it's an economic imperative for us to grow our own talent to fill the available family wage jobs we have right here. We have a huge need. Construction, manufacturing is indicated by the boxes above. We have in my industry alone, 45 percent of our workforce is 50 and older. They have a lot of knowledge and wisdom that they need to share before they leave and we
 hunting down people who want to do what we do for a living, what the craft people do for a living because I wasn't allowed to come up through the trades. I went to Benson, sidebar, went to Benson, spent four years in the construction industry
 class. Mr. Hoffman was my instructor. Mrs. Lanning was my counselor. After four years building houses for the Benson Tech Show, I was told I could not become a carpenter's apprentice. I was told I needed to go join the military and become a janitor in a federal building right across the street from Benson. I remember their names. I don't remember my classroom's classmates' names from high school.
 So you know they scarred me deeply with that information. Just sorry, can't do it. And I had good grades. So what we're talking about here today is
 It's something that's vitally important to me, vitally important to the students that go to school today. They need an opportunity to be exposed to the trades and to actually be handed off to an industry that will support them. And we know 80% of our kids aren't going to college. So I got off track there.
 All hands raised leaders identified construction and manufacturing as its initial focus because of the strong projected growth, which we see above, and the silver tsunami of retirements that are already rocking these industries. I think it's 20,000 baby boomers a day are retiring across the industry, across all cracks and trades. I think I've shared enough on that.
 Beyond working with career technical programs, we're also working to break down the stereotypes and stigma attached to careers in the trades. For too long, there's been a college-only mentality that has been a barrier to kids even knowing about these jobs that are out there. So over the past two years, we've taken more than 200 local teachers, counselors, and school leaders out to get a glimpse of the reality of these jobs and opportunities they hold for their students today.
 The feedback and the measurable impact of these immersion experiences has been huge. We have held two industry for a day events at PNCR, our trading center, and Leatherman Tool Company, two sites the first year, and there were about 50 participants from area schools, superintendents, and principals there.
 The second year we did it, there were 18 sites? Yes. Eighteen sites and I believe about 150 participants. The most common comment was we had no idea you spent this kind of money on training.
 The stereotype is that if you can't do anything else, you go into the trades. That has never been true, and it's certainly not true today. We have articulated agreements where they acquire credits for attending the training programs. They get paid. It's one of the oldest forms of on-the-job training there is.
 and we spend over the carpenters alone spend over $200 million a year on training. The impact was not lost. The impact of the training the money we spend on training was not lost on the participants. One in particular the superintendent of Centennial at the time on his way out the takeaway that Nate asked for he said there needs to be a paradigm shift. Everyone who works in a high school that teaches, counsels
 Leeds Group has a college degree, and now we have to talk to them about coaching kids around not going to college but doing something worthwhile, earning while they learn, and lifelong learning. Michael, could you remind us, because I was out at the NECA IBEW trade fair for young women, girls actually, high school kids. Okay.
 And I stopped at some of the vendors. And, I mean, one of the things that struck me is these are high-wage jobs with benefits. These are careers where these young people over time could make $75, $80, or more thousand dollars a year with benefits, right? Correct. Correct.
 Every time I get a bill from a plumber, I'm reminded I may have taken a wrong turn in my career. And you've said there's this silver tsunami, so there's a huge opportunity for people to go into these things. But your idea of pathways is making sure that young people are connected to the opportunity. Correct. Young people don't know about them.
 through principal for a day and ninth grade counts, we go into schools. I spent my first principal for almost a day in a middle school where we asked the kids, do you even know what the trades are? They had no clue.
 They didn't think about choosing one of the trades when they got to high school as an elected because they had no idea what they were. And one of the ironies in this, of course, is I'm reminded Commissioner Udaly and I were at a town hall a little while ago with the maker movement people. You're filled with young people that like to make things. Right. Same family and yet they're struggling because it's hard to make a living in Portland just being a maker. Right.
 You don't get all the benefits and other things. Right, right. And after four years in an apprenticeship program, you can make between $80,000 and $100,000. And that's for the unlicensed trades. Plus you have benefit medical, dental, and health coverage and a retirement plan. So, yeah.
 What we need to do is to talk more about the options and let kids choose. First, they need a solid education. They need to be able to stay in school. They need not to be suspended at higher rates. And this is across the board. They need to feel valued in the classroom, and then they need to be exposed to options, and then let them choose where they go. Thank you.
 I will just add the all hands raised board and also the leadership council has university presidents and people from the trades and construction. So it's not an either or, it's an and both.
 And if you look at the data, you'll see a lot of students that meander. They'll go to community college, then maybe they'll do the trades. Then they can go on and get their engineering degree maybe in their 30s. So it's very important not to be linear or literate about this. It's a blend. But I think the stigma in the high schools that we learned about when we were building this –
 was the superintendents and principals admitted that most of the teachers just didn't see these kids. They didn't know about this pathway because their life experience was not about that. And so it was important to bring this awareness. That's why Industry for a Day focused on teachers. We realized that's the audience that we needed to bring along. And it's not either or, which is oftentimes how it's not college or the trades.
 That's oftentimes how it's portrayed, but it's not. You take classes. I mean, carpenters take classes once every three months. The licensed trades take more classes. You cannot dumb down and become a tradesperson today. It just doesn't work. This next slide shows all of the participants in the industry for a day. And if anyone's here in the room that participated in that, I'd like to acknowledge you. And with that...
 I just wanted to conclude the remarks by saying that in 2010, our first big investment did come from the city. And it was a very big investment of $200,000, which was 24% of our budget.
 I'd like to proudly say that seven years later, the investment has been consistent, and yet it represents less than 10% of our budget, and we now have over 700 donors. I think it's really good government when public investments leverage private support
 And we can see what we've been building here. And we're proud to represent the city of Portland and Multnomah County in the national network where we get to talk about this innovative reversing the flow of the river and building something from the bottom up, from the ground up, reversing the flow of the river. So practices can come from those that are actually doing the work. And I just want to thank you all for being the biggest investor to get us started and sustaining the support for this good work.
 And I speak on behalf of many, many, many, many participants across the county. Oh, there was a slide that showed everything that I was saying.
 So thank you, Dan and Michael, for the presentation. Colleagues, this is obviously about partnerships. And while this particular action today is a grant agreement, I also just want to extend an invitation. I know all of us at one point or another have done the Principal for a Day program. Commissioner Fish, I know. I think you do this every year as a regular. Yes.
 They have a program that they're inviting us to participate in and inviting the public to participate in called Principle for Almost a Day, recognizing that we live in very busy times. So there is a flyer in your materials if you'd like to join us all for that opportunity.
 Thank you, folks. I don't know if you have any further questions for Dan or Michael. Mayor, I'd just like to say I was very excited about principal for almost a day until I realized it's actually a job shadow. They don't give you control of the school. So I'm having second thoughts. You can negotiate that. Depends on the principal, maybe. Yes. Thank you. Thank you, and thank you for your remarks, Michael.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Southman. Well, thank you for a good report. I've been around All Hands Race since its inception, and...
 It seems like it's really taking shape. I will confess I am an MIT graduate, and I had trouble following some of those graphs. So I've never said that before, so maybe work on the graphics a little bit more to make them a little more intelligible. But good work. You're doing good work, and that's really what counts. And you've really got good buy-in from a lot of organizations and individuals that weren't there at the start. So I'm happy to see that we're only now a tenth of your budget. That's good news.
 So anyway, good job. Aye. Udaly. Well, thank you for the presentation. And I just want to share with you that you have someone sitting in front of you who could have greatly benefited from these programs. I was an accelerated learner growing up in a very challenging home situation and left home and joined the workforce at age 16. I thought that my pathway to higher education was
 had ended forever. There was no clear route into the trades even though half the men in my family were in the trades. It was the 1980s and the girls didn't go into those fields. Yeah. So I worked a series of the kinds of low-wage jobs that someone without a high school diploma or college degree has available to them. Luckily I
 eventually found the wherewithal and resources to start my own business, but at age 40 during the recession, the business was not faring too well, and I applied to enter the carpentry program at Oregon Trades Women. And, uh, amazingly, past the math test,
 But my counselor actually suggested that I go to college instead, which is a little ironic, but I did. And, well, eventually I ended up here. So...
 Just want to express my support and appreciation, especially for the focus on the trades. One last little story I'll share is last year I was invited for the first and what may have been the last time to grant high school career day. Because I was one of very few people that stood up in that room and said that college is not necessarily, isn't...
 necessarily necessary or isn't necessarily the right route for every single student. I felt that it was important to share for those students in the room who may not have those opportunities that...
 Not going to college is not necessarily a life sentence of struggle and economic hardship. The other people who were there who stood up and said something similar were from Boeing, where you can apprentice as a high school student and leave high school and enter, I think, a $45 an hour job, which is more than I ever made before joining city council. So thank you again. Aye.
 Well, thank you for being here and just giving us such a great report. Thank you for your community engagement. It was good seeing you at the Open League fundraiser last night. We've all got to work together. Actually, I always thought it should be titled Conception to Career because there's a lot of evidence that shows that even prior to conception, there are things you can do to promote healthy outcomes. And so...
 not included in the report was about the partnerships we have with public health folks. And obviously that's something that you do and that we all need to bear in mind as we continue to try and have a healthy community. Thank you very much for your work. I. Fish. Well, I'm very proud of this partnership that we've supported over the years and obviously the results speak for themselves. I actually had a different comment on your report. I wondered whether you did it in-house or outside because it's so beautifully put together.
 Yeah, it's a team effort, but we have been. Okay. Well, and that handsome guy you have on the – The handsome guy you put on the cover just makes the whole thing, just ties it together. I've been – I have had a chance to do a lot of the principles for almost a day. I think they changed it to almost a day because it turns out being a principal is so exhausting. It's like by the time we get to lunch, we're all just completely pooped and –
 But I will say, Dan, I think the genius of this program that you've done for local leaders is that most of us learn best when we see. I'm a visual learner, and you could give me all the reports in the world, but it won't be the same as actually what I witness. And, you know, being in an elementary school in Outer East and talking to a –
 high-performing principal who's been given a really tough hand and learning from her that her biggest challenge is a majority of her kids are traumatized and don't come to school ready to learn. And that's just a showstopper. I mean, it's just an unbelievable thing when you hear that and you see highly motivated teachers, gifted leaders, everyone wanting to do the right thing, but kids aren't coming to school in the framework to learn because of the trauma. And that...
 It's heartbreaking. But we appreciate your work, and I'm very proud that this mayor has picked up the baton in continuing the partnership, and thank you for your service. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. So we have had some very patient...
 city employees waiting on our last two. I think we can do 1068-1069 together, and we can probably do it in an abbreviated way, Mayor. Perfect. Can you read 68-69, please? 1068, accept bid of Emory & Sons Construction Group for the Slough Outfall 104B project.
 for $2,710,128. And 1069, accept bid of James W. Fowler Company for the citywide sewer rehabilitation project for $8,925,000. So, Larry, can you do both together? And we have Scott Gibson in the audience. Scott, if there are any questions, and I'll turn it over to you. Yes, I can. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Wow. Wow.
 I'll push that over there. 1068 is Emory & Sons. I'll go through this really quick. It is the procurement report for Emory & Sons. Their bid is $2,710,128, as read.
 They are 5.3% over the engineer's estimate, which given many of the market conditions lately isn't really too far out of whack. The participation is a little bit low at 6.4%, and Emory & Sons is a non-certified firm, but they are fully licensed to do business in the city of Portland.
 If you have any follow-up questions, I can take those. 1069, it's a procurement report recommending contract with Fowler and J.W. Fowler Company for the sewer rehab project, $8,925,000. The original engineer's estimate on this one was $7.8 million. This is 12.6% over, but it is a long-term project, so there's some compensation in there for it.
 probable cost increases. There is a total of $1.8 million, a little over 20% in certified firm participation. Fowler is a non-certified firm, but they are fully licensed to do business in the city. Any questions about those? Larry, I have a question for you. Is Emory & Sons in the room? Emory & Sons is in the room. Gentlemen, since you took the time, why don't you come forward for a second, if that's okay, Mayor? Sure. Come on up.
 Gentlemen, thank you for being here. And we have a staff recommendation going through our normal process to accept this procurement report. But as Mr. Pallad has noted, the numbers on our DMW ESV utilization are a little lower than we'd like.
 And I guess the question I would pose to you is your perspective on that, and are there things that we can do in partnership to boost those numbers in the future? I'll speak first. I'm Dan Johnston with Emory & Sons. This is Lance Greaves with Emory & Sons.
 We bid the project as a low bid contractor. And we took, I think we solicited 40 firms in this particular project. And out of that 40 firms, we had seven that responded. Out of the seven that responded, we used four of them. Unfortunately, it didn't total up to the 20% that we're looking for.
 One of the bigger numbers that we received was from a minority concrete company. Their bid was about a half a million more than what we wanted or what we could perform it for. But we're willing to look at some of those numbers and increase our participation. We have some room for perhaps some trucking or things we can look at.
 We're willing to review those. This council has been pretty consistent that they view this part of our contracting as very important because we're expanding opportunity to people. And obviously your company does great work, and you get your fair share of contracts, and we appreciate that.
 There may be things that we can do at the city to help, in which case I hope you'll work with procurement. We'd also ask you to take affirmative steps in your own company to build those relationships with some of the emerging minority contractors, subcontractors. Maybe they're struggling a little bit because they don't have access to capital. Maybe they're not under an umbrella insurance policy. Thank you.
 Maybe they don't have enough projects lined up so that their cost structure on one is higher. You may actually be in a position to help us meet the citywide goals. And I wanted to just call out this number because it is disappointing, but I'd like to offer a friendly challenge as you continue to bid on this work that we work together to boost those numbers. Sure. Commissioner Fritzman? I'm just wondering what you're doing to boost your own company's numbers.
 employment of women and minorities. I'm sorry, I can't hear you well. I'm interested in what your company is doing to employ women and minorities within your company. We have an open policy. I think our staff, I'm honestly not sure we have in the office...
 I bet it's 50-50 between men and women. The field, not so much. We do entertain or offer that opportunity for anybody to work for us. The problem now that we see is with the gentlemen before us, they're just not in the workforce. But we do use the – with NUCCA to try to hire the outfits in. NUCCA IBW? Yeah, Northwest College of Construction. We don't –
 And do you ever contact Oregon Trade Swim to see if they've got graduates coming out that could be working on your projects? That would be Lansing. I never have done that, no. I would suggest that might be another way to help meet the overall goals, which is to make sure, as you just heard, that everybody has opportunities for high-paying jobs. I would suspect that probably your office staff would get paid less than those in the field. Okay.
 And there are graduates coming on board who, with the right mentoring and promoting, can be a great asset to your company. We had an intern last summer from Oregon State, a woman intern, so learning our trade as well. I know through the solicitation process on this, in addition to the subcontractors, I did send solicitations to Owymi and the Metropolitan University,
 Contractor Partnership, Small Business Association, just sent them the same solicitation. I sent everyone else to make their members aware of the opportunity as well. Well, I'm not going to make this a formal part of whatever the council action, but would you gentlemen make a commitment to this council –
 should you be chosen for this work, to follow up with the procurement office just to review your current efforts and to brainstorm ways that you might be able to boost your efforts in future contract solicitations.
 Mr. Platt, could you then have that conversation with them? Absolutely, Commissioner. We have some, as you are well aware, we have some pretty gifted outreach people in our organization, and we would be happy to do whatever we can do to increase the percentage. Yeah, and I think, you know, the results are going to speak for themselves. Your Emory & Sons Construction Group,
 is from time to time selected to do work. And so the next time there's a contract, we'll look a little closer at those numbers and we'll ask you if we're making progress.
 So thank you, gentlemen, for being here. Okay, thank you. Very good. Before I accept motions, is there any public testimony on either of these items? No other sign-up. I'll accept a motion, please, to accept the bid of Emory & Sons Construction Group. Second. We have a motion and a second on 1068. Call the roll on 1068. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Pritz. Thank you for being here and for your time this morning. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. I'll accept a motion on 1069. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to accept the report. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Thank you very much. And long last, the patient city treasurer.
 Sitting in the back of the room calculating time equals money, please call item number 1071. Item 1071, authorize a competitive solicitation for banking services for a five-year contract period at an estimated cost of $800,000. Mayor, the senator is asking to offer an amendment. Given the delay in this coming forward, the cost has now jumped to $850,000. If you would ask that we put an emergency clause on it.
 Very good. We have a motion to put an emergency clock. I'm sorry. Okay. I got the first half of the joke, and then I missed the second half. That's just embarrassing. Even if you don't have a motion, you can still vote.
 Even Jamie's over there, heckling me from the audience. It's been that kind of day. This is awful. She's a good audience. Colleagues, I'm just going to move along. City code requires the city to periodically and competitively solicit for the services we use. This ensures that the city's procurements are fair, efficient, effective, accountable, and completely without humor.
 The city relies on banking services to facilitate its daily financial operations, receiving tax payment and utility bill payments, paying our vendors, issuing payroll, and the like. This ordinance will authorize Treasury to solicit for banking services since the city's current contract is due to expire in July of 2018. Good morning, or good afternoon now, actually, and if you could state your name for the record. Good afternoon. Jennifer Cooperman, City Treasurer. Good afternoon.
 So as the Mayor explained, this is our periodic competitive solicitation for banking services. Banking services refers to all of our depository accounts and services, all of our disbursement services, activities in the branch, online account access and reporting, and anything else that might come along related to banking.
 This is intended to be an RFP for five years' worth of services, and we look forward to your approval for issuing the RFP. Colleagues, any questions? I have one question. Mr. Fish? We've had a debate in prior years about how to gauge –
 how to evaluate some of these applications in terms of banks that are good community partners. One way I think we do it is we look at their Community Reinvestment Act participation. There are some others. Could you give us a flavor of some of those factors that you will be evaluating as you screen this?
 potential bank partners? Ms. Absolutely. Every year that I have been at the city, the RFPs that we have issued have allocated 20 points out of 100 points for corporate responsibility.
 and those type of questions look at the Community Reinvestment Act score. That's actually in a different section this year. I'm putting it into the organization section. But then it looks at the type of activity, financial activity, that these institutions engage in in the local community.
 the city of Portland, the Portland MSA, and the state of Oregon, how much their activity, their corporate responsibility is towards those local communities, what the dollar lending portfolio looks like in affordable housing, what it looks like to deal with the offer services for the unbanked population, et cetera,
 I will be asking a question, heads up, everyone who's listening from the banking world about foreclosure activity. As you know, the city has more actively pursued foreclosures for outstanding city liens, and there have been banks who have had nexuses to properties on the city's foreclosure list. I'll be asking about that. So that's the nature of the...
 Thank you. That's enormously helpful. Is it your professional opinion that we've got it weighted correctly, that 20% is the appropriate weight? I certainly wouldn't go any less than 20%, but at the beginning of the day, the majority of the emphasis does need to be on the ability of the institution to do the work that we are asking them to do.
 And I believe that that's close to 50 percent of the points that I have to award. Then there is the integrity of the organization itself. So there are more questions this year about the regulatory experience of these institutions and the fines and the sanctions that they may have received over the last number of years. And then there is pricing. So that makes sense. And my final question is –
 Could a bank get a dismal ranking on the 20% weighted portion, a stellar ranking on everything else, and still qualify for our work? Or is that effectively a disqualification? Oh.
 The last time we went to RFP in 2012, there was a respondent who answered N.A. for the, if not all, certainly the majority of the corporate responsibility questions. They did not make it to the finalist round. So I think it is weighted appropriately, and institutions who have dealt with us in the last five years know that we take it seriously. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
 Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Commissioner Saltzman had a question. The credit union issue. I know in the past we've wanted to get credit unions involved. What was the reason why they can't?
 Or can they? They can. Okay. They could. I'm not – so the credit union issue went back to 2010 when the credit unions were approaching actually the state treasury to be included in the state's collateralization framework for public deposits.
 Credit unions are now part of that framework, and we do make deposits and have long-term deposits with credit unions as part of our responsible banking efforts that came out of the Occupy movement. Thank you.
 There is, again, going back to the ability to perform the services that we are looking for, we don't typically see credit unions with the panoply of services that we ask for. But certainly if they offer those services, they're absolutely able to bid on those services. So they're fully eligible.
 to respond to this RFP? They're fully eligible. It's a question of the services that we are asking for. We transact thousands of transactions over the course of the year, hundreds of thousands of transactions. We subscribe to various fraud control measures. We look for internal controls. We look for all sorts of things to protect our money. And if any institution that's able to deliver those services is certainly able to bid. Okay.
 That's incredible. They must have had a really, really smart treasure. They must have. That's incredible. All right, colleagues, any further questions? I have a quick question. It's along the same lines. I can't pretend that I understand the full scope of our banking needs, but I do know that there's this seemingly insurmountable challenge in that companies that may be more socially responsible just can't.
 fulfill our demands or needs, banking needs. Is there any opportunity? I know we do work with multiple institutions, though. Is there any opportunity for us to move forward
 a small piece of what we do to either a community bank or a credit union? We have moved, if you will, some of our deposit activity to those institutions and that is where we look at the cash on hand and how we invest it. And so when we look at our investing activity, we have a portfolio of securities. We also have a
 relatively long list of deposit, long-term deposits. So it's on the investment side that we have engaged them as opposed to the operational, transactional side.
 Sure. Side. And that operational transactional side is really where we have found the larger institutions making the investment in the technology to do those things. And I'll just add that the city has centralized its activities. That's good from a control standpoint, also from a pricing standpoint, because it gives us a critical mass. Right.
 If a – and I've seen institutions break off activities and use multiple institutions to service those. I'm not sure how I would look somebody in the eye and say, well, we're designating you to go here, and we're designating you to go to this other institution, et cetera, et cetera. Sure. And everyone has different pricing. That would get uncomfortable. Thank you. Sure. Thank you.
 Very good. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. Well, thank you for listening carefully to everything this morning. I appreciate that. And thank you for your financial expertise and also your ethics and principles. I very much appreciate the way you provide the services of the city treasurer. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks, Jennifer. We are adjourned until 2 p.m. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye.
 Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Still here. First item, 1072. 1072, approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the use of alternative contract method of construction manager, general contractor,
 in connection with the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Secondary Treatment Expansion Program for an estimated amount of $89 million. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. I want to invite Mike Jordan, the Director of the Bureau of Environmental Services, Larry Collette, Interim Chief Procurement Officer, and Muriel Gaysatoiful. Is that close enough? That is very good. Thank you.
 who is the BES program manager. And here's a brief introduction of the item before us. Excuse me. The $1.4 billion Big Pipe Project, otherwise known as the Combined Sewer Overflow Program, was completed on time and on budget in 2011, leading to a cleaner Willamette River and Columbia Slough.
 Stormwater that would have gone to the river and slough is instead being conveyed to the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant. This is protecting our rivers but also leading to significantly higher peak flows to the plant. As BES undertakes this secondary expansion program, many individual projects are interconnected and require an integrated design and contracting process to minimize risk, control costs, and manage complex construction sequencing.
 Here with more information about this ordinance and the treatment plan before us are Mike, Muriel, and Larry. Welcome. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, for the record, my name is Mike Jordan. I'm the director at...
 Bureau of Environmental Services, and I have very brief introductory comments, which hopefully can frame some of the big drivers behind the project. Muriel can take you into the depths of the detail if you wish. And, of course, we are here today primarily for a discussion around the procurement process for this work. As Commissioner Fish mentioned earlier,
 The city spent about $1.44 billion on the big pipe, and we're here today to talk about an overall program that is somewhere in the 10% of that range.
 I would encourage the council to think about this work as the last phase of the big pipe project. Because what we did basically is take a whole bunch of stormwater and wastewater that used to go into the river and into the slough. And now it finds its way to the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. That presents us with some challenges at a piece of infrastructure that was originally built in 1952.
 and has had a myriad of projects over the decades, some of which are, quite frankly, out of service or should be. And we're on a confined site, which presents us with a bit of a domino effect issue as we build new facility on that site. So Maria will go into some of those interrelationships.
 Generally, think about the fact that on a wet day, say December 7, 2015, we had instantaneous flows at the wastewater treatment plant of 450 million gallons per day. That is the design capacity of the plant. Right.
 And so we need to do some things to the plant to make sure it can perform with all of that water during wet weather flows now reaching the plant when it didn't used to.
 Secondly, we've been in discussions now for a number of years with EPA and DEQ regarding the way we treat those stormwaters during that wet weather flow. And the bottom line out of those discussions is that we need to expand the secondary treatment capacity at the plant. And what that's going to mean is building some new clarifiers, which take up a fair amount of space.
 And we have a number of facilities, again, that are going to have to be relocated. There are a number of issues at the plant that have long been operational problems that need to be done. And lastly, we've learned a lot about the operation from others who have had similar problems. So for instance, you may have heard about Seattle's wastewater plant that was down, quite frankly, for several months.
 because a pipe burst within the tunnels and it filled with sewage and all of the electronics in the plant were in the tunnels and it basically shut everything down. Well, guess what?
 We have a fair number of the electronics in our plant in tunnels where very large pipes run through them. So we're going to be doing a number of projects to increase the reliability of the plant and deal with those issues. And it is a very complex, confined space, and there's a certain domino effect. Lastly, we're under a time frame. In our agreement with EPA, we need to complete these processes by 2024. Okay.
 And it is a lot of work. It is complicated. And having a process where we have designer and construction contractors working together with the operators to be able to optimize the schedule, it's really important for us. So with that. Mike, let me just add one comment. We would be remiss if we didn't extend an invitation to the mayor and my colleagues at their convenience to give them a tour. Sure.
 of the wastewater facility. Todd Lofgren and I took the tour a couple months ago, and it really is a marvel how this plant accommodates so much flow, how it treats the water and at the end of the process returns it to the river. And the tour is very interesting. You kind of get insider's view and you go into the whole process
 So any of my colleagues that would like to have that tour at some point, we would be honored to host you. Thank you, Commissioner. We'd be happy to do that. Well, I took it when my oldest was a fifth grader. Obviously, there's been various changes since then. And quite apart from not having to look after naughty fifth grade boys, would I be able to see any differences? Yes.
 What year was your fifth grader gone? Not so far back. I think. 87, 97. Oh, yes. You would see significant changes. The headworks, for one, is a huge change where the initial flow comes into the plant. Huge. Probably the newest part of the plant actually is there. But, yes, you'd see significant changes. I think another thing she'd see is the fruits of the really terrific collaboration we've had with the neighborhood. Exactly. And our partners. Because, as you know, Commissioner Fritz. Yes.
 uh, for a long time, there were concerns about odor. And I, one of the things that is stunning when you're there is, is how neutral the odor is. And there's a lot of reasons for that. Uh,
 But the technology behind that is fascinating. Well, if I may just add, my fourth grader is exerting her independence, and I accept this to her. I will hold it over her head as a threat, and we'll see if that doesn't cause some improvement in her behavior. So I think that would be great. We're happy to be helpful any way we can, Mr. Horton. Terrific. In all seriousness, I would like to see it. And before even the commissioner mentioned it, I feel remiss that I haven't seen it.
 So I actually like that. We'll reach out to the offices. Happy to set it up. I'd be happy to accept your invitation, and I would like to invite you to BDS for the Life of a Permit Tour as a thank you. That's very collegial of you.
 I take it up. I mean, look, we have a couple of tours in the utilities that are actually just fantastic. One is the wastewater facility because it's, again, a marvel of technology, and the people that work there are just incredible. Obviously the Bull Run Watershed, which we had to curtail during the fires, but we urge you to take that on a regular basis and reconnect to that. And we have a few others, but those two in particular should be on your bucket list. Thank you.
 With that, Mr. Mayor, I'd like to pass it over to Muriel to go through the details. I feel so happy to work in a wastewater treatment plant now. So, thank you, Mike. So my name is Muriel Geyser-Teufel. I'm a senior engineer at BES. I work at a treatment plant at Columbia Boulevard.
 So today the purpose of the ordinance is really to authorize alternative contracting methods for this program. However, we wanted to take the opportunity to give you more background on the project. It's a large project for BES, and so I'll spend some time on the overview, the need for the project, the schedule, and then the request for the alternative contracting method.
 So in preparation for the tour, here is an overview map of the Columbia Boulevard Treatment Plant campus within the dotted lines there. You can see it's about 74 acres. The main site where we have a lot of the facility, which is south of the Columbia Slough between North Columbia Boulevard –
 It has about 74 acres. We have north of the slough is about 37 acres, which is a biosolids lagoon. We also have a west property that is currently undeveloped.
 So the plant was built in 1952. It does serve more than 600,000 people. The average daily flow is about 76 million gallons per day. However, as a result of the CSO program, where we've been bringing stormwater flows to the treatment plant, we see peaks up to 450 million gallons per day. So that transfers in...
 different technologies at the plant so that we can accommodate the wide variation in flows.
 And that's really what makes our plant unique in that respect. So we have what we call a biological treatment process and a chemical treatment process. So the biological one is also referred to as the secondary treatment process. The chemical one is engaged only during peak storm flows. And in perspective, in the few years we've had since the last big pipe was put in service, the chemical treatment...
 treats about 10% to 14% in volume of the flows that come to the plant. So most of the flows still go through that biological treatment process.
 So this chart is to illustrate the impact of the stormwater, the captured stormwater to the treatment plant. It's a timeline starting in 1995 and ending in 2017. On the y-axis, you see the million gallons per day that would come to the plant. So what it shows here, each blue dot is an average daily flow to the plant.
 In 2000, when we started the CSO program, we put the Columbia Slough Consolidation Conduit. That had great impacts to the slough. It didn't impact so much the treatment plants at the wastewater plant, the flows at the wastewater plant, because the volumes were not that great.
 So you do not see a difference in this case. Then the west pipe came online, and you see an increase already in the volumes of flows from 200 million gallons per day going all the way to 300 million gallons per day. And then finally when the east pipe came online, you see a further increase up to the 400 million gallons per day as an average daily flow. So at that point...
 This is the secondary treatment expansion program is really to deal with the quality of treatment at the plant as opposed to the hydraulic quantities that come to the plant. So we're not increasing the hydraulic capacity of the plant. We're increasing what goes to the secondary treatment process or the proportion that goes to biological treatment.
 It is mandated by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, and we have a mandate to be done by December 2024. The expansion of secondary treatment has been included in planning efforts for many years, since the 90s, and was also included in the 2016 facilities plan for which we came to council in October 2015 for a consultant contract.
 So the expansion, again, provides more biological treatment during a high rain event and added resiliency. Could you do me a favor and give me sort of the 101? What's the difference between biological treatment and what is the alternative and how does it work?
 Absolutely. So biological treatment is where we use biomass biology to treat the pollutants in the wastewater. So we grow biomass based on the food that's in the wastewater. And then once it goes into the aeration basins – Okay, I'm sorry. No, I'm sorry. Please continue. At least it's after a while. Okay.
 I'm not talking about head works at least it's a very very large septic tank you dump in a box of Rit-X same basic principle
 Okay, are those the open ponds we see? No. Well, open ponds would be a different technology, unless you're referring to our lagoons to the north end. So those are settling ponds that are stabilizing. They also are based on biology to do treatment. Right.
 So essentially, the biological treatment uses biomass and not chemicals to do treatment. And the chemical treatment uses polymers and ferric chloride, so coagulants and flocculants, to really settle the solids, which are stormwater, very dilute, and to settle them really quickly. Okay, so the biomass basically is environmentally...
 It's a softer footprint. Is that why we would prefer that? No, it is a standard. It's a conventional treatment for the treatment plants. And currently EPA is asking that as much flow as possible be sent to biological treatment. Okay, very good. Okay, that's helpful.
 So in the planning efforts since the 90s, we've been looking at expansion of secondary treatment. And back then, the only expansion that was envisioned was on the west property, which is across the railroad tracks and North Portland Road. That would have required digging big utility tunnels under the railroad track and the road.
 And in 1995 or in 2009, some cost estimates were done to evaluate the cost of adding two clarifiers on that West property. And in 2017 dollars, that was the equivalent of about $70 million to do that expansion. Okay.
 So that's about the point where we started negotiating with DEQ and saying, wait, we would rather not do that expansion and incur the cost right now. Could we please optimize our current assets for improved performance at the plant?
 So we entered into a mutual agreement and order in 2011 and said, let's not expand to the west, but instead improve the wet weather clarifiers. This is where we started. We added chemicals. So we added facilities to add chemicals and improved the performance of the high, the peak wet weather flow treatment.
 And then we also added a lot of automation and gates to our current aeration basins to improve that process and improve its capacity.
 As part of our agreement, we also had committed to get back to DQ and tell them about the performance and reevaluate if further expansion was needed. So we looked at some alternatives, five alternatives actually, and the one that provided the best cost-benefit ratio was to put these clarifiers, two additional clarifiers, but within the existing plant footprint. That provides a lot of operational benefits there.
 as opposed to the west property. So where does the water reenter the river? It enters the river. It goes through two outfalls. We have two large outfalls that go into the Columbia River. So it's about three miles long. Not into the slough here. Not into the slough. It keeps going farther north. It keeps going for about three miles. Ah, okay. Very good.
 So the core of the program then is based on secondary clarifier addition. But as Mike mentioned, there's sort of a domino effect because we're putting facilities within a really tight footprint. Some facilities are adjacent. And at the same time, we have many other assets needed where they need improvements. So we looked at our current...
 currently planned projects and looked for projects that were adjacent to the secondary clarifiers or tied from a process or operational standpoint and combined them into this program so that we can get better benefits on constructability, sequencing, and then holistic design approaches.
 So this picture shows a site plan of the main treatment plant area, and it highlights the project areas that would be touched by this program. So it's a significant portion of the plant area.
 The first area is where the new clarifiers would be put, and you can see here the structures are the existing composters. However, they haven't been used as composters since the late 90s. They had been recommissioned as odor control facilities in early 2000, and they provide odor control for the solids handling building.
 So if we were to put clarifiers in that location, we would need to come up with new odor control facilities and also replace the buildings that you see in the background that are providing storage and they are providing staff space. These facilities are quite dated, actually, and so this program is going to alleviate the risks that would be associated with the tall structure with the composter.
 So does the financial figure that you gave us right at the beginning, does that include new facilities? Yes, the project cost estimate includes all the new facilities. Okay, and if I'm understanding you correctly, there is no part of the process that is undone or doesn't happen as a result of this construction. It sounds like you're going to go ahead and...
 Create an alternative for your, I guess you describe it as odor control. Yes. So you will have to also put something in place to replace that prior to actually taking this offline so you can rebuild this as a clarifier. Absolutely. Is that right? That is correct. Is that the right sequence here? Okay. Yes. Okay. Good. Thank you.
 The benefit here is that the odor control system was going to have to be relooked at as part of our solids handling building improvements, which I'll present in a few slides. And do you, in your slides, do you have a picture of what a clarifier actually looks like? Because I'm not sure I understand that. Yes, it is a clarifier.
 If you look at the site plan, you see the squares? Yes. So those are the existing clarifiers. So they're a low-profile structure that are essentially full of water. Okay. So you see the tall composter structure then will be replaced by a low-profile structure, which from the public trail standpoint is going to be a benefit. Okay. And so the existing clarifiers remain in place? Yes, absolutely. Okay. Thank you. The...
 So as part of the project, then we would have to replace, we would replace the storage building and the staff building. And we have an area that's to the east adjacent to the public trail where we would put new buildings. And there it's about 15,000 square feet of storage and 5,000 square feet of staff space.
 As part of the program, when we put large clarifiers, they need to connect to the existing process units. So there's big pipes conveying water between the tanks. These pipes will run in what we call the utility tunnels. And the picture here you see is the existing tunnel. So you can see it's a pretty constrained area, constricted area, where...
 constructability is going to be an issue, and it would be beneficial to have a contractor on board to help us develop the better approach for it. The project will then include return-activated sludge piping. That was a project that was currently in the CIP project, and we've incorporated in this program for added benefits. What is liquor piping?
 The mixed liquor is the liquid that comes from the aeration basins and goes into the clarifiers. Not as good as it sounds. It's those secret cocktail parties, Commissioner. I knew it! I don't want to go. As part of the work, again in the tunnels, we...
 We need to make connections to the new clarifiers. And these two circular facilities are actually boilers. They date from the original secondary expansion from the 70s. They run on biogas. And biogas now is a much more valuable resource for us where we want to produce compressed natural gas and not necessarily building heat.
 So these boilers are also in the way for us to connect with the new clarifiers. So the project includes a replacement of the steam boilers. I'm sorry, so how will they be powered then? That hasn't been determined yet. That would be part of a pre-design evaluation. But it could be natural gas or other means. Very good. Thank you. Yeah.
 As part of the tunnel work, the electrical resiliency should be improved. We have motor control centers and transformers that are currently in the tunnel. And as Mike highlighted, there's a flooding risk in a tunnel. These MCCs are also obsolete.
 And as part of the project, we will need new electrical equipment so it makes sense to combine the two needs and move the MCCs out of the tunnel and eliminate that flooding risk. This particular slide is my least favorite part of the trip. I won't go into the details, but there's a lot of fun stuff going on. I just wouldn't.
 You can see in the picture some plastic sheeting over those large electrical control boxes. That's because we have leaks, and big electrical equipment with leaks just don't mix very well. Correct. Now we're going to replace both. We're repairing the leaks, and we're going to replace the pipe with a new one and take those MCCs out of the tunnel. Okay.
 So this one shows the biosolids processing building and a biosolids processing area. It includes activities that are called thickening and dewatering. It's associated with the biosolids that are eventually sent out to eastern Oregon for land application. The building is the source of the odors that are treated in the composter area.
 As part of the project, we will look at new technologies in the building so that we can be more efficient with the odor control system and perhaps reduce the size of the odor control system. The building itself is not code compliant. For example, it has leaking skylights. It needs a seismic retrofit. So this aspect of the project includes also a large building retrofit.
 And then finally the biosolids hoppers, which is the place where we put the biosolids before they're loaded up onto trucks, would be there currently in the middle of the construction area. So we will look at moving them closer to the building and make that whole process more efficient.
 The aeration basins, while we have done a lot of work in them as part of our secondary process improvement that was part of our MAO, we were on a really tight timeline to make these process improvements. And when we did them, we realized that there were some structural issues.
 issues that we could deal with in the basin. So it's essentially crack repairs and spall repairs on the vertical walls. The reason it's included in the program is that the processes are connected with the secondary clarifiers, and we can coordinate the outage requests accordingly.
 the project is also on the same timeline as the program. And so we've combined in the program. Miriel, when these basins are fully activated, there's a lot of things going on there. How do you describe the microorganisms that are doing their business in these basins? How do I describe the microorganisms?
 Am I right? The microorganisms, yes, they are absolutely in these basins. We have multiple zones in the basins, so that's what we've added in the past. We've added zones so that we could – the first zones are –
 anaerobic, which means they don't have any oxygen. And we grow specific kind of organisms in that case that will help. They kind of overcompete the others and then they help settling in those secondary clarifiers. And then we move on to aerobic plants.
 microorganisms or they're aerated in the other parts of the process. And these are completely mixed, so we completely mix these tanks. And the microbiology then settles in the secondary clarifiers, and that's where we get those biosolids. Interesting. So how long would this whole process take from when the substance arrives at the plant until when it goes into the river?
 That's a great question. I believe it depends on the flow rates and how fast they go, but I thought...
 I might have to go back on that, but I thought it was about two to three hours that we had estimated. Enough of an answer. I didn't know whether it was hours, days, weeks, months. It's not days, but the biomass we do keep in the system. So the biomass is – that's why we have this what we call return-activated sludge. And so we return the biomass because we grow it. And this is actually the reason why we have a peak wet weather flow treatment process –
 Because if all the wastewater at peak flow was going through the biological system, it would wash out everything and we would lose our process. So we actually don't want everything to go through biological treatment. Thank you. You're welcome.
 And then finally, the last piece of the program is storage buildings that are on the southwest part of the campus. These storage buildings are used for contractor equipment storage when we do construction, also for plant maintenance storage.
 We are going to upgrade them or maintain them. One is going to be demoed, actually, and then the other one is just going to be a residing job and maybe adding some lighting to it.
 So the program budget is a planning level, so we haven't started the design. At this point, the construction cost estimate is $89 million. The total program cost estimate is $146 million. So again, this is a low level of confidence. It's a planning level, and for this...
 ordinance today. We're focusing on the $89 million because this is related to the exemption to go with an alternative contracting method. Okay. So the reason to get to the CMGC process is based partially on the December 2024 completion thought process, which under a standard low bid design, then bid, then build type process would be not achievable at all. The
 The CMGC process gives you more flexibility in designing the schedule. You can sequence construction. You can be doing more things at any one time because you're operating under kind of an umbrella type of operation.
 There are some very complex sequencing and maintenance operations here. The early field investigations that we can do as part of the whole process will reduce the construction risk. And when you're talking about $89 million worth of construction, there's always a significant risk. And anything we can do to reduce that risk is critical.
 probably very much appreciated by the rate payers. Early cost estimating and continuous flow of cost estimating increases your certainty so that when we actually say this is what we believe it's going to cost, then that's what it's going to cost.
 As Council is aware, there are a series of mandated findings that are required in order to get us to this process. All of those findings have been vetted through Procurement Services and, more importantly, the City Attorney's Office, and all items are passed. The process allows for qualification-based selection as opposed to simply the idea behind low-bid selection.
 Sometimes you do a low bid. You don't always get the best vendor. We have more flexibility here with achieving our certified firm-type goals. As we move forward in different sections of the GMP, we're able to do more negotiating and more working with vendors and our primary selected vendor. What's the GMP? Guaranteed Maximum Price. Thank you. And then...
 As stipulated in part of the findings, the thought process is that this whole thing is likely to reduce the overall project cost and increase value. The constructability review, value engineering assistance, all those things kind of take place as you move forward, which greatly encourages or enhances your ability to make adjustments and changes and gain flexibility.
 We also have the ability in this to, as we go forward, we continually negotiate and work with vendors relative to participation by small and minority firms. Okay. Thank you.
 So our next steps with the program is on September 30th, we need to send a notice to DEQ to state that we have begun implementing the work. We also have professional expert and technical services procurement. So this is for the design consultant selection. And then we've also, this is a large program. We are in the selection process for program support consultant to assist us managing a large program.
 And then with the exemption approved, CMGC procurement would follow. Just to be clear, this construction contract would not really begin for over a year. Is that correct, Mike? Almost two, I think. Almost two years. We're talking about a lot of preparatory work here. A lot of design. And so we're going to hand-deliver this notice to DEQ on Saturday, September 30th? I only know that because it's my birthday. I'm happy to do it myself. I'm going to hand-deliver it to them.
 To begin implementing the work refers to we have money set aside. We have a budget and schedule, and that is what we're going to state today. They may even give us till Monday. I'm just kidding.
 Also with this program, we understand that it's a large amount of money, and we expect a lot of reporting. So we are committed to providing updates to the Portland Utility Board as requested, and as the program progresses. Similarly, with the Citizens Advisory Committee, we have a longstanding Citizens Advisory Committee at the Columbia plant. We regularly update them, and we'll continue to do so.
 The Citizens Utility Board, we will also provide updates as requested and obviously City Council as needed per requirements and also as requested. So with that, we are requesting an exemption to the low bid contracting alternative in favor of the CMGC method for this program. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Yes.
 Is there public testimony on this issue, Susan? We have three signed up. Very good. Romfey Villatoro, please come up. Kelly Haynes and Janice Thompson. Very good. Three minutes each. Name for the record, please. And if you are a lobbyist, let us know. So although I see that none of you are.
 Hi, I'm Kelly Haynes. I'm here representing the Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity today, which is a historic partnership between the carpenters, operating engineers, laborers, other unions, construction contractors, pre-apprenticeship programs, and community-based organizations.
 I just want to say today thank you for considering an alternative contracting method for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Secondary Expansion Program. I think this model helps ensure mechanisms that support increased positive stewardship of public resources, including broad community benefits in the workforce and contracting opportunities that can be made available during the construction phase.
 We applaud this as an important first step, but also want to encourage leadership to replicate a proven local model and embrace the use of a community benefits agreement on this project. The CBA pilots came in ahead of time and under budget. They exceeded nearly all diversity goals and targets. There was true community oversight and investment.
 in community capacity building. There was transparency of data reporting and accountability of the contractors and subcontractors. Okay.
 The city already has an effective tool in the CBA, which the city could immediately use to align project activities with the insight and resources of community stakeholders. The CBA was approved by city council in September of 2012 with Resolution 36954 and has achieved excellent results to date.
 By applying the CBA to this project, the city could ensure the project is structured to enhance city-community partnerships and realize tangible community benefits for all Portlanders. We are concerned that the city could be missing an opportunity to set a high standard in partnership with the community.
 And so we recommend that you seriously consider applying a CBA to the CBWTP. Thank you. So, Kelly, thank you for your testimony. And when this panel is finished, I'm going to bring Mike Jordan back, and we're going to discuss that. Great. So we're prepared to put some things on the table and then engage my colleagues. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Mayor, members of the Commission, my name is Rain Feast Gentino Villatoro and I am the Associate Director with Professional Business Development Group, which is a trade association that represents 30 to 40 minority and women-owned construction firms as well as professional services in the Portland Metro region. Our primary purpose is to improve the business conditions for the community.
 in construction to increase the utilization of MWESB firms.
 We have members who are general contractors, subcontractors, folks who are union firms, non-union firms. We have partners who do everything from excavation, electrical, landscaping, to sheet metal. We have partners, sponsors. Prosser Portland is one of our partners slash sponsors. TriMet as well.
 And so I'm here today to testify in support of the alternative contracting method for the Columbia Boulevard Waste Treatment Plant, as well as the CMGC model. We have members who have worked on past projects like that. I've been told that this is something that
 They enjoy working on projects like that. I do wanna have, I guess, a couple requests and questions. I guess one in terms of the MWESB utilization. As it's a stated, public benefit, better clarity around what the pre-plan is or the plan to meet that, what exactly are the utilization goals and what's the plan to meet those goals
 and if it's possible to receive that pre-construction. And then, I guess, again, for clarity around whether it's going to be a CBA or...
 whatever format it will be to deliver the outcomes for the project. But ultimately, I'm here to say we have members who are interested in being utilized for projects, whether it's this project or other city projects. They have the capability to do this work, and we're willing to work with the city to meet its goals. So thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Hi. Janice Thompson, Oregon Citizens Utility Board, or CUB. So I've been kind of monitoring this kind of collection of activities for a while, so kind of anticipated this coming before you. And it's linked to kind of ongoing review of CIP plans, and I did my own tour out to the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant back in –
 They're 2014, 2015, and I do highly recommend it. So this is all based on the facilities plan update. There was definitely a previous plan, which is why there are some elements in the totality of this effort that have been in previous CIPs and some elements are going to be new entries in the CIP process.
 The bottom line is all these pieces add up to a pretty big chunk of money, which is why I've been trying to track it all along. The primary driver...
 is the regulatory requirements. So these are not discretionary efforts. Somebody who was very helpful, who is not here today, that I wanted to mention, is Matt Kriblitz. I checked in with him several times, related to the permitting process, because how that worked out was obviously going to determine what was built. And definitely the goal of the permitting agencies is permitting
 meeting the environmental protection requirements and quite frankly cost is not to be part of that review and that's appropriate. However, whenever the environmental goals can be met with less expensive projects, there's kind of a double win for rate payers.
 And I see that, uh, double win here. There was a reference to this plan, um, not having to go underneath, involve, um, expansion West of Portland, uh, Boulevard that required expensive tunneling. Um, in general, um,
 It's been described to me, and I think it's accurate, that this option is the second lowest cost, but provided the best overall reliability and resiliency benefits. And that's, you know, CUB cares about those costs, but it's not all about just the lowest cost. You really want to hit that sweet spot. More recently, I was out in...
 kind of for a briefing just on this topic. So thanks for Muriel and Paul and Scott for that. Two quick notes. One is some buildings will be replaced as part of kind of rejiggering and kind of using just the, you know, by virtue of not moving across Spartan Boulevard, the
 the site requires some rejiggering. So some buildings are going to be replaced. Buildings are always, are also kind of a red flag. So I actually made a point of asking to go look at a couple of the small buildings that are involved in this that I hadn't, because they were really small. I hadn't seen them earlier on. And so I just want to
 assure you that they are definitely kind of appropriate candidates for replacement. So it's not... And finally the other question I asked is
 is that the facilities plan update does call for additional work. So there could be subsequent projects that come before you, but it seems pretty clear that the scope of the future work won't be nearly at the level before you today. So it's kind of like there may be more, but there's not like anything at this scale coming. Those items may include more discretionary items,
 and we'll just be monitoring those. But just wanted to give you that update.
 Thank you very much. It's very helpful. A question? Commissioner Fritz. Actually, a question for the first two testifiers. Commissioner Daly and I serve on the Metro Policy Advisory Committee, and they, last session, had a briefing on the new kind of all-inclusive. You're nodding, and that was my question. Have you been included in that? It's something that was championed by former Chief Administrative Officer Fred Miller, pointing out that governments across the region do have –
 lots of projects that aren't necessarily all at the same time and that could help train and then use workers. Could you just let me know, have you been involved in that? And if not, what would you like us to do on that?
 Yeah, WorkSystems is leading on a metro construction workforce market study, so we're managing that project to develop sort of the supply and demand in the region. So we've interviewed all the major public agencies around their projects, over 15 million over the next three to five years. And then we're also working with state economists and the Bureau of Labor and Industry to develop figuring out what is the supply of apprentices and women and people of color. So I think that...
 study is meant to help inform this regional conversation, to help develop more standardization and coordination amongst the different agencies in the region and our respective goals. And we also
 helped host Seattle people last Monday. So we brought down Sound Transit, King County, and the City of Seattle to talk about the work that they've done up there to try to standardize in their region. So a lot of people from the City of Portland were there, and I hope that's a helpful way to at least keep that conversation going and learn from other parts of the country. Yeah, I thought it was quite exciting, and maybe you have something else to add, but
 I was wondering, do you think that could lead to a regional system of community benefits agreements that would have basically a structure that everybody would agree to? Is that something that you can see coming out of that? Yeah.
 I think that's everyone's hope, so that we can be more efficient and coordinated. And I know contractors would like that, too. And I know in Seattle they do try to do that, but everyone has their own legal departments, too. So they have to sort of respect each other's differences, but also try to come together and coordinate where they can. Thank you. And, Raffi, are you and your organization involved in that?
 We are not. A professional business development group is not. We would love to be involved. I mean, we have a really strong interest, obviously, on the contracting side when it comes to community benefit agreements. But I think in terms of the workforce, our main premise is it's really important to have good workforce diversity in the apprenticeship level, journey level, folks fitting in like the supervisor engineering roles, etc.
 to ultimately becoming owners themselves. And I think if the city and other regional partners want to push our DMW ESB goals, we should be really thoughtful around workforce diversity as well in training. We actually have an impact meeting tonight, so if you'd like to give Sue your card, I'll make sure it gets to the people at Metro. Perfect. Thank you. Thank you both. Mayor, let's bring our panel back for a second.
 Mike Jordan, all three of you, if you could come back for a second. So, colleagues, let me tee it up this way. A handful of the biggest capital construction projects that the city is going to undertake over the next decade fall within the purview of the utilities or are related to the work of the utilities. So I'm thinking Superfund. I'm thinking the Water Bureau's filtration long-term planning. Columbia Wastewater Facility. There's other projects in the pipeline.
 So we obviously at VES and the Water Bureau are deeply committed to the community benefits model. Mayor, you are engaged in a process to update that approach with an eye to improving equity and inclusion efforts and contracting. This particular project doesn't – the construction doesn't start in two years. So my operating assumption is that the council is going to update –
 and I get lost in all the acronyms, but we're going to have a CBA, a CBP, call it whatever you want. We're going to come together around a plan that has broad support, and then that plan would apply to the large construction projects within the utility. So I guess the question I have is,
 Do we have a sense of when that's going to be brought? I was looking at the notable calendar, and I couldn't find it. But are we months away from having something come back to Council? We are within – it won't be months. It will be weeks. Weeks. And I just want to remind Council, although we haven't taken a vote, there is an amendment on the table that has an exemption threshold of $25 million, which would put this back, assuming if that gets approved,
 approved by the council and put this back in the arena of a CBA. Right. So the council has to act on that and has to create clear guidance as to how we're going to do the contracting. And then the utilities, which, again, as I said, have some of the largest contracts in the pipeline, need to then sit down and develop, consistent with the will of the council, an approach for how we go forward. And the goal is,
 is to take the community benefits model and boost the numbers that the council expects us to get. So I think that's...
 That's just responsive. But I just want to be clear. Today we're only asking for an exemption from the CMG. We're asking you to approve the fine date. We're not asking you to do anything today. It's a first reading. But we are proposing that we try this alternative contracting approach, which has broad support from the very people that want to see us also move forward on a community benefits agreement model. So that's a two-stage process, and we're awaiting council final action on the matter that you're leading there. Thank you.
 I hope that clears it up. Mike, did I state that correctly? I think you did, Commissioner. Thank you. Colleagues, any more questions before we move it? All right. Thank you very much. Excellent presentation. This is the first reading of the emergency ordinance. Mind-numbingly complicated, but well done. All right. Susan, could you read the next three items, please? 73, 74, and 75.
 1073 approve application under a multiple unit limited tax exemption program for 54 woodstock located at 5401 southeast woodstock boulevard 1074 approve application under multiple unit limited tax exemption program for 6012 southeast yam hill located at 6012 southeast ham hill street and 1075
 Approve application under multiple unit limited tax exemption program KOZ 1299 Southeast Ankeny, located at 123 Southeast 13th Avenue. Colleagues, these three multiple unit limited tax exemption, better known as multi-applications are for developments which are complying with the inclusionary housing program that went in February 1, 2017.
 These are the first three permits to go through the inclusionary housing process, aside from a handful of affordable housing projects which are receiving direct funding from the Portland Housing Bureau.
 The projects, 54 Woodstock, KOZ 1299 Southeast Ankeny, and 60 12 Southeast Dam Hill, are all providing affordable units for 99 years as part of the inclusionary housing program, having elected to provide units in their new developments that will be affordable to households earning up to 60 or 80 percent of area median income rather than paying the fee in lieu.
 The multi-program is one of the financial incentives provided to inclusionary housing projects providing affordable units. In addition to exemption of the affordable housing construction excise tax and for projects providing units affordable at 60% of area median income or below, exemption of the system development charges.
 We obviously have the Housing Bureau experts here. Director Krieger, do you want to start us off? Yes, I'd be happy to. Thank you. By way of introduction, my name is Kurt Krieger, Director of Housing for the Housing Bureau. And with me is Dori Van Bonkel, who is the Housing Program Coordinator. Thank you.
 Dori is one of several Housing Bureau staff embedded at the Bureau of Development Services, so she splits her time. Assisting developers at BDS will work through the permit process and to attain compliance with our new inclusionary housing policy. And I think it's profoundly important to recognize that these are the first three applications.
 voluntary, excuse me, the first three projects to come forward to apply the affordability requirements. We are foregoing revenue in exchange for this as part of the offsets that you approved and achieving 23 affordable units out of 170 total units.
 That constitutes about $74 a month in foregone revenue, so we think it's a bargain. And I'll let Dori explain the specific details since she worked directly with the developers. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Dori VanBockel. Kurt covered quite a bit of it, as did the opening talking points by Mayor Wheeler. But it has been exciting to work through the first three permits and see projects moving forward. The particulars for all three of them happen to be that they're all outside of the central city in the mixed-use zones around Portland. And
 In southeast Portland, as a matter of fact, two of the projects have chosen to provide affordability at the 15% ramp-up period that's available through the first couple years of the program. So we'll have 80% of area median income units. And the third project is choosing to provide 8% of their units at the 60% level.
 As Kurt mentioned, it results in 23 affordable units. These are smaller than a lot of the projects that we are seeing in the central city in that they are three projects at a total of 170 units. There's 38, 87, and 45 units, respectively, and primarily made up of studio units. Okay.
 So there will be 22 studio units and one bedroom unit for these particular projects in the first few that we have moving forward. I have two questions. Mr. Director, we were told that if we implemented inclusionary housing, the development pipeline would dry up and we'd kill off the market. So what does today's action tell us about the impact of this legislative change and the marketplace? Sure.
 Well, as you know, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is monitoring the effect of the policy. And Tyler Bump authored a report, which I think he distributed to you directly, about the four-year supply of vested projects that were able to submit their necessary plans, conceptual plans, prior to February 1st. We fully anticipated that. What this tells me is that the market is now –
 starting to adjust to the reality. We heard lots of doom and gloom from developers that were going to blame inclusionary housing policies for the downturn in the market, where at the same time,
 as we crafted the offsets, we could prove in 2016 that developers were already overpaying for land. We did a residual land value analysis in 33 different parts of the city, and the frothy market was causing people to already pay too much for land. So land values will take, will adjust according to the new entitlement requirements of the property.
 One thing that I think is really important to mention in this instance is that the regulatory agreement to attain affordability is a senior lien in front of the mortgage financing. And a lot of folks told us that couldn't be done, that it was impossible, that banks wouldn't do that.
 I felt it was particularly important because when I operated this program in Fairfax, we actually lost more units in the downturn than we produced because of foreclosure. The real estate foreclosure caused the regulatory agreement to cancel out the affordability requirements. In this case, we've spent the money. We've given the proceeds to the developer as the offset, and we want to make sure that the public value is secured and not at risk.
 So I'm actually very pleased that we're starting to show through very capable, agile developers that the policy can work and that as time goes on, we'll see more of these. My second question, Mr. Director, is these are in areas of pretty high opportunity, if I'm imagining each of these addresses. So when downtown developers in the West End said,
 as they rush to get their permits off cocktail napkins into the planning bureau to beat the deadline. It just doesn't pencil out. What have these developers learned about this penciling out that some of our downtown developers may want to reconsider? Well, Dori speaks directly with them, so she might have deeper insight than I do.
 I mean, certainly every development project is unique. I do see with the three of these being a little bit smaller projects, they are more local developers not working with the larger capital investors, and so might have a little bit of a more simpler time with their financial structure. But I think they're also the ones willing to...
 to just be the first in the pool to move forward in that. I think there's been a lot of just anticipation of seeing how everything truly plays out in the first few developments that go forward, and then others will start...
 Moving with it as well. One other good indicator that the market is maturing and people are starting to conceptualize this, you may know the company Security Properties. It's a Seattle company, privately owned. John Marasco is the chief development officer, and I've known John for the last 25 years.
 They're the company that has gone non-refundable to purchase the Pepsi-Cola bottling plant on Sandy. It's five blocks. They envision full compliance with the inclusionary housing requirement. Okay.
 They also incidentally vested the Oregonian printing plant prior to February 1st. So they have both feet in the marketplace. They're doing pre-IZ and they're doing post-IZ. So I think it's going to be recognized as a fact on the ground. In this case, security properties is using a Chinese partner's equity, so they have a long-term interest in this marketplace.
 You might also like to know that they bought from Tom Kemper the affordable multifamily component at the Center Commons site, which is on I-84, previously owned by TriMet when it was a bus maintenance facility. So very clever developers are figuring this out, in this case both small ones and large ones. My last question is...
 If you divide the number of units in each building, you get different percentages. What am I missing? What's the – Well, it's the ramp-in that Dory mentioned. Right. For the lower affordable –
 affordability levels at the 60%. There's a lesser requirement. The guidelines were at 10% and then 20% for the 80% of area median income. I see. But up through the end of next year, outside of the central city, there was the legislative decision at council from you to have a ramp-up period of 8% and 15%, respectively. So a little bit lesser amount. Okay.
 So the combined is 13.5%. Yeah. But the idea is that the more affordable we give them, the requirement in terms of units goes down a little bit as we go more deeply affordable. And that was part of the calibration of the program, recognizing the difference in the rents and the impact it has on the projects. Thank you very much. But, again, the program was also calibrated in a way to make sure
 providing the units on site more attractive as well as providing units at the 60% of area median income level so that we are anticipating to see more projects opt for those. We have yet to see for sure, but this is a pretty good indication that it does work out that way. Commissioner Fritz? You mentioned securities, one of the companies? Security properties. Are they doing all three of these? Yes.
 No, these are actually smaller developers. Security Properties is only doing the larger scales. They bought the Iwami property in northeast Portland. They bought the old PNCA block in northwest Portland. They acquired with Urban Renaissance the Oregonian printing plant, and now they've bought the Pepsi-Cola bottling plant. I see. Thank you.
 should we not be giving some credit to the developers of these particular projects for doing the right things, stepping forward and doing it? And we hear a lot in our emails about evil developers who are just completely not,
 following the rules. Do you happen to know who these are? Sure, so it's a group of individuals on many of them with small LLCs. The project on Woodstock is being led by Stanley Hubert. And the Coase Development project is by Coase Development out of Seattle. They've done a handful of smaller unit projects that have benefited from the multi over the last couple of years.
 and they're led by Kathy Raines. And the Yamhill project is being led by Rudy Munzel with a group of about 17 different local investors on the site. Well, hooray, all local people. And I have actually been briefed on the Coase style of development. That's another really exciting opportunity for smaller units for less price. I think it's great that they're operating in our community.
 In a year from now, we'll see many more. That's my prediction. I mean, let's not forget that the hammering here, I think, was predictable, given that people rushed to get those permits. And I find it fairly remarkable that some of the analysis out there doesn't reflect that obvious reality.
 And so what I'm hearing from people is let's not put our cards on the table too quickly. As I've said many times, if we need to true this program up to make it successful, we'll be flexible enough to do that. But we really don't have a good enough data stream yet to be able to tell what the market is telling us. So I particularly appreciate Commissioner Fish's question, what does this tell us about the market? Right.
 What it tells me is they've got nowhere else to go. And so the question really now is what does it look like when we get back into a normal market cycle that isn't biased by the imminent deadline of the implementation of an IZ strategy? And we're probably months and months away from that reality. As you know, the city has a...
 Given our growth goals, we would like to see as many of those vested permits convert to actual projects as possible. So we remain open to discussing with those developers about how they might voluntarily convert their projects. The council, when on December 21st enacted the policy, said that we would recalibrate in three years. So we're prepared to do that in conjunction with BDS and planning and sustainability.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on these items? One testifier, Mary Seip. Mary, you've been so patient today. Good afternoon. How are you today? I am great. Good afternoon. My name is Mary Seip. I just want to kind of have a request. I'm really happy to see what's being reported today about these new units. Okay.
 It kind of comes in drips and dribbles to the city council. And when I see 22 units, and I know that the building, the affordable housing building that I live in, has a waiting list with 350 people on it, and that other buildings aren't even taking waiting lists, and I know this is going to be at least 18 months to two years before they come to fruition.
 it's kind of hard to get the big picture of, you know, are we – is it water and a balloon, you know, that we're dealing with, or what kind of progress are we making?
 So kind of what I'd like to ask, especially since Mr. Krieger is here today, is if a report could come to city council that would sort of be an overview. You know, in the past several months there have been a number of citizens who have come and they've accused you of not using the money that's been allocated for housing and not doing anything about the homeless issue and, you know, where's the money going, how have you spent it, blah, blah, blah.
 And I can understand that because I think as a private citizen about the only way that we have to measure what progress is being made is by what we see on the streets and in the neighborhoods all over the city. And it doesn't look very promising when you look around and you see all the tents all over the city. So what I was thinking is...
 You know, I watch, I come to city council and I watch a lot of the work sessions and I go on the websites and I gather a lot of information for myself and then I try to put it together to get an idea.
 And I was just thinking if we could get some kind of like a report, kind of quantitative. You know, this is what we've identified. This is the number of homeless. These are the different categories of homeless people. These are the number of units that we need. This is how we're addressing this particular category.
 and this is when we expect these units to be available for occupancy, and just some kind of a progress report and something about here's the $20 million or $30 million, I think, in 2015 that was budgeted between the county and the city, and here's what we've done with it, and here's what we have left, would be really helpful. I think it would...
 I think it always helps to put a stake in the ground, even for the people that are working in all the various bureaus. And I think it would be beneficial to city council, too. I think a lot of people would be surprised at the progress that is being made, that we're just not aware of if we don't go digging for it and sit at our computer for hours like some of the nerds like me do. Yeah.
 So I just would kind of like to throw that out there. And then what I was also thinking is, you know, it's not a bad idea, you know, these reports that come to city council, like Paul Van Orden came and gave a report about the noise control office. If those reports could be put on the websites for the various agencies so that people could see, again, just kind of a little status report and just a request for,
 Very good. Thank you, Mary. Thank you. We appreciate it. No, thank you. And, Kurt, I see you nodding in approval there. Well, since I know your meetings have a larger viewership than just the people in the audience. I sure as heck hope so. Two things I'd like to mention. First, the Housing Bureau will continue going forward to produce the annual state of housing, and that will roll up the status of all programs and all projects.
 And I'm proud to mention that we have several new hires, including Uma Krishna, who used to be in planning and sustainability, left and went to Portland State University. So she's an in-house demographer, excellent staff.
 We're also doing a deep dive into court eviction proceedings so that we will start to show that data as well as the status of our projects. And the Housing Bureau website has a map with a series of dots of works in progress. And people can click on any dot and they can see how many units and who the project sponsor is and what the status is.
 And our current portfolio is also on a very fine-grained interactive map. So all 14,000 units are mapped, and every one of our 33 projects in process, including vacant land that we've acquired, are also on the map. So, Kirk, can I make a suggestion? Mm-hmm. So I applaud what you just said, and the annual report has been a great addition to our conversation. The annual report that you give us –
 It looks like a phone book from a mid-sized city. And some of the stuff on your website for people that really want to drill down is there. What I hear Mary saying, and I actually think she makes a great point.
 is I think we should go back to a dashboard-type approach, and there ought to be a link on the housing. You may already have it. I haven't been in charge of the Housing Bureau for a few years, but I think there should be a dashboard that you click onto, and it should have all the current data from a home for everyone, all the current data from a joint office, and it should have a –
 It should have a year-to-year total of abatements, new units online, you know, that you can click onto. All that data, by the way, is available. But what I think is asking a lot, and I love that housing report. I mean, I actually have a signed copy from Dan Saltzman on my desk, is, you know, if you have an evening and you dig into it, there's a wealth of information.
 But I think in this age, a dashboard with a few graphs and a running tally, I think that's what Mary's saying, so that she can say, look, homelessness is down a little bit or more people in shelter beds or here's the problem, we're meeting this need. And I would encourage you to do that, not for the budget exercise. Andrew and I have an ongoing debate about what actually should be a dashboard for the budget exercise.
 For the public. And I'd make it as simple as possible. So if you had five minutes, you could get a snapshot of where we are. The data is all there, and I thank Mary for flagging that. Excellent point taken. We met with Mayor Wheeler yesterday on the design of the website specifically for the housing bond, Portland's housing bond. Yeah. Because we want it to have its own identity so it doesn't get lost in the workflow of the Bureau generally. Yeah.
 I hear you and will respond with as concise a data as we can possibly sort of distill from the fine-grained detail that's already available. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you, Mayor. I'd go one further. Having the cliff notes is also helpful as well as much detail.
 some of us do one and some of us do the other. I noticed that the mayor's advertising for two of the three positions that were authorised in the budget, and one of them is for a digital information specialist. So what I would really like to see is from the very front page of the city's website, more dynamic links to this week's, you know, something that was a hot topic or will be a hot topic at city council and where to find that thing that drives
 that Director Krieger was mentioning, with the direct link to that. You know, the amazing work that's being done in the Office of Management and Finance with the report to PDX and the camp clean-ups and such. If people...
 Each of our constituent specialists would be able to say, these are the most asked about issues this week. Always there's issues with people living outside. And so to make it very easy for people who say, what on earth is the city doing? They must be doing nothing. To then get to the report PDX every week. Because we're doing a lot. And yes, we still need to do a lot more.
 I have found that sending people that information makes them recognize that yes, it is still worth continuing to work on all of these things because we can get there and I think this particular set of tax exemptions shows you do it once a time and now we've got 23 at a time and that's fabulous. That's a good start. Commissioner Eadaly? I'd just like to say that I'm glad that we're not rushing to conclusions about IZ because of course I've heard from many developers
 that it doesn't pencil out. I'm getting custom pencils made that say, try harder, by the way. And that the softening of the market has something to do with our IZ policy when we know that perhaps the overbuilding at the market and luxury rate level has a little more to do with the softening of the market. And the fact is,
 that many developers are not building to the demand that exists here. And the demand is for affordable housing for people who earn less than 120% of MFI or less than 100. So just glad to know that we're waiting for those results to kind of clarify themselves before we change our policy. Very good. Any further questions? Please call the roll on 1073. So is meant.
 Well, I'm very happy to see these developments step up to take advantage of the inclusionary housing program. I think they recognize the larger goals that we have.
 as a city and indeed as a state, which authorize cities to implement inclusionary housing policies. So it always takes a few brave souls to be the first ones to step over the threshold, and that's usually a precursor of more to follow. And I do indeed think that's exactly what's going to happen. I think that's the sentiment up here from all of us. And I think it's just a question of waiting for that tremendous backlog of units that were vested –
 before the deadline to dissipate, either through their permits expiring or projects changing or the projects get built, either one of those three. So anyway, I'm grateful to the developers here who stepped up, grateful to the Housing Bureau for doing good work on this. Pleased to vote aye. Udali. Udali.
 I guess I'd just like to echo Commissioner Saltzman's sentiments, thank these developers for being willing to build some of the housing that we desperately need, and thank you to the Housing Bureau and BDS. Aye.
 When I heard that we had, was it something like 18,000 permits that came in the week before up to the deadline, I wasn't expecting to get anything like this for at least another year. So I'm very encouraged that there are good local developers who are willing to invest in our community and take advantage of this program. And 23 units for $74 a month is what I heard. That's...
 A great contribution. And yes, we are doing our part too with the tax abatement. So thanks to Director Kruger. Thanks to Dario van Broecken. I knew I could ask you a question that I hadn't asked you beforehand because you always have the knowledge at your fingertips. So thank you for knowing about those local developers and being in BDS to help people see that, yeah, you can do this. Others have done it. And hopefully this is the beginning of others saying,
 I want to invest in our community. I want to invest in the people in our community to build affordable units. I. Fish. Yeah, there's a lot to like here, and I appreciate it's a 99-year regulatory agreement. I appreciate that it's in neighborhoods that people are going to want to live in. I appreciate the fact that smaller developers are taking the plunge and are going to test, sort of stress test this and prove to maybe some of these bigger developers that it works.
 I also like the fact that when you compare the foregone revenue under our normal tax abatement programs with the 10-year abatement here targeted exclusively to the unit and not the whole building, this is just a much better return for taxpayers. And Dan carried a lot of the water on this to bring it to this point. So thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Thanks. Aye. Wheeler.
 I'd like to add my thanks to Director Krieger and Dory. Thank you for your great work on this. I want to acknowledge two people in my office who have done a great job of leadership on these issues and helping me. I'd like to acknowledge Andrea Valderrama, who's hiding in the back there.
 And Cupid Alexander, who is very intentionally hiding behind the column back there, they have been extremely helpful to me in this process. I would just conclude by saying good start, more to come. Ordinance is adopted because I am also voting aye. Next item, 1074, call the roll. Thank you.
 Sossman. Aye. Udallie. Aye. Fritz. Commissioner Fish reminded me. Thank you Commissioner Sossman for all the work you did getting the inclusionary zoning done at the state level. Aye. Fish. Aye.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call the roll on 1075. Saltzman. Aye. Udallie. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for your great work on that. Next item, we have 1076, a second reading.
 Item 1076, adopt the Transportation System Development Charge Update 2017 Rate Study, establish an updated rate schedule, and amend Code Effective January 1, 2018. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, I want to start off by thanking staff and the public for a great collaborative process at the Portland Bureau of Transportation when they took on the task of updating the Transportation System Development Charge.
 I do want to also acknowledge in particular Christine Leone, Ann Hill, and Rich Eisenhower for their work here. There are always challenging efforts, and no one is thrilled to pay more fees to the city. But as we saw from the testimony two weeks ago, the public does understand the need to keep our infrastructure up to the task of dealing with our growth. And it really is that testimony and support that I want to highlight. And thanks, staff, for helping to create that environment.
 We made some fundamental changes on how we're now looking at transportation impacts through our person trips calculations, and this is going to go a long way in expanding our transportation system for all modes, something I know the folks who dug in in the details on this now understand and support.
 So thanks again to staff and all of my colleagues for their staffs delving into this well as well. And I believe we're going to have a very good transportation SDC in the future here. Aye. Udailey. Aye.
 Well, thank you Commissioner Saltzman for your leadership on this and for accepting some of the guidance from the parks folks who had done a similar kind of methodology. I think both transportations and parks is actually now easier for community members to understand the impact fees that developers pay on new construction. So I appreciate both. I also appreciated that you got back one of the questions at the first reading was should we have more tiers?
 And so we got the information that the, I think it's five tiers that we have in parks based on the size of the housing, that we don't see a lot of rushing to build things that are just underneath the next threshold. And so although that's good in some ways that we're not affecting the market, it's also awareness that,
 giving encouragement to do smaller units which might then be more affordable doesn't so far seem to be having that desired effect. Thank you very much for your work on this and also to Director Leotre and your staff. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you very much. Please call the roll on 1078.
 1078, authorize a contract with Stana Consulting Services in the amount of $3,325,000 for the corrosion control improvements project. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? We haven't forgotten you, Parks. We're just doing the two second readings first. Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The contract is approved. Please call the roll on 1079.
 Approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the use of the alternative contract method of construction manager general contractor in connection with the corrosion control improvements project for an estimated amount of $11 million. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is approved. Thank you. Last item, item 1077, please. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement between Portland Parks and Recreation and Metro to establish the roles of each party in the North Portland Greenway Trail Segments 1 and 2
 via the Columbia Boulevard Bicycle Pedestrian Bridge Project. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Portland Parks and Recreation is partnering with Metro to complete the North Portland Greenway Trail Segments 1 and 2 via the Columbia Boulevard Bicycle Pedestrian Bridge Project. Parks is very excited about this project, and we've identified $204,699 in system development charges, as we were just talking about, the impact fees that...
 as paid on new construction as matching funds for the project. This will increase the capacity of Portland's parks and recreation system. And we're now wanting to enter into an intergovernment agreement to provide for Metro to lead the effort to design, engineer, fund, and construct the project, and for parks to provide decision-making and oversight roles with the project. I'll turn it over to staff. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Thank you.
 I'm Maya Agarwal, a city planner with the Portland Parks and Recreation Bureau. Portland Parks and Recreation is partnering with Metro to complete portions of the North Portland Greenway Trail via the Columbia Boulevard Bicycle Pedestrian Bridge Project. Thank you.
 In 2014, the Oregon Department of Transportation awarded Multimodal Transportation Enhanced Program grant funds to Metro to design, engineer, and construct portions of the North Portland Greenway Trail from Chimney Park to the existing St. John's Landfill Bridge via a multi-use trail bridge over North Columbia Boulevard. Several city bureaus have an interest in the project, including Portland Parks and Recreation, the Bureau of Transportation, and the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 Portland Parks and Recreation supports the project and has identified $204,699 in SDCs as matching funds for the project. The project will increase capacity of Portland's parks and recreation system. The North Portland Greenway is part of the 40-mile loop, a regional trail identified by Metro Council.
 and the project will complete a gap in the 40-mile loop. Do we have a picture of that or a map? Yes, ma'am. So the project that we're talking about here is the dotted yellow line. Thank you. Other planning documents that identify this section of trail include the city's 2035 Comprehensive Plan, Portland Parks and Recreation's North Portland Greenway Trail Plan, PBOT's Transportation System Plan, and Metro's Regional Active Transportation Plan.
 It's anticipated that design and public engagement for the project would occur between 2017 and 2019, with construction occurring between 2020 and 2021. Metro and the City now wish to enter into an intergovernmental agreement to establish the roles, responsibilities, terms, and conditions of each party's participation in the Columbia Boulevard Bicycle Pedestrian Bridge Project.
 Metro and the City have negotiated an agreement that provides for Metro to lead the effort to design, engineer, fund, and construct the project, for Portland Parks and Recreation to provide decision-making and oversight roles, and for PBOT and BES to provide advisory roles for the project. This agreement has been approved as to form by the City Attorney.
 We asked Portland City Council to authorize the intergovernmental agreement between Metro and the city to establish these roles, allowing the Columbia Boulevard bicycle pedestrian bridge project to go forward. Could you put the map back up again, please, in case there's questions from council? I'm sorry? Could you put the map back up, please? Yes, ma'am. I'm not sure if council has questions on the actual location. Is it good?
 Where is Chimney Park exactly? I mean, I see the map, but there's no street names on it, and I'm not familiar. Yes, it's along Columbia Boulevard. If you know where Pier Park is, so it's in North Portland. If you know where Pier Park is, it's just to the north of that. Oh, okay. Thank you. And the bridge goes over? Over Columbia Boulevard. Yes, ma'am. Great. Okay.
 Very excited about it. Thank you very much. Good project. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Any further questions, colleagues? You're going to get off easy today. It's a popular project. Please call the roll. Sossman. Yeah, looks great. Hi. Udaly. Very exciting to give pedestrians in particular a route over Columbia rather than on it.
 Fritz. Well, thank you, Ms Agarwal, for your presentation and for all your work on this, and Brett Horner in parks as well. People sometimes are concerned about...
 both the cost of development and the amount of development that's happening. So it's good when we have projects like this which are going to increase capacity for all, particularly as this is going to be designed as pedestrians and bicycles. So that, of course, means all accessibility for people using wheelchairs or strollers and other things too. So it's a really exciting project and one that the North Portland community has championed for a very long time. So thank you to all who are in the North Portland Greenway Advocacy Group. Aye.
 Fish is absent. And Wheeler. This is a growing area. There's more traffic. There's more concern about bicycle and pedestrian safety on Columbia Boulevard. Very happy to see this one. This is a no-brainer. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for your good work. We look forward to seeing the final product. Oh, guess what? And with that, we are adjourned. All right. We have one minute left to make a step-by.