Joe on the road. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the September 21, 2017 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll.
 Saltzman. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Wheeler. Here. I'm just going to summarize the decorum statement. Everybody please be respectful of everybody's testimony. People have different opinions than your own. That's considered okay. Let's let everybody have their bit during public testimony. And please do not interrupt testimony. Don't interrupt council deliberations.
 If anybody interrupts council deliberations or public testimony, they'll be asked not to do so. If you're asked not to do so and you don't, you're subject to removal. If you choose not to be removed when you've been asked to be removed, you're subject to arrest for trespassing.
 That sounds as ominous as it is, so let's not let it happen because we don't want it to. We want everybody to feel respected and heard. If you are a lobbyist, council rules require us to be informed of that fact. If you're here representing an organization, that's also helpful. To keep things moving, simple thumbs up or thumbs down, either way, is good to express your opinion. We can certainly all see that and register your pleasure or displeasure. That's fine.
 And with that, we will get to the first item. Item 1044. Chloe.
 waive certain zoning code standards addressing use, spacing facades, and timing of demolition review to authorize relocation and placement of the Morris Marks House on property located northwest of the intersection of Southwest Broadway Street and Southwest Grant Street and maintain historic resource inventory status for the structure. Commissioner Udaily. Thank you, Mayor.
 The dream of moving the Morris Marks House has been around for over a decade. Portland is fortunate that local developers Karen Carlson and Rick Michelson are committed to historic preservation and have stepped in to spearhead the move. Karen and Rick have experienced rehabilitating historic structures and are the perfect team to bring the Morris Marks House back to its former glory and ensure it stays around for another 130 years.
 Today we have Matt Wickstrom from BDS will be presenting. But before that, I'd like to hand it over to Commissioner Fish. I will simply say...
 To my friend and colleague, while this matter is technically being brought forward today by the Bureau of Development Services, many city bureaus have been involved, and we all acknowledge the Morris Marks House is a historic house in our community with great history. Since I've joined the council, community members have been trying to find a way to save this historic treasure.
 The house was built, as the Commissioner said, in 1880 and is a rare example of a particular style of architecture in our great city. Today is an important step forward in saving the house, and community members once again are leading the charge. And I'm very pleased to partner today with Commissioner Udailey, the Bureau of Development Services, the Parks Bureau, and others to make this happen. Thank you very much.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I want to recognise Rachel Wiggins, who is here, who's done as much as anybody to get the city to do this. This is an effort, you know, both commissioners mentioned this has been going on for years.
 In my first term, we were starting to work on this. So I feel like when we get to the thank yous, I'm going to have to list all of my staff who ever worked with me to applaud this. For some time, we thought it would belong to the receiving site, belong to the Parks Bureau. So we also need to acknowledge the great people in the city attorney's office, some of which have now retired over the course of this saga. And many community advocates, including Dr. David Cutler, who was
 one of the first people I became friends with in Portland in 1986 who has been very strong in supporting this move. We do need to say also that Rick Michelson is unable to be with us today but he sent a letter with his support. So I understand there's a substitute motion? Second. Thank you.
 Very good. So in case people are wondering, we have a substitute motion, which is basically some technical changes in wordsmithing, and for legal reasons we need to move it and put it on the table. So, Carla, please call the roll unless there's any further questions. Yeah, I'll just clarify. It's a motion for a substitute ordinance. Correct. Yes. Thank you.
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? So I'm voting to approve the substitutes. The Mayor said it's basically technical things. There are also other technical things that don't even need to be in the ordinance. One of the latest being the elm trees along the way, and that there's a moratorium on when you can prune elm trees. But the City Forester has agreed that we're going to be able to prune the elm trees without having to ask Council to do so. So I'm happy to put the substitute on the table with that note. Aye. Thank you.
 Fish. Hi. Wheeler. Hi. The substance ordinance is now on the table. Is Matt here? There he is, the man, the myth, the legend. Good afternoon. I'm Matt Wickstrom. I'm with the Bureau of Development Services, and thank you for having me here. So the presentation is about moving the Morris Marks House, and this is just a little information about the house. We've pretty much already heard this. It was built in 1880. I love that.
 for a local shoe merchant named Morse Marks. It is a unique architectural style in Portland, Italianate architecture. It's a local historic landmark, and the current owner of the property doesn't plan to incorporate it into the redevelopment of the property, thus requiring the house to be moved or demolished.
 This is the sending site where it's located right now. That's on Southwest 12th near Southwest Jefferson. And this is the receiving site. That site is actually located over on the other side of I-405. It's northwest of the intersection of Southwest Broadway Street and Southwest Grant. All right.
 It's a triangular-shaped lot owned by the Water Bureau. It's currently under lease by the applicants, and there are negotiations underway for the applicants to purchase it from the Water Bureau. And if you have questions about that transaction, Karen Moynihan from the City Attorney's Office is here.
 The zoning of the site is RH, that's High Density Residential, and that does come into play in particular for one certain thing within the ordinance. The 2035 Comprehensive Plan has approved the site to change to a CM2 zoning. So we're going to temporarily, with the ordinance, what you would be doing is temporarily allowing an office use at the site.
 However, once the zoning changes with the 2035 comprehensive plan, office would be allowed by right. A lot of what this ordinance to me seems to be is the city allowing the cart to be put before the horse, but we're going to let the horses catch up and in the end it all should appear as it was approved just through normal procedures.
 This is the house move route. It's a little difficult to see, but the next slide is a close up of the move through the PSU campus. And that is going to be easier to read or see. So the house is going to move south on Southwest 12th Avenue. It'll move through the PSU campus. It's going to spend the night on a PSU parking lot. And then the next day, it'll move south on Southwest Broadway.
 across I-405 on one of the overpasses and to the site. We should have a marching band go before it or something. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. Sell tickets along the way. I see Raylene McMillan is here. Are we getting a preferential rate for overnight parking in the lot? So just some details on the house move. In order to...
 minimize the number of trees that would need to be removed, the house is going to be cut in two pieces. And Eric DeWolf, who's the contractor for the applicants, is here if you have questions about what is entailed in cutting a house into two pieces. It would be loaded onto trucks and then moved along its way. The owners have an agreement with Portland State University to move the house through the campus.
 Um, there would be five trees removed. One of these is a street tree for trees on the PSU campus. Permits have been received from the urban forester and I have some additional information on that and the trees. If you'd, if you'd like, um, mitigation planting or fee fees in lieu, uh, will be paid for the tree removal. Um, there will also be pruning like commissioner Fritz said. And, um,
 And the permit for the pruning does include instructions, whereas if it does need to occur outside of the window for elm tree pruning, there's some instructions on what precautions to take. If I might just insert here the reasons that I was asked to read into the record, we'd be able to do it for the pruning prohibition for the following reasons. The cooler and wetter weather...
 present a minimal risk for beetle activity. I didn't think we were going to need to consider beetle activity, but we have. The pruning will occur in the last two to three weeks of the moratorium window, and the precautions that the arborist hired by the contractors are taking will limit further exposure by removing the wood within 24 hours.
 Thank you. Great, thanks. And finally, the reason for the immediate house move, obviously we've been working on this for a long time. PSU has a construction project coming up, and the staging for that construction project is going to block the route of the house move. And so that project could begin as early as October 1st, and therefore the house needs to be moved before then.
 Here's the map of the house move through the PSU campus. And so you can see it just really kind of meanders across the campus, in some cases through outdoor areas, in other cases through pedestrian walkways, etc.
 and other pedestrian walkways, and then it starts to head south on the south park blocks. And at Neuberger Hall, that's where the construction is going to occur, and that's where the route would be blocked. At the end of this map, you'd see the parking lot where the house will, or the two pieces of the house will rest overnight. This map also shows the locations of the trees that would be removed, as well as the pruning that would need to occur.
 Final location is this lot here. Like I said, that's owned by the Portland Water Bureau. The owners have a lease with the Water Bureau and with the intent to purchase. The Bureau of Development Services has issued a partial permit for excavation on the site. This is going to allow the contractor to get in there and start digging the hole for the foundation so that can be constructed. And in theory and in hopes...
 the foundation will be completed by the time the House shows up. And a hold harmless agreement has been executed on that's general practice for when we issue partial permits.
 As far as the ordinance goes, I already talked about the first one. The ordinance would allow office use in the RH zone, which it currently does not. And like I said, when the zoning is changed with the comp plan update, office will be allowed by right. The ordinance is going to either waive or delay historic resource review, waive for cutting the house in half, and delay for the foundation work where after the fact...
 of the foundation being completed, we'll have a historic resource review to make sure that that foundation has been reviewed just the same as other projects. There's a standard in the zoning code about street-facing windows at the...
 pedestrian level because of the slope of the lot and the amount of foundation necessary and the height of the house or height of the main floor That standard may not be able to be waived so that or met so that would be waived with the ordinance as well The ordinance also reapplies the local landmark status which is lost when the house is technically considered demolished While it's in transit
 The ordinance does state that permits still must be obtained and the Bureau requirements must be met. And then the two final things, and I'll get to this on another slide after this, but the ordinance waives system development charges for the house as well as the historic resource review fees. And so as far as...
 As far as public costs go, the waiving of the system development charges as well as waiving of the historic resource review fees would amount to about $35,179 in public costs. As far as public benefits go, the...
 The ordinance would allow to save the historic structure from demolition, to retain the structure with its rare architectural style, and reapply the local landmark status. Frontage improvements would be made with the overall project. And then the site to be purchased from the Water Bureau is at fair market value. It's not purchasing for a dollar or whatever. So the applicants would, it appears that,
 The agreement is for $180,000. The applicants are... There's a discussion of whether the applicants would host an open house once per year. Like I said, that's under discussion. That's not included in the ordinance. And so those...
 discussions would occur outside of this. And then the applicants will renovate a historic but neglected home, putting about $540,000 into that. And the applicants will incur all costs associated with moving the house, which is about $440,000. So all in all, the applicants are putting about $1.2 million into saving the home, moving the home, and rehabilitating the home. And that's the end of the presentation.
 Thank you. Thanks. Great. Thank you. Any other questions before we go to public testimony? Thanks. It was very clear and concise. We appreciate that. Carla, how many do we have signed up? Nine people. Nine people. So three minutes each. The microphones move around, so move them to your convenience. You'll notice a yellow light that will go off 30 seconds before your testimony is completed.
 And when your testimony is completed, a red light will go off and it'll beep very loudly and obnoxiously. And that's it. Name for the record. We don't need your address. The first three, please come on up, are Aaron Riddle, Richard DeWolf, and Bill Fingley. Welcome, welcome. Richard, would you like to start, please? My name is Richard DeWolf. Richard DeWolf.
 And I am the contractor doing the work on this project. I'm the gentleman ready for cutting it in half, which we've started on already. The biggest reason here is to thank Mr. Mayor and the commissioners for voting on this and making it happen. I was first approached on this project about 10 years ago, and it's wonderful to see it happening and to see the involvement and the importance that the city of Portland is putting on its historic resources. Once these historic resources are put on,
 are lost, they're gone forever. There's also the importance of a family business. We employ about 65 people in the urban core and it creates jobs and it creates high wage jobs because these are very high level, high skilled people that are employed to do this type of work. So all of that work is done in house through our staff
 And I just want to say, again, thank you very much. And I am here now if you have any questions, and I'll certainly be here afterwards if anybody has any questions about how the process actually works. It's probably more of a curiosity. I just have a question. It's not often that we have a hearing where we're told that a historic house is about to be cut into half. Yes. And then transported. What is the biggest challenge you face in dividing the house? Okay.
 We want to do it in a respectful way, and it's not like you see on renovation shows on television where dust is flying everywhere, and I don't think we have a single sledgehammer on site. It's a lot more of a delicate process than that.
 And first we had to take consideration of engineering concerns because once you create a big opening in a building, it could fall over during a move or during the lift. So we have to structurally reinforce the entire house because you have two large openings. So we did that on all three floors, the first floor, the second floor and the attic on both sides.
 So the house was completely structurally set up first, and then we made the precision cuts. And we had to do it in respectful ways, like in the corners, we don't want to be replacing siding, we don't want to be harming the floors. The trim pieces that we have to go through were removed prior. Okay.
 instead of just kind of cutting through them. So when we marry the two pieces back together on the other site, it should come together pretty well. We have a lot of registration points and hopefully it clicks together like a very large Lego. And that's our goal. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Erin Riddle is my name. I am here on behalf of Rick Michelson and Karen Carlson, who are the project developers for the Morse Marks House project.
 They are not able to be here today, so they've asked me to read their testimony. Mayor Wheeler and council members, Karen and I want to thank you for acting on this ordinance, which will allow us to move and save the Morris Marks House. We wish that we could be with you today, but we are not able to get back to Portland in time. As you know, we have been on an extremely tight timeline to make this move happen.
 Portland State is beginning some major improvements to its facilities, and our only possible move route closes on October 1st. Moving something as large as the Morris Marks house is a challenge and does have an impact on street trees, utility connections, etc. In order to minimize those impacts, we are cutting the house in half and moving it in tandem. We are calling the front part Morris and the rear end Marks.
 We want to thank everyone who's made this project possible. Let's get this a little bit. First, Steve Blindheim, who is the present owner and who's been very patient as we've been waiting to make this project happen. Next, Portland State University, who is not only allowing us to cross their campus, but worked to create the required paperwork in record time.
 We would be remiss not to mention the extra efforts of PGE and Northwest Natural, who moved this project to the top of their lists in order to make the October 1st deadline, and to the city itself. We want to thank Kurt Kruger and Rachel Wiggins, who started us down this path three years ago. More recently BDS and PBOT, who've been extremely helpful in getting us the required permits. Parks Bureau and Water Bureau, who worked to make the new site available.
 And Commissioner Fish, thank you for stepping in at the 11th hour to help make this happen and in making Todd Lofgren in your office available to clear any roadblocks. Finally, to Matt Wickstrom of BDS, who has brought this ordinance to you today. He has been a true partner through this whole process, three-year process, and has been constantly thinking ahead. He's told us that he's learned a lot from the process and that we hope you've also had some fun.
 So please join us on September 30th and October 1st as we move the Morris Marks House to its new home. Thank you. On behalf of Rick Michelson and Karen Carlson. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, fellow commissioners, thank you very much for your attention to this.
 I'm here both as an individual, as an advisor to the Architectural Heritage Center, past president of the Oregon Historical Society, and an activist who helped relocate the Simon Benson House to the PSU campus. Bill, could you state your name for the record, please? Sure. Bill Failing. Thank you. That's a proper noun, by the way. Laughter
 At any rate, all these different organics, oh, and the Southwest Neighborhood Association, Swirl, and all of which have a stake in preserving history, and that's history worth preserving. If you look at panoramic photos of Portland in the 1880s, you see a sea of Italianate-style houses everywhere. You look at a panoramic view of Portland today, and you see, if any, none.
 Almost none anyway. Through various fits and starts, the incredible patience by its current owners, this Italian icon, one of the city's earliest, has survived until now. Kudos to Rick Michelson and Karen Carlson, who have a history of saving endangered houses, both of architectural value and of community value.
 I need to be applauded for this effort. Commissioner Fritz, you, Commissioner Fish, and Todd Lundgren, who is in the trenches doing a lot of the lifting behind the scenes, should all be complimented. Commissioner Udeli, it's now in your lap and we're delighted to have you support this also.
 I think the city really needs to be applauded for keeping this in survival mode through this whole time. So what we have now is downtown, one of the remaining Italian houses, continues to be located downtown in a very conspicuous spot where it can be enjoyed and appreciated. And again, you're all to be applauded for making this happen. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. Next three, please, Carlisle.
 are Fred Leeson, Rachel Wiggins-Emery, and William Hawkins. Good afternoon. Rachel, is this the first time you've testified since you were an esteemed colleague? Yes, this is the first time my testimony has been timed, so apologies if I run a little long. As a former esteemed colleague, you know the rules do not apply to you. I do.
 Mayor, council, thank you so much for bringing this item to council today. My name is Rachel Wiggins-Emery, technically a lobbyist, but here as a private citizen and a former city staffer to say thank you. I spent four years working in the mayor's office. Two and a half of those years were spent trying to move this house.
 And of course, like everything, I didn't work alone. So I just wanted to take some time and thank the amazing people who allowed me to nag them for two and a half years. Erica Niebel in Commissioner Novick's office and now in PBOT. Pooja Bhatt in Commissioner Fritz's office, who is now my hero because she continued this amazing work. Liam Frost, formerly in your office, Commissioner.
 Matt Grum in Commissioner Saltzman's office, Kurt Kruger and Dave McEldowney in PBOT, who were amazing. Charlie Carroll in the forestry department, who...
 I thought was going to tell me no immediately when I started pointing trees that needed to be cut down. And he was so helpful and wonderful. And I'm so grateful. PSU, who said no and yes and no and yes and no and yes, but has finally landed on yes. And that is in large part because of Raylene.
 And then, obviously, Rick and Karen, who have worked tirelessly on this, who allowed me to give them answers they didn't want to hear and still moved forward. Last and finally, very selfishly, thank you so much to all of you for continuing to move this forward.
 For me, so much of the job was going to meetings and sending emails and talking about policy, all wonderful and tangibles, but nothing that you can point to and say, I spent four years doing something. And to be able to walk down the street and look at the Morris Marks house and say, I may not have done a lot, but I moved this house, I will be forever grateful. So thank you, thank you, thank you.
 I can honestly say it would not have happened without your continued persistence because there were many times I think everybody else was ready to give up. So thank you. Thank you so much.
 Fred Leeson, board member, Architectural Heritage Center. Usually when we come to city council is to criticize something, and today it's all hugs and kisses, I guarantee you. This is a huge victory for preservation. It's a huge victory for the city. Thanks to everybody. Just quickly, Rick has put together the perfect team to do this.
 Special thanks certainly to all the city bureaus, to PSU. Think about Steve Blindheim who has sat on this property for 12 years. He could have smashed this thing into kindling wood at any time, and he refused to do that. So we're deeply appreciative to him. It's a huge victory. Thanks so much. Thank you, sir.
 Bill Hawkins, commissioners. I'm very glad to join this course of happiness here over the House. It's been about eight years for me following it and
 Exploring every possibility that could possibly save it. It has been difficult at times, but the hurdles have all been surmounted. Commissioner Fritz, I'm so glad we had our time together on this house. And now the last hurdle, Nick Fish, it's amazing. It is a big moment for preservation.
 So one last word on the Blindheims. They have been the absolute pillar of patience on this. They love the house. They're very dear people. They love their city, and they have done the right thing. So a special thanks to them. Thanks to everyone who has contributed to this. It's wonderful.
 Thank you. Thank you. And if you'd like a sketch, I will leave these with you. Maybe there's an area here. I believe that a beautiful piece of architecture is so best voiced, and I think the sketch speaks that. That's nice. Done eight years ago. Thank you. Yeah, next three. Sorry. Thank you. Next three are Leslie Hutchinson, Kat Sklar, and Peggy Moretti. I'll pass. I don't have anything prepared to say. Okay.
 Peggy, why don't you start? Very good. Okay, I will start. I'm Peggy Moretti, speaking on behalf of Restore Oregon and a lot of other happy people in this room. I just, I think it's kind of a...
 perhaps a given here, but we urge your support. I think we have it, and so therefore thank you so much for making this possible today. Saving and moving the Morris Marks House is a very, very good thing, and it's an example of where the private sector has done all the heavy lifting and the city gets to bring it home and be part of the celebration and an enabler, which is ideal, isn't it?
 We really have appreciated the unusual nature of the project team's requests, but sometimes unusual steps are warranted when it comes to preserving something that is so rare and unique, and especially during a time when we are experiencing a demolition epidemic and so much historic character is being lost in our city. Bill Hawkins doesn't toot his own horn too much, but this was featured in his book,
 on the classic houses of Portland as the most exceptional double-bayed Italianate house remaining. So it really is an important and worthy thing for us to all save. And there's great public benefit in this. I don't think I need to tell you that. But it is very restorable, and it's going to be put to really good use out there in the public for our enjoyment.
 I think it's also worth noting that this is serving as an example, I think, and provides lessons for other similar situations that are probably likely going to come up.
 as there's increased demolition pressure on important historic resources. We may, in fact, have to move some more of them down the road. It's always our last resort, but it's certainly better to reuse it in a different location than to lose it altogether. So what we are learning from this process and the hurdles that have been brought down within the city and the way the departments are cooperating, I think is a really important model for those potential future situations. So thank you all of...
 You and the city commissioners, we're very grateful that this is happening. Thank you for your testimony.
 Hi, I'm Kat Sklar. I first wanted to say I'm delighted that the house is being preserved. I moved downtown in 2005 as a PSU student, lived two blocks from the house, and every time I walked by it with my now husband, I hoped that someone would rescue it, which is to say now I live across the street from the future site. And I wanted to bring to your attention a couple of logistical hurdles and make a couple of requests for consideration as the permit process happens.
 I don't think anyone mentioned it, but there's a set of five row houses also going in at the corner of Broadway and Grant Street. And there's currently like five Zone F parking spots that are not reserved by that construction. So I'm hoping y'all have worked out the parking considerations because the side of the street adjacent to the site is already full of trucks every day. So glad you guys are on top of that, hopefully.
 Second, the residents of Grant Street have already had their power, water and gas cut off once this year, each accidentally in the course of this construction. And I'd hope that that doesn't continue. We try to be good sports. And I think that that street is full of old houses, including the building that I live in.
 We are absolutely fans of the restoration, but we also need to be able to, our access to actually get into our building was also blocked for a week. So please be considerate.
 And finally, that area is Zone F. It gets patrolled about once every three weeks. And with the change to office use, I'm sure that people will want to be able to visit those offices, and I would recommend an increase in parking patrol to make sure that we're not seeing people without permits leaving their cars there, which we currently do. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. That's all signed up. Very good. Colleagues, anything else? No.
 Happy day. I move to vote. Please call the roll. Udaly? Well, as we've heard, this House move has required a great deal of inter-bureau and inter-agency collaboration, so I just want to acknowledge the following bureaus. Bureau of Development Services, the Water Bureau, Urban Forestry, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, the Portland Bureau of Transportation, the Bureau of Environmental Services, the City Attorney Office,
 as well as PGE, ODOT, and of course Portland State University, who have been critical in this effort by allowing the house to move through the campus. So thank you for that. I'd like to thank my colleagues as well. I barely had to lift a finger in this process, and I get to share the glory. So thank you for all your hard work on this.
 And, of course, the owners, current owners, the Blindheims and Karen Carlson and Rick Michelson for hanging on to this dream and bringing it to fruition. Aye. Great.
 Well, it certainly has been a team effort across several mayors and many bureaus, as Commissioner Udiah just said, and so it's nice to get to this point. I'm particularly grateful for Rachel Wiggins-Emery being here today. I'm sure that if that was a lobbying entity, I think we can waive it under the circumstances. So saying thank you to about 20 people is certainly, I would say, not lobbying, but being respectful of how many people, how many bureaus were involved in this.
 It is 1.2 million of private money and 35,000 of wave development fees. It also has been a significant use of staff time over time, so that is something that we did keep working on it.
 I've called out Rachel for this, but she was also extremely helpful in getting Right to Dream 2 moved from their previous site on Forth and Burnside to their new site near the Motor Centre. And so when we're doing these things which protect beautiful historic buildings, I think we do have to recognise that there's a lot of people sleeping outside tonight. There's a lot of people who don't have the capacity and there's a lot of communities that...
 that in past times we didn't think so much about historical preservation, we just demolished whole sections of town. And so hopefully we've learned from past mistakes and we are going to join together on this,
 particular move. So it certainly is a course of celebration, not least of which that we're able as a city in Portland, Oregon, United States of America, able to dedicate this amount of both private and professional resources to preserving a building. So thank you, everybody. I think Fred said it best when he said it's a victory for preservation. And I think if you step back, it's been a hell of a month.
 And I want to make a few comments about some wins that we've shared together. But first, I want to step back and acknowledge something both of my colleagues have just said, which is that even within the commission-style form of government, we are capable of extremely high levels of collaboration. And I would actually argue that it's not in spite of, it's actually because of.
 And the question is not the form of government. The question is the leadership of the various entities and the willingness to come together and solve a problem. So I'm extremely proud to be on this team with Commissioners Fritz and Udaly and to be here on the day that we bring this home. I also want to acknowledge something Commissioner Fritz said, and it was also alluded to in the testimony, which is the role of the council to support citizens who are doing good work.
 What I think makes this whole enterprise so powerful is it was a group of citizens who said, we're going to save this building, we're going to raise the money, we're going to do a lot of the work. And they just said to the city, help us make this happen. And there are many different roles that we play in our day jobs, but nothing is more rewarding than helping to bring fulfillment to aspirations of people doing good work in our community. But let me go back to why I think this is a hell of a month for preservation.
 Last night, Commissioner Fritz and I and Bill Failing and others were at the fifth anniversary of the opening of the Oregon Rail Heritage Center. And I can tell you that while that project did not have all the twists and the turns of this, six or seven years ago, there were many who thought it would never happen and that our three historic steam locomotives would be homeless. Thank you.
 And it took the same kind of spirit of people coming together and saying, we're not going to take no for an answer, and we're going to do every workaround necessary to make it happen. And it was a very proud moment to be with my friend Commissioner Fritz last night, and she even torched the mortgage, which was marked paid in full. It was really fun.
 So the three steam locomotives, including the S&P 449, having a permanent home. But I was with Peggy recently at another event this month where we were so proud out in Jansen Beach, the return of the Jansen Beach carousel to our community. And I believe that just as with the Morris Marks House,
 And our three steam locomotives, I think once again the community is going to come together, rise up and say, we'll do whatever it takes to preserve this incredible piece of our cultural history. Today we're celebrating the Morris Morks House, and we are told by the experts that it's one of the very last examples of this style of home. And, you know, without getting my violin section out, what we begin to think about is how far are we going to allow cultural vandalism to drift?
 How much of our culture are we going to allow to be lost? Our history? And by contrast, how wonderful it is that we can have people step forward and save something that is such a priceless part of our heritage. And imagine, my friends, if we took the same attitude and we once and for all came up with a way to save the Veterans Memorial Coliseum and put it on a strong footing for generations to come.
 There's already been a reference to the honor roll of city employees and community members who brought this day forward, and I won't repeat all their names other than to say thank you.
 I do want to just say that it is a privilege to work on this council with colleagues who work so collaboratively. I'm pleased that the Bureau of Development Services, Parks, and the Water Bureau were called out, and our friends at Portland State. I'd be remiss if I didn't mention Karen Moynihan, who's here from the legal department, because so many of the challenges that we face actually have a legal root, and Karen is the master at keeping us out of harm's way. So thank you to the city attorney's office. And finally...
 And, of course, a shout-out to PGE and Northwest Natural, and those were some of the hardest last-minute pieces of this negotiation. And finally, I want to thank Todd Lofgren on my team. Commissioner Fritz, for a period of time, wasn't talking to me because I stole him from the Parks Bureau. But what I had appreciated when I had the honor of being in charge of parks is that Todd has, like Rachel and like many of the people here today who have worked so hard on this, Todd has a nose for closing. Thank you.
 and Todd is focused on getting to the finish line. And ultimately, why are we here? Why are we all here, either in these jobs or in the roles that you play, if we're not here to support good deeds and to make our city better? So I'm very proud today to join my colleagues in voting aye. Wheeler? Well, we have a unique form of government here, and it requires that sometimes you lead and sometimes you get out of the way. And this is a really unique opportunity for me
 Because I'm really here almost as a spectator. I had absolutely nothing to do with this because the crossover with my bureaus on this particular project are exactly zero. That being said, I'm sure the police bureau will be there to help navigate traffic on the streets when we have a house moving through the streets. So maybe there's still an opportunity there.
 But I also am struck by the fact that this is the first item, I believe, that's come before the city council in my nine months here where the testimony was unanimously in support.
 And so I'm trying to figure out, Commissioner Fish, what the lesson is I should draw from this, that A, I had nothing to do with it, and B, there's been no opposition to it. So there's something there. There's a kernel of something there, and I'll go home and consider it further. But in all seriousness, I love this house. Yes.
 And I've always thought it was sort of an interesting non sequitur. It really truly is one of the most beautiful houses in the city. And over the years, you know, it seems like it's just been dwarfed by the development around it. And I always wondered what's going to happen to that.
 And as I'm not speaking as mayor, I'm just speaking as a guy who lives here. I'm really thrilled to see people coming together on the city council, people from the community, preservationist neighborhood folks, people who just think, as I do, it's a really beautiful house. It would be a shame to let it go to come together and help bring it to fruition.
 And then because I'm reducing my intake of caffeine and sugar and alcohol, my mind tends to have funny thoughts. And I had this funny thought as we were sitting here discussing this.
 And the thought is this. Imagine what the family must have been like who built this house. And I'm sure Bill or somebody here probably knows the whole history of it. But imagine if they could have known 140-ish years ago sitting around the dining room table
 the legacy of their house would be that over nearly a century and a half later, a group of people in the city who are decades away from being born when they were sitting around that table would be having a community conversation about how to protect and restore and give new life to
 to the house in which they were sitting. It kind of gives me an interesting thought, not just retroactively in terms of preserving our history and our cultural assets, but it also gives me a little bit of hope for the future. And by gosh, if I'm not getting my hope from caffeine, I need to get it from hearings like this. So I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you all of you for your hard work.
 And what other really weird thing happened today? I've just got to tell you this. We are 45 minutes ahead of schedule. Our time certain is not until 3.30. We are in recess until 3.30. Good afternoon, everybody. This is a continuation of the September 21, 2017 City Council afternoon session. Okay.
 With regard to decorum, I just want to remind everybody about council rules. When people testify, let's all be respectful of everybody, whether they agree with them or not. And that's it. If you could please read the first item. I'm sorry, the first two items. Thanks.
 Item 1045, consider the proposal of Sarah Radlett of Strata Land Use Planning and the recommendation from the hearings officer for approval to change the comprehensive plan map designation from low-density multi-dwelling to neighborhood commercial and the zoning map designation from residential 2000 to neighborhood commercial 1 for property at 5901 Southeast Belmont Street, LU16-2.
 292-724-CPZC and 1046. Amend the Comprehensive Plan Map designation and amend the zoning map for property at 5901 Southeast Belmont Street at the request of Sarah Radlett, Strata Land Use Planning, LU16-292-724-CPZC. Awesome. All right. First, the city attorney is going to make some announcement about today's hearing. Okay.
 Yes. So forgive me, it's long. This is an evidentiary hearing. This means that you may submit new evidence to the council in support of your arguments. For council consideration of a hearings officer's recommendation on a comprehensive plan map amendment, testimony will be heard as follows. We begin with a staff report by BDS staff.
 Following the staff report, City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The applicant will go first and will have 15 minutes to address the Council. After the applicant, the Council will hear from individuals or organizations who support the applicant's proposal, and each person will have three minutes to speak. Next, Council will hear from persons or organizations who oppose the applicant's proposal, and again, each person will have three minutes to speak.
 If there was testimony in opposition to the applicant's proposal, the applicant will have five additional minutes to rebut the testimony given in opposition to the proposal. The council may then close the hearing and deliberate. This is a non-emergency ordinance. As a non-emergency ordinance, it will pass to a second reading. The council may then make amendments to the ordinance and findings or direct staff to return with amendments.
 I'd like to make several, announce several guidelines for those who will be addressing the City Council today. For submitting evidence into the record, any letters or documents you wish to become part of the record should be given to the Council Clerk after you testify. Similarly, the original or a copy of any slides, photographs, drawings, maps, videos, or other items you show to the Council during your testimony should be given to the Council Clerk to make sure they become part of the record.
 Testimony must be directed at the approval criteria. Any testimony, arguments, or evidence you present must be directed toward the applicable approval criteria for this land use review or other criteria in the City's comprehensive plan or zoning code that you believe apply to the decision. The BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as part of their staff report to the Council.
 Issues must be raised with specificity. You must raise an issue clearly enough to give the council and the parties an opportunity to respond to the issue. If you don't, you will be precluded from appealing the issue to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue.
 And finally, applicants must identify constitutional challenges to the conditions of approval. If an applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to the proposed conditions of approval, sufficiently to allow counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit court. And that is it. Do any members of the council wish to declare a conflict of interest? No members of the council have declared a conflict of interest.
 Of interest, do any members of the Council have ex parte contacts to declare our information gathered outside of these hearings to disclose? No Council members have ex parte contacts to declare. Have any members of the Council made any visits to the site involved in this matter? I'm sure I've been there sometime, but not recently and not to evaluate this proposal. Does anyone present in the Council Chambers wish to ask Commissioner...
 Fritz about her observations on the site, seeing none. Do any council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we begin the hearing? Nobody does. So with that, we'll start with testimony of the staff. Staff report, 10 minutes, please. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 My name is Amanda Rhodes. I'm the assigned staff who will be the assigned planner who will be presenting hearings officer Joe Turner's recommendations to you today. The owner, Aaron Tinkle, and the applicant, Sarah Radelet of Stratalandese Planning, are requesting a comprehensive plan map and zoning map amendment for the site at 5901 Southeast Belmont Street.
 The applicant requests to change the comprehensive plan map designation for this roughly 6,500 square foot site from low density multi-dwelling to neighborhood commercial and change the zoning map designation from R2 or multi-dwelling residential 2000 to CN1 or neighborhood commercial 1.
 Allowed uses under the new zone would include office, retail, sales and service, household living, institutional and other uses in limited quantities. The applicant is proposing to develop a dental office that is larger than the current one. He operates two doors down. And he can speak more about that.
 First I'm going to show you the current zoning map. Again, the site is zoned R2. It's adjacent to a strip of R2 along Belmont Street there. And R5, a single dwelling zone, is located to the north. There is a small cluster of CN1 zoning immediately to the east. The site is currently developed with a single dwelling residence and the maximum density for the property is three units. This is what the zoning map would look like if approved.
 The subject site would be zone CN1, along with continuing that node, one property further to the west.
 Here's an aerial view of that intersection showing the commercial zoning on either side of 60th, both CN1 and then CO1, or Office Commercial 1, a large chunk of which is vacant currently. There are a number of apartment buildings in the area, mostly with the white roofs there. And then in the southeast corner is a skilled nursing facility that's operating as a conditional use in the R5 zone.
 This closer up view shows the subject site in blue and then the other four properties that were involved in a 2013 subdivision with three new houses in the R5 zone there at the north end. The result of this subdivision is that there is a private street tract, which effectively separates any proposed commercial uses on the subject site from the neighboring residential to the west. It's about 25 feet and to the north 31 feet separation. Thank you.
 I'm going to just walk through a few photos of the area. Again, these are the five properties of that subdivision. The subject site is on the right there. The three new houses in the back, and we're looking at that private street tract. And then moving to the east, the subject site's just a little bit available or visible on the left there, and this is a medical clinic immediately adjacent there.
 And then on the left here is the owner's current dental office, and then the corner building was a pharmacy, and now it's a chiropractic center and an office use. Crossing 60th, we've got the rest of the commercial development, the vacant lot and then an older commercial building, and then to the south is that skilled nursing facility. And on the other corner in the southwest, we've got a mixture of houses and duplexes.
 So I'm going to review the approval criteria quickly and summarize the findings of the hearings officer's recommendation. First, the comprehensive plan map amendment approval criteria. The first requires that we demonstrate that on balance the proposal is equally or more supportive of the comprehensive plan as a whole than the old designation. Okay.
 In this case, the hearings officer reviewed the different goals of the comprehensive plan and found that they were on balance equally or more supportive. That includes goals around urban development, economic development, neighborhoods, transportation, and more. Goal one is metropolitan coordination, and that required a review of Metro's urban growth functional management plan, and the hearings officer found that the proposal was consistent with the titles of that plan as well.
 The second criterion looked at the statewide land use planning goals, and largely the city's comprehensive plan reflects the topic areas that you see in the statewide land use planning goals. The state has acknowledged the city's comprehensive plan, and therefore the proposal was found to also be consistent with the statewide land use planning goals. The third criterion comes into play because we're looking at a residential site converting to a commercial site, and there's a...
 requirement that you mitigate so that there's no net loss in potential housing units. And there are a number of ways that the code allows to do this. In this case, the applicant chose to make an agreement with a developer of housing in the EX zone elsewhere in southeast Portland.
 where there is no housing required to be built. And so the owner of that property designated three units to mitigate for the potential lost housing on the subject site. And there is a covenant in the record that shows that this will remain residential. These three units will remain residential for at least 60 years, which is well over the required 25 years that the zoning code asks for.
 So the hearings officer agreed that that criterion was also met. Moving to the zoning map amendment criteria, the first one looks at the comprehensive plan map designation and any other corresponding zones that could also be applied
 to the site, and in this case we've got two. We've got CN1 and we've got CN2, both of which are relatively low-intensity commercial zones, both designated for small sites and designed to be compatible in scale with surrounding residential development. The CN2 zone is...
 design more for auto, more auto-oriented locations in less dense or developing residential neighborhoods. Because this area is more of a streetcar kind of suburb design and has good access to transit, apartment buildings, a little bit denser development, the CN1 zone was found to be the most appropriate out of the two.
 And then the second approval criterion is around adequate public services and whether our public services could accommodate the development potential on the site with the change.
 And those public services are everything from police and fire protection, water supply and capacity, stormwater and sanitary systems, and the transportation system. And all the bureaus reported that, yes, they could handle with the current public services. They could accommodate the limited development that would be allowed on this small site with the new zoning.
 We received no written responses to the public notice and no testimony at the hearing with the hearings officer, aside from the applicant. The applicant did include a letter of support from the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association, which went in-depth talking about how residential density in the area is increasing, but they're not seeing a corresponding increase in the number of commercial properties. They really value having commercial services provided locally in these little commercial nodes, and therefore they support the zone change of this property.
 So the hearings officer recommendation was approval of both the comprehensive plan map amendment and the zoning map amendment with no conditions. Very good. I'm happy to take your questions. Any questions? Very good. The applicant, you have up to 15 minutes should you choose to use it. Carla, they get 15. Sorry. Thank you.
 Sarah Radelet, Strata Land Use Planning. We are in support of the hearings officer's recommendation of approval for this project, and I just wanted to turn it over to the property owner to talk a little bit about his history in the neighborhood and his experience as going to the Neighborhood Association. Very good.
 So my name is Dr. Aaron Tinkle, and in 2009, I bought a dental office from Dr. James Rademacher, and he was a second-generation dentist in that office. It's been an office at 5935 Southeast Belmont, so two doors to the east. It's been a dental office since 1950, and I've had the privilege of being a member of the neighborhood and having their full support, and we've grown 700% in seven years, which is fantastic.
 which is awesome. So I have an enviable problem of having a lot of patients who need me and not enough space to serve them. And so I started looking for commercial properties in that neighborhood because I think it's a very special neighborhood. I think that's part of the success. And my style and attitude towards health care in the neighborhood tends to gel well. I like to, I mean, I'm...
 sponsor of all the schools. I mean that's my marketing and advertising. It tends to work pretty well. But anyway, I found several different commercial properties and they're all being turned into giant apartment buildings and so my limited funds, I lost out on every one of them when it came to that. So I saw a post in the ground on this site, 5901, and before the sign was up I was like, I've got to have that because I thought this could be a potential
 I then hired a land use attorney to look into is this even possible to change the zoning. He gave me about a 25% chance and I said, oh, I've had well worse chances in my life. So I'm definitely an optimist. So I went to the neighborhood association meeting before I actually signed on the dotted line and said, is this something you guys would support so I can treat more of you?
 And they thought it was a great idea. They were actually flattered that I'd even come and ask. Because the last thing I want to do is upset a portion of the neighborhood. Because that's my business. So through three, actually I think it's four meetings, they ended up signing the letter of support.
 And in fact, I went door to door on the neighbors who are adjacent to it, and all of them didn't have any questions or concerns. Two of them are very big supporters of mine. Pretty excited about it.
 So with that support, if this was able to be changed, I'm able to employ three more people in my office. I'm able to employ another dentist, and I should be able to have about a 50% growth in the practice size. Any of the issues haven't been brought up, and I'm just really excited if it does work out.
 Thank you. Thanks. Appreciate it. I hope a lot of other people are watching and know that that's how you build community support, is both by being a good community member and also to go to the folks who are most affected to ask for their support. So thank you for doing that. Thank you. Thank you. Excellent. So we'll hear now, if that concludes your remarks, we'll hear now from supporters of the applicants, three minutes each. No one else signed up. Very good. Opponents of the applicants, three minutes each.
 No one signed up on that list either. And therefore, there is no need for a rebuttal by the applicant. Council discussion? Sounds like a great project. Very good. I'm surprised that the attorney said only 25%. It seems kind of like a no-brainer yes. So that's also something that people should maybe check with development services rather than attorneys.
 Very good. Sorry, sorry. The city attorney's like, oh, no. It wasn't advice I was giving, so that's fine. Okay. Very good. Then I would move that we close the record. Second. Good. All in favor, or please call the roll. Thank you.
 So, and this is a non-emergency, so it'll be a tentative vote, and then they'll come back and adopt findings. Very good. Can I get a motion to close? We have a motion to close the record. It's a motion to approve the hearings officer's recommendation. I'll take that. Very good. Okay, good. And we have a second for that. Commissioner Udaly? Yes, I'll second that. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udaly to accept the hearings officer recommendation. This is a tentative vote. Please call the roll.
 E. Daly? Aye. Fritz? I wish they were all this pleasant, and good luck to a new business. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The hearings officer's recommendation is upheld. The final vote for this will be when? So...
 There are actually, because there are two pieces, and this is just strange about comp plan amendments, so what you just voted on was accepting the hearings officer's recommendation, and now you need to vote on item 1046 to amend the comp plan. Please call the roll. Vote on 1046. Even though it's a non-emergency, we... It'll be the same thing. A tentative vote, and then they can come back together with a date and time certain to vote on. Udemy. Udemy.
 Aye. Fritz? Thanks to Amanda Rhodes and the BDS team for your usual good work. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment to the comprehensive plan map is tentatively approved, so we'll come back when for a final vote. Do we need a time certain? Yes, but it can just be five minutes. It doesn't have to be a long agenda item. I've got 10.50 a.m. on the 27th. 10.50 a.m.
 a.m. on the 27th of September. So the final vote on this hearing will be at 10.50 a.m., time certain on September 27th. We are adjourned. Thank you.