Okay. Are you ready? Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the September 21st meeting in the Fort Worth City Council. Would you please call the roll? Schultzman? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everybody. We have an item up front before we get to the formal council calendar, and that is a proclamation about our charitable giving campaign.
 So along with the rest of the council, we're very happy to be announcing the kickoff of our City of Portland 2017 Charitable Campaign, which runs from now through October 14th. That's where we as city employees get a chance to make a commitment about what we're willing to do. Each year the city partners with umbrella organizations in the charitable nonprofit community that represent hundreds of charities.
 city employees then have an opportunity to donate to any one of these charities through payroll deductions.
 This year, there are over 500 local, national, and international charities represented through those organizations. And sometime today, every city employee will receive a flyer that explains about the program and how we can all participate. So I want to thank everyone who participated this year, as well as anyone who's donated since this effort began in 1989. Last year, more than 600 generous city employees contributed more than $290,000. Thank you.
 so I want to read this proclamation and call up our team of city workers that are leading this effort and come on up and I will read this and you two can get this started
 Whereas the city's charitable campaign was established in 1989 by then Commissioner Mike Lindbergh as an opportunity for employees to give money to charities through a payroll deduction, and whereas the city's charitable campaign represents an easy and important avenue for city employees to support the charities in our community that matter most to them, and whereas 16 charities will participate in this year's campaign, most of which are umbrella organizations representing multiple charities with more than 500 organizations represented,
 And whereas these groups help make positive changes in areas including child abuse prevention, environment, education, health care, social justice, equity, access to arts and culture, world human rights, hunger, and housing. And whereas last year, 629 city employees donated more than $291,000 to local, national, and international charities through the campaign. Whereas city employee donations have totaled nearly $2.6 million over the last 10 years.
 And whereas the commitment to charitable giving is demonstrated by city employees year after year, and whereas city employees have a third payday in September, and that day is September 29, 2016, now therefore I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim September 29, 2016 to be the City's Day of Giving and encourage city employees to observe this day by participating in the City's charitable campaign. So welcome and good morning, and tell us more. Thank you.
 I'm Jane Brayton. I'm with OMF Business Operations. I'm Tosti Abioda, and I'm with OMF Business Operations.
 So we're pleased to welcome Tosin. This is her first year as the city's charitable campaign coordinator in our shop, and she brings actually a lot of charitable campaign ideas to this year and to future years. I really want to thank the mayor and council for supporting this endeavor. I know that a week ago you heard a presentation about the city being an employer of choice and how important it is to our employees to be with a values-based employer today.
 And I think that this charitable campaign, I can tell from the enthusiasm from our bureau charity reps, that it really fulfills that for them and does create an avenue for engagement. We also give every bureau an opportunity to designate a lead. That person gets to communicate with everyone in their bureau and gets to be part of a citywide program and project.
 And I could tell from the kickoff as well that they are very enthused with that level of engagement. So we're very proud to work on this campaign and very thankful for the council's support. That's great. Yeah, I think we've all seen some examples lately of really how it does make a difference. I mean, the things that people have been doing about hunger and homelessness in Portland are really making a difference and are really much needed. Yeah.
 We appreciate your leadership in this effort. So, Tosin, welcome. Thank you. And we also have representatives from different charity organizations here present. Okay. So who's here today? Stand up and tell us what organization you're with, please. I'm a chair of Oregon. Huh? I'm Brian Carlson. I'm John Wilson. I don't know if that's the right way to say it.
 Great. Well, welcome. Yeah, again, I just see city employees really making a difference in this work and I was out with everyone involved, including the Sunshine Division with the Shop with a Cop program where we had hundreds of kids that might not have started the school year well prepared and confident, able to buy clothes and school supplies thanks to that great effort.
 So there's just a lot of ways where people are making a difference, and we appreciate this effort. And so you know how it is with charitable giving. People have to be asked. So you are hereby, if you're a city employee, asked to participate. And this won't be the only ask because there are going to be leads in the bureaus, and Tosin and others are going to be getting the word out. So thank you very much for this work, Tosin. I'll give you the official proclamation. Let's hear it for charitable giving. Thank you all.
 Okay, we should move on to our formal agenda this morning. We have communications items before us. I understand three of the five people are not actually going to be here after all because they're working with the Bureau to resolve those issues.
 and then we have a consent calendar and our regular agenda. I have at this point three items that are being pulled to regular, 1042, 1043, and 1044. Is that correct? Mayor, if I could just want to acknowledge, when we get our agendas and we see communications, sometimes what we do is we brace for the moment where someone comes in and tells us we didn't get something right.
 I want to just acknowledge that Liam Frost on my team, who is a liaison to the Water Bureau, took a different tack, which is he picked up the phone and called the folks that were going to come testify and said, how can we help you solve the problem?
 called a meeting of the appropriate people and is actually now addressing their concerns, and they responded by saying, well, there's no need to come to council and complain about this issue. So it's an interesting approach to this system, and I want to thank Liam for showing a lot of initiative. Good work. Good work. Okay, so then let's proceed and take the communications items where we do have people here today. 1034?
 Those are one of the three. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought it was the other three. Sorry. So let's see, 1035. All right, 1037. Sorry. So it's the first three. Sorry, I thought it was the last three. Okay, 1037, please. Okay.
 Request of Wayne Wigness to address counsel regarding Terminal 1 and equitable housing. Good morning. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Wayne Wigness. In response to that, I believe the purpose of showing up to city council is so that the public can hear outside of these closed meetings, which people have the option of politely ignoring what you say. Okay, so using the two hands given you to find a night's safety and rest is a natural right.
 Like it or not, natural rights supersede property-based constitutional rights. Even congregation is a natural right, as finding safety in numbers for a night's rest, gaining access to shared resources, developing a sense of confidence and trust, and yes, even access to mates are all found via the formation of groups. Hundreds of millions of years evolving through group selectivity left us predisposed to form groups for good reason, right?
 with us because without any of the aforementioned things we literally would not be here today I can't think of a better definition of a need than that if one is not free to use the two hands given them to harvest resources and land given all of us to congregate and make for themselves then yes homeless are entitled to more than being treated like prisoners and missions on that note consider why you pay rent
 To me, it means 24-7 access, autonomy, and individual accountability. In missions, however, these things are lacking, so it backfires on everybody. Suddenly, full-grown adults have early curfews. You're told to lay down, shut up, sit still, and wait to get kicked out at 6 a.m. If you backtalk, you'll be kicked out in the cold. Furthermore, missions lack incentive to treat people better because they're receiving their money from individuals and agencies who never have to endure their treatment. Now, being without property is not a crime.
 Though missions are necessary, what is missing is an effective filter capable of differentiating between those who need help and those who need options. Right now you have hundreds of day laborers in Portland, and you've got many who receive checks from the government. But they'll be the first to tell you that $800 a month isn't going to get them their own individual unit, transportation, and food in this town. I mention all this because reviewing the –
 The Harbor of Hope website, I saw absolutely no mention of autonomy or freedom, and they seem to confuse accountability with subservience. However, I still believe Terminal 1 should go through, even if Homer fails to deliver on his half of the deal financially. I'm just saying dispose of the mission side, keep the affordable housing side, charge rent for a bed, and make money off of the problem.
 and then we'd still come out better off than relying on programs like tpi where we construct a seven-story building just to give 130 people a year's worth of free rent few of which even make any good use of it as a side note commissioner novak uh the public right away underneath the burnside bridge is being leased to white stag lcc i'd question the legality of blocking off a public right away with the use of yellow caution tape people are going to be under that bridge because it's overhead protection from the rain
 but we can have them out of the way, or we can have them intruding on a max stop causing safety hazards and obstructing the use of a public sidewalk. Mayor Hales, bike police are treating homeless people differently than middle class. Laying in a public park during broad daylight is not a crime, and micromanaging homeless people in this fashion is discrimination. Thanks. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, let's hear from Mr. Leeson, 1038. Okay.
 Request of Fred Leeson to address council regarding new executive director of the Bosco Milligan Foundation and its Architectural Heritage Center. Good morning. Good morning. Nice to see you again Fred Leeson board president architectural Heritage Center in Bosco Milligan Foundation As you know our long-standing executive director Kathy Galbraith whom you probably remember I retired in January We did the proverbial big search and found a fabulous new executive director and Stephanie Whitlock who comes to us today
 via San Antonio and Chicago. I brought her in this morning because I wanted to introduce her because she will be part of our advocacy efforts, and I'm sure you'll have a chance to hear from her in the future. And I would like to cede my few remaining seconds to Stephanie. Thank you.
 Well, it's a pleasure to have this opportunity to introduce myself to you, especially here in your beautiful building. Four months ago, I made the decision to move from Chicago to Portland, leaving the beautiful city to come to another beautiful city. It's a very special place, as you know, in large part because of its historic neighborhoods and its architecturally rich buildings.
 And also the Architectural Heritage Center is such a special place. It's like any other organization I've known in the country that focuses on architecture.
 If you haven't been to our space in the West Block building, I invite you to come. We have exhibitions there. We have our walking tours that we use to introduce longtime residents and tourists to the city, to Portland, all in an effort to educate the public about Portland's architecture.
 So as the city moves forward, I look forward very much to working with you to preserve, to celebrate and honor Portland's historic architecture, all for the benefit of our economy, our environment, and Portland's sense of place.
 So thank you very much. Well, thank you, Stephanie. And I want to say you've probably heard this from your board, but you couldn't have arrived at a more critical time. Yes. The issue of historic preservation at a time where we're growing by 1,000 people a month in this city is
 is at a really critical juncture. And there's work underway that you'll be diving into literally in the next three months on our comp plan about whether we incent people to reuse great old buildings or tear them down, about our legislative package, which this council will be developing in the next few months and going to the legislative session that starts in January about whether people can take their properties off the historic register with the stroke of a pen.
 So there's big stuff afoot, and we really welcome Bosco Milliken's advocacy and your participation in this stuff because we've got a chance to get it right, and we've got a chance to blow it, and we'll be found out about which one it was very quickly given the market that we're in.
 I appreciate that. Thank you very much. Could I, Mayor, can I just ask a question? Since you have experience in San Antonio and in Chicago, in the time that you've been here, is there a tool that either of those cities had that you wish Portland had? Good question. Well, I think that Chicago in particular has explored some very interesting mechanisms for preserving architecture, engaging...
 Maybe people you might not normally expect to engage in preservation, for instance, artists. There are numerous artists who are using neighborhood development and revitalization as part of their artistic practice and helping preserve old buildings and also activate old spaces. There's one artist who's very well nationally, internationally known for doing this, Theaster Gates. So just kind of thinking about other ways of using historic buildings and...
 and their contribution to the urban fabric. You know, I love that comment because I got a briefing the other day on the interim use of the post office site, and PDC is thinking about maybe some...
 plain vanilla artist space and creative space as a low cost interim. But can I, can I give you your first assignment? Sure. Cause I, we've had a big debate on this council and a passionate debate about the future of Memorial Coliseum now called Veterans Memorial Coliseum. And I don't know where the lineup is going to be starting January, but we have been historically divided and with lots of,
 around that issue. And I would love in the next couple of years to come up with a plan to once and for all preserve it
 and find a new use for it that allows us to generate the revenue to maintain it in the quality that it deserves. And you're going to have a million things on your plate, but I know a number of us in the council will welcome your guidance on how we can thread that. Well, even before I got here, I heard about the Memorial Coliseum, and it was on my radar. In fact, I know the daughter of the original architect from SOM. So that sounds great. I love that idea. Yeah.
 Thank you. Thanks so much. You're not going to lack for work. Yeah. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you, Fred, for doing this. Okay. Let's move, please, to our consent calendar. Again, there are three items that I mentioned earlier, 1042, 43, and 44, that have been pulled irregular. Any others? Okay. Then let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Novick. Ritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Time certain, 1039. Aye.
 initiate foreclosure action on four properties for the collection of delinquent city liens well i'm very pleased to have this team coming forward because the good work is continuing four more houses here today moving towards foreclosure we did five on june 15th as you remember and that means now we've processed the first nine houses in a very long time since 1965
 So I want to thank the auditor's office, the Bureau of Development Services, the Police Bureau, ONI, and the city attorney's office for their continued work with Chad Stover and Zach Glonosky in my office to get this work done and get this work underway. As I mentioned the other day in council, I was involved.
 back out at Lentz School for something completely unrelated to this. But, of course, there's a house right across the street from Lentz School that's been boarded up and toxic for the neighborhood that we visited when we launched this effort. And then right down at the corner of 97th and Holgate are two more. And, you know, the effect on neighborhood livability that this longstanding problem has is huge. And I just want to appreciate this team working
 and the work that you're doing. So please take it away and tell us about the houses that are before us this morning. Good morning. Sarah Landis, City Auditor's Office. With me are Mike Liefeld, the Enforcement Program Manager from Bureau of Development Services, and Marco Maciel, who's the Foreclosure Program Manager in the Auditor's Office. We intend this presentation to be fairly short. Mike and Marco are here as technical experts if you have any questions, but I'll just run right through the presentation.
 Before I go into each of the individual properties, I'd like to take just a moment to discuss the effect of the city's renewed focus on foreclosure. We can say clearly that the increased pressure being applied to these properties has had positive results. The first set of properties was voted on by council in June. Of those five properties, two have been sold and all liens were paid off as of this week.
 And the other properties have had inquiries such as requests for payoff amounts that indicate movement on the property. The next set of properties that we received from development services had seven accounts. Of these, three have already been removed due to payoff or, in one case, demolition of the house. These are all very positive developments, especially in those cases where the property has been sold. Thank you.
 The other thing I'd like to mention briefly before we go into each property is that the process for this list has been slightly different than it was for the first list that we brought to council and that we did not convene the Collections Committee this time. The Collections Committee's sole purpose is to review and then approve, reject, or amend any recommendations for adjustment on lien amounts that the Auditor's Office makes. Because we did not make any recommendations for adjustments this time, we did not convene the committee.
 As we move forward with future foreclosures, we will convene the committee if there are properties under consideration that meet the criteria for possible lien adjustments. So the second foreclosure list contains four properties that our office is recommending for foreclosure. Each of the properties is vacant and abandoned and has been a drain on city resources across multiple bureaus. Together, they have delinquent liens totaling over $200,000, and each represents an opportunity to make progress toward improving livability, health, and safety.
 As you can see on the map, there are two in outer southeast Portland, one in north Portland, and one in northeast Portland. The first property is on 134th and southeast Herald Street. It has four liens. The dates of delinquency range from August 2014 to March of this year. The total amount owed on the liens is $31,385.
 And the ownership is Shea-Lynn on record as the legal record with Multnomah County at the time of the list preparation. That is sometimes a moving target.
 This particular property has 28 violations, including fire life safety and health sanitation violations. It has been an illegally occupied structure without water, electrical, or garbage service. It has a vacate order granted by the city hearings officer, and there have been 71 calls for police service in the last two years. The property is currently boarded and secure.
 The next property is on Southeast 91st Avenue. It has eight liens. The delinquencies range back to 2013 through June of last year. Total amount owed is $58,448.
 Ownership is B. Sangsita, on record as the legal owner at the time of the list preparation. However, when we did a recent drive-by, there was a posting for a trustee's notice of sale on the door. Mike let me know this morning that a year ago he had a conversation with the bank who said they were going to be moving forward with the sale of the property, but that was a year ago and nothing has happened.
 This property is directly across the street from Kelly Elementary School. There are 11 violations, including fire, life safety, and health sanitation violations. The property has been used by tenants and then by squatters without water, garbage, and electrical service. There was a fire at the property that caused a breach in the board up, and it was again occupied by squatters after that point. There's been heavy transient activity, and the city security board ups have repeatedly been breached.
 There is a vacate order granted by the hearings officer in 2013, and there have been 18 police calls for service. The next property has four liens. It is located on North Calhoun Avenue, very near Roosevelt High School. The dates of delinquency are from 2013 through May of this year. The total amount owed is $38,980, and the ownership of this property is Norman Yee on record with Multnomah County.
 There have been 10 violations cited, including health sanitation, and there was a collapsing roof and chimney citation. Ultimately, that chimney failed and collapsed. Two nuisances have been abated by the city during this time. The property has been unoccupied for over 15 years, and the structure is currently barely visible through the vegetation, and it was recently cited as a derelict structure.
 The final property is on Northeast 22nd Avenue and approximately going. It has seven liens. The dates of delinquency range from 2009 through this year. Total amount owed is $75,850. And Norman Yee is on record as the legal owner with Multnomah County.
 This property has 18 violations, including fire life safety. There have been 14 neighbor complaints, including complaints about the adverse impacts this property is causing, including rodents, human waste, and garbage. We've heard, Development Services has heard from neighbors that this is a popular place for last Thursday goers to relieve themselves.
 their detached roof garage is in a state of failure. The property is almost completely engulfed in vegetation, and there have been four nuisance abatements by the city. So the next step for these properties is for council to vote on whether to foreclose. After that, the auditor's office will transfer responsibility to the treasurer for the conduct of the foreclosure sale. Until the foreclosure sale, the property owner can pay the amount owed.
 and remove the property from the foreclosure list. And after the sale is conducted, the current owner has a one-year redemption period, and I think you heard about some of that last week when the city treasurer was here to talk to you about some code changes. So that is the extent of our presentation, and we're happy to take questions if you have any. Thank you for the presentation. How do you decide that something is not going to be offered to the collections committee for a lower lien? What are the standards for that? Sure.
 There are a number of criteria that are listed in code that we go through to determine if there are any mitigating circumstances to that particular property's history or to the story of that owner. They include whether there have been prior code violations, whether the owner has taken any steps to correct the violations at all, the owner's financial condition if we can determine that.
 The gravity of the situation, the magnitude of the violations, whether it was repeated or continuous. So there are six or seven more, the cost to the city to investigate and correct the violation. So we go through each of these to the extent that we can on the properties. And if there are circumstances that we think might warrant some reduction in the lien amount, then we will make that recommendation and convene the committee to review it.
 My understanding is that one of the owners requested and received translation services. Is that correct? All of them, when we send, based on the name or location, we do send a pamphlet letting them know that it is available. If they request this, it will provide translation or interpretation if need. I have a question. I see that in two of the properties you have the same owner, Mr. Norman.
 Tung Yee, and apparently he has other distressed properties in the region. Have we had a face-to-face conversation with him about this situation at any time in the history here?
 Mr. Yee has been before the hearings officer a few years ago and I think received some leniency but then didn't take advantage of correcting the violations on that property. He's never been responsive to any of our requests for leniency.
 to come in and make payments, to come and make a plan. He's never been responsive to amnesty offers. There have been years of attempting to reach out to him. The two properties from the first list that sold as of this last week are
 belong to Mr. Yee. So he has sold those two properties from the first list. So we believe that this is finally having an effect on bringing him in and having him address those problems on those properties. So it's possible in the future we're going to learn that someone has some life issue or some other barrier that prevents them from being responsive.
 My understanding with Mr. Yee is that he has a well-documented history of playing the game and playing the system, and that includes transferring titles to business partners at the 11th hour, requesting arbitration, not appearing, appealing decisions just for the sake of delay and other things. So while he has not taken advantage of anything that we've offered him, it does appear that he has been resourceful in avoiding his legal responsibilities. Is that a fair comment?
 I think so. Mike has had quite a bit more history with his properties than I have, but I think that's a fair assessment. Commissioner, it should be noted that the two initial properties from the June foreclosure vote, he did, Mr. Yee, through his legal counsel, did make contact with a foreclosure manager.
 So through representation, he did indicate knowledge of the proceedings and was working through his representative on the vote and possible options for the property. But again, to this date, no one in my bureau has had any direct contact with Mr. Yee. Other questions for our team and our treasurer is also here, as she was last week, because she's shepherded those ordinance changes for us. Mayor, since we have the auditor's office here, can we just acknowledge a little milestone this week?
 And if you go to the auditor's website, there's a new tab. And I sent a little note to the auditor yesterday. As of yesterday, political consultants and their reports show up as a tab on the auditor's report. And there are eight different reports that have been filed. We're the second city in the country that has required such a disclosure. And it's quite remarkable that this is up and running so quickly. So we thank the auditor's office. I'll pass that on.
 Okay, other questions? And then let's see if there's anyone that wants to speak on this item. Mr. Lightning. Okay, so why don't we let you all stand down. We'll take testimony and then proceed. Come on up. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I feel I was one of the most outspoken people during public communication on surplus properties. Also, I'm going to be that on the foreclosures issue.
 One of the things that I want to tie together on this is that I want to see, if a sale takes place, the highest market value is achieved. I want to make sure that proper advertising is done on this sale. I want to make sure that the top 10 real estate brokerage companies are sent information immediately before these sales take place so they can utilize it.
 their people that they have and push these values up to the highest possible market price, which again pays off your liens. And again, I want that remaining money going back to the people that are on title. If you can't contact them, I want the money to be held in a separate account until we get some type of information on their status.
 If they're having issues, if they can't make contact, I want that to be researched. And even with that extra money, even if it means bringing in an investigator to find where they're at, to locate their relatives, and to say we have some money waiting in an account for you.
 And this is how we do our business to make sure if somebody had difficulty in their home, they couldn't maintain it. That raised a red flag to us, and we want to make sure they're, number one, they're okay and they're safe. We understand there's a lot of squatters in these properties.
 Where is the landlord? That is our main concern. Is that individual currently safe and has somebody made communication to him? That is our number one concern here. Now again, on these issues as far as I'd like to see money going into an affordable housing fund,
 out of some of these proceeds. And again, I do like the fact that some of these owners are initiating sales. Again, I want to make sure they have that opportunity to do that, that opportunity to get all their equity that they've tried to accomplish over the years and not hand it to the city. Okay?
 I want it taken away from the city because you don't deserve that money. These property owners deserve their equity. These property owners are entitled to their equity, and I will not stand by and watch the city of Portland try to take the equity from people that may not be able to maintain their properties, senior citizens, people with mental illness. And by the way, if you look at the numbers on here, look at the last names on all these foreclosures.
 Let's see, Lynn, Yee. Let's go down the list. If somebody doesn't see this might be out of place, I think it's out of place. Are we targeting certain people in this city and running nuisance lanes up to run them out of their neighborhoods? I'm going to be watching this very close and looking at the last names on these lists and wonder why we have so many people with names like that on this list running.
 at the top of these foreclosure lists with the highest nuisance liens on their properties, and we can't find them in the neighborhoods. So I'll be watching this very close. Do not take their equity. Treat them right. Only get your liens. Get them the highest possible market price, and do not transfer these properties to the city, because that will be considered a conflict of interest, and I can assure you you'll be stopped on that. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else?
 All right, thanks. Now, this ordinance is not an emergency ordinance. Is there any interest on the council in adding one?
 I think I'd be more comfortable actually just leaving it there. Okay. Since it is a full collection. All right. So it will come back for second reading next week. And, again, I want to thank the staff that are working on this. I appreciate the fact that we're sending a message to banks and speculators that if you let your house become a nuisance for the neighborhood and you have 71 police calls that you've crossed a line about property rights versus property responsibilities and that we are going to come after you,
 And I appreciate the fact that we are focusing on houses that are vacant, abandoned, and have this kind of unacceptably long record of deterioration and problems for their neighbors. So this focused effort is really starting to solve an egregious and unacceptable problem in a city that has a housing crisis. And I, again, want to thank the staff that's working on it. This will come back for a second reading next week.
 Okay, let's move on to the rest of the, let's move on to the polled items if we're ready. I'm going to do those next. Let's, I think we are ready. Let's do 1042, please. Okay.
 join leading cities across the country that are using data and evidence to improve results for their residents as part of the Bloomberg Foundation What Works Cities initiative and commit to carry out activities through the partnership of bureaus across the city. Well, I appreciate this team, and I appreciate Mike Bloomberg. You know, he gave some advice, by the way, to mayors or people who want to be mayors, which I didn't take and very few have, which is make your first billion before you run for mayor.
 But I appreciate the fact that after he served as mayor, he and his philanthropic organization have continued to try to help cities do their work better. And that's why this is a great opportunity. So, Shannon, please take it away. Thank you.
 We'll do. Thanks for having us here today. I'm Shannon Carney. I'm the Performance Management Analyst for the City Budget Office. And today I'm joined by my What Works Cities Initiative co-leads, Kevin Martin, Tech Services and Smart Cities Director from Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and Katie Scheifele, Assistant Financial Analyst with City Budget Office.
 So we are here today to celebrate. We're here to celebrate for Portland to join leading cities across the country that are also increasing their use of data and evidence to improve results for their residents as part of this What Works Cities initiative. What Works Cities is a national initiative with the goal of helping 100 mid-sized American cities enhance their use of data and evidence to increase citizen engagement, make government more effective, and ultimately improve the lives of residents.
 The initiative, which as the mayor mentioned, was launched by the Bloomberg Philanthropies back in April 2015. Today it works with 39 cities around the country. So with the adoption of this resolution, over the next four to six months, Portland should be working with What Works Cities technical partners to advance our city's practices in three areas. The first is to enhance our foundation of open data.
 The second is to increase the results from our existing performance management program. And the third is to introduce a new behavioral insight and program evaluation program that will have the benefit of helping us improve our programs and services. In short, this work will transform the ability of city bureaus to work collaboratively across silos and with the Portland community.
 This initiative will also provide a national platform to showcase our efforts as a city that are at the forefront of the nation in terms of implementing smart city technologies and advancing our innovative policy solutions. Our participation in the initiative will solidify our position as a city that leads the nation in these areas and will enable us to take more advantage of regional and national opportunities as they come along.
 As part of What Works Cities, Portland will join a growing network of active mid-sized cities from every region of the country. These cities include Seattle, San Francisco, San Jose, Denver, Las Vegas, Kansas City, I could go on, as well as our next door neighbor Gresham. These cities seek to address common challenges as ours. They're also looking to implement data-driven policies and practices, evaluate their program outcomes, and share the insights from their work.
 As a more concrete example of something that's coming up, Portland is actually planning on sending not one but three staff members, staff from the city of Portland and the Joint Office of Homeless Services, up to Seattle next week to learn more about Seattle's data-driven procurement policies and how they have improved homeless services in that realm. So that's just one example of how the partnership will help us apply cutting-edge administrative practices and ensure that these benefits lift the entire community. Thank you.
 So before I hand it over to my co-leads, I do want to say a few words about the people that have helped us get to this point. This is a very competitive technical assistance grant, and we've had a whole team working on moving us to this point. So last February, on behalf of the mayor's office, the city budget office submitted a statement of interest to participate in the initiative. Importantly, the application was submitted together with a letter of support signed by mayor and commissioners.
 As we've moved through each stage of this application process, the city budget office has found
 been delighted to find support and willingness to help from directors and executive staff across the city that have taken time out of their schedules to advance this application. Several of those submitted an extensive application on our city's current use of data and evidence, and many more attended an onsite workshop where bureau and city leaders came to agreement that the practices supported by this initiative would help us work more collaboratively and achieve our goals.
 I think it may have been Mayor Hale's impassioned opening remarks of that session that really put our application over the top. And finally, credit is due to many others beyond this table. We've got a great team, particularly the Budget Office, that has supported us every step of the way. I want to give a special thanks to Jane Marie Ford, another member of the Budget Office, and our Hatfield Fellow, Alexis Estevez. They've been there every step.
 Above all, sincere thanks to City Budget Director Andrew Scott. His unwavering commitment and guidance in this process has been essential to our success. We couldn't have done it without him. So with the passage of this resolution and an administrative ordinance to follow next week,
 We'll officially begin the work with our technical partners, as outlined in the work plan in exhibit A of this resolution. Achieving the open data performance management and program evaluation deliverables, with support from our technical partners, will be a collaborative effort
 across the city. Our plan is for the city budget office and for the Bureau of Planning and State and Ability to coordinate these efforts and lead the efforts. But other city of Portland bureaus will provide the inputs required to achieve the deliverables for the duration of the projects. Thanks.
 So with that, I'll turn it over to Kevin Martin for a few words around open data. Ashley, could I just first ask a question? Why does this not have any financial implications? When you say we're doing the application, but it doesn't seem like, what are we getting from the Bloomberg Foundation? Sure.
 Right, great question. So they are supplying technical assistance partners. So essentially, the Bloomberg Foundation is part of this. It's a $42 million three-year initiative. And with that money, they are funding the partners that we'll be working with to work on open data, improved performance management, and then introduce these program evaluation frameworks. So they're providing the partners that we work with. So how are we freeing up the staff to work on this?
 That's a good question. I mean, we've been adding it to essentially our work plans. Within the city budget office, we've been managing most of the application process in conjunction with, as I mentioned, assistance from other members of the city staff.
 I think, you know, for us, it helps us advance our mission, both from our bureau and we think as the city, with the city budget office's mission to provide unfiltered information and analysis to decision makers and to counsel and the public. And we feel like this fits really concretely in that and helps us close some gaps where we've seen them in the past. Thank you.
 Thanks, Shannon. Sure. Good morning. Good morning. Thanks, Shannon. I'm Kevin Martin. I'm from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I'll be leading the open data portion of this partnership with What Works Cities and the Sunlight Foundation. Happy to be here. So to start, I thought I'd give an overview of why we think open data is important. It increases transparency. It improves public trust, encourages participation and civic engagement. Better access to data informs and improves decision-making, both internally and externally. Okay.
 And it releases the social and commercial value of our city assets, driving innovation in the private sector, and ultimately improves the quality of and delivery of our services.
 Portland was one of the first cities to adopt an open data resolution and create an open data portal, Civic Apps, back in 2009. Fast forward to 2016, Portland is now, frankly, behind many other cities. We have not yet adopted an open data policy. We do not have an open system in place for open data governance. Civic Apps has not changed significantly since we launched it in 2009, and the number of data sets released has not increased dramatically since 2009 either.
 So that's the bad news. The good news is that the partnership with What Works Cities and the Sunlight Foundation gives us the opportunity to capitalize on what many other cities have done with respect to open data, to work with organizations that have helped other cities move the needle, and to learn from their successes and failures. The other good news is that this overlaps with the current work we are doing around smart cities. Open data policy, systems, standards, and standards are fundamental to our smart cities efforts.
 A core component of our recent $50 million U.S. Department of Transportation Smart Cities Challenge proposal was the creation of an open data cloud, a shared regional public system for storage, storing, managing, and distributing data in real-time data streams. Though we did not ultimately win the $50 million prize, we are pursuing other funding opportunities to move this forward. The city has a variety of other smart cities projects underway, many with an open data component, often one that's a requirement of that funding.
 Last month, the Bureau of Planning, Sustainability, and PBOT received $100,000 from the National Institute of Standards and Technology to fund the deployment of air quality sensors along Southeast Powell Boulevard. A requirement of the partnership with NIST is to develop an open, shared standard for how data coming from these sensors is structured. Portland State University has received another $200,000 from the National Science Foundation to support this effort and to develop an open system for managing the data.
 Central to much of this work is the goal of establishing open standards around how data is structured and delivered, an area where the Portland region has a demonstrated expertise. For example, the creation by TriMed and Google of a standard for how real-time transit schedule information is structured and used by app developers that has been adopted by thousands of transit agencies around the world. Development of these types of open standards has the potential –
 To put Portland at the forefront of the international conversation about communication between civic infrastructure and non-city systems, allowing, for example, connected and autonomous vehicles to communicate in real time with traffic signals in a consistent way that works the same in Portland as it does in Seattle, Tel Aviv, London, and Singapore, the opportunities that will come our way in the next 10 years are very exciting, and we'd love to see Portland lead the way. This partnership with What Works Cities is an opportunity to do so.
 with that i'll pass it back to shannon to talk about performance measurement okay thanks
 So, in addition to open data, we'll be working with these partners on performance management. So that's over the next four to six months. We'll build upon our efforts over the last several years to heighten the focus on performance and bring the results of our programs and services into budget decision making and other types of management decision making. For this work stream, we'll be working with the technical partner Government Center for Excellence from Johns Hopkins University.
 So the main areas of work, first, we'll utilize best practices from across the country to improve the city's underlying performance management fundamentals and expand opportunities for analysis in areas such as the Gator sessions, government accountability, transparency and results management sessions. So opportunities for analysis to support that type of management tool by sourcing data from the shared open data platform.
 Using data as a foundation, we can enhance our understanding of past and ongoing initiatives and make performance data more relevant and useful for decision making both in and out of the budget process. So working with GovEx and learning from fellow cities with more mature performance management operations as we have, we'll explore how the Gator sessions can be expanded as a management tool to achieve greater public value from our existing public resources.
 in order to provide equity, opportunity, and livability for those that live, work, and play in Portland. So those are pretty high-level comments, but I want to leave some time for Katie to talk about the program evaluation component of the work. Thanks. Yes, my name is Katie Scheifle. I'm with the City Budget Office. And as Shannon mentioned, our third work stream with What Works Cities will be around low-cost program evaluation.
 Our expert partner for this work is the Behavioral Insights Team, who we are very excited about working with. You may have heard of the Behavioral Insights Team as they became quite famous in the UK a number of years ago for being one of the first organizations to really incorporate behavioral economics into public programs. They do this by drawing on ideas from the behavioral science literature to redesign public services around the margins. These redesigns or interventions are then put through randomized control trial testing before they're scaled up,
 which enables us to understand what works and just as importantly what does not work. Now through the What Works Cities initiative, the behavioral insights team is helping cities across the country apply a behavioral economics framework to city programs. The behavioral insights team has already helped other What Works Cities launch over 10 randomized controlled trials across the country. These are often very simple experiments, always low cost, but the results can sometimes be dramatic.
 One example out of Louisville, Kentucky, involved slightly changing the wording on letters to residents, encouraging them to pay their parking tickets before they incur additional fines.
 Using very simple A-B testing, the Behavioral Insights team in Louisville found that this intervention increased by more than 10% the likelihood that a resident would pay down their parking tickets within 30 days. It's estimated that this slight intervention will generate an additional $100,000 of revenue for the city each year. I have to say, I'm excited about that. Yeah. Have we shared that language with you guys yet? I'm sorry? Has the Bureau of Transportation seen that language yet? No.
 I don't think so, no. That would be great. Okay. I hope we'll share it with them. Well, actually, let's go one step further because, you know, I'm delighted to hear that, and I'm not surprised that wordsmithing and how you engage a customer has an impact on behavior. And we've had some conversations about that.
 at the Bureau Director levels about how off-putting so many letters are that the City sends out to people dinging them. And the irony of that is that we spend all of our waking hours trying to figure out ways of building bridges with the people we serve. And then the City sends routine letters that are sort of insulting and impersonal and bureaucratic. I'm exaggerating, but some are and some in my Bureau, frankly, so I own the problem.
 And it's the difference between saying, you know, really, dear person, not dear, you know, street address. And, you know, we have a shared concern over something, and here's the resources, and we invite you to be part of the solution, which I'm guessing is what Louisville found. You know, Fred is working on this, and I made an effort to engage all the bureau directors in sharing letters. In our form of government, I don't have the authority to do that, but I asked.
 with this infra with this insight i think now we can go back and say look it really does work and you only have to send one letter and you get a better response and maybe the person sending in their check feels better about the interaction with the city
 Absolutely. Which for us is extremely important because thousands of these letters go out all the time, and they're not always in sync with our values. Yeah, that's an excellent point. And what you're saying really embodies the spirit of applying that behavioral insight framework to all the work that the city does. And definitely looking at letters is all the letters that go out will be a part of this engagement with the behavioral insights team. Good stuff. Thank you.
 I just wanted to point out as well, the goal for our work with the Behavioral Insights team is twofold. First to perform low cost evaluations that will improve the performance of at least three specific programs or services the city provides, of which a letter could easily be one. And secondly, to create a network of analysts with the skill set to perform these low cost evaluations across the city who can continue to apply this type of evaluation long after our engagement with the Behavioral Insights team is over.
 To kick off this partnership, the city and the Behavioral Insights team are hosting a half-day workshop on October 11th for a wide audience of program and data analysts. The Behavioral Insights team will be teaching analysts their framework for applying behavioral science to city programming, and then they will lead a hands-on session where an analyst will begin to explore program evaluation options within their own bureaus. Thank you.
 Over the next six months, the Behavioral Insights team will be working very closely with program staff and analysts to design these low-cost program interventions, test the results, and report out on the success of those interventions. This cutting-edge program evaluation approach has the power to really transform the way that we use data to address some of our city's biggest challenges.
 In closing, I'd like to mention that as the project managers for the What Works Cities initiative, we will be reporting back to council and the public periodically and in accordance with our major deliverables timeline. Finally, and in summation, we would just like to say that the City of Portland has a demonstrated commitment to using data and evidence to continually improve its programs and services. With the support from council and with our new partners, we are very excited to launch that commitment to a new level by joining the ranks of What Works Cities across the country. Thank you.
 One of the things, by the way, we get a lot of materials with our council packets, but just the scope of work for this project is so clear. On this date, we're going to do this. On that date, we're going to do this. We're going to have this particular kind of opportunity for bureaus to run. It's really a path that...
 that will be easy to follow as long as people are committed to do so. So I think, you know, scopes of work are pretty wonkish stuff. But this one actually really is compelling when you look through it to say, okay, well, within 150 days, you know, not maybe six months, within 150 days we're going to do this. So I appreciate the clarity of that. And obviously that's classic Bloomberg Foundation.
 It's also classic Louisville because Mayor Louisville is a big passionate believer in this as well, and he's been preaching it at the U.S. Conference of Mayors for some time. So I'm glad to be in that company as well. Other questions for our team? Thank you all very much. Is there anyone else from either bureaus or the public that are here to speak about this item? If not, we do have somebody. Come on up, please. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 I absolutely agree with this, what works cities, and absolutely agree with your position on data and evidence. One of the concerns I've had, and I may be wrong using the name the Sunlight Foundation, and you might not be involved in this, but I've been really trying to understand, and Mr. Bloomberg would also understand this too, is that how the Clinton Foundation can operate within the White House.
 Now, why I'm bringing this up at this point, because this is a very important situation here, is that can you have White House employees also working simultaneously for the Clinton Foundation and also being consultants for corporations or also advisors for foreign governments? And I want this to really be looked at real close on data and evidence, right?
 And again, I've talked to the local auditors here and asked, are there any people within the city of Portland that work for City Hall and also work for foundations, 501c3s, nonprofits? And all I wanted to do is, as you know, and I believe the Sunlight Foundation would definitely have this information, as you know, the Obama administration did an MOU,
 asking the Clinton Foundation to just disclose this. Please just disclose it and let's be aware of it. But as you know, the Clinton Foundation and Hillary Clinton have not done that. So again, I question exactly the ability of the Clinton Foundation to operate within the White House and not create a conflict of interest. And I want to make sure that at the City of Portland, we don't have any commissioners here.
 that are being paid by a nonprofit also, and you're not disclosing that, because I want that to be disclosed. I want that to be disclosed when I go into the auditor's office. Are they also receiving money from that nonprofit over here? And is there any undue influence on why they just received that grant?
 And that's why I watch this very close on the Clinton Foundation. And that's why I like the Sunlight Foundation and these other foundations that shine the light on top of this. And it's just to understand from the public what is the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do to have a Clinton Foundation within the White House. Or do we remove it completely out of the White House, which I want to do? Or should we be able to have...
 foundations within City Hall and the commissioners get paid by those foundations simultaneous also. That is my position. Thank you very much. And Mr. Bloomberg, make sure you do the proper research and remove the Clinton Foundation out of the White House. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I appreciate you raising the question, by the way. We are prohibited by city charter from having any other employment. So there's a very clear line there that we can't be paid by a foundation or anybody else, Lightning. So
 Just in all I see. Sorry, go ahead. So, Mayor, on that point, when I...
 When I'm visiting friends outside of Oregon and they learn that I'm a city commissioner, their follow-up question usually is, yeah, but what's your day job? Yeah. And when I explain that it's actually a full-time job, that's a surprise. And in Oregon, actually, we don't have a lot of full-time paid mayors. Right. It might be an issue in other cities. And then, as the mayor said, the first thing we do when we're sworn in is take an oath where we specifically, as part of the oath, confirm that we don't have any outside employment other than this job. Okay.
 If I may respond real fast. Again, that pertains to your employees, your aides, anybody that comes in within the city hall. Are they also working on behalf of the nonprofit? It should be disclosed. It should be disclosed. And this is one of the biggest problems we're seeing right now on the Clinton Foundation and the White House right now that is being turned upside down on just how many people are intertwined
 within this Clinton Foundation into the White House, and they're not disclosing it as the Obama administration requested them to do by an MOU. They are special government employees, and they are not disclosing this, and they are simultaneously making income, which they shouldn't be doing, and the public needs to know, and that's what I think this is about. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, welcome. Good morning.
 Honorable Mayor, members, Richard Robinson, this sanctuary is challenged by its freedom. Portland is an extraordinary, very successful liberal community. Sir, this Christian community is a magnet for those seeking to build a family. It's an excellent place to raise kids. It takes a village. Portland is a point of light.
 An example, your growth in jobs is double the national average. Portland's most salient point is its future, but certain aspects of this sanctuary, i.e. a city charter protected by spirit-filled leaders, is being eroded by those who don't show proper understanding for society.
 logical, organized planning, law enforcement needs, for example. That is a lack Bud Clark saw when he hired Lee Brown to police this burgeoning megalopolis up from Eugene to Seattle. The Pacific Northwest is magnificent growth. But we lost Lee Brown to national security
 The terrible murders in Atlanta, the police chief solved those murders. Twelve he solved. He goes to Houston. The vacuum caused by a lack of committed police routine, logical, organized planning.
 It's a problem that's going to be solved, but, sir, we are in trouble if we don't learn to police the streets of Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, then let's please take a vote on the resolution. No vote. Very excited about this. Aye. Prince. Aye. Fish. Thank you for the presentation, and just the Louisville piece alone made my day. Aye. Nails.
 Well, I want to appreciate Andrew and Shannon and others in our city administration who are real practice leaders in this work. And I appreciate your kudos for my advocacy for this, but I think the fact that this is institutionalized and public servants here in the city that believe in this kind of work is really our greatest strength. And this really is a chance to work smarter. You know, I think...
 for a lot of us when we first hear about these behavioral techniques and start thinking about applying them to city government it seems a little a little science fiction knee and then you hear the case studies of exactly how the change in a letter or in a simple practice change starts to change the relationship between the people we serve and the government
 And it pays off in both goodwill and real money. I think the light goes on over at least my head and I think many others. So this is really good work. It's really smart stuff. I appreciate the fact that we are recognized as a smart city and that we're learning from other smart cities.
 And, you know, as we saw with bike share, sometimes it pays for us to be the leader, and in many cases Portland has, and sometimes it pays for us to be a really watchful follower to see what other cities have made work and then do that even better. And that's exactly what's going on here. I think I've recounted my favorite Greg Fisher conversation. The mayor of Louisville was another big advocate for this. When I went to my first U.S. Conference of Mayors meeting on my third week on the job,
 I was wondering about how much time I should spend at that. He looked at me because he's a private sector success, very successful in the private sector, went back to city government. He said, well, how many people do you have working for you who are thinking about R&D and the future of the city? I said, well, only a few. Thank you. I guess I'll show up. But we do have some people who are thinking about R&D and the future of the city, and that's what this work is. So well done so far. We're going to learn a lot. Thank you. Aye. Okay, let's take 1043.
 Authorized purchase of currently leased radio site property at 2595 Northwest Skyline Boulevard from Robert A. and Venti G. McClannathan for $790,000 plus closing costs. Good morning and welcome. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Okay, so tell us about this. We've been leasing this property and now you propose to buy it, correct? Correct. The current owner has put it up for sale.
 And to continue, we feel that sale of the property, it could be repurposed for different, either develop the land or someone takes a different course and turns it into a broadcast facility versus a land mobile radio facility, which doesn't lend well to public safety communications. Please identify yourself for the record. Oh, I'm sorry. Greg Licati, City of Portland, BTS Communications. Okay.
 Other issues you want to raise about this? I know you're here for questions.
 ...for the Office of Management and Finance, and I'm assisting the BTS with this acquisition, the negotiations, the purchase and sale agreement, paperwork, and the due diligence. So as part of the due diligence, we did have an appraisal performed, and the results of that came in at $850,000, and the sales price for this property is $790,000. Great. Thank you. Yeah, this is a pull-off because of the dollar amount, not because I think there was any questions about it.
 Any questions for our team? Thank you very much. Thank you. Public testimony? Come on up. Thanks. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I absolutely approve of this sale, and I absolutely approve that the way they have put this together, did an appraisal on the property, came in higher, and negotiated a lower price. Very impressive work. It's the way it should be done.
 Appraisals are definitely needed on these type of values in these properties. And again, I commend you on your efforts. And in the past, for whatever reason, even dealing at Multnomah County with Chair Kifori, passing a resolution on a purchase of a property, she denied me, denied to disclose the sales price that was being paid for the property to
 and stated that it was being denied due to the fact they were doing a 1031. They feel it could jeopardize life.
 the transaction. Well, on a 1031 exchange, you have to disclose that. You also have to put that into an offer to notify the IRS of your intent to avoid the taxes on the sale. So what was stated there was completely untrue. And again, for a chair or anyone, a public official to deny, to give you the sales price on a property that needs to be approved on a resolution and the public to be denied that price,
 I don't even have words for it at this point. Again, I commend the people on this transaction. Very well done. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We'll need Commissioner Novick back because it's an emergency item. So let's hear the other one, 1044, and then we'll go back to 1043 for a vote. Would you read that one, please? Yes.
 1044, authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder and provide payment for the 1900 building hearings room 2500 remodel project for an estimated $800,000. And this was again pulled off because of the dollar amount. So if there are no council questions, is there anyone who wants to speak on this item? No.
 Okay, so we're going to set both of those over until Commissioner Novick returns, and we'll take a roll call vote on them when he is here. Let's move then, please, to item 1049. Accept a grant in the amount of $465,810. Thank you.
 and appropriate $345,429 for fiscal year 2016-17 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, fiscal year 2016, Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program to assist the Portland Metropolitan Area Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Community to prevent and reduce crime and violence. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners.
 My name is Bob Delgazee, Business Operations Manager for Portland Police Bureau. There are three items before you this morning, number 1049, 1050, and 1051, and they're interrelated. The Department of Justice Office of Justice Program has notified the city it will award a grant in the amount of $100. You want us to read them all together? That'd be helpful. If you could, please. Go ahead, Carla, please. Yeah, go ahead and read the other two, and we'll have Bob cover all three.
 1050, authorize a grant agreement with LifeWorks Northwest in an amount not to exceed $100,000 for fiscal year 2017. Agency expenses for the new Options for Women program.
 1051, authorize a grant agreement with LifeWorks Northwest for the use of U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance grant program funds for agency personnel expenses for the new Options for Women program not to exceed $110,000. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 So the $465,810 grant has no match requirement, and it's allocated as follows. The City of Portland will receive $220,291. Multnomah County will receive $173,088. And the City of Gresham will receive $72,431. Okay.
 Intergovernmental agreements have been executed with Multnomah County and the City of Gresham in order to obligate agency roles and responsibilities. The Police Bureau will use their JAG funding for the following two items. To hire a crime analyst for the Police Bureau's Detective Division for approximately 15 months. To contract with LifeWorks Northwest to coordinate treatment, temporary housing, counseling, and training opportunities for individuals involved in prostitution-related offenses. To hire a crime analyst for the Police Bureau's Detective Division for approximately 15 months.
 The contract related to LifeWorks was awarded after a competitive process that was conducted earlier this year. Multnomah County agencies decided individually to use JAG funding for the following three items. The District Attorney's Office will retain a North Neighborhood Deputy District Attorney. The Department of Community Justice will retain a Parole and Probation Officer. And the Sheriff's Office will purchase digital signage, photographic equipment, and tasers.
 The Gresham Police Department will purchase a digital 3D scanner for their investigations division. The ordinance before you will authorize acceptance of this award, and I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Not so much a question but a comment from what I've been hearing lately about some of the victims of trafficking in our city. The work that we're doing with LifeWorks is really important, and if we need to do more, we should do more, grant or no grant. That's some pretty egregious stuff out there right now.
 Questions for Bob there are other folks from the bureau here as well. Thank you very much Thank you. Does anyone want to speak on these items any of the three now? We've lost Commissioner Fritz So mr. Robert, I think mr. Robinson wanted to say something. Oh, did he do you want to speak on this? So please come on up. Maybe we could get the sergeant at arms to make sure There's losing some control over this I am I am losing control terribly here come on up sir. Good morning. I
 Thank you, sir. Because of homeless, growing homelessness, and the increasing cold weather, Wapato has been envisioned a comprehensive solution. But in the interim, you have a warehouse which will serve as a very effective temporary shelter as you plan long-range, a comprehensive retreat
 a treatment service to end the revolving door mentality, the revolving door mindset that many seem to be trapped hopelessly in. Give them a place to sleep, kick them into the street, give them something to eat that night, a bowl of oatmeal in the morning. I've seen it all over the country. In San Francisco, sir, Willie Brown...
 working for Dianne Feinstein in 1978 after the murders of Moscone and Milk. They built a community awareness treatment service with a mobile assistance patrol. They saved 200 lives per year. So here, Wapato seems to be ideally situated removing the cells, putting in...
 a human environment where psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, social workers and others who can bring to bear the tremendous amount of resources that are needed. Gavin Newsom, when he was the mayor in San Francisco, he decided to take the social services checks
 out of the hands of the dope dealer and the alcoholic, and give them brand-new housing. It's working. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Okay. So let's take action in turn, please, on 1049, 1050, and 1051. Nobody? Aye. Great. Aye. Thank you.
 fish hi hails thank you all right 10 50. novick aye fritz aye fish aye hails aye 10 51 novick hi fritz hi fish we're on a roll mayor maybe we can go back a couple days hi okay let's go back please and take a vote on 10 43 and then after that 10 41 10 43. novick
 I apologize for leaving the room. I forgot it was an emergency. Aye. Okay. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 1044. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Thank you. Let's now go to item 1052, which is second reading. Authorize revenue bonds for urban renewal areas.
 Roll call, please. Elvig. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, 1053. Steve, do you want these read together? No, I guess not. 1053. Let her read it first, though. Sorry. Okay.
 Go ahead, Carla. Just 1053? Yes. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Southwest Dolf Court Spring Garden Street Local Improvement District project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Commissioner Novick. Andrew and Marty.
 uh good morning mayor commissioners my name is marty maloney again right away this ordinance is authorized in a domain authority as well as to offer just compensation for needed permanent and temporary rights associated with the southwest dolph court southwest spring garden lid project
 the property rights in question are needed to facilitate street improvements along the north side of Southwest Alpha Court. Improvements will provide a sidewalk connection from Southwest 30th Avenue to Spring Garden Park. I would also like to add all affected property owners have been informed about the city's need for certain property rights, and we're all invited to attend the reading of this agenda item. At this time, I'd be happy to answer any questions the council might have. Thank you.
 Questions? Andrew, anything you want to add? Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. Just to add what Marty said a couple months ago, I called each and every one of the property owners. We had extensive discussions about the design proposed along their properties. It's been a very collaborative process.
 One of the, I think it's the only right-of-way taking on this project is in full cooperation with the property owner who wanted a separated sidewalk in front of their property. So I think the city and the property owners are very aligned on the design of this project, and these property rights are not a surprise to anybody. Good work. Thank you both very much. Any property owners here? Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Then it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take action, please. No, thank you.
 Thank you very much. Aye. Fritz? Thank you. Aye. Fish? Aye. Hale? We have that city that works slogan on the side of the city car. I think on Andrew's and Marty's car it ought to be getting to yes all over town. Thank you. Good work. Okay, 1054. 1054.
 Amend contract with Motivate International, Inc. to increase to $11,380,000 for planning, acquiring, and operating bike share system. Commissioner Novick. Thank you.
 Colleagues, this is kind of a ministerial thing, but it allows us to give an update on the Biketown system. This increases the contract value for the system, allowing PBOT to pay motivate for the day-to-day operation of the enhanced system. Other than increasing the contract value, the ordinance makes no change to the contract approved by City Council in September 2015.
 and i'm going to turn it over first to margie bradway and steve point mcbeth to go over the ordinance and then i'd like to with your indulgence have a short presentation from dorothy mitchell from motivate the operator of bike town regarding the first two months of my town's operation excellent thank you good morning good morning hi my name is margie bradway i'm the active transportation and safety division manager i think it's um
 relevant that there was just a presentation on smart cities and behavioral change because I think that's exactly what we've seen with Biketown. But before we get into kind of an update on the operations of Biketown, I want to speak to the action that you're taking today.
 So on December 23, 2015, this body approved the contract that we currently have with Motivate, which Dorothy is the general manager for the Portland office. We came back to you on June 1, 2016, and asked for an amendment to our procurement authority, $3.75 million, and that was for the purchase of the capital.
 Today, we're coming back to, again, asking for procurement authority that has to do with the operations of the bike. So we're asking for an increase of contract value of $7.63 million, which covers the day-to-day operations as well as work on the bike wraps themselves. And if you have questions on what the day-to-day operations are,
 cost. I'm happy to answer that, or Dorothy can speak to that. For clarity, I just want to make sure that it's on the record that all of this money is paid by sponsorship and revenue user fees. There are no city dollars used, and the increased contract value covers the three-year term of the Motivate contract.
 Any questions on that? I just have a question. Obviously, it's been very successful. Does Motivate get all the revenue, or is there any revenue sharing with the city that turns out is more profitable than we thought it would be? How the contract works is that when full cost recovery happens after a full year, there is a 40-60 revenue split, but it will take...
 So it'll take at least two, if not three years, to start getting into that revenue split after the launch, which is typical for most bike share systems. Thank you for asking. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Thank you, Margie. My name is Steve Hoyt-McBeth with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'm the Bike Town project manager. So it was just about –
 Just a little over two months ago, the Mayor Hales, Transportation Commissioner Novick, Commissioner Fish joined with leaders from Nike, from institutional leaders and businesses and everyday partners to celebrate the launch of Bike Town. So myself and Dorothy talked.
 Mitchell from Motivate wanted to just give a quick presentation to show you where we've been, and we're really happy with the success that we've seen so far. So as you may know, this bike town is composed of 1,000 bikes, 100 stations in just about a nine-square-mile area we launched on July 19th of this year.
 So far, the response that we've had from Portlanders and visitors has been very enthusiastic. We've had over 100,000 trips in that two months of operation, 236,000 miles ridden on Biketown bikes. I know that Commissioner Novick, when he became the Transportation Commissioner, mentioned health care and active transportation in the same breath, and I think this is worth noting that's 85%.
 across the United States is how much... Oh, wait. I can't fault you for highlighting the First Lady in this picture. But I would like to just comment that if you look just in the background with the little sneaker behind her, that's Commissioner Nick Fish, fully obscured by the picture. Yes.
 Commissioner Fish. Stay tuned. Stay tuned. I understand how the charter is written. It doesn't have anything to do with who's more photogenic, does it? Thank you.
 I would like to speak to membership sales. This is, you know, along with the Nike sponsorship, the membership revenue is kind of the backbone of our business plan. We've had over 2,600 Portlanders make a 12-month annual commitment to Bike Town. That's 260,000 folks.
 It took Seattle eight and a half months to get to that number, so we're really proud with how quickly we've had and embraced by Portlanders to make that large commitment. Our single-ride user is just about 20,000, so you may recall from our September 2015 presentation, this is a $2.50 ride.
 ticket for a 30-minute ride. This is one of the lowest in the country, and we're really excited to see how this is bringing New Portlanders to biking, which is really one of the main goals. And then about 9,000 day passes, which is composed, we see, of both visitors and other folks. So this is my last slide. Then I'm going to turn it over to Dorothy and Mitchell with Motivate. This is a scatter map showing all of the annual members. So these are the folks that have made the largest commitment to Biketown. They're paying $12 a month over a year process.
 And you can see that we have a lot of members who are living, who live within the service area, but also a lot of members who live outside of the service area and, frankly, in the region as well. And I think this just indicates the core centrality of the central city to the region. It was why we wanted to start this program in the downtown and the closer neighborhoods because we
 knew with financial sustainability being a kind of a bedrock of our business plan, that we knew that we would be drawing people not only who live in the service area, but also work in the service area. So that's been very exciting. And so with that, I'm going to do a tag team, unless you have questions at this point. Yes, Commissioner. And it's prompted by this slide.
 So every year we have the option of signing up for a transit pass. And so I get it in the mail every month, and it's automatically charged against my paycheck. Would you remind me, do employees of the city have the same option for this service where it can be sort of annually can sign up and have automatic deductions?
 Thank you for the question. So right now we have, you know, as city employees, we have three benefits. You can either choose a carpool benefit, a transit benefit, or a bike and walk box, which is essentially a cash that's added to your income for making a commitment to walk or bike 80% of the year. Right now there's not a separate option for the bike town membership. I think that's something that we'll be looking at in the next year. You do, you are, I mean, the community,
 the gross income that you receive annually for the bike and walk box is similar to the cost of an annual membership, so someone could make that choice to use that. What I would say, Steve, is I just appreciate the convenience of the one-stop shopping and then getting my pass every month. I think a lot of us would appreciate the convenience of being able to check another box, and whether it's pre- or post-tax dollars would be of no consequence to me. It would just be the convenience factor.
 behavioral economics has demonstrated that convenience can lead to changes in behavior so I love that suggestion you know the things that are automatic we tend to keep doing you know sometimes to our detriment you know if you stop getting Netflix pictures in the mail you know movies in the mail you nevertheless still get the bill every month
 So, you know, if you don't have time to watch movies and you pay $8 a month or whatever it is, you just leave that on autopilot. Well, let's leave something that's actually useful and helpful on autopilot in this case. You know, the most egregious that I found, Mayor, on that recently is the credit score companies who target –
 folks and the way they're structured is they'll give you a free credit score but in the process you are signing up for the annual service which you can cancel after one week but I'm guessing that they have found that a lot of people don't follow through and cancel and so it becomes a recurring charge for something they absolutely don't need in this case if we could both make it the easy option on the check off and then obviously promote it to people pre or post tax dollars I don't care
 Well, that's great. I'd love to take that. I'll take that back to the folks. Other employers like Portland State and so on could do the same. Yeah, in fact, I think this would be a great opportunity unless counsel has other questions for me to hand it off to Dorothy, and she can actually talk about the group slash employer program that Motivate has already instituted. Good morning. I'm Dorothy Mitchell. I'm the general manager of Biketown, so I work for Motivate.
 We just got a couple more slides we can take you through, and I'm happy to answer questions. I wanted to call out something that we've been exceedingly pleased with with Biketown thus far, and that is the way that we've seen it bringing people of a lot of diverse backgrounds and people that haven't traditionally been bike riders in Portland kind of onto bikes in Portland. So people of color, women, you know, people of color,
 We also have trailblazer basketball players posting about their Biketown rides. So it's really capturing an interest in a cross-section that is somewhat new to biking in Portland. That's reflected in just a snapshot of scenes from our Instagram, people tagging Biketown in their Instagram posts. And personally, seeing groups of women riding bikes in Portland, seeing groups of women of color.
 It really kind of validates one of the things that we were hoping would happen with Biketown, which is getting a new group of people, you know, interested but concerned bike riders into the fold. So it's been great to kind of see that evidence, at least anecdotally, especially through social media.
 And this has kind of come up throughout the session this morning, but there was, you know, some really great buzz about how behavior change can be possible through, you know, through programs like this and some success that we've had just because of some of the facets of what Biketown is and how it's kind of easy to use and easy to see and join. That's been great. Thank you.
 One other point that I'll bring up is that, you know, as we're seeing more and more diverse group of people riding bikes, we've also really been focused on bringing diversity into our internal operations. And I'm sure you're familiar with the high road standards that were part of the contracts between PBOT and Motivate around our hiring goals.
 I'm really pleased to say that we've been overwhelmingly successful with meeting and exceeding those standards. You can kind of see from the statistics that we've gone far above kind of the minimum requirements for hiring folks from diverse backgrounds, whether they were formerly incarcerated, veterans, women, people of color.
 And it honestly has been actually a tremendously successful part of our operations and, you know, have been extremely pleased with the group that we've had for our positions and really came together to make a launch happen in just a kind of a, you know, boots on the ground, getting things done kind of way. So very pleased to report on the success of that. So happy to take any other questions. Thanks.
 I'm very glad that this has been so successful. Congratulations to everybody. My guests from England used bikes and I brought down helmets for them. My son is a monthly member and he always wears his helmet too. On the photograph that you showed us of lots of people being really happy riding the bikes, I saw maybe three helmets out of about 30 people.
 and there was an article on the front page of the Tribune about the woman who got a concussion from falling off the bike. And that said, there are other cities that have made the helmet rental work.
 So I also learned from my son that the sign-up says that the person is waiving all the rights to sue if there's a problem, but that there's a way to send in, and my son being very detail-oriented like me, sent in his message saying, no, I don't waive my rights to sue. So I think for the humanity and the care, we do have a lot of people, and it's only going to take one really bad crash that...
 Even though the bikes are not going very fast, the traffic around them is, and that in a situation where somebody was hurt, and then it's going to be a real big problem. So what are you doing about helmets? Do you want to take this one? Sure. Okay.
 Thank you very much, Commissioner, for the comments and the question. So I would say that we have an existing helmet strategy and then kind of where we want to grow that strategy to over the longer term. So we make a real strong effort to encourage helmet use. There's been a lot of social media pushing that Motivate, i.e. ByteTown, has done through the event. Anyone who comes through our ByteTown for All system,
 program, which is an equity program. It's given a free helmet. It's been donated by the Portland Fire Bureau in a partnership with PBOT.
 anybody who becomes an annual member has been sent a promotion for a discounted helmet to use by town. And then we've worked with the bike rental companies that tend to be in visitor, kind of like are densely located in the visitor areas where someone is less likely, like your son who has kind of normalized the behavior and he knows to either have an additional helmet at work or he just knows he's just more planned to bring your helmet. Because that's the trickiest part.
 Part for us is these kind of spontaneous trips that are a little bit more heavily toward the visitor population. So I think the longer term, what we'd like to see is we're looking through opportunities for Helmet sponsors to kind of help us look at more aggressive ways to address the issue, whether that could, you know, one manifestation of that could be an actuals.
 structure at a station or it could be some sort of delivery service. There's a lot of different ideas out there. I mean, I think that one of the challenges that we face is we had very clear direction from back in 2011 from city council that we needed to bring something forward to council that was financially sustainable and that really protected the city's interest financially. And so I think that one of the challenges for us is that the one...
 the one kind of helmet vending solution that we have in the U.S. and Seattle where King County has a mandatory helmet law.
 is fairly expensive to engage in. And so when we overlay a kind of no-risk-to-the-city sort of piece to it, that it's one of the challenges that we face in kind of manifesting that. A very ordinance in 2011 directed you to look into a helmet thing, and I know you have. Yes. But your own photographs show that most of the people are not wearing helmets. And furthermore, I was...
 It was also promised that we would be able to track individual bikes so that information could be sent to people who were riding on the sidewalks. And that is not done because I asked for somebody to send a nice note to the couple that I saw riding on the sidewalks downtown at the exact time, and I was told that that's not going to happen. So the social media of encouraging people to wear helmets and not to ride on the sidewalk is not working. And...
 I'll speak to this. I think, again, helmet is a behavior change issue. I just traveled to Vancouver for an international conference, and they also have a helmet law there, and they also launched a bike share system the same time we did. They struggled with the helmet solution. The best they could do was to kind of tie up helmets with the bikes for free.
 One, they did see a lot of helmets stolen, and you could see them also being left on the ground near the stations. But two, the more interesting thing for me was that about one-third of all riders weren't wearing helmets. So I kind of asked my peers that work for the city of Vancouver, I said, well, what's going on? There's a helmet law, but about one-third of your riders in the entire city. And they said that there has been a resistance to wear helmets, and the police have really stopped enforcing it.
 So it was very interesting to me that a legal requirement structure doesn't in itself provide that security. And so I don't know if, just like many problems in our city, trying to figure out what type of encouragement versus enforcement and how do you approach that. But I think we've tried several creative ways.
 Ways, Steve also didn't mention that we have a partnership with Nutcase Helmet that gives you discounted helmets, and we have been promoting that in the places that we can. So I think we're going to continue to look for solutions. We're going to continue to do encouragement. I can't at this point, though, guarantee that we have a solution that's going to get anybody who wants to get on a bike and a helmet or on a bike town bike.
 Well, it's particularly of concern for tourists because they're not likely to go buy a helmet just to use for a week while they're here.
 So maybe we should look at targeting the tourists, either places like Travel Portland that could have them available or the Rose Foundation. There's a lot of areas near the stations that, and presumably you know from the rental which are the spots that tourists are particularly getting their bikes to and from and see if we can tailor the solution just to that.
 because if it's somebody who lives in portland then yes that they are accepting the risk if they don't bring their helmet with them but for somebody who lives outside and we want them to come and use our bikes my friends had an absolutely fantastic time they couldn't stop talking about it we want people to do that we don't want this then so because we get into trouble here i have a comment and a question first a comment
 When I look back on my eight years on this body, I don't usually reflect on the things that were easy to do. I remember the things that were really hard. And just as an example, when I had the honor of being the housing commissioner, we were charged with building an affordable housing development in South Waterfront. And then Director Van Vliet was charged with putting the project together
 And it seemed like every week we got slammed with something that made it almost impossible to do the project. The economy tanked, the worst recession in our lifetime. Tax credit market tanked. All kinds of challenges. And it really felt like some horror movie where we're dealing with just every conceivable systems failure, macro and micro. And Margaret looked at 10 different models for how to make it work.
 city owning the property through city lights different models of financing and um ultimately she put the deal together and we built what's called gray's landing and so every time i go by there i'm reminded of what an amazing accomplishment that was because it was so hard and i remember those projects more than the ones that kind of came together like magic and i i just want to comment that i know how hard this was over time to pull this together
 And I live now in the Goose Hollow neighborhood, and it's just extraordinary how dynamic this program is in Northwest and Southwest Portland. The stations, the people on the bikes, the amount of activity. So congratulations, because I know this was a very long and hard road to get here. But it's, I think, one of the really great things that we've unveiled in the city in the last few years. My question to you, though, is...
 Just curious, comparing us to other peer cities, what has surprised you about the rollout or what have been some differences between our experience and peer cities in the early stages of the rollout?
 One of the ones has been we chose to go with a newer technology, the smart bike technology that had the locking system right on the bikes, Commissioner. I'd say that one of my concerns was we knew we were buying a lot more flexibility for the user.
 a more sustainable way to operate the system. But I was a little concerned about how that first-time friction of unlocking the bike, there's a little bit more to do than there is with the systems in New York or D.C. or Boston. So I was very happy to see that those concerns of mine
 were not brought to fruition. I've sat and watched at stations that have a lot of first-time users, and we've seen that work really well. I've been... I think that looking at some other cities, I anticipated seeing spikes more in the morning commutes. If you look at, like, for example, Washington, D.C., you see spikes in the morning and the afternoon commutes. Ours are mostly in the afternoon commutes, and we're seeing a lot more kind of...
 first time riders who are doing it for recreation. And at first I thought that was a bad thing, and then I thought about it a little bit more. And you know, one of the challenge, one of the, we're kind of sometimes faced with the challenges of our success. So bike sharing in a lot of cities,
 didn't have 10 to 15 years before it where the city invested heavily in infrastructure, invested heavily in marketing to people. And so there was a lot of latent demand in these markets where when you bring bike share in, these people who haven't given a lot of thought to it are just ready to go, these early adapters. And what we're seeing here is that because we've really tapped that market, we have the number one bike commute rate in the entire country, the closest city to us is 2% below us.
 And that means that's a lot of the good work that we've done to get more people to consider biking as part of their transportation network. But it means that those trips that these new people that we're bringing to biking are doing are less likely to be that commute trip and more likely to be the kind of trip that you would take perhaps after hours or on the weekends when you're just trying to get comfortable with trying something new. So I think that that was kind of a surprise to me that happened.
 I've learned from, and I'm hoping that when we come back in the future, we'll see some of those people actually moving to integrating it into kind of their day-to-day transportation behavior. I guess the other question just is how are the bikes holding up? And, I mean, they are in a very visible public realm. So do you have challenges with things like vandalism or theft?
 Yeah, thank you for the question. Thus far, I mean, they're very sturdy, robust bikes. They're doing really well out there. We definitely have had, you know, some instances of just kind of typical urban vandalism, you know, some graffiti and things like that on the stations. Occasionally, like, tires get slashed.
 We're able to deal with that, you know, quite quickly because of one of the smart bike features in which people can actually on the bike itself report if there's a mechanical issue. We're able to really quickly know, you know, what's wrong with every bike in our fleet and, you know, send our employees out on bikes to go fix and fix them in the field. So, you know, I think we haven't been overwhelmed by kind of the amount of, you know, mechanical work we've had to do. I would say it's definitely slowing down a little bit.
 I think, you know, I think the bikes are doing great, and what we've been seeing is, you know, pretty typical issues. The other day I went for a ride, and the back tire on my bike seemed flat, so I stopped at the Chevron on Burnside in, like, 21st, and it said a buck 50 to use the air machine, so you had to put all those quarters in, so I went to
 to go get a change to put it. I thought $1.50 was a little steep for this little tire. And the woman didn't flinch when I gave her the money. She said, oh, no, bikes are free at our gas stations. And she just pushed a button. And by the way, Steve, I would think we might want to talk to some of our other folks and get that word out because it is sort of a barrier. $1.50 is a lot of money, and it's probably cheaper if I just bought a bike pump. Mm-hmm.
 But I thought it was very public-spirited. That's cool. And they just hit a button, and it was free. And I hope I haven't violated any ethics laws, but, I mean, I didn't introduce myself. I just said, you have a bike, so you get free air. That's cool. That's great. Other questions for the team? Well, I'll just add a little commentary here. I think both –
 both on the helmet front and on the access front, I think you're going to continue to get pressure from us. As this succeeds and exceeds expectations, great. You know, the pressure should be on to both be true to our Vision Zero goal and be creative about trying to solve the helmet problem, as I know you are,
 and two, that who has access to this system and how fast can we expand it to areas that aren't yet in the service territory, a topic we talked about quite a bit when this was launched, I think are both important community concerns for us to keep going on. And again, I would urge you to be
 creative about the helmet issue um you know maybe there can be uh you know a nearby vendor at some of the stops that's willing to cooperate in the availability of of at least discounted helmets for sale if not rentals i'm thinking about the fact that we've got one right out here and right out across the street from the portland building and we have vendors that are under contract to the city like the coffee shop downstairs that
 that could stock some helmets under their agreement with their landlord that happens to be the same city of Portland. We have community centers and other facilities nearby some of these locations. So maybe we wouldn't get 100% coverage, but maybe you'd get a decent percentage of coverage of a cooperating vendor, whether they were in the helmet business or in some other business, might have a little shelf space. Hotel concierges. Yeah.
 seem to be a natural ally in this. I know that was the case with the streetcar, that after not very long, the hotel concierge started having passes in their bag of tricks at the concierge stand, and they knew exactly where the streetcar stop was. And they, oh, you want to go to the Pearl District? Here you go. And so enlisting them as allies as well. I know when you stay in a hotel and you forget your umbrella or your phone charger, you've got a pretty good chance of getting one at the front desk.
 So, again, those kinds of non-regulatory solutions for now. I understand the issues with the regulatory solution, but we are a Vision Zero city. You are committed to it. Director Treat's committed to it. So any way we can try to move that forward, again, understanding that it's got to be practical and not burdensome financially to what is a success story.
 and then again likewise with the service territory area we're serving part of the city with this got folks on your map obviously who live outside the service territory who are participating let's keep trying to make it more convenient for more people as we go along but well done it's really really wonderful success and the orange color is brilliant because it's obvious to see you know how well this is working because they're so easy to spot
 Mayor, since we're talking about behavioral science today, I did want to mention that there's kind of a vigorous discussion about what the role of helmets and helmet promotion or requirement should be when it comes to bicycling. There's a New York Times article a while back that said the safest biking cities are places like Amsterdam and Copenhagen where middle-aged commuters are mainstay riders and the fraction of adults in helmets is minuscule.
 Bicycling advocates say that a problem with pushing helmets is that helmets make a basically safe activity seem really dangerous. Quote, the real benefits of bike sharing in terms of health, transport, and emissions derive from getting ordinary people to use it, said Sari Woolsgrove, safety officer at the European Cyclist Federation. And if you say this is wonderful but you have to wear armor, they won't. These are normal human beings, not urban warriors.
 That is a perspective that's out there. Now, of course, the difference is that in Copenhagen and Amsterdam, you have separated, protected bike lanes. So there's less of a danger to bicyclists than there is here, where for the most part we do not have that. Yeah, good points. Other questions, comments? Thank you all very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Oh, we do. Yes, thank you all. Come on up.
 I'm Shedrick Wilkins. I think bicycles are these kind of mountain bike bikes where your back is vertical are good exercise. I think they're better than jogging. I live near the train station, and actually joggers are more likely to hit me. I had to wear a helmet when I walked to the convenience store because some jogger's going to hit me to the ground. Generally, these bikes swirl around. I mean, people have maybe if they bicycle in groups for safety, they swirl. They're not really – you go faster than –
 walking, and so you're just like some guy's not catching up, so you swirl around. These aren't speed bikes. I personally do not believe that if you're in a bicycle about the pace of walking, you should not necessarily have to have a helmet unless you're a child. When I was young, I used to bicycle a lot when I was 10 or 15. I never was knocked to the ground on a bicycle. 10 speeds are a real problem. If I was a policeman, somebody's going 30 miles an hour on a 10 speed, stop it.
 you know, enforce the law. But people without helmets on, I really don't think. And as I remember, I never was ever hit to the ground on a slow mountain bike where you're just using the bicycle to get some exercise and...
 You're just, instead of walking, you can't walk too far. And, again, I've been more likely hit by joggers to the ground and have a head injury. When I go to the store, and sometimes I'll go out to the convenience store, and some jogger won't stop and almost hits me. I feel more threatened by them than any kind of orange bicycle system. So that's just my comment. Thank you. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 Now, that helmet issue, as you know, is a concern to me. And one of the things on these type of bikes, I notice you have that basket on there. I've heard some people say they don't have enough storage room on the bikes. I don't know if that could be extended out a little bit more or even have, like, say, a helmet that could fit down into the basket with, like, a titanium strap that they could keep
 pull back immediately, but it's held within, say, a custom basket. Now, another thing that when I'm hearing on the helmets, I'd like to see Nike, good friends Phil and Travis, to look more at doing more custom helmet work. And what I'm talking about is different. What would be interesting is having some real nice paint designs and custom helmets to where people look at that and say, hey, man, that's cool.
 It's safe also. I'm wearing that, man. That is cool. I'm going to wear that. And kind of that little bit more of that flashy type incentive to put that helmet on. And also, I'd like a little more feedback from the great Nike designers. I have a brother that started at Nike in 1982, and he's still working there. Normally, he'd be in Indonesia, but that's about 34 years. I think he's one of the dinosaurs at Nike still, but...
 Anyway, I think a little bit more from the designer group there on doing more custom bikes, helmets, and getting a little bit more feedback from Nike on that situation on the safety issue because I think it's very important. I mean, let's face it, Nike's putting up a tremendous amount of money here, and they should definitely have a lot of input on the safety issues on these bikes, and again, the
 I myself think the color orange is just boring. Okay? Sorry to say, people, boring color to me. I'd like to see more...
 Maybe input from the public if they could do some customized paint on these bikes, make them a little bit more Portland for the artist-type community. A little more color, get a little bit more feedback from some of the artists. I think that would be good. I don't think orange is necessary to paint your car orange to be seen or to paint it that color.
 Paint your boat orange so you don't get hit out in the water. Let's get some more ideas on different colors. It's foolish to think that you should just paint something orange and have that as the main color throughout the city. Again, just a couple other issues here. Where does Uber and Lyft fit in on this? I'd like to see maybe their concept, their ideas on working with.
 this group on this, can they help you out and work together? I know it might be considered as maybe pulling some of the income from them, but I don't think it should be. And as you know, they are the travel industry experts out in the marketplace and can bring in more people than anyone else, and they've proved that in the last three years. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else? Then let's take action, please, on the ordinance. Novick? Yes.
 I'm really glad to have this opportunity to congratulate Margie and Dorothy and Steve. Dorothy, that was great to hear that information about the diversity of Motivate's employees. That's fantastic.
 Steve, once again, congratulations on the successful end to years of effort. And I have to say in the words of Spiro Agnew that there were nattering nabobs of negativism about this whole bike share undertaking that have been proven demonstrably wrong. So take that, nattering nabobs. This has just been a fantastic success and glad to have this ministerial opportunity to celebrate it.
 Well, congratulations, Commissioner Novick. As Commissioner Fish said, it has been a very challenging project, and I really appreciate the staff work and Motivate's partnership, as well as the sponsorship from Nike. And I think, again, what Commissioner Fish was saying and what the Mayor said about getting past the difficulty and find some creative solutions. So I...
 of the places that I have some influence on, for instance, Pioneer Court House Square could have them. It could be a very Portland-y solution that you maybe pay a small amount at your hotel, as you were mentioning, and then you donate it to somebody who, like the Opal students groups working on active transportation. At the end of your stay, we could have them at the airport to drop off and pick up things.
 So I know you've been looking at the previous models, and I think you're right, and now we have to look for the Portland one. Thank you. Hi. Steve, and to your team, congratulations on the successful rollout. Having seen this program successfully implemented in other cities around the world, it's just great to have it here. And this is one instance where being number 30 or whatever –
 is no shame because I think we really got it right. And it's a wonderful addition to the menu of options for people in Portland. And when I look at bike share and the opening of the Orange Line over the last couple years, I...
 I'm filled with pride in the areas where we can make a difference and we can get to yes. And the issues that have been raised today, I think reasonable people can sit down and work them out. But this is a great report, and I would ask if I could get an electronic copy of the report just so I have that. Thank you. Hi. Hi.
 Great work. Steve, congratulations. This is a big win for the community and for Portland's livability and attractiveness for visitors. So it's really a nice community asset now. People are starting to take it for granted, which is the best sign that you did the right thing. And obviously there's room to grow. There's room to make this program even better. But I just want to commend PBOT, Motivate, Nike, all involved.
 for really making this a success for everybody. Well done. Aye. Okay, 1055. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Transportation as the tax administrator for the City of Portland Motor Vehicle Fuels Tax. Second reading, roll call. Novick. We're delighted to have completed this agreement and are counting on ODOT to bring the funds for street repair and traffic safety rolling in. Okay.
 aye aye aye aye time to collect the dime right thank you steve bye
 Okay, 1056. Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for construction of the Mount Scott Community Center heating, ventilation, and air conditioning replacement and direct digital control upgrade project for an estimated $581,525. Good. Mayor, I'd like this returned to my office, please. Okay, it is. 1057.
 And 57, authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder and provide payment for the construction of the Holman Pump Station Emergency Sewer Replacement Project, number E10870, for $774,547. Mr. Fish, turn it over to the BES team.
 Good morning. I'm Eric Hills, Commissioner's. My name is Joe Dvorak. For the record, I'm an engineer with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and I have a short presentation to talk about the emergency sewer replacement at Holman Pump Station. Carla will assist. Great, thank you.
 So last month we found a very large cavity over the top of the sewer pipe at Holman Pump Station. So one of the pipes feeding the Holman Pump Station, the graphic is shown here at the top. So what's unusual about this particular sewer pipe is there's no top to it. Corrosion has eroded the entire top of the pipe. So what you're seeing here in the picture is the top portion is just ground surface. This is ground in a large cavern with tree roots extending down into the sewer.
 So upon finding that, we called an on-call contractor. We hired them to stabilize the situation. They attempted to divert the flow, which is shown in the picture in the bottom. Upon doing that, we found that one of the pressure pipes leading to this pump station was also severely deteriorated. So at that point, this was beyond the scope of the on-call contract, and we declared an emergency. We engineered a permanent fix system.
 bid the project, receive three bids. So today's request is for City Council to authorize that contract with the lowest responsive bidder. So a little bit of context. What this graphic shows is the location of the home and pump station at the bottom of the picture, and in red, the portions of the pipe that we intend to fix. To the right at the bottom is Interstate 205 and Airport Way. At the very top is IKEA, and there is a wetland in between the pump station and IKEA.
 So as mentioned in the actual ordinance, this pump station sees about 5,000 gallons per minute of sewage flow, which is significant. So what we intend to do is make this replacement to avoid any more sewer releases impacting businesses or the wetland.
 So real quick, what we plan to do is replace 100 feet of the 21-inch gravity sewer. And this graphic to the right shows a portion that we also want to intend to fix that isn't failed yet, but you can see the steel reinforcement bar. 726 feet of pressure pipe is also within the scope of work, and we intend to do that quickly and safely and minimize impact to businesses.
 Last slide. The cost estimate is just under $775,000. The contractor is more excavation. We hope to finish this by November. So we charge an extra strength charge for industrial businesses that put chemicals into the sewage system. Is this extreme deterioration caused by chemical discharges from –
 some or another of the businesses that are in the sewer service area? It's the chemicals inherent to sewage. So when you pump the sewage, it releases that hydrogen sulfide, and that's what eats away at the concrete. So it's not any one specific industry. It's just the nature of pumping sewage and then releasing it. To the mayor's point, does an increase in flow exacerbate the situation? Turbulence. Turbulence from when pump stations flow into gravity pipes and then
 Okay. So this is just a, if you will, a natural consequence of pumping rather than there's somebody in the neighborhood who's putting chlorine or hydroxylified or something else. Okay. Just wanted to know. Thank you. Other questions? Thanks very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? It is an emergency ordinance, obviously. Let's take a vote, please. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Thank you for the very clear presentation. Aye. Okay.
 Yes. Aye. Aye. Aye. Okay, 1058. 1058.
 Amen. I now amend contract with Titan Utilities LLC for additional compensation to complete existing contract work and to perform required structural repairs to the pipe supports for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, Iverness 30-inch force main repair, project number E10629, for $350,000. Mr. Bish. Yes.
 Thank you. Bill Ryan is here, and he is going to somehow weave together an ordinance that involves a 30-inch pipe, a bridge, and the Migratory Bird Act. If you can pull that off, you're going to earn our support. Bill, take it away.
 Well, thank you very much, Mayor, Commissioners. There seems to be a theme going on today with regard to repair of sewer lines, and this is the second one in that series. The Inverness Force Main actually crosses the Columbia Slough immediately north of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. It crosses the slough on a bridge, as you can see in this photograph.
 The Inverness force main is no small matter. It handles all of the sewage from the area you see in brown on this photograph, which includes about 10,000 acres and includes the Portland International Airport. We identified problems with the line, and we're able to do that by putting a camera in the line and actually looking at the line from the inside out.
 Unfortunately, what we were not able to do was look at the exterior of the line because it is pretty well hidden on this bridge over the Columbia Slough. As we got out there, we had several things to take care of. One of those things was a significant quantity of cliff-dwelling swallows.
 controlled as to what time of year we were able to work on this because you do not want to harass the swallows while they're actually nesting so we had to wait till that portion of the year where the swallows would not be there and that time of year has just begun again it's actually from about mid-april to the first of september that the swallows will be in their nests and we'll be nesting so we're ready to go back out there and uh
 work around the swallows. In some cases, we have to take the nests down. In other cases, we don't. And by the way, we should acknowledge that, as you would expect, colleagues, Audubon has been a great partner in helping us comply with the federal law and also stage the work on this.
 So when we did get out there to repair the sewer, what we discovered was that the problems were not just inside of the sewer. We also had some problems with the supports that held the sewer under the bridge. And those are shown in this photograph. Particularly, you can see on the lower right-hand section, there's cracked welds, and that's a pretty consistent failure problem.
 So we had to stop the contractor. We did not have time to redesign the pipe supports and have the contractor repair them before the swallows came back to Columbia Slough. I think there's a song. Swallows return. So what we have now is we are asking you for authority to increase the contract by over 25%.
 and that is about $350,000. Our contractor is Titan Utilities, who is one of our prime contractor development program contractors, and they're ready to go upon approval. Ah, that was an interesting complexity to have to deal with. Questions for Bill? I think that's very sweet that you're looking after the swallows. Are you required to? Oh, yes. The...
 North American Migratory Bird Treaty Act prevents us from harassing the birds during their nesting season. Is that all birds or just those on the list? Migratory birds in particular. I believe there is a list, yes. So the South American cliff-dwelling swallow is one of the protected birds under the Migratory Bird Act. And we happen to be a...
 destination of destination of choice or at least this bridge seems to be very popular so When the bridge is completed well, well it's still be a Location as in other words, you're not changing the design of the bridge in a way that would make it unattractive to the swallow No, the swallows will be back. I mean there's actually they have quite a following. Yeah, I'll be down. Okay. Well learn something every day Thank you, sir. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 This is a contract amendment, so it will return for second reading next week. And as they say at the end of those movies, no swallows were harmed in making this decision. So that goes to second reading, and we are recessed until tomorrow at 2 o'clock.