Ready, Carla? Okay. Good morning. Welcome to the September 28th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Holtzman? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone. Let me walk through some...
 logistics. We have a couple we have one council member who's absent this week Commissioner Salzman. We have a couple of others who have compelling reasons to leave at 11. So we're going to we're going to lose a quorum at 11 o'clock. So we will work until 11 o'clock and then take up likely the rest of our regular agenda this afternoon. We're going to get to our time certain item of course not the one that's at 945. Um
 there are probably going to be some council questions and technical issues with respect to the uh to to the police contract item 1065 i want to save that discussion mostly until next week anna canwitt will make a brief presentation we'll hear from the community and again we can save the rest till next week
 Folks that are here to speak on council calendar items, again, the only one that we're likely to address this morning is item number 1065, the time certain hearing on the police contract. If you want to speak on that item, just let our council clerk know. We typically allow three minutes for individual testimony. We'll try to accommodate that, again, understanding that we have a little bit of a time crunch this morning. Thank you.
 You don't need to give your name and address, just your name. We follow the rules of basic common sense and decorum in this room, and that is we want to hear everybody's point of view. So if you agree with somebody's position on that issue or any other that's on our Council calendar, you're welcome to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand or some other gesture of support. And likewise, if you disagree with them, a polite negative hand gesture is fine, but we ask that we not applaud or make mistakes.
 verbal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view in this room so that everybody is heard. We make exceptions for visiting dignitaries and schoolchildren. So if you're one of those or both of those, you might get a round of applause. But again, otherwise, we try to let everybody have their say here. That's it in terms of procedure. Let's see if there's anything to remove from the consent calendar. I don't have any requests. I had a request for item 1074.
 1074, okay. We'll pull that one off to the regular calendar. And we have three people signed up for individual testimony on subjects of their choosing. We'll take them first, and then we'll deal with the rest of the consent calendar and move on to the time-certain item. So let's hear from those folks. Item 1062, please. Request of Mayor Lee Day to address council regarding Oregon-Costa Rica Partners of the Americas. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I know that you have very important business to attend to, so I'm going to cut this really short. Thank you for having us, Commissioners and Mayor Hales. I'm Marilee Day, and I'm a current member of the Oregon Partners of the Americas, and
 and we are traveling with 13 Costa Ricans, and they are representing the partners of Americas. We have an exchange program with them. It was started by Kennedy in 1960 to call on states to partner with countries in Latin America and South America for the sole reason of fostering international relationships through intercultural relations.
 and friendships, and we were so lucky to have picked or been picked by Costa Rica. So I just want to say that I'd really recommend that you go to Costa Rica and possibly come with the partners because they are experiencing some of the same challenges we are, and they have forged ahead in many of them. One is their electricity is 100% renewable, and I think that we could choose. They have the same kind of...
 similar kind of rivers and climates, and they have a lot of rain, and yet they've pulled it off. The other thing is they have the best, they have the most renowned biodiversity of any place in the world, and I think that we need to keep our species too. So there's that to learn from, and many other things. They have exchange programs that are focusing on agriculture and food security issues,
 civil society, professional exchanges, which is possibly what you all could do, student ambassador program, and what we're doing right now, which is an exchange, an adult exchange. So I was lucky enough to go down the year before last, and I stayed with five different families there.
 and in five different areas, and that's what they're doing here. And then they show us the best of Costa Rica, and we've been showing them the best of Oregon. They've been in Bend, Hood River, Astoria, and now they're here in Portland. And today they're going to visit you all, and we're going to the Historical Society and show them the beauty of Portland as we have. So thank you very much. I wanted to have Xenia, who's from Costa Rica, just say a few words. Please. Yes.
 And also, I wanted the Costa Ricans, who you're not going to be able to see. Ah, welcome. Could you all stand up? Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. My name is Xenia Molina. I represent a group of Costa Ricans who come here to visit your state. We have been in four different places, but the last is here in Portland. We are visiting your beautiful city. We appreciate you invite us to this session.
 And thank you very much for your hospitality here in the United States. Thank you. Well, welcome. My son, in his education at Portland State University, got to do a student internship in San Juan and San Jose, sorry, and really enjoyed it and learned a lot. And he came back and said much of the same things about the environmental policy and energy policies in Costa Rica, very progressive. So we have a lot to learn from each other.
 Do you have any questions of us? Questions for this group. Well, we hope that our staff here at the city departments and bureaus are helpful to you and that we can improve the exchange between our two countries and the knowledge of people working to make each place better. We'd love to help. So thank you for coming. Thank you. Thank you very much. Both Hector and Chad have been very helpful. Good to hear. Thank you. Enjoy your time in Portland. Welcome. Thank you.
 Okay. 1063, please. Request of Vicki Tracy to address council regarding the feeding of squirrels in Portland. Good morning. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay.
 Good morning. Good morning. You know, this seems a bit trivial compared to the other issues you have to discuss today, but it's been scheduled, so I'm just going to go ahead. We have a problem in our neighborhoods, and actually I understand we live in a city, and rats, you know, are an urban issue. However, I don't see any reason to invite them into our yards, our garages, and eventually our homes.
 and I stood in my neighborhood and watched as a neighbor feeds them every day, and I watched rats about, I don't know, eight feet long or so, come out and grab this bread that this person puts out every single day and run back and forth and back and forth, and this is in broad daylight, and rats normally don't.
 come out in the day. So if you see one, you know there are very many. I spoke with Chris at Vector Control, and unfortunately the way things are with our ordinances, there are no laws against the feeding of animals in Portland. So the very, very most that he could do is stop this feeding until a specific rat problem is taken care of, and then the person's allowed to just start feeding again. So it really is...
 you know, a non-issue at that point.
 all of the people that I spoke with, not one person thought it was a good idea. One of them, who was the backyard neighbor of this feeding person, found a rat behind their stove, a rat nest in their shed. Another said, oh my god, that's where all the peanut shells are coming from, and just spent $1,100 with their dogs at the vet to
 to take care of peanut shells that were lodged in their digestive tract. And everyone else just says, you know, please, let's ask him to stop. However, no amount of pleading, explaining, begging has helped. And he's kind of actually dug his heels in and said, I do what I do, and that's too bad.
 So what I'm asking you, because he throws out a cup of seed into a mound on his property every day. He gives the peanuts out every day, and he throws bread every single day. You know, what I'm asking you is if you could please consider an ordinance that would make it illegal to do this kind of thing, because it's not healthy for the animals. Okay.
 It's not healthy for the neighborhood. And it certainly, you know, we shouldn't be asking rats to join us in our neighborhoods. So...
 Thank you for bringing this to our attention. The neighborhood mediation program comes to mind. Right. You could stop downstairs in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and ask the crime prevention specialists are actually out on East Burnside, but somebody in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement could put you in touch with them. The other thing that occurs to me is whether Multnomah County could do it since they're in charge of public health.
 So the city has no – The city doesn't do public health. The county regulates that, as Commissioner Fritz said. But we do have a neighborhood mediation program, which is there to try to mediate these kind of disputes. It doesn't always work, but it's there. Well, this obviously won't work because 20 people signed a letter that this person ignored and, in fact, questioned whether people actually signed it. So, you know.
 Yeah, so I – It's kind of a – you know, I'm hitting a brick wall here. Yeah. Well, I would recommend, if you would, that you – and we can do this – forward your letter to the county board of commissioners. You could. Okay. And we'll do that. But, again, they regulate the public health side. I guess I would at least get you to consider using the mediation service because sometimes if a third party is there, you can sort of push the reset button on a dispute like this. Okay.
 We do have some. The Bureau of Development Services does some nuisance abatement. So I'll look at that and see if there's anything there. Okay. The mayor will forward your information to the county health department. You've left your contact information with us, I assume, since you're on the agenda. Oh, sure. So we'll get back to you with what those options are. Okay, so I won't do anything until I hear from you? Yeah, we'll get back to you from probably both Commissioner Fritz's office and mine. That's perfect. I appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, 1064. Okay.
 Request of Richard Robinson to address counsel regarding a presidential candidate's qualifications. Morning. Honorable Mayor, members, Richard Robinson. As pusillanimous, nattering nabobs of negativism destroyed much of society on American campuses back in the 70s and 70s,
 Weather Underground, White Panthers, Black Panthers, student demonstrations. Ronald Reagan became president in 1979. One of the first things he did, he ordered Stansfield Turner to fire all CIA agents who could not speak English. Now the Shah of Iran was deposed. The Ayatollah Khomeini came to power. Bill Clinton's brilliant career began its ascendancy.
 Fulbright Scholarship, Georgetown University, Rhodes Scholarship, Oxford University, returns to Arkansas, becomes state attorney general, then governor. He and his wife start Whitewater Corporation. He becomes president. Now, some argue that emails should not be utilized. But very effectively, not only did Hillary defend himself,
 lives at Benghazi by utilizing her email. Colin Powell did the same thing when he was Secretary of State. What we have is an information technology network, superhighway as they used to call it, information highway. There are those who think that we should keep nothing from the public domain. Snowden, Lord Snowden, WikiLeaks,
 Idiots, simpletons who had destroyed the United States of America are allowed to publish anything they wish and America lapsed up. Let me say this. We saw Hillary Clinton trounce Donald Trump. We know he's suggesting that she should be killed, but that's politics.
 What I want you to know, folks, is that we're the best. They're qualified. We need proven leadership. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, let's take up the consent agenda minus that one item. Unless there's anything else to pull off, let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent counter. Novick? Aye. Aye.
 aye okay I'm wondering if the who pulled the consent item mr. lightning can we save that I was wondering if it'd be okay to say that that's till after the hearing on 945 at the 945 time sir okay all right then let's take please I am 1065
 ratify a successor collective bargaining agreement with the city and the Portland Police Association relating to the terms and conditions of employment of representative employees in the Portland Police Bureau Association bargaining unit.
 Okay, Anna Canwit, our Human Resources Director, is here to walk us through this. Just a couple quick comments from me. I think it's important to remember that this agreement is in front of us not because it has come up in the regular cycle of union contracts. That cycle would have this agreement come up for council consideration next year, but because we face a staffing crisis in the Portland Police Bureau.
 When I was first elected mayor and became police commissioner, one, we cut 50 positions out of the Portland Police Bureau because of a historic budget challenge that the city had down $21 million. And the police bureau was able to hold positions that were vacant, and we reduced the size of their workforce on paper.
 Meanwhile, it was actually at that point fairly easy for the City of Portland to hire police officers. There were agencies all over California that were laying off police officers because of their budget situation. So even though we reduced the workforce on paper, it was not that hard then to recruit new officers. Since then, frankly, everything's changed.
 Police agencies all over the country are struggling to hire police officers. I think the number of vacancies statewide in Oregon is something like 250 or 300. There are agencies, particularly here in the Northwest, like Kennewick, that are offering salaries well above what we pay in Portland. So back in March when I gave my State of the City speech, I indicated that I wanted to open this agreement because we need to be competitive. It's a basic implementation.
 employer question of if you can't hire people, what do you need to do? One thing we did was add more background investigators, and we're working to speed up that process
 And the other thing we need to do is raise our starting salary and our pay so that we are competitive and that people don't want to leave and that people want to leave other departments and come to work for us. So that's the main reason why we opened this agreement. There's some other issues on the table that we wanted to address. One, the Portland Police Association had filed grievances against a number of policies that the city was implementing, like changing our shift system to better serve the community and deal with the fact that we were down in workforce.
 like a new discipline policy that we believe is the right thing to do and that also responds to our community's need to make sure that we are an accountable police bureau. Like body-worn cameras and like the question of multiple independent police review investigators at investigations, they'd actually filed 11 grievances today.
 and we wanted to get those resolved. And then we have the 48-hour rule, which is a relic of an earlier time and a problem for the police bureau. Then we believed that it was time to get rid of the 48-hour rule. The
 The agreement in front of us sweeps away all those grievances, gets rid of the 48-hour rule, and pays people more. That's what it does. I believe it's the right thing to do. I want to, again, appreciate the six months of work, Anna, that you and your team have put into negotiating this and let you walk us through any other particulars of this that I've missed. Great. Thank you, Mayor Hales, Commissioners Anna Canwitt, Director of the Bureau of Human Resources, Commissioner,
 As Mayor Hale said, the ordinance before you today asked council to ratify a tentative agreement between the Portland Police Association and the City of Portland.
 The contract, the tentative agreement was ratified by the Portland Police Association, the 95% approval rate. Daryl Turner, the president of the association, will speak for a brief amount of time when I'm finished this morning. If ratified by council, this agreement will be in place until through June 30th, 2020.
 This tentative agreement does accomplish several key goals and creates a multi-pronged approach to addressing our serious staffing issues, as the mayor noted. It will move the Bureau forward, make us a competitive police agency in what has become an incredibly competitive environment nationwide in terms of most agencies being down with staffing and trying to recruit for police officers. Thank you.
 As you noted, it removes language in the contract requiring a 48-hour advance notice to officers before an initial interview. This has been a key objective for the Department of Justice as part of the settlement agreement with the city as well as others. The tentative agreement also includes agreement to a draft body-worn camera policy, recognizing the public input that has gone into this policy already,
 but also memorializing the Portland Police Association Police Bureau agreement to present the policy for further public overview prior to finalization. While we do not have body cameras yet, having a policy in place positions the Bureau well in terms of being able to move forward with that once that happens, rather than purchase equipment and then try to craft a well-reasoned, workable policy.
 As you noted, Mayor Hales, with the tentative agreement, the Portland Police Association has agreed to withdraw 11 grievances and agreed to a settlement of one. Many of these, all of these are in the interest of the city because when we go to arbitration, it is the third party that ultimately makes the decision and removes control from the city.
 Several of them, as you mentioned, could have significant impacts on the police bureau's ability to continue some important changes. You mentioned the five-shift configuration, the outside rotational support, the staffing agreements, all, if the city did not prevail in arbitration, could again have a significant impact on the bureau's ability to continue staffing.
 The discipline grievance that was withdrawn as well also paves the way to put in place the discipline matrix, which again has been a component of our settlement agreement with the Department of Justice.
 One of the things that the Portland Police Association has agreed to, which is beneficial to its members, to the Bureau and to the city, is moving to a city self-insured plan, which is different from their current insured program. This will reduce costs to the Bureau. And also the Portland Police Association has agreed to a wellness component plan
 in that plan that requires a member to visit a treatment provider at least once every two years in order to retain a 5% premium share. If they do not do that, the premium share moves to 10%.
 While this doesn't sound like a lot, the import of this is that we know if individuals have a relationship with their treatment provider, they are more likely to disclose conditions, have earlier treatment, which is, of course, excellent for the individual, but also in the end keeps the city's costs down for our self-insured health insurance program.
 I have great concern, as you mentioned, Mayor Hales, is the ability to attract and retain qualified police officers. This is a competitive market. And what we are looking at is an increased complexity of work, increased calls, rightfully so, for transparency and accountability, and accountability.
 Expectations that are also correct and right around new ways to work with mentally ill individuals in the community, and increased community presence. So we want to be able to recruit officers who embrace and thrive doing police work in this environment, in these working conditions.
 It's not to say we don't have officers who do that already, but that in the few years we do our recruitment efforts will be the type of people that we are looking for. And that is extremely critical. And again, we are not the only police agency looking for that skill set.
 The tentative agreement reduces the probationary period for lateral hires. Right now that is the same as an entry-level officer at 18 months, reduces it to 12. Not surprisingly, asking an experienced officer to come to the city of Portland and then have a year and a half on probation really has been too big an ask, and we are not competitive there.
 It creates incentives for new officers, lateral officers to join the Bureau, monetary incentives, as well as what we've termed a finder's fee for officers who bring a candidate into the Bureau. Okay.
 The tentative agreement also implements a new retire-rehire program. That is also a key component in terms of what is a multi-pronged approach to addressing the staffing issues. Currently, police officers who retire from the City of Portland often go to work for another agency. They were prohibited from doing so.
 For doing so under our current contract, this opens that up, and the hope is that many will stay post-retirement, which again helps fill that gap. And given the high numbers of eligible officers to retire, this again is a key component of our overarching staffing plan.
 The tentative agreement obligates both the union and the city to discuss implementation of a community service officer program. This is a program that has more routine work being performed by the community service officers.
 leaving our more experienced and trained police officers to do the work that we think is much more important, going out to the communities, doing active, proactive police work rather than simply responding to calls and writing low-level tickets. We also are obligating ourselves to discuss implementation of a student loan reimbursement program. Again, this is a national problem with the crushing debt that so many students are facing.
 student loan reimbursement program for new hires would be another tool in our toolkit in order to increase our ability to be the agency that is most competitive in terms of bringing in new qualified officers to the city of Portland.
 The tentative agreement, as you mentioned, Mayor Hales, moves the entry rate of police officers to our current six-month rate. Right now, the Portland Police Bureau has the lowest entry rate in the state, despite the fact that we have the most complex policing in the city of Portland. And it has been a barrier to our ability to attract new officers here.
 The tentative agreement also adds three new steps over the course of three years with an additional 3% between the steps, which means officers will top out after eight years instead of five years.
 We believe this is also a very important component, again, in our multi-pronged approach to address the staffing issues in order to make the pay for our officers very competitive with the rest of the western region and the country.
 When fully implemented, the ongoing cost of the agreement without adding in the cost of living is $6.6 million. While this is by no means an insignificant number, the staffing issues facing the Bureau are also not insignificant. Okay.
 The public work session on police staffing painted a very bleak picture. Decreased staffing impacts response time. Decreased staffing impacts the ability to connect with our communities. Officers have been less able to attend community meetings or simply stop to engage with children in the community. Thank you.
 because of the need to respond, of course, to the most critical calls. Decreased staffing will lead to increased crime, most likely in our most vulnerable neighborhoods. The tentative agreement is a balanced agreement designed to address, again, as I said, our most pressing problems and will position the city and the Bureau well to be a competitive and attractive agency.
 This is also the agreement, a result, and a model of collaboration to meet the needs of both the city and the police with our work with the police union. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? I just have a clarification question. In the findings in the ordinance number 11, it says it refers to the public process to discuss body-worn camera policies, right?
 But then in the last sentence, it says, following this public review and comment process, the Portland Police Association and the Portland Police Bureau will meet to discuss finalization of the body-worn camera policy. So would it still have to come back to council? I don't know, actually. I don't think so. Because the policy is separate. Yeah.
 dictated by the chief, they have to be, in some cases, they have to be bargained. In some cases, they aren't. But they don't typically come to council. So the commissioner in charge of the police bureau would be working with the police chief? Yeah. I mean, we're obviously going to have a public process about body warm member policy. Then it's the commissioner in charge who signs off and the chief who, thank you for that clarification. There was also a discussion of community service officers who might, I don't know if you, Mr.
 You didn't mention that. That is in the proposed contract. Yes. Yes. And I'm actually not finding the tuition reimbursement for new recruits. No, it's in the contract as well.
 Or, Lisa, if you could just point this in the right direction. Thank you. I will find the page for you. It is there. Thank you. Yeah, both of those suggestions that were good ones, I appreciate those are in the proposed contract. So, I was wondering, those are suggestions that Commissioner Fritz made about both a tuition reimbursement incentive for officers that we're recruiting and the use of what are called community service officers.
 done in other cities where there are public safety officers, they're not armed, but they're allowed to do some police work that otherwise would be performed by police officers, basically stretching the resource that we have. Eugene uses them, for example. Okay, other questions for Anna or points that you wanted to add? Sorry. So then Daryl Turner is going to come up. Okay, so when I hear from the Portland Police Association, then we'll take public testimony after that. So thank you very much, Anna. We might have other questions later in the hearing. Yes, I'll be here. All right.
 All right. Mr. Turner, come on up, please. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Harrells, commissioners. I'm Officer Darrell Turner, 25-year-plus veteran of the Portland Police Bureau and the president of the Portland Police Association. First, I'd have to excuse me. I'm getting over a cold, and I actually feel great, but I sound terrible. So if I take a sip of water to clear my throat, please excuse that. Okay.
 This was a long process. This process involved many facets. The facets that I want to talk about, Director Canwitt talked about a lot of those facets. I want to talk about the staffing issues and the community concerns.
 Obviously, over the last two and a half to three years, we've seen the police force dwindle to a point where we have catastrophic staffing issues, where we were only taking calls for service, call to call to call, where we weren't able to get out and be proactive. And what I mean by proactive, those are the community concerns I'm talking about. Engage with the community. Be proactive in the neighborhoods. Listen to what the community had to say, and not only listen to it, but incorporate those in our practices. We weren't able to do those things because we're basically going from call to call to
 Every shift we were hiring on overtime because we needed those minimum staffing to be able to answer those calls. We've seen the dynamics of the city of Portland change in the last seven to eight years, and a lot of it has to do with the staffing of the Portland Police Bureau and the lack of resources that we were able to avail 10 years ago.
 For a dozen years, I worked the Old Town District, and I was proud to be able to walk my district. I was proud to be able to meet with the business owners and with the residents and with the people who lived in the community there in Old Town. I was proud of that. That was a sense of pride to me to come to work every day. And then with the staffing issues, officers aren't able to do that in their communities, and we wanted them to be able to do that in those communities. Those are the community concerns we wanted to address as well as the staffing issues we wanted to address.
 Last night I texted Anna Canwitt with our results of our ratification vote. Ninety-one percent of our members voted. That's a record vote from our membership. We were looking at the former record was around 75%, 77%.
 95% voted yes, another record. 5% voted no. So that's another record. Our members are engaged. They want to be able to do policing the way Portland wants to be able to be policed. They want to be able to give resources to a diverse and changing communities that they work in. And they want to be able to do that in a way which is meaningful to the community. And the only way to do that is to bolster our staffing. To keep the best of the best that we have right now, but not only that, to bring in the best of the best that we can.
 In the last week and a half, I've talked to over a dozen officers who can retire in October. They are going to stay based on this collective bargaining agreement. They're going to stay here in Portland. They're going to stay with us either one way or another, either in the retiree hire program, or they're going to stay just another few years before they decide to retire.
 They want to be here. They want to police Portland. They want to do it the way Portlanders want it to be policed, but we can't do it at the staffing levels that we have right now. I want to thank you. I want to thank the commissioners for – I've met with all the commissioners at least once or twice to talk about this. I had a lot of contact with you and your staff, and obviously you were proponents of this. I want to thank Anna Canwitt and her staff for also pushing forward.
 But for the police officers of Portland who do the work, they're the ones who are really going to benefit because they're going to be able to work in the community. The community is going to benefit because they're going to have the police officers they want in their communities doing the things they want in their communities. People talk about police reform and different police reforms. We can talk about the 48-hour rule, which is something that was put into the contract in the 1970s, and now we're going to take it out because we have community concerns about that.
 We want to make sure we build more trust in the community. We want to build on the relationships we already have in the community. We want to build on the friendships and partnerships we have in the community. And the way to do it is to build trust and to show that things like the 48-hour rule can go away and we can still do the effective policing. We can still protect Portland police officers, but we can still do the things that we need to do in the community. So those are things we want to talk about. And like I said, I had over a dozen officers in the last week and a half or so come to me and say, I'm staying.
 We're going to bring more people in. We're going to retain more people, and that will help the community, and that's what we wanted to do with this contract, and that's why we started these conversations earlier rather than later because of the catastrophic staffing issues and the lack of resources and the lack of community contact that we had over the last two and a half years. Mayor, I have a question. Please. Excuse me.
 Darrell, you make a case for how this contract will help us retain quality, experienced officers. Yes, sir. I can just say from some of the media I've sampled, there's some skepticism in the public that it will help us recruit the officers we need to address the staffing. Tell us what your confidence level is that with some of the changes that we're proposing, we'll be able to effectively compete for the officers that we want to have work for us.
 I will tell you, your best recruiters will be your officers that are working here right now. When we have people who want to become Portland police officers come here and go on ride-alongs, who talk to the other officers, and they talk to them and they say, why do you want to be here? Why are you here in Portland? Why have you stayed 10, 15, 20 years? Why have you done that? And it's because the community values our work.
 Our leaders value our work, and we want to be here because we want to be the best of the best, but also this is the most dynamic nuances that we have for the city of Portland to deal with issues that you wouldn't have anywhere else. Those are things police officers want to do. I know it sounds corny, but police officers want to work. They want to help people.
 We are here to help people. We're here to make sure that those who need the help, those who don't have the resources, they need to get those resources. And when we do that, I mean, the enthusiasm, like I'm showing a little bit right now, actually comes out because that's what they want. And all police officers, anybody who wants to do this job should have that enthusiasm. And that means that when we have those people, that enthusiasm here that we've retained, bring other people in, and they will –
 Folks, let's let him speak, please. That will give us the ability to recruit new officers as well as latter officers who want to come from other places. Portland officers, the most diversity in jobs that you can do
 and any police agency in the state. And police officers who want to do this work want to come here. And when they listen to all the officers who have been here and the enthusiasm they have and the happiness that they have for being here, they'll come here. And like I said, I talked to at least a dozen or more officers in the last week and a half that were going to retire in October. They were gone. They were finished. And now they're going to stay.
 And we actually have an officer who I'm not going to name because I don't know if he gave his notice yet, who went to another agency and who called and said, I'm coming back. I miss Portland. I miss the city. I miss the police work. So that's the dynamic that this brings. And the retention of the officers that are the best of the best bring in and also the best of the best will benefit the community, will benefit our agency, will benefit the city.
 Thank you very much. Well, I just want to say, Daryl, that... May I? Go ahead, please. Mr. Turner, we've talked before about the fact that major crimes in the city have declined 35%, 40% since 20 years ago, and the police force is approximately the same size. Now, I know the number of calls has not gone down. In fact, it's gone up.
 And my understanding is the reason for that is we get a lot of calls about things that aren't really crimes. So my question for you is, do you think that over time community service officers could handle a large percentage of these calls that aren't about traditional crimes? Sure.
 I think there's going to be a level they may be able to handle, but I think in general, most people will – you don't know what you get until you get there, but I think most people also want police officers there. Not because a community service officer can't avail all the resources, but they just feel more comfortable with police officers. They are availing resources.
 having confidence in the fact that they're getting the best of the best. They're getting advice. They're getting resources. They're getting the help they want and they need. We talk about people who, I don't know if I've talked to you about it, but I've talked to the other commissioners about going to a cold burglary as opposed to somebody calling in to say, hey, my house was burglarized, and so I want to make a report over the phone. When I used to go to a cold burglary and other police officers, and we had the staffing,
 I not only went to that burglary and talked to that person, I would check their closets, under their bed, in their attic, and in their basement, so they would feel comfortable nobody else was there. So when I left, they felt comfortable that their house was safe. After being violated and burglarized, they felt comfortable their house was safe. Those are the things that the staffing of the police bureau will bring to other people, that confidence level, that safety level that Portlanders deserve and need.
 Other questions for Daryl? Daryl, I just want to say that labor negotiations under the State of Oregon's Public Employee Collective Bargaining Act are never easy. And it is a negotiation. So you have to get to yes in this process. And I just want to say I appreciate the positive approach that you've taken and that your leadership and the Portland Police Association have taken. These are always difficult. There's things we don't agree on.
 but the fact that you, the way you conducted yourself and yourselves in this process enabled us to get to an agreement that I think is in the best interest of the community and of our police officers, and I just want to say I appreciate it. I thank you, and I thank everybody up in front of me, and Commissioner Saltzman, who's not here right now, for your help, for listening, for at least making decisions based on what you heard and making sound decisions. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay, let's turn to the sign-up sheet, please. And again, folks, again, our apologies, but we're going to be taking a break. Whoever is speaking, could we ask you to stop so that folks can hear? We're going to take a break at 11 o'clock because we're going to lose a quorum. So we'll take as many people as we can before that based on the sign-up sheet. We told people three minutes. I think we should stick with three minutes even though it will mean some folks will have to come back.
 Okay. The first three, please come on up, are Isabel Sheridan, Dr. Leroy Haynes, Jr., and Dan Handelman, and they'll be followed by Joanne Hardesty, Khalil Edwards, and Kimberly McCullough. Dr. Haynes is here. Good morning. Dr. Haynes isn't here. Let's go ahead and go with Joanne Hardesty. Ms. Sheridan, I think you're first. Go ahead.
 Thank you. As I listened to the presentations, I think some of this is old, and so I'm going to go through it quickly and then say a couple of things personally. Mayor Hales and members of the City Council.
 I've read three communications to you from the Albina Ministerial Alliance Coalition for Justice and Police Reform. First, the letter of September 25, 2016, calling for the elimination of the 48-hour rule. I'm so glad you're doing that. Second, the AMA's proposals of August 17, 2016, regarding this upcoming PPA contract.
 Third, the AMA's proposed policies for Portland police regarding the use of body cameras sent to you via email on September 17, 2015. I agree with all these proposals. The need for communities to have a say in changing the above-noted elements in police contracts is a national concern.
 I refer you to the New York Times lead editorial of September 3, 2016. It's noteworthy that the Times saw the 24-hour wait time before Chicago police were questioned after deadly force incidents as too long. We have a 48-hour wait time in the current police contract. I am a white, retired professional lawyer.
 who moved to Portland intentionally because of the quality of life I wanted in my retirement. I could live a relatively safe life here if I did not get involved in this issue, but I want to be involved. I want to see the Portland police culture change in deep, significant ways so that people of color can feel safe being in public the way I do. Thank you.
 I am not referring to people who are in the process of committing a crime, people of any color. Of course we want police to take care of that. I am referring to people who are simply walking down the street or in the mall or who are legally parked in their own cars in a traditionally white neighborhood. Community policing relies on the goodwill of the community. Racial profiling is always violent.
 always psychologically, sometimes physically. When ordinary citizens are subjected to unjustified violence by police, those citizens feel angry and humiliated. They no longer trust the police to respect their dignity or their lives.
 The City Council needs to change the police contract in the ways recommended by the AMA. I think some of those things have been done, maybe not all. And the training mandated by the DOJ settlement needs to include mandatory in-depth trainings on implicit bias and white privilege practices.
 excuse me ma'am everybody's waiting to testify so she's on her last night i'm out of time yeah yeah but we until police behavior changes thank you very much appreciate you being here this morning thank you yeah good morning uh good morning mayor and commissioners i'm dan handelman with portland cop watch and we call upon the city council to slow down the process i'm sorry dan hang on stop this night folks we really need folks to be quiet enough that we can hear and you can hear who's speaking
 So go ahead, please, Dan. We call on you to slow down this process on ratifying this proposed contract for the PPA. The term of the contract is three years, and the old contract doesn't expire until next June. So it will lock in impediments to accountability until mid-2020 when the next mayor's race is underway. It would make more sense to allow the incoming mayor to negotiate the terms the police officer has contracted he has to supervise for the next four years.
 While it has been an important goal of the community to get rid of the 48-hour rule, doing away with that cannot be the sole achievement of this round of bargaining. The PPA made it clear to the COAB last year that they believe the rule was necessary based on science that dictates a person needs two sleep cycles to refresh their memories. The fact that they are willing to give up this rule in exchange for pay raises means that devotion to this pseudoscience is way for thin.
 Furthermore, the city attorney told Judge Simon last fall that the 48-hour rule has rarely, if ever, been invoked in recent years as officers have come in voluntarily for interviews three or more days after shooting incidents. Moreover, it seems as if officers will have longer than 48 hours in cases where they will now be allowed to review not just their police reports but body camera footage in non-deadly force cases.
 By giving away the financial demands of the PPA in exchange for removing just one public policy issue, the city has nothing left to negotiate for further changes. We sent a letter to the mayor and the mayor-elect in conjunction with the AMA coalition and the NAACP outlining changes that should be negotiated into this contract. For example, we called the city to fix the binding arbitration clause for officers who are fired so they'll stay fired.
 Our suggestion was to move deadly force incidents to the civil service board system so that ultimately a judge and not a biased arbitrator could decide if firing an officer is valid.
 We listed a number of issues in the contract that act to impede our police oversight system. IPR Director Constantine Sevier outlined some of those aspects in a presentation to Council just two weeks ago. Those elements include the ability of IPR to investigate officer-involved shootings and compel officer testimony, and for the CRC to be able to hear deadly force case appeals. We had also urged the City not to allow the PPA to bargain their ability to review body camera footage before writing their police reports.
 While it's not written into the contract, the ordinance you're considering specifically lists that issue as a mandatory subject of bargaining. Even though there's no prohibition in the draft policy saying there is a prohibition, saying there's an exception when officers use deadly force, A, that policy can be rewritten unless counsel formalizes it into code, and B, there's no such exception for use of force which causes injury but not death.
 The August letter also asks that the city make drug testing mandatory after deadly and excessive force incidents the same way federal rules require truck drivers to take drug tests when they injure or kill someone in an accident. I just want to add that there's a couple of people we know have written to you.
 The AMA Coalition, I don't know why Dr. Haynes didn't make it down here this morning, Legal and Voters, Sisters of the Road, two former CRC members, including T.J. Browning, and the Mental Health Association. And there's a lot of community concern that you're rushing this into place and leaving the new mayor with unaccountable police who are getting very well reimbursed. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and City Council members. For the record, I'm Joanne Hardesty, and I'm the president of the NAACP Portland branch. I am here today to ask you, where's the fire? I understand that you say that we are short on police officers, but I ask you, have you considered that we're in a new era of policing?
 We want different types of police officers to patrol our streets. We don't want armed occupiers. We want people who are willing to work with community to solve crime.
 I sent you a letter with real details, but here's my, one of my biggest concerns is that there's no criteria for retiring officers who will come back at the top of their pay grade if they want to. There's no criteria to determine whether or not they're culturally competent.
 and whether or not they build community relations or destroy community relations. There's no criteria to determine whether or not those officers actually are good police officers that should be added back to the police force. And so what you are creating is a system where we're going to pay the most expensive overtime cost to the most senior officers.
 whether or not they are the right people to get overtime. It would make sense that when you're bargaining a contract, that you would try to help the junior officers get more hours so that they get more experience, so that they become better community police officers.
 What you have done is created a pay for performance system that rewards people for just basically being in uniform on the street.
 This is a new era of policing. We have a new expectation of how police will engage with community members. We don't want the same old, same old. We don't want the robocops on our street. What we want are police officers who have cultural competency, that know the community they police, that are respectful of all people, regardless of whether they are houseless, whether they are people of color, whether they are children in our communities.
 This contract does absolutely nothing to create a vision of what's possible. And I think the Trojan horse is you take away the 48-hour rule, and then you have an unlimited amount of time to review video footage.
 And so now it's not just 48-hour hours that we're annoyed with. Now you've got days, maybe weeks, maybe months before police officers will have the opportunity to review video that only police officers can review in the first place.
 You cannot present that as an accountability measure when the only people that get to see the video, the only people that decide when to turn it on, the only people that decide what's important in the video are police officers. That's ludicrous. Please give the next mayor the opportunity to share a vision of policing and let us hold him accountable for the contract that we will be living under. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 The next three are Khalil Edwards, Kimberly McCullough, and Teresa Rayford, and they'll be followed by Ashley Albies, Tom Steenson, and Carol Lansman. Good morning. Morning. Mayor Hales in Portland City Council. I'm Khalil Edwards, Racial Justice and Alliance Building Manager at Basic Rights Oregon, the state's largest LGBTQ policy and advocacy organization.
 The LGBTQ community knows well what it's like to be the target of police violence, raids, abuse, and profiling, which is why we continue to stand with this coalition on this issue of policy, accountability, and transparency. The mistrust and fear our collective communities have about our criminal justice system is based on real experiences and a long history of misconduct from a system in desperate need of reform.
 This mistrust will not disappear until we deliver an open and transparent process around police accountability and reform. We recognize that this process can be painful and uncomfortable. This is democracy at work. The process of openness, transparency, and inclusion will go a long way toward building the trust the community needs in our criminal justice system.
 On behalf of Basic Rights Oregon, we join our partners in asking the City Council to slow down the process on ratifying a proposed contract for the Portland Police Association. It is premature and works against the progress of healing our communities. Address the many issues in the contract that act to impede our police oversight system.
 Finally, we would add that it is important to not lose sight of the goal of this process. We are here because of the lack of trust the community has in this process. The only way to rebuild that trust is for the city of Portland to be transparent and inclusive of the communities most affected. Give us a voice in this process. Do not separate this discussion from community oversight.
 We appreciate the work that has been done towards progress. We must do away with the 48-hour rule, and we must do this the right way. Poiliners deserve better. So let's get this process right. Slow this process down. Thank you for the opportunity. Thank you very much.
 Mayor Hills and commissioners, my name is Kimberly McCullough. I'm the legislative director at the ACLU of Oregon. I have submitted written testimony that has more details on what I'm going to say here. So I hope that you do take the time to look at it.
 As an initial matter, we are very disappointed that the whole CBA process has been done behind closed doors. There are a lot of issues in the CBA that impact our community in very serious ways, and the fact that the community has only now seen a draft CBA and a draft body cam policy so late into this process and just before ratification is very disappointing to us. That is particularly so as it relates to the body camera policy.
 We and myself personally were heavily involved in negotiations over the statewide body camera legislation, and we worked very closely with city representatives on that. It was what I believed was our mutual understanding and what I heard from legislators over and over and over again, that the body camera policies at the local level were to be crafted after a very collaborative approach with the community, and that's not what we've seen happen here. Okay.
 Just to frame the issues, body cameras do have potential to be an oversight and accountability tool, but the policies that are attached to them have to be right. If the policies aren't right, they won't do what the community needs. And they won't feel like something that, you know, they've been offered to the community as body cameras are the solution to this problem, right? But if the policy is not right, the community is not going to see it that way. So then why do it at all?
 We have a lot of concerns about some of the particular issues in the body cam policy. I've done my best to review that as quickly as I can in the few days that I've been able to look at it, right, before it came here. So we do have more feedback. We will give more feedback. I've also attached a copy of my testimony back in May to this council and the body camera policy recommendations that we've sent to the mayor's office with offers to
 to work with this commission, to work with the police bureau, to work with all of the stakeholders involved on crafting a proper body cam policy. We've made those offers. We think that that needs to happen. We think stakeholders need to be brought together in a room to discuss this. Instead, what's happened is there were some community forums. Apparently, there were six. I only heard about three of them. I heard about one the day that it happened.
 and another two days before it happened, and another after it happened in the news, I have searched the internet far and wide and can't even find evidence anywhere of the other three. So if they were well publicized, you would think that there would be something online about them and that a group like the ACLU of Oregon would have known that they happened. So I just don't think that those forums were sufficient
 Beyond that, there was an online form that you could put information into. Giving general input is not the same as looking at a draft policy and commenting on it. There are things in this policy that I did not anticipate would even be there, so how was I supposed to comment on them in the first place? If this – I realize my time is ending here, but if –
 ratifying this agreement truly does nothing to the body cam policy. And if we can truly make changes, then why include it in this ratification at all? And why is it saying specifically that it's just going to go through the universal review and comment process, which, again, is an online form. It's not bringing stakeholders to a table. And why does the agreement explicitly state that officers reviewing footage, which is our biggest issue with this contract –
 that that is a mandatory bargaining issue rather than a permissive issue, right? Mandatory issues are like wages and hours, right, and terms and conditions of employment. But review of footage is...
 that is something that's super important to public safety and this council's responsibility to our community. So that should be a permissive issue. And I'm just very concerned that we're moving way too fast with too little time for input. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Can I just ask a clarifying question? Yeah.
 I asked about that, finding 11. Although it will be your or the police commissioner's right to finalize the policy, we haven't as counsel asked the Bureau to go back to go look into body cameras. So is it your intent and presumably Mayor-elect Wheeler's intent that there will be a council public hearing on it? I would expect that, yeah. I'm going to do that.
 So while we're working on the policy, again, what this agreement says is keep working on the policy. You're right. So that process is going to be public, and I think having the council involved in it would be a necessary step. So I'll certainly commit to that. So with that in mind, does that –
 Because what I read is that it says that it will go through the universal review and comment process. It says that in the agreement. And it doesn't say anything about this council ever looking at it again. It doesn't say anything about stakeholders being convened. So I have deep concerns that what's on paper here is not the process that the legislature anticipated. I ran into a senator on the way here, and I said, look at what's happening. And he was like, what? Yeah.
 I'll make sure we clarify that. I'm going to get Anna back up to talk about that later. But it's my intent that the city council review the body camera policy, not just me and the police chief. It is our prerogative to produce it. Obviously, there's going to be public involvement in creating it. But it's an important enough issue that I think we talked about this at the work session, that the council obviously needs to be involved in the public.
 needs to have a chance to talk about the proposed body camera policy when it's there in front of us. So I want to do that. I will do that while I am still here. Ms. McCullough, I've got a question for you, and I don't want to get too into the weeds because a lot of people don't want to speak, but I know that we've heard a lot in the past several years about eyewitness testimony often being inaccurate, not because people lie necessarily, although sometimes they do, but just because people don't recall correctly.
 So I can see the idea of, I mean, I think some people think that if you give the officers a chance to review the body camper footage, then it'll save them from lying. But it'll also just save them from misremembering.
 My concern, though, is that if we allow officers to review the footage, but you don't allow the other people involved in the incident, the suspects or whoever, to review the footage, then you will often wind up with situations where it looks like the police officer is truthful and the suspect is not, just because one had an opportunity to review the footage and the other did not. So I'm curious if you would consider the possibility that
 having police officers review body camera footage might be okay, as long as you allowed suspects or others involved in the situation to also review the footage before they give a statement. Thank you for the question, Commissioner Novick. I totally get what you're getting at, but I think we have a slightly different approach, which is that the officer should write their report without reviewing the footage. They can then review the footage after that, right? And then they can make clarifications.
 If there's just a problem with eyewitness memory being faulty, there's like a slew of recitals in this agreement, in the body camera policy itself, about that very exact issue. And I think there's going to be an understanding on the part of judges and so on that memory can sometimes be infallible, but what...
 letting them review the footage ahead of time does is in those situations where someone is intentionally being deceitful, we won't catch it. And I'd like to just give one very quick example that would illustrate that. We at the ACLU have actually, it's been brought to our attention, situations where officers have learned to move their body in such a way that the body camera doesn't
 actually pick up the footage. And there was one particular incident where they were yelling at this man, stop resisting, stop resisting, stop resisting, while they beat him. And they turned their chest another direction. And then an eyewitness caught it on their own video. Now, if that officer had been able to review that footage before they wrote their report, then they'd be like, oh, look, I managed to do what I was trying to do.
 And now I'm not saying that all officers lie, right? I realize that there's a lot of police officers that go into this job, the vast majority, who want to protect their communities. They want to help people. But the problem is that we get these stories of officers harming people and lying. And this right here is something that we hear from the community is a huge concern. So it...
 I just feel like it's going to unravel the positive impact of body cam footage. So write the report, review the footage, have the opportunity to make updates. And if there's some sort of fallibility there, a judge is going to get that. Okay. Thank you very much. Look forward to more discussions. Thank you. Okay. Go ahead, please. Thank you.
 For the record, my name is Teresa Rayford. I'm the lead organizer of Don't Shoot Portland. We're an extremely active Black Lives Matter movement here in Oregon. My first thing is that I just want to state what accountability looks like. As a police accountability activist,
 when we came into the opportunity to engage with the city of Portland, our mayor and our commissioners, Independent Police Review, and anyone else that stood on the front of public service. We felt like by working with you, by creating dialogue, by attending sessions in Salem and speaking towards the legislation of body cams and working with special prosecutor language with senators that were writing the language specifically,
 by bringing people out to testify and meet with their legislators and their representatives, and even coming in here, having dialogues with Darrell Turner, being active with the COAB process, promoting it to our community. We thought that those were angles of activity that would show that we were being accountable.
 When we get to this situation and we're told that we should have been a part of this six months ago in order to say, you know, credibly that the process needs to be delayed because there hasn't been enough community engagement in regards to the policies that are still watered down. And I'm not saying that everything that's in there is not right. I'm saying that there are a lot of people in this community for a very long amount of time that have said that we have issues with community policing. We've already got the McCormick.
 MacArthur Red Foundation report that says that there is a problem with over-policing minorities in Multnomah County. Our jails are filled with children in and out of McLaren and Oregon State Penitentiary for very low-level crimes. We are waiving children's FERPA rights just so that they can receive wraparound services through Multnomah County. Those FERPA rights are being waived, and their information is shared with different city bureaus. That's causing more over-representation in our criminal justice system.
 for the juveniles is causing dysfunction and over-representation in the foster care system for those families that are vulnerable, that live in poverty. And the biggest enforcement tool that you have for all of this is our police.
 And so if we're saying that the humanity of those most vulnerable citizens in this state are being undermined by the law enforcement, the over-representation, the over-policing, and we've managed to organize in a way where we can engage with you, at this point where I'm standing in front of a board that is five people white and I'm black, and you know we've been out there saying Black Lives Matter, I don't see that you care. I can't say that at all that any part of us,
 Trying to engage with people that have power has given us any kind of understanding that safety is a part of the initiatives that you guys are seeking in these new contract negotiations. We have a new mayor-elect that is taking office in January. This is not even due for signing until June. We're asking you. We've been begging you. We're demanding that you delay it.
 For the same reasons that Dan Handelman from Portland Cod Watch, from NAACP, from Basic Rights Oregon, from AMA, and from the ACLU, and any other organization, their statements are valid. We need you to delay this process. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next three are Ashley Albies, Tom Steenson, and Carol Landsman, and they will be followed by Gary Marshy, Charles Johnson, and Robert West. Thank you.
 Good morning. I don't remember what the order was, so whoever goes first wants to go first. Go ahead. Sure. Good morning, commissioners. Good morning, mayor. My name is Ashley Albies. I'm with the Portland chapter of the National Lawyers Guild. We've been involved with police accountability and oversight in this city for many, many years, and we appreciate the opportunity to testify here today on this proposed ordinance that would ratify the collective bargaining agreement.
 As an initial matter, Mayor Hales, I was here and I heard you this morning say that staffing is a critical issue, and that's part of the reason for negotiating this contract mid-contract instead of next year, less than a year when the current contract ends. And our position is if you're going to do it now, do it right. There are a lot of issues that are not addressed by this collective bargaining agreement that relate directly to staff
 police oversight and accountability. The National Lawyers Guild strongly affirms the right to bargain over the terms and conditions of employment. We strongly, strongly support labor rights. But where public policy related to police accountability and oversight, relating to the safety of our community, relating to holding officers accountable when they violate laws,
 the law, when they violate directives, when they threaten community members, when they make people feel unsafe. Those issues are public policy issues that should not be bargained for behind closed doors. The police have awesome power in this society. They can enforce the law. They can arrest people. They can use force against community members, and they can take a life if necessary. The people here today are speaking out because they want one thing, and that is a check on this power.
 Teresa Rayford made the point that the red report shows that there's a disproportionate
 policing against communities of color in this city, in this state. The Pullerton police data itself, collected data itself, shows that there's disproportionate policing in this city. We applaud the elimination of the 48-hour rule, but again, what is currently existing in this contract allows a, quote, reasonable opportunity or reasonable time for officers not involved in deadly force incidents, but say if it's a profiling complaint or a discrimination complaint, to review that footage,
 before writing their report, and this goes to Commissioner Novick's question about, you know, can they correct mis-memory, but the point is that, again, this is a tool for accountability. If somebody, an officer, is accused of profiling and that officer has the opportunity to go back and look at that,
 police footage and then all of a sudden find a law that was broken. There's a lot of laws that can be broken just by walking down the street, jaywalking. And if that is a bias-based police encounter, it provides the opportunity to skirt accountability by, you know,
 finding a reason and there could be any reason for for Making that stop. I've heard former chief O'Day and Chief Marshman discuss the small amount of use of force that that Portland police members actually Bureau members actually engage in So these accountability tools and these accountability measures are going to apply to a small number of police interactions And it's our position that this oversight additional oversight
 is necessary for those small interactions for officers to be held accountable during those interactions. I've provided additional information about the city conceding that the video policy is subject to mandatory bargaining. I think that's a huge concern. Mayor Hales, you just mentioned.
 stated that you believe that the city council will be able to review that, but that doesn't change that this agreement says that this is subject to mandatory bargaining, which means the PPA has more say than the people of this city over this policy, and we think that's a big mistake. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who would like to be next? Tom? I'm Tom Steenson. Good morning, Mayor and commissioners.
 I'm a member of the Community Oversight Advisory Board. I also chair the Data Systems Use of Force Compliance Subcommittee and I'm a member of the Accountability Subcommittee. Unfortunately, I cannot speak today for the COAB for a couple of reasons that you should be well aware of. First of all, the city has refused to fill vacancies on the COAB. We are now down to eight members instead of 15.
 The city has also refused, as required by the settlement agreement, to have twice-annual meetings with the COAB. The mayor specifically, the chief specifically, and others are to be at those meetings, and those have not been occurring. As a result, on August 12th, we voted—or not voted, but six of the eight of us decided we had to do something because we were not being allowed to meet.
 We voted, the six of us, to recommend that the DOJ find the city in non-compliance with the agreement because of its failure to fill our vacancies and its failure to meet with us. We are supposed to be the go-to community body at this point, and you've put us in a position where we can't hold meetings, and what effectively happened after the vote to have you held in non-compliance
 Seven days later, we were forced into what was called a recess. The DOJ and the city decided we couldn't meet for 60 days. I anticipate that's probably going to be more like six months by the time recommendations for changes get considered, and we are reconstituted in some way. I think it's deplorable that you have not filled the vacancies. I think it's deplorable that you won't meet with us.
 What I want to point out is pending are 44 recommendations on accountability that we spent probably six or eight months meeting with city officials, community members, researching policies throughout the country, and drafting. Unfortunately, because the COAB can't meet, those recommendations can't be considered for a vote. I'm going to make them part of the record. It's a comprehensive analysis of what needs to happen in this city for ongoing police accountability.
 We are terribly concerned. I can only say it individually, but I think I speak for the others as well informally. We are terribly concerned that this contract that you're about ready to sign is going to lock us out of being able to change policy, or not policy, but change provisions in the contract that relate directly to the operation of the IPR, who gets to investigate the police, and it will undermine the efforts of the community to change accountability in this city.
 And so we urge you to slow down. There is no reason to rush this through. Take your time, delay it, and look at our recommendations and address accountability in the fashion that ought to be addressed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. I'm Carol Lansman with Portland Cop Watch. And I guess I want to start by saying something that lots of other folks have said. Cop Watch, Portland Cop Watch, is very dismayed that the bargaining sessions were held behind closed doors. And we don't understand why the city doesn't strive for more transparency. The other thing...
 Thank you. The other thing that concerns us is that, as I think you said and other people again, we don't understand why the police union gets to decide policy issues. I'm an urban transportation planner, and if I came in for a job with the city, I said, well, before I accept this job, I want to negotiate level of service for roadways. I think all of our streets should be B.
 you would look at me like I was crazy. Why am I negotiating a public policy and best practices issue? That seems to be exactly what you're doing with the police. Now we have a series of issues with the immediate policy. And then I'm going to spend a minute telling you, or actually probably less than a minute telling you why I think the whole process has really been done very poorly in the city has failed the public. Uh,
 So these are the things that we don't like in the current policy. CERT is not required to use body cams. And they're the people, they're the officers who are most likely to conduct, to have something violent or untoward happen. Cops don't have to video mere conversations, even if frisking is involved.
 Cops can take advantage of sex crime victims, but interviews won't be taped. We have two Portland police officers who did, in fact, take advantage of sex crime victims, and we would have no record of that.
 Perhaps, oh, the cops don't have to remind people of the right to remain silent. And you also seem to forget that state laws will cause faces to be blurred. Overall, it seems that these policies focus more on prosecuting civilians over holding cops accountable. And that's not surprising because you negotiated with police officers and their union.
 However, I want to talk a little about this process. I went to a couple of those forums. First off, they were very poorly attended. And secondly, well-intentioned or not, the police officers walked in and said, so what do you think we should do? Most people don't think about cop cam policy. What the city had a responsibility to do and failed was to conduct a best practices survey.
 to look at what other cities were doing and then come to the public and say, these are the best practices, these are some of the things we like, what do you guys think? That's where the forum should have started. I mean, it's like coming in, you know, you're going to see your doctor, and your doctor says, I'm sorry, we're going to have to conduct surgery. Why don't you tell me what you think we should operate on? Great. Anyhow.
 In summary, because I have seven sections, put the contract on a hold, allow the mayor to bargain, and create better policies with better public input. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next three are Gary Marshke, Charles Johnson, and Robert West. Okay. And they'll...
 be followed by joe walsh lightning watchdog pdx and jamal williams just a process check here um verify this i'll let these folks speak but um because we're going to lose a quorum at 11 30 we're going to need to reconvene at some point it sounds like we can reconvene earlier than 2 o'clock at 1 30 according to people's offices here so so we'll be taking a recess from 11 to 1 30.
 Welcome. Movers first. Morning. Morning, commissioners. My name is Gary Marschke, and I'm here because the power of privilege is once again being used by this body to silence the voice of the majority. And in this case, they also happen to be the voices of those significantly underrepresented and clearly not as privileged. I'm speaking to the new police union contract and all that it represents.
 Additional millions are being paid out to the perpetrators of the culture of oppression and violence. Meanwhile, police oversight committees are being disbanded. Staff support for efforts to support community-based conversations and solutions is being eliminated. And those that want to change the system from within are once again being manipulated, marginalized, and muted.
 We often wonder why people want to destroy the system. Yet when they try to work within it, privilege works the system to put every conceivable obstacle in their path to ensure the status quo is maintained. That same privilege allows you, the patients, to hide behind the podium while the barbarians at the gates starve for lack of attention or resources. That same privilege allows you to remain oblivious to change.
 The same privilege that hears only the voices of privilege that are doing all they can to perpetuate the status quo. As I said in the beginning, I came here because the community is being silenced, purposely and systematically told their voices don't count. That's privilege in its purest sense. Privilege is preserving the most narrow and uninclusive language when developing public engagement rules and strategies.
 Privilege is using words that narrowly define public participation in democracy to include only like-minded and too often like-looking individuals. Privilege is practicing containment rather than collaboration. I also came here because I happen to be old enough, naive enough, and privileged enough to believe that the system can change and will work.
 Voices that are, I happen to believe that what our system needs is new and fresh voices to bring that new perspective into how our government should work. Voices that are empowered to make change that reflects the diverse community outside rather than the cloistered culture inside. Voices out here asking for a tidbit of some of that privilege. Currently it seems evident that you're doing all you can to stifle those voices and resort once again to the bosom of privilege.
 I call on you instead to empower those voices and embrace the new perspectives rather than exclude them. Start by rejecting the contract, an obvious attempt to ignore the pleas of the community and serve the needs of privilege, and give the community, especially those most directly affected, real and independent voice to make change. You have the power and the privilege. Do the right thing and let change happen. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 My name is Robert Wuss. I'm with Film the Police 911, and there's several issues I want to bring up. One is that you guys made sure that yesterday you were shut down, so we could only get these today. The other thing that I wanted to bring up is that Film the Police and people that go out and film the police are often targeted by the police.
 And as far as professionalism, I don't see professionalism too often. I've been spotlighted with the intent to disrupt my video. One time they had a 122nd and division shut down, and they're allowing people to walk back and forth with media cameras set up. It was a fatal accident.
 I walked across the street with a crowd, and I'm the only one that got a ticket out of it. There was another guy that was with Film the Police. He was driving up the street and got pulled over, and the only thing the officer wrote him up for was not having insurance. Not having insurance is not a reason to pull someone over. You have to have a legitimate reason to stop someone. This year and last year, I'm facing nine cases.
 criminal counts for filming when I'm standing on sidewalks, when I'm standing on, one time I was standing on a divider. I've seen the police go in and lie in my case. I've seen them go in and lie in Tressa Rayford's case. And you're going to sit there and give these officers a pay raise and say, good job, you know. They're sitting there committing crimes. Lying in court is perjury.
 But in the Multnomah County, they don't care about perjury. As long as the officer goes in and says it doesn't matter if it's true or correct or what. And that's a shame. And I would sit there and say, no, these officers don't deserve a pay raise. They don't deserve these extra privileges. I don't see the teacher's contract, but I know they don't have such a nice contract, and they're having to deal with kids all day.
 So they say, oh, police are in a dangerous situation. Firefighters are in their line of duty when they're out doing what they're supposed to be doing, are in more danger than a police officer. A police officer may pull his gun once a month, once a year. A firefighter goes into a burning house once every couple of days. And inside a burning house, anything can happen.
 walls can fall uh they can trip over stuff and get hurt because they don't see it and so to sit there and say that these officers are risking their lives they're not i've seen way too many times that they've brought in a whole bunch of officers when they didn't need them thank you very much mr johnson i think you get the last word for this morning and then we're gonna take a break thank you good morning commissioners for the record my name is charles johnson and uh
 I don't know if he was helped by his phone while he was looking at it, but Steve Novick made one of the most insightful comments here. Crimes, down, down, down, down, down, way down. That's why the police are finding busy work like sending 20 officers to respond at Old Chicago Pizza at 102nd and Burnside when all people have done is tease them in front of their office. That's where you get massive police response. Okay.
 That's why we have so much resources that we can pay or let Apple or Target pay for city police cars to sit idle next to the Apple store and next to the Target store where they don't need to be. So the other problem is more a complicated dynamic, and it's the way that you need to ask yourselves if you are a bunch of mafioso dons. You shake down the taxpayers to finance your brutal thugs. Yeah.
 When the previous city council murdered James Chassie through the police department, you extorted millions of dollars from taxpayers to cover up the police brutality. Well, not to cover it up. It was very obvious. To keep paying his murderers. Now, some of his murderers have left the police department. And, of course, this doesn't just apply to James Chassie. It applies to Kendra James. It applies to Keaton Otis. It applies to way too many people.
 So when we look at the 74-page PDF of a police contract, we don't see any change in the mafioso thug function of the Portland City Council of just transferring money to misbehaving police officers and extorting money out of taxpayers to cover up for mistakes that came from misbehavior.
 It's oversight that never, I can't say never gets any better. We're having a good period. I don't know how long. I hope Dan Handelman's here and later we can find out how long it's been if the police have killed anybody since they killed Michael Johnson, a man in mental distress, near a hospital. That's a proud tradition in Portland. Go to Adventist Hospital without a gun. Have a phone in your hand. Get killed. Get killed.
 Go to Good Sam Hospital. Now that person, at least at Good Sam, Mr. Johnson, was armed. But if we're going to pay the police $6 million more...
 We want to be buying police thugs that are at least less violent, that use their non-lethal weapons 100% of the time. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, folks, so we're going to recess until 1.30, and then folks that have signed up will get a first chance to speak then. Thank you all. We'll recess until 1.30.
 Okay, good afternoon, everybody. Council will return to order. Would you call the roll, please? Holtzman? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everybody. We're going to return to the item that we were on this morning, but I have first I want to bring an amendment to the council. Based on what we were hearing this morning, there's a lot of concern about what the process is going to be
 for both the development of and the public review of our body camera policy. So our clerk has copies of the amendment for anybody that wants to take a look at it, but let me walk briefly through it. What it said before in item number 11 of the ordinance was
 that following substantial public and internal input, the PPA and the Portland Police Bureau have agreed to a draft body camera policy, etc. Now it's going to say, following substantial public and internal input, the Portland Police Association and the Portland Police Bureau have agreed to a draft body-worn camera policy, version 2.2, dated 5-6-16, attached as Exhibit B,
 to exhibit one, and then adds this sentence, substantial additional public input will be required prior to finalization of the policy. Then there's some new language at the very end in item 13.
 This will now be E that will say, Council directs the Police Bureau to convene a stakeholder committee to review the draft body-worn camera policy version 2.2 and national best practices as they continue to evolve. Additionally, the public will be given the opportunity for universal review and to provide public comments through the Bureau's established directives process. A report will be presented to the Council by the stakeholder committee and will be subject to further public input at that time.
 Following this public review and comment process, the PPA and Portland Police Bureau will meet to discuss finalization of the body-worn camera policy. So, in other words, lays out what people were asking that we do, which is, one, involve stakeholders, and two, bring that policy back before the city council.
 before it's finalized. So I want to put that amendment before us now so we can accept it if you want and then take testimony on that in addition to the rest of the matter. Second. Thank you.
 Okay. Further discussion. Again, what we do, folks, is we adopt an amendment like this, take testimony, and then we can throw it out or keep it or whatever based on what we hear. I think it would actually be better if we hear the testimony. All right. Then let's just leave it moved and seconded and leave it on the table, and then you can testify on that as well, and then we'll consider that amendment before we obviously take action on the ordinance itself.
 Do it anyway. And, Mayor, the other clarification that I need to make, because I hadn't understood the memorandum that says that it's a mandatory subject of bargaining, that is the...
 Bureau of Human Resources and the police union acknowledging what the current law is. That's not something that is additional, that it is something that would be subject to bargaining. So that's just a clarification. It's not that we're saying that's the right thing, but it's the thing that's – It's the law. It's the law. Okay. All right. So let's return, please, to the sign-up sheet from this morning, and we'll keep taking folks in the order that they asked to speak.
 The next three are Joe Walsh, Lightning Watchdog PDX, and Jamal Williams. And after them will be Micah Rhodes, Gregory McKelvey, and Karen Mitzner. And again, if any of you want copies of that amendment, I think Carlos got some over there. We're out of copies right now. We're going to get some more then. All right. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. And here we are again.
 I can think of three or four major controversies that group after group have come before you and asked you not to do it. The ACLU, NAACP, Individuals for Justice, Cop Watch, all asked you not to get involved with the terrorist task force, JTTF. You did it anyway. Group after group came before you and asked you,
 not to cover the reservoirs. You're doing it anyway. Group after group asks you not to do the fluoride. You did it anyway. We overrode you. So I'm trying to figure out what brilliant statement we can make that will get you on our side, not amendments, just a stop. Just stop.
 It is amazing to me that Ted Wheeler has not really said much about this. And I think, and it's just pure speculation, that I think he's saying, if it fails, I'll blame Hales. And if it works, I'll take the credit. I think that's what politicians do. A normal person would say, I'm coming into the office. I don't want this contract.
 I want my own contract. I want to meet with the NAACP. I want to meet with Black Lives Matter. I want to meet with individuals for justice and say, what is it you want? You are the citizens. Tell us. We've been here. I've been here for nine years. I have done this for nine years. And this is the worst I've ever seen it. This is the worst.
 And apparently, you are good people. So why is it the worst? I don't have a clue. I really don't. I don't know you to make a judgment on you. I only know what you do. And I only know what you don't do. And what you don't do is listen to us. We represent a lot of people.
 But you won't listen to us. And then you wonder why you have banners on your buildings. Why there's graffiti inside the buildings. This is the beginning, not the end. And if you think I'm a pain in the ass, wait till you see what happens after me. Because I'm mouthy. I'm nonviolent. But what comes after me is really fury. And you better pay attention to this and stop.
 This contract sucks, and you know it, and I know it. The 48-hour rule is a Trojan horse, and you know it. Stop it. You're going out. You think your legacy is going to be based on this? Go ahead. That's what your legacy is.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Some very good speakers in here today. I'll try to cover some points that I have on this issue. Now, on the agreement itself, again, I stated to you, Mayor Hales, on Springwater Trail, hold off on that. Wait until the new mayor steps in position. Give them some time. Let him handle it. Otherwise,
 you'll leave us a disgrace. Now, another issue on this agreement, I'll say this again. Hold off on this agreement. Let the new mayor step in position. And if you don't, it will be considered, as someone said, deplorable. Do not move fast on this agreement. Let the new mayor step in and handle this situation.
 Now, again, pertaining to adding more staff, as you know, in Multnomah County, they're literally beginning to reduce the jail beds in Multnomah County Jail. They've closed off certain sections. They're reducing crime. They're looking at new programs called the LEAD program in Belltown. They're saying that's having a great effect on recidivism, on the turnaround rates, and they think they will not need as many police officers because of that.
 Again, hold off on this agreement. Let the data come in, be presented to the next mayor.
 on the effects of going into a LEAD program and allowing low-level offenders not to go into jail, but to go into treatment, not to have this put on their record, not to damage them from getting housing, not to damage them from getting future employment. These programs are being implemented, they're being funded, they're moving forward right now, they've already closed certain jail beds off in the jail, and they're watching this very close.
 The timing of this is wrong. Let the new mayor step in position and make the determination. We do not need any more police officers, plain and simple. We will not need more police officers. And we can save money by doing this. We're saving money right now. Issue on the body cam. It needs to be a public resource. They need to have control of the film, not the police. We need to have an independent third party authority
 that looks and reviews this film, but is also the property of the public to make certain determinations on how we're going to use that film. If the police are the only ones that have access to the film, it doesn't do the public any good to have the cameras on them. We have to have access. It has to be our property only.
 our property so we can view it, but with a third party in place to allow the public to have access to it. And of course, there will be exceptions to that rule on various issues in the policy. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor and commissioners, my name is Jamal Williams. I represent myself. I've lived in Portland for 46 years. And what is going on right now is the police
 have put language in their contract that circumvents their service to the people. This whole meeting right here is so that the community can weigh in, and there's been an overwhelming amount of testimony in opposition to this. You folks are representatives of the community. You serve the community first, then you serve the police department.
 Please pay attention to the testimony. It doesn't hurt our city at all to wait. It doesn't hurt us at all to wait. When the service position becomes self-serving, there's something really, really wrong with that. And that's what I see happening. The police have covered their own backsides with this language. And we need to have language that works for the people that the police are going to serve.
 I don't have a canned testimony. I don't have a written speech for you guys. I'm just coming to you as a citizen of Portland, a citizen who's been here all my life. And I don't want you guys to continue to treat us like subjects. We are not subjects. We are citizens. And our voice is really, really, it's supposed to mean something. And when the folks feel like they go unheard,
 They will continue to disrupt the regular normal operation of the city. Why go through that? Why put these people through that when they are crying out so loud for so long? Listen to us. Pay attention to us. That's all they're doing. And if you want to pay attention to the police department who the people do not trust,
 then what you're doing is you're creating your own mess. And, Mayor, you're going out. Let the other mayor come in and handle it. There's nothing wrong with that. Just let him come in and handle it. Because if not, this is going to go down, the people are going to protest, and then the whole city is just going to be like, look what the mayor left us. The responsible thing to do is pay attention to your constituents.
 The overwhelming majority of people here today, and this meeting was open to the whole city, so everybody had an opportunity to come. But the people who came are in opposition to this. And you are obligated, you're incumbent to pay attention to that. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Williams? Excuse me, Mr. Williams? Mr. Williams? I'm sorry, I have a question. I'm sorry. I was wondering if you could give me something specific in the contract that you don't like. I don't like the 48-hour rule.
 Right. And I don't like I don't like the language. I don't have the language memorized, but I don't like the language that was already spoken of today. That gives the police total control of the footage from their body cam, as was stated before. What good does that do? I mean, let's let's just be what good does that do?
 Oh, it's our footage. Wait a minute. We wanted to implement the footage. We wanted to put body cams on so that the public can feel safe and know that they can hold us accountable. But by the way, we're going to just hold on to it for ourselves. Not really.
 You understand what I'm saying? So it's that type of language that circumvents the whole community oversight, right? Who do they serve? Who do they work for? We understand that concern, but there's actually nothing in the contract about body cameras. Okay. Well, I misheard that then. And that's why we use more time.
 If the community doesn't know what's in it, that means you haven't represented us by it. Thank you. That's very helpful. Well, I apologize. Maybe I misspoke on that, but I could have swore I heard that. So excuse me, I misspoke on that. But at the same time, I'm here as a concerned citizen saying pay attention to the testimony that's here. Thank you. Yeah, that's it. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 The next three are Micah Rhodes, Gregory McKelvey, and Karen Mitzner, and they'll be followed by Gregory Monahan, Joe Meyer, and Cameron Stark. Right now it's Micah Rhodes, Gregory McKelvey, and Karen Mitzner. And also, if you need a copy of the amendments, we have some more. Okay, welcome. Thank you.
 Gregory's going to go first. Whoever wants to go first, go ahead. As you guys know, my name is Gregory McKelvey. Last name is Gregory McKelvey.
 Last Friday, I helped lead a group of people here. When we were uninvited, we tried to speak with you, and you didn't listen to us. Then we came when we were invited yesterday, and you didn't come, and you didn't listen to us. And now you're still here today. We all know what you guys plan on doing at the end of this, right? And you're just pretending to listen to us. We...
 Every single person has come up here and testified that they don't support this contract. And then you're going to come out here with an amendment? Like, we're going to be happy about that? You know what this amendment says? If you're going to change the contract based on the testimony from the people in that one hour, I assume you guys are going to also amend it after we testify, right?
 Or if this contract was so good that you're going to bring it and represent it to us right now, then why are you just now amending it to make it acceptable to us here? You know what's wrong with this contract? Whatever happens after you guys approve this contract and we're still here protesting and whatever your police force does to us and those police officers are going to continue to do it to us and be at every single one of our protests and never be terminated, that's what's wrong with the contract.
 Whatever happens after here today is on you guys. We tried to speak with you guys, and you didn't listen. Then you invited us here. You still didn't listen. Now we're here where the community is supposed to be heard, and you're just pretending to listen to us. We know exactly what you plan on doing as soon as this is over. And as soon as that is over, I mean, I spent all night. I haven't slept one minute. I spent all night out there, and I'll stay out there because I'm going to stay out here until this contract is delayed. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense.
 that a mayor that is leaving right now, your lame duck mayor is going to fast track this through when it's the next mayor that's going to have to live with the terms of the agreement. What would we lose by putting it off? The contract doesn't lapse until 2017. What are you trying to pull here, right? What...
 benefit could there be for not listening to the community more? If you guys were able to amend that contract based on the testimony we gave this morning, then that shows how valuable our opinion is. That shows how valuable our testimony is. It shows that you guys are willing to listen to it, so why cut us off now? It doesn't make sense. If you respect us, if you respect the community, if you respect the protesters that were here all last night, that were here on Friday, that we led here yesterday to meet with
 you and nobody met with us, then listen to us. If you're going to amend the contract after that much testimony, then you need to allow testimony for a lot longer, I say, until Ted Wheeler comes in. And also, to Ted Wheeler, where the hell are you? And I yield my time to him. So whatever time I have remaining, if I could yield that to him. Go ahead. My name is Micah Rhodes. I'm a lead coordinator with Don't Shoot PDX.
 I also led a march with Gregory on Friday here. And like Gregory said, we were met with riot cops and gang task force was there. And right off the bat, we're met with police opposition trying to lead us where to go, trying to direct traffic away from us, trying to make sure that our message is not heard. And yet here we are in your face right now, and we are the ones you –
 We are the ones who get the blunt end of the force that they push on us. You guys, this does not affect you guys. And you're not even going to be in office by the time this contract is going into place. It doesn't actually matter if you sign it or not. But you're choosing to sign it, and it's not fair because you're not going to be the mayor. It's not your job. It's not going to be your job. Let the next mayor sign it. It's really simple. It does not affect anything. Let the next person who's actually going to be serving sign it.
 Sign the contract or make up their own contract. It's just not up to you And you know what? We have all these people out here Outside and we have more people that are willing to come down and you you bet people are going to come down like we are Going to be here because we want our voice to be heard and we're sitting here talking to you right now But y'all already made up your minds you can assign this thing anyway And it's not gonna make any damn difference what we say to you right now but we're letting the world know as you know news is watching and
 People are watching. People are talking. And just know that we are standing against this contract. And if you are standing with the contract, then you are against the people. And we're your boss. You work for us. Remember that. Thank you. Go ahead. I yield my time to you. Hello, Mayor. Hello, Nick. I'm
 My name is Michael Durow. I am representative of the people elected. I am representative on the MESD in northeast Portland. I wish some other people that represent the people would be here and at least say something. I'm also a perpetual, I've been called a perpetual gadfly, I think, in the Willamette Week. But anyway, the most patriotic people in the city of Portland are here.
 That's why they're here. They don't want to tear the city down. They don't want to mark the city up. They don't want to burn parts of the city. They want to talk. They just want you to listen. Points about the contract because they don't have very much time.
 One of the important things is that we need more time to actually read this. Since it only came out on Friday, and there really hasn't been enough communication during those three days, we need at least two weeks for laypeople to go through this and read this and understand this so we can comment appropriately on it.
 I don't know what the actual language is about the body cams or who holds the video on the body cams or who has access to it.
 But I think it's appropriate that we treat the video on these cameras like we treat government documents. When I worked – I worked for the federal government for six years for the Bonneville Power Administration. And when we generated a document, there was a Federal Records Act.
 which causes every single document we generate to have to be retained. It doesn't belong to us. It doesn't belong to the department we work for. In the long run, it belongs to the federal government and the people, and it goes in the archives because it tells a story about what happens today, that our country is better than anybody else.
 at retaining this kind of records. So we can go back and, you know, we have the Federalist Papers and everything, all the way back to the beginning. Anything that hasn't been burnt, like during the Civil War. Anyway, I would just ask you to, even if you insist that this contract needs to be signed in short order, please include the next mayor. Please give us a few weeks so we can make an informed decision
 informed comments and not come in here and we hardly know what's on it. I mean, we've seen a little bit of it, and that's all we've had time for. We don't need to rush this. I mean, maybe you can set something up so that you guys can deal with the 48-hour rule under some other agreement. But please, give us a chance to have an open, transparent process. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Was there a Gregory McKelvey or a Karen Mitzner? I've got Greg already. Oh. What's that? Okay. I'll go again. All right. Then we'll go with Gregory Monaghan, Joe Meyer, and Cameron Stark. Okay. And they will be followed by Maggie Adam, Brianna Staples, and Danielle James. Hi. Okay, welcome. Hi. Go first. Hi, my name is Gregory Monaghan. Hi.
 I'm here as the representative of the Oregon chapter of the Sierra Club. The Oregon chapter of the Sierra Club stands in solidarity with the NAACP Portland chapter in its opposition to approving the proposed contract. This contract, as it stands, represents a missed opportunity to build trust with the community because it does not address the issue of binding arbitration, which has resulted in a lack of accountability for police officers.
 The contract was negotiated behind closed doors, out of the view of the public. The contract was negotiated by the outgoing mayor, depriving the public of the opportunity to hold the mayor-elect accountable for this critical ordinance. The only opportunity for public comment is the limited time allowed today before the contract is due to be ratified.
 Because the existing contract does not expire until July 2017, the Oregon chapter of the Sierra Club urges the Portland City Council to delay consideration of the contract until Mayor-elect Wheeler has taken office and full public hearings have been held. Additionally, it appears that a procedure for body-worn cameras, body cams, is also going to be discussed today. It was not clear from your agenda. This procedure is listed in the published agenda only as reference B. Thank you.
 This is an important topic which requires a full public discussion. Because body cams are a relatively new technology, there is no recognized standard for their use, which impacts public privacy rights, their use in legal proceedings, and the public's right to view footage. The monetary impact of adopting this policy can also be substantial and needs to be addressed.
 Oregon chapter the Sierra Club urges the Portland City Council to delay any consideration of body cam procedures until there have been full public hearings on this complex topics Please seize this opportunity to build public trust with an open community dialogue in doing so Portland can establish Itself as a leader in community policing. I also have a few comments on your late-breaking amendments to the body cam ordinance Thank you
 First of all, I don't see any definition of PPB in there. You probably know what it means. Oh, Portland Police Bureau. I suggest that unless it's – that that be decoded in the document somewhere. And most people don't understand what the Bureau's established directives process is. I think it would be helpful to clarify that. You do not define how the stakeholder committee will be selected –
 I suggest that every organization that has testified today be considered an interested party and be invited to be a member of the stakeholder committee.
 And my last comment is your final statement in paragraph E here says, following the public review and comment process, the PPA and PPB will meet to discuss finalization of the body worn camera policy. Speaking on behalf of the Sierra Club, I find this completely unacceptable. I think that this needs to come back to council and have another discussion.
 final public hearing and the decision be made in public with public input. Thank you for listening. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Joe Meyer, and I object to this proposed police contract on this theory called civilian control of law enforcement. I volunteered as a reporter at KBOO Radio and as a research scientist with Portland Police Forensics, and I just speak for myself. I hope I don't repeat too much of Mr. Walsh's testimony.
 My objection to this contract is in a context where I personally, at least to the whole world, increasingly rule by force, with strange fruit still dying all over American streets, and where white juries still find white killers innocent and innocent black kids like Muhammad Muhammad guilty. I moved to Portland over 15 years ago, and I haven't always had that nice civilian control of police feeling, and I don't just mean the strip searches at the airport. After Mayor Potter stepped back from the JTTF,
 I think because he didn't have that good civilian control over police feeling. The FBI constructed their famous real Christmas tree and fake bomb show. And the next day, a commissioner, who I would name except he's not here, proposed that we rejoin the JTTF, and sure enough, we did. The scary thing about the tree lighting ceremony for me was that the police chief and select officers were part of this thing, and yet Mayor Adams didn't have a clue. He was up there giving the speech when he was told.
 I've also seen Portland police officers Humphrey and Nice, the brutal murderers of James Chassie, being reinstated with a payback because of an arbitrator that said so. Probably many of you have seen Jason Renaud's Alien Boy and would agree that Chassie didn't really have to die. It was a shocking combination of callousness and brutality by the Portland police that caused his death.
 And it's a good time to remember, in this context, that Portland Union President Daryl Turner is quoted in the Oregonian as saying, Sergeant Nice and Officer Humphreys are trained to be police. They're not paramedics or nurses. And likewise, Rand Frashour, reinstated by some arbitrator that I certainly have no control over, never seen, after he shot in the back and killed an unarmed black man called Aaron Campbell. Say his name. Aaron Campbell. Aaron Campbell.
 None of this adds up to a warm civilian control of police feeling for me. I covered the Muhammad Muhammad federal trial here in Portland and was surprised and saddened at the way law enforcement skillfully prevaricated and outright lied on a witness stand. And they got their all-white conviction. I also covered the disorderly conduct trial of Teresa Rayford and was alarmed at how similarly Portland police prevaricated and outright lied on a witness stand. That's not the kind of police training I want to see from my tax dollar.
 By the end of the trial, I agreed with the defense attorney's claim in his opening statement that Portland Police Sergeant Jacob Clark and Portland Police Officer Susan Billard colluded to deprive Teresa Rayford of her civil liberties. Let's save some money and stop doing that.
 Regarding the issue today, I recommend, along with Portland Cop Watch, Don't Shoot Portland, the ACLU, Many Fine Citizens, Lightning Watch Dog PDX, Mr. Jamal Williams, Mr. Gregory McCaffrey, Mr. Micah Rose, Michael Duro, and CCCP Portland Sierra Club, that we table this for the next city council and use the time to have a real discussion of what civilian control of police looks like in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Cameron Stark, and I am a taxpaying citizen of Portland, Oregon. Guys...
 I'm tired. And I'm not talking about tired from last night. I'm tired because I've been in these streets since 2014. This contract is important to us because this is a chance at justice. It's a chance at accountability. And we don't have this thing come up just every six months or so. This comes up every few years.
 And for somebody who's not even going to be here for the duration of this contract to sign off on it for the next guy is just irresponsible. And I mean, it leaves it open for the next guy to say, hey, I didn't do it. I didn't sign that. I didn't agree to it. But he's got to deal with it. I don't know what I'm trying to get at exactly. But do not sign this contract. And if you guys do sign this contract, we need to vote these guys out of office.
 because it's not fair. We are. I know we are, because I didn't vote for any of them. That's for damn sure. That's all I got. Thank you. Next three are Maggie Adam, Brianna Staples, and Danielle James, and they will be followed by Sinal Hart, Neva Lara, and David Davis. Welcome. Hi, my name is Maggie Adam. Get a little closer to the mic if you could. Thanks. My name is Maggie Adam.
 I am really confused and disgusted how it is that we're even having this conversation. Standing outside with you last night, the disrespect and the disregard and the excuses, you didn't answer anything directly. Your response to a mother telling you about her concerns with SROs in the schools was, oh, a lot of people like them. Your explanation about how...
 our police would be improved if we just had more of them and gave them raises is ridiculous. You're not listening to the people. The people march all the way across town to come talk to you. You don't talk to them. You invite them back and you leave. And I believe that's an effort to disempower their point and their purpose of coming together.
 And then we're supposed to sit in this room having a discussion about a paradigm that doesn't make any sense because the most vulnerable people in the city are crying out for your help. And you're completely ignoring them and you're putting a shine on it like you are understanding and compassionate and progressive. I don't believe any of it. And I echo everything everybody said about slow down.
 in an effort to respect the citizens who are begging for you to listen to them. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hi, I'm Brianna Staples. I support the Black Lives Matter movement and Don't Shoot PDX. Mayor, commissioners, we just need you to recognize that two and a half working days is not enough time to go over a 70-page contract. We need you to realize that it takes time to make an
 informed decision about these things. We want you to keep your word and adhere to the 2012 committee engagement plan and don't fast track the Portland Union contract. That'll give $10 million to PPB and before necessary reforms are put into place, it'll retain a faulty arbitration process and sets body cam policies without public input.
 We're asking you to consider who this contract will affect the most for the next four years and take that into consideration before you sign it into law. Thank you. Welcome. My name is Danielle James, and I'm here with Don't Shoot Portland. Are you familiar with the names Chanel Hart and Mia Oakley? Go ahead. United, yes. I asked a question. I have heard the names. Go ahead. You have? Do you know who those people are? No. They're my children. Okay.
 I'm raising them here. You had one of them here last night, right? She's here today, and she'll be here to speak with you next. My point is that I'm a black mom here. Fortunately, I don't have to be a black man out here with a target on my back, but I'm raising my girls here. I want them to be able to survive. When I was growing up, the police were out in the community. They were giving children food at the parks, providing water hoses for us to get wet in the summertime.
 bringing food boxes to homes that needed it. I've not seen that since I was a child and I'm 30 years old. Please, please, please give us time. I'm here begging you. For everybody behind me, please just give us time. Can we get a better understanding? Can we get due process? Thank you. Appreciate it. No? We'll discuss it when we're done, but we're going to hear from everybody first. Thank you. I'm done. Thank you.
 Next three are Sonali Hart, Neva Lara, and David Davis. And they'll be followed by Mirela Laviani, Perez Rivera, Dick Springer, who may have left, and Katie Lejejo. This is Sonali Hart, Neva Lara, and David Davis. Okay, go ahead. Who would like to be first? Oh, no. It's okay. Hi. My name is Neva Lara, and I have a question for Mr. Hales. Okay.
 Why is it that we are still fighting for justice that should have been served to us years ago? I think that we should all be served the same rights and that people, the officers here are just killing black people for no reason at all. And that white people, well, white people mostly are getting away with these crimes.
 But most of the black people aren't even doing anything. Kids are walking outside getting shot for no reason. But if a white man will go outside and he can go and kill somebody, he'll go to jail for like a month and get out. That's just me. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, my name is Shawnell Hart, and I'm 14 years old. And I'm 18.
 All I want to say is please don't sign the contract for all these people. And Kevin Moffitt, William, Kyle Monroe, Bradley Morgan, Jonah Aaron Potter, Juwan Blackman, Billy Wayne Sims, Molly Tate, Joshua Baker, and Marlee Hatch. And, like, yeah, the rest of them. And, yeah, Black Lives Matter. Thank you. Thank you, guys.
 So my name is David Keith Davis with Multnomah County Cop Watch and Fight the Sweeps Portland. I wanted to talk about, on Friday, Sergeant Kyle Nice, the guy who killed James Chassie, who was also involved in an off-duty road rage incident, who, you know, was Daryl Turner's
 said that Sergeant Nice is a competent supervisor. If that's what passes for competency in Portland, I truly fear for the citizens of Portland. You know, he's the guy who was pushing around 15-year-old high school students and basically was sitting in a PTSD type of stance with his campus
 can of mace behind the line of every other cop who didn't seem that threatened by the crowd approaching him. He was sitting there, like, you know, ready to face some violent intruder at his house with a can of mace or something. You can clearly see the guy...
 is suffering from PTSD, and he needs to maybe just be retired, you know? He's killing citizens, and he's still out doing...
 riot duty and stuff like that, which is some of the most stressful police work you could put people on. I've actually recommended this to several other supervisors and captains and other stuff to, like, at least take Kyle Nice off of protest duty, you know? I mean, that is real, that's real simple, you know? I mean, and, you know...
 This low-intensity warfare that's being waged on the community by the police needs to end. And, you know, people are going to jail for stupid offenses like possession of some controlled substance. And actually, the way to cut down crime would be to send some drug addicts out of town to...
 Canada or Mexico to go to an Ibogaine treatment center and deal with their addiction. And then that would reduce crime alone. Actually dealing with addiction and crime in a meaningful, progressive way that is actually there to heal things.
 instead of putting people in jail over stupid, low-level offenses, and then using them as inmate slave labor to clean up homeless camps and stuff like that, which goes on all the time, you know? And also, there was, at this Friday protest, I also saw that there was a...
 public school security officer, and he was across the street snapping photos of kids that were at this protest. And, you know, and I chased him away. You can see the video on Multnomah County Cop Watch YouTube channel, and it even, you know, shows what was happening, and some kids alerted me to that, you know. So this is just ridiculous, and Charlie...
 You know, you have no right to even vote on this because you're going out in like a couple months. So you shouldn't have any say in this. You're basically in a nepturd that's circling the rim, getting ready to be flushed. And we don't need the ghosts of your bad decision haunting. Okay, thank you. Okay, we do have your address, and we will follow.
 or not. Because there's people like Ronald Reagan. Mr. Davis, you're done. Their policies are still up in this country. Okay. You're done. No more profanity. No more profanity, David. We don't need you ruling us. Okay? Alright. We're going to take a recess. See you later. So, council will return to order and welcome whoever would like to speak first. That would be you.
 Carla folks, could we let folks speak please? Thank you Hello, if you look at me you might just see a Muslim woman but if you really know me, you would know that my grandparents were German immigrants to Portland in the 1920s, my grandfather built Reed College Library with Lorenz Brothers Construction my
 Mother's grandfather had the church on Fremont. I am invested in this community. Even though I lived for 30 years overseas in the Middle East, I came home every year with my children so they could appreciate my culture. Please, don't override public opinion. It's so important. And we're so grateful to have this forum to be heard. But the fluoride fiasco cuts my family and friends to the heart. I hope you can override that, please.
 It's poisonous for the pineal glands, among other things. I wanted to bring up the fact that we must try harder to identify officers or future officers in training who have hidden prejudice or bias against others of different shades of skin or religion. Maybe specific safety measures in training or recurrent training to identify officers who have no empathy for minorities
 It's fine to talk about officers with a good attitude willing to connect. And I have a nephew. He's an EMT. You know, I can relate to all kinds of people. And we need people that will help with the community. And I do remember in the 60s and 70s, police were the friendly neighborhood officers. And they came to our schools. And they were around. You could see them buying their snacks. You could talk to them. They were approachable. Now it's like...
 They and us, and it shouldn't be like that. We have to get over that. Now training is so centered on crowd control and has lost too much individual outreach. We used to benefit from that so much in personal settings. We need friendly policemen who are willing to talk with us. In that case, I'm not against hiring additional members. There's a lot more people here in Portland than there used to be. But we do need more time to study this contract, and hopefully the city and the nation can generate...
 better criteria or psychological evaluation of police recruits and currently serving policemen and identify those with the pre-Martin Luther King mentality. We Muslims, whether German Arab Americans or whatever, we are all Muslim Americans and we are connected, all of us, intimately with black lives, brown lives, police lives, all lives as sacred under God. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome.
 Hey, guys. My name is Jussie Sponberg. There's something that's happened today that I've never seen in all of the years that I've randomly been covering the city hall and listening to testimony. Today is the first time that I've ever heard the community speak as one unanimous voice. And I've never heard such articulation of the desperation of the population before.
 As the day has progressed, I realized that stopping this contract is the most important thing that we can do if we are really talking about saving lives in this city. When we talk about Black Lives Matter, when we talk about Homeless Lives Matter, this is a direct intersectional effort.
 opportunity for us to really show that it does matter. We need to be moving towards a futuristic form of policing, which means newer and better cops, not throwing more money at bad cops and asking the old cops to come out of retirement. We want those cops to go away. We want new futuristic cops that can interact with neighborhoods, that can speak with compassion, that really believe
 That lives matter. Period. That lives matter. And so, let me make sure I pick my words really carefully here. You know, it's weird when you think that maybe, you know, when you're in the bathroom looking in the mirror, you think to yourself, you got three minutes, Jesse. Can you come up with just the right set of words that could get through and break through that suit and hit the mayor in the heart and hit Commissioner Fritz? I know you guys are good people. Only good people go into public service. But I...
 I don't think that you have the history to be the guy to make this decision. You're the guy that signed the Mark Kruger paperwork. You're the guy that covered up for a police chief who shot his friend in the back. You are the guy who approved the sweeps, which are displacing people whose only crime, once again, is trying not to die on these streets. Now everybody asks, hey, Jesse, where's your old buddy Ted?
 And that's a very fair question. Ted has been absolutely invisible in this city since he's been elected. But I'll tell you why. Because I can't speak officially for Ted. But I spent five months debating with Ted every week. Ted's my friend. We've had drinks together. I consider him a personal friend. And I can tell you this. The reason he's my personal friend is because Ted's a good guy. Ted's a team player. And Ted's the kind of person that's going to let you do your job.
 He's expecting you to do your job. But I'll promise you this. Ted has a 10-point plan for real police reform. I've seen it. Nate Howard pushes it all the time. There's a real plan. But Ted has given you the chance to create your legacy, Chuck. You know, he also has a 10-point plan for the houseless. But he hasn't come in. He hasn't cast a shadow over you. He hasn't been looking over your shoulder.
 He and the rest of this city, because we all want what's best. That's you, man. That's you. You are the only dude who can create this legacy. And I really hope that what I'm saying supersedes all the politics or every time I call Novick a scumbag or every time, you know, I told you guys to screw off. I know that in your guys' hearts, Steve, you know what I'm saying. Now, imagine that we're just having beers right now and that we're not in here and that Keith didn't tell you guys to F off.
 There's nothing more important that we can do. But yesterday, when I saw you come and finally show up after people had been waiting all day, mothers with children, mothers who have lost children,
 You told them to meet you here on Tuesday, and you can make all that other, you know, zigs and zags to dodge responsibility. But the truth is those people needed to be able to file with the independent police review board, right? You took that away. Hold on. You've got to give me a little bit more time. I promise I won't come back next week. You took the opportunity from those people to file.
 What was their right? You locked the doors of our house on them, right? And then when they told you that, you callously told them, come back tomorrow. Because it's so easy for people to take a whole day off to wait for Charlie Hales to decide that they're important. And that breaks my heart. And I hope it breaks your guys' hearts.
 And I hope that you understand that there is a new mayor coming and that we have spoken in one unanimous voice for the first time I've ever seen. Even the fluoride had people arguing on both sides. That means that this proposal and this contract is more toxic than a bioaccumulative neurotoxin. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. Go ahead. Go ahead.
 Thank you. My name is Matthew Klug, K-L-U-G, and I just couldn't sit by and not come here and at least offer some free advice. There is a periodic compliance status assessment report due any day. There was one last year from September 10, 2015. I think you should look at the first years and the one that's coming out any day, and you should wait.
 Okay, last year's was 96 pages. I predict this year's will be longer. A lot of chock full of great advice. Look at those things. Okay, let's table this for a little while at least. Okay, if you go back, the auditor's office announced an investigation January 15th of 2015 in a press release. Go ahead and look that up. That has to do with complying with the United States v. Brady.
 1963 Supreme Court decision. That's over 54 years ago that was decided. And unfortunately, there is no agreed upon methodology of handing over from the Portland Police Bureau to the city attorney to the district attorney. Okay, so now this is how it affected me. This is that I just found out that there was never a complaint in the case against me.
 But they didn't tell me for 11 months after they sought and obtained my settlement, you guys. This is dirty pool. It goes all the way into the Multnomah County DA, who's an elected official. This is bad stuff.
 This is the pattern in practice. The feds know about this. This is bad. Okay? I'm just giving you guys a heads up. There is a report that the auditor's office is going to release in December. It's going to state whether or not the damn police force is complying with the United States v. Brady 1963 Supreme Court decision. That's 54 years ago. Let's get into this century. Please. Please.
 There's going to be all sorts of information in that. We're not going to be able to regurgitate through that until after January probably. They're not releasing it until December. There are, you know, this periodic compliance status assessment report by the federal government is coming out any day. What's the hurry, you know?
 I really, again, I know you don't like free advice, but I'm not just any schmuck off the street. I have lived experience with a lot of this. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you both. I'm sure the last people who signed up are, is there a Mary Lavani, Perez Rivera, Katie, thank you, Katie Lejehom. Then we'll go with Dan, I believe it's Lucan, Phillip Wolfe. Mr. Wolfe.
 Do we have a translator here? Do we have an interpreter here? Sign language interpreter. Sorry that you have to have this. Mr. Wolfe, I apologize for the lack of an interpreter, and we're going to work on that. Thank you for being willing to testify by laptop. Okay. So first, is the captioning working? Let's see. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 Raise your hand. Right. Sorry. Carla. Carla. Okay. I'll get this now. Okay. I know you guys need to go. I'm afraid that I'm afraid. What happened? What happened there? Here we go. You've got to do it. You have to do it. Or it was on the other hand. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you very much. We're going to make sure we have sign language interpreters here in the future. We've had a couple of instances lately where we didn't have people here to accommodate folks that needed that, so my apologies.
 So I believe that concludes the folks that are signed up. Is that right? That's all who signed up to testify. So we have a lot of other items on the agenda today. So here's what I'm going to recommend. I'm going to recommend that we continue this item to next week for council discussion and consideration of amendments and questions of staff. I'm going to close the hearing right now because I'm going to tell you what we're going to do.
 So I'm going to continue this to next week for the council to be able to consider amendments, talk to staff. Anna needs to come back up and go over some of the points that people have raised in testimony. There have been a lot of questions, a lot of issues brought up. So obviously the council needs time to not only have heard the testimony we've heard today, but also to cross-examine our own staff and to get answers on some of that and to consider the amendment that I put on the table and if there are any other amendments to suggest
 Today we ought to get those before us so we can take action on them next week, and that would mean that second reading would be no earlier than October whatever that is, Carla, 13th. So, again, we would act on amendments next week, second reading the week after. Does that make sense? Okay. So any other questions or comments at this point? Because we've got folks waiting for some of the items this afternoon here. Okay.
 I actually have a comment on this. Okay, please, comments before we close. First of all, thank you, everybody, for being here today, for being here yesterday. And obviously, we all have email capability. We take input in many different ways. So as you have time to read through the contract and have additional comments, because it was a fairly short time this time, please send them at least to me, and I'd be very happy to respond.
 respond and figure out the way forward because we did hear a lot of testimony about the speed of the lack of time to look through what's in the contract. And I will be very interested after you've had more time and had some discussion to get your additional feedback. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay, we're going to take a one-minute recess and then come back to the rest of the agenda. Thank you all. I think folks are in the room. Yes.
 Okay, everybody, let's welcome our folks that have been waiting for this item. I think they're here. Thank you so much for waiting. We're going to take...
 We're going to take item number 1087 next and then return to the rest of our morning agenda and the other things that we've left behind. But because we have people here on this item, we're going to have Carla read that item, and I'll kick it off by reading the proclamation. Item 1087, proclaim September 15 to October 15, 2016, to be Hispanic Heritage Month in Portland.
 Well, this is a great day and a great occasion, so let me read this proclamation and then invite some people here to come up and speak about this.
 The proclamation says this, whereas the Hispanic heritage of the United States extends historically over five centuries and has been a consistent and vital influence on our country's growth and prosperity, and whereas Hispanic or Latino culture is tied to Iberian ancestry, the rich tapestry of our culture recognizes that Hispanics or Latinos are multiracial and multicultural and also trace their historical roots to indigenous and African ancestry."
 Hispanics represent people with origins from 24 different countries, including the United States, Mexico, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brazil, Venezuela, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, and Spain. They reflect an array of distinct and vibrant cultures that have enriched our community in valuable ways.
 And whereas Oregon's Latino population is growing at a rate faster than the national rate, 12% of the state's population is now Latino, representing a 72% growth since 2000.
 In Portland, there were over 60,974 people of Hispanic descent, making up 10% of the city's population. While Portland's overall population grew by 1.2% in 2013, the rate of growth for our city's Hispanic population was 6.9%. And whereas the number of U.S.-born Latino Oregonians has increased 21% compared to 1% in the growth of foreign-born Latino Oregonians,
 The median age for Latinos is 24 years. And whereas Hispanics have supported Portland's economy with a myriad of contributions in the fields of commerce, science, technology, public health, and more, today their purchasing power in Portland is nearly $4 billion.
 And whereas Portland recognizes the many organizations, institutions, and people helping Hispanics overcome disparities, such as poor health outcomes and low educational attainment, working tirelessly to ensure that they remain a flourishing community. And whereas continued access to jobs and livable wages for Oregon Latinos is essential for our state to thrive, Hispanics currently make up 5% of the city's workforce.
 To help connect more Hispanics to city jobs and support them throughout their careers with the city, the Unidos Latinos Americanos ULA City Employee Affinity Group was reestablished in 2014.
 ULA has reached over 50 members and continues to grow. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim the weeks of September 15th to October 15th, 2016, to be Hispanic Heritage Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Welcome, congratulations, and thank you for your contributions. I believe Amalia Alicante-Morris is going to lead off the presentation this afternoon.
 Speaking of empowering important Latinas and Latinos to take roles in our community, here's one. Welcome. My family certainly thinks so. So thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for inviting us here and participating in this today. I am going to reread the proclamation in Spanish, and then I will say a few words before we move forward. So...
 Por cuanto la herencia hispana en los Estados Unidos se extiende históricamente más de cinco siglos y ha sido una influencia constante y vital en el crecimiento y prosperidad de nuestro país. Y por cuanto la cultura hispana o latina está ligada a raíces ibéricas, a las que se suman la gran riqueza y diversidad multicultural y multiracial de nuestras culturas indígenas y africanas.
 Los hispanos representan más de 24 diferentes países de origen, incluyendo Estados Unidos, México, Puerto Rico, República Dominicana, Cuba, Chile,
 Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brazil, Venezuela, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile y España. Reflejan una variedad de culturas distintas y valiosas que han enriquecido nuestra comunidad en forma notable.
 Y por cuanto la población latina de Oregon está creciendo a un ritmo más rápido que la tasa nacional, los latinos representan el 12% de la población estatal, con una tasa de crecimiento del 72% desde el 2000. En Portland hay más de 60,974 personas de origen hispano que representan el 10% de la población.
 Mientras que la población general de Portland creció en un 1.2% en el 2013, la tasa de crecimiento de la población hispana de la ciudad fue del 6.9% en el mismo año.
 Y por lo tanto, y por cuanto, la tasa de latinos nacidos en los Estados Unidos viviendo en Oregon ha crecido en un 21% comparado al 1% de latinos nacidos en el extranjero que radican en este estado. La edad mediana de latinos en Oregon es de 24 años de edad.
 y por cuánto la población hispana ha contribuido a la economía de Portland con un sinnúmero de aportaciones en las áreas de comercio, ciencia, tecnología, servicio público y salud, entre otras. Actualmente, su poder de adquisición en Portland es de casi 4 mil millones de dólares.
 Y por cuanto la ciudad de Portland reconoce la multitud de organizaciones, instituciones y gente ayudando a la población hispana a superar disparidades tales como los indicadores rezagados de salud y nivel de logro académico, trabajando incansablemente para asegurar que sigan siendo una comunidad próspera.
 Y por cuanto al acceso a puestos de trabajo y sueldos dignos para los latinos en Oregon, es fundamental para la prosperidad de nuestro estado. La población hispana forma un 5% de la fuerza laboral del ayuntamiento de la ciudad de Portland. La Asociación de Empleados Unidos Latinos Americanos, o ULA por sus siglas, fue restablecida en el 2014 con el propósito de conectar hispanos con
 con puestos de trabajo en el Ayuntamiento de la Ciudad de Portland y apoyarlos a lo largo de sus carreras. Actualmente, ULA cuenta con más de 50 miembros y sigue creciendo. Por lo tanto, yo, usted, Charlie Hales, alcalde de la Ciudad de Portland, Oregon, proclamo que del 15 de septiembre al 15 de octubre de 2016 sea reconocido el Mes de la Herencia Hispana en Portland e invito a todos sus habitantes a celebrar este mes. Gracias.
 Ustedes. Como mencioné antes, 5% de nuestros empleados son latinos, mientras que los latinos hacen 10% de la población de Portland. El progreso está siendo hecho para atraer más latinos a nuestro trabajo. Esto se refleja en ULA's ever-growing membership base. Sin embargo, más necesita ser hecho para obtener y avanzar empleados latino-cities. Los empleados latinos son subrepresentados en posiciones de nivel ejecutivo, con solo 2% de los ejecutivos de la ciudad de Portland se identifican como latinos.
 Conversely, 7% of city at will, casual, limited duration and temp appointed employees are Latinos. Since being established two years ago, the Unidos Latinos Americanos, or ULA Affinity Group, has shown a commitment to creating a Latino professional network in order to promote professional advancement and mentoring opportunities for all Latino city employees, as well as help to continue recruiting Latinos for employment.
 Un ejemplo de este compromiso es el desarrollo de la pilotación del Programa de Desarrollo de Deep Leadership. Los miembros de ULA, junto con miembros de la red afroamericana de la ciudad y grupos de afinidad de empoderamiento de mujeres, crearon este programa para apoyar el crecimiento profesional de los empleados latinoamericanos, afroamericanos y mujeres. El programa fue lanzado en el verano con apoyo de Deep y el Oficio de Equidad y Derechos Humanos de la ciudad.
 El programa de desarrollo de liderazgo incluye un componente de mentoría uno a uno, entrenamientos culturales específicos, entrenamientos de liderazgo multicultural y oportunidades de construcción de comunidad. El objetivo es expandir el programa a otros grupos de afinidad en el futuro y estoy muy orgullosa de ser una mentoría para un par de miembros de este programa.
 15 empleados de la ciudad participan en el programa de desarrollo de liderazgo, incluyendo tres miembros de ULA. Los miembros de ULA están en el Comité Coordinador del Programa de Liderazgo y otros miembros de ULA están sirviendo como mentores para los participantes del programa. Le pedimos al Consejo por su compromiso para apoyar el avanzamiento profesional de los latinos en la ciudad de Portland y para fortalecer los esfuerzos para reclutar a las órdenes crecientes y la población latina joven a los trabajos de la ciudad. ULA está dispuesta a partner con ustedes en estos esfuerzos y a compartir nuestras experiencias profesionales y vivas.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. And I believe you have a couple of your colleagues, Manuel and Yolanda. Are they going to speak as well? I believe Manuel had to leave, but Yolanda is here. Yolanda, welcome. Hello. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I just want to acknowledge there was a lot of emotion and passion in the room, and on behalf of a community member, that was really hard to hear, and so I just wanted to acknowledge that and thank you.
 let you know that I have a lot of respect for you all as well as the community. So I just wanted to start with that. My name is Yolanda Gonzalez, and I am a program manager for the Community Healing Initiative Program at Latino Network.
 I want to take a moment to thank you all for honoring our heritage with today's Hispanic Heritage presentation and proclamation. I also want to take this moment to say thank you for the work that the Cities Unidos Latinos Americos Affinity Group has been doing, the leadership that they bring to the city every day and highlighted the importance of what a diverse city workforce brings, not only to our city but the whole community. Thank you.
 Since 2000, I'm going to repeat a lot of your statistics, Oregon's Latino population has grown by 72%, outpacing the growth of any Latinos across the country. 64% of the Latinos in Oregon are U.S. born with 36% foreign born. Like you said, the medium age of the Latinos here are 24 compared to the white population at 41. 72% of the Latinos are age 16 and older participate in the workforce, but only 28% of Latinos live outside of poverty.
 or living in poverty, sorry, one-third of the Latino children living in poverty, with nearly 23% of the students K-12 and Oregon are Latino. I only mention these to highlight and express an immense amount of gratitude for the Mayor's Community Center initiative. Last year alone, the total numbers of unduplicated youth that came to our program for the teen nights was 617 youth. Last weekend, I wanted to just note that 70 youth showed up to teen night at the East Portland Community Center.
 The initiative has provided us with the opportunity to collaboratively serve Latinos and other youth through the strong partnership we have with you all and the community-based organizations in our community. I believe these numbers attest to the fact that the youth in our community are seeking a safe space to engage in positive activities that allow them to be youth. This weekend, we witnessed a group of youth that were rivals and had tension throughout the summer, throughout our summer program. They came together at teen night and were able to put their differences aside and engage together in an art class that we hosted.
 We've also had parents personally come up to us and thank us for creating a safe space. One family in particular thanked us for inviting all 10 of their children into the teen nights and making them feel welcome. I would also like to take this moment to thank you, the city, for awarding the Community Healing Initiative, which is a program I manage, with the grant to start a girls' basketball program. The goal of that program is to serve young, at-risk females, youth of color in our community.
 I have the honor of working with a team and organization that is dedicated to working alongside our youth and our community to ensure that those we serve thrive and become stewards in the community themselves. We are grateful for the opportunities we've had to partner with the city and look forward to the continuation of our partnership.
 Thank you very much. Can I just make one comment? Please. You know, it's interesting. You're representing Latino Network, and it was Carmen Rubio really began as a leader to make her mark when she worked for Tom Potter, and Tom gave her this platform. And then she briefly worked for me, and I was the beneficiary. And then Latino Network stole her from city service and put her in this other position. But in some ways, that's how it should be.
 that in leadership that we should be giving people platforms, and then the community should steal and elevate people and vice versa because the pipeline should go both ways. But I just want to observe something because Latino Network is doing great work in Cully and is helping us address poverty. And there's a newspaper story today in a weekly,
 It criticizes the city for using a loan guarantee program to help Hacienda build a community center in the middle of their campus to serve low-income families. And so it's a useful reminder that we don't necessarily have buy-in from everyone in terms of some of these initiatives. When we use a loan guarantee program to help Hacienda build a campus, we're investing in the success of families that they are serving.
 But again, there's a story today criticizing the city for doing that. I, for one, am very proud that the city took that action. But it reminds us that we have to fight this battle every day. We have to make the case. And if we can't justify using loan guarantees in the highest poverty census track in the state of Oregon,
 to help a community that's been left behind too often, that I'm not sure what equity and opportunity means in our city. So we'll continue to have that discussion, and please tell Carmen that congratulations for Bella Noce. I will. Thank you. Well, I just want to say the combination of having people in our own workforce who are culturally competent and inclusive is really important.
 But you combine that with organizations like Latino Network and all that you do in our community. And then you combine that with a growing number of people rising from perhaps working in City Hall to running for office and serving in important roles in elected office as well. One of the things that happened at the Bello Noce evening was that Carmen read off the long list of Latino and Latina elected officials around the state.
 And it was really an impressive list. It's gotten longer. It needs to get longer yet. So I just appreciate this partnership very much, both the affinity group here, Viva ULA, right? Viva ULA, because we love having our own workforce empowered and celebrating their heritage. But the partnerships that we have in the community with Latino Network in particular are really powerful. So we appreciate you being here and being part of this. So thank you all.
 Thanks. Would you like to take a photo with your leadership and the council before we move on? We would. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. One, two, three. One, two. Thank you very much. All very nice. Putting that on there. Thank you all. Great work. Okay. Let us move then to the...
 Second item from this morning that we need to take up, which is 1066. 1066. Authorize the Bureau of Development Services to permit construction and environmental remediation of the Southwest Bond Avenue Extension Phase 1 interim improvements under the authority of the city engineer. Commissioner Novick. I believe we have Steve Sigothy and or Kurt Kruger here to introduce this item. Yep. We've got Kurt.
 Do you want 1067 read as well? Yes, please. Yes, please. Sorry. 1067, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Bureau of Transportation and the Portland Development Commission for the funding of final design and construction of the Southwest Bond Avenue Extension Phase 1. Okay. Take it away. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I was not actually the one slated to make this presentation, so you're going to get it live, and I'm going to be a little rock as the presentation is at the end.
 isn't here. But the gist of these ordinances, we have a code that didn't actually expect a road to be built and needing a road to go through design review and greenway review. So we have a code that asks when you move a certain amount of dirt in South Waterfront, that would trigger the greenway review and the design review. And we didn't anticipate that in the design of Bond Avenue.
 So what we have before you is an ordinance that says we're going to do all the things that the code will ask at a later date when we go to put the permanent final design of bond in.
 So we have committed to council, we've committed through the South Waterfront Design Plans, a special design area that will bring us back to design commission when we have a final design. But at this time, we're placing fill and putting in a road with interim sidewalks and streetlights until we have the final design when OHSU and the city is ready to partner together. Along with that, we would also be going through the formal Greenway review when Parks is ready to come through with their Greenway project. So...
 In essence, we're setting the code aside because the code really doesn't put forth approval criteria. If we were to bring this road project to design commission at this stage, there wouldn't be much for the design commission to talk about. So that's essentially what these two ordinances do. So I have, I guess, one big question, and it's been a long day, and forgive me if it's a basic question, but
 Does the action that you're asking us to take in any way address the question of the liability of the respective parties, particularly in light of the changed legal landscape? Can I take another shot at that question? I want to make sure I'm understanding the question. Well, we've had – the legal landscape has changed a little bit since this street was first envisioned, and there now are some new –
 and unclear guidelines about how we do development in floodplains. I'm going to take a stab, and the city attorney can correct me if I'm wrong. I believe we're in under the current rules. The new rules are not in effect yet, so if we are in constructing this, we will be grandfathered in and not subject to those new regulations.
 Okay, so that means that the current rules apply, and in terms of the apportioning the liability, this has been worked out by BES, PBOT, and the city attorney? And DEQ. We're actually going through the permitting process with DEQ at this time. So the Department of Environmental Quality and the Bureau of Environmental Services both have to sign off on the cut-and-fill aspects of it. Correct, yes. And then have you heard from the South Portland Neighborhood Association on this?
 We have not... There hasn't been an avenue to advertise a land use proceeding, so there hasn't been formal presentation to that neighborhood association. Okay, and if...
 If they were concerned, the answer would be that they can go to the design review, which will include the street, when that process happens. So we will notice, like we would any other land use case, when we come back to deal with a special design area of Bond Avenue, and, of course, the Neighborhood Association would be noticed and be able to provide comment. Thank you. Reinforcements have arrived. Apologies. That's okay. Did you have some slides you wanted to show us? Yes.
 Certainly. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, Steve Sigathy, Peabody Capital Projects. I hit the high notes. Thank you for the excellent introduction from Mr. Kruger. Thank you. So as you're aware, we have two ordinances pertaining to Southwest Bond Avenue Phase 1 interim improvements. So just to geographically orient, you were talking about,
 between the River Parkway cul-de-sac underneath the Markham Bridge, southward to Porter Street, also known as the west end of Tillicham Crossing, Bridge of the People. This is serving the developing OHSU Schnitzer campus, including the Knight Cancer Research Building under construction. As you are aware, the city's investment in this project is considered as the city's contribution to the billion-dollar Knight Cancer Challenge project.
 And, of course, future phases of Bond Avenue south of Porter would occur concurrently with Zydell property redevelopment. Project milestones showing you where we've been, where we're headed. We were here in July 2015 with an initial IGA with PDC for design of the roadway.
 You'll recall in February of this year, we were before you to amend the South Waterfront Street Plan to move the alignment of Bond Avenue closer to the river to facilitate more efficient development of the Schnitzer Campus. That ordinance in February did require us to build the roadway in an interim fashion and come back to design commission when we're ready to do the final improvements.
 In March, we finished 30% design. In August of this year, we finished final plans for the first stage of the project, which is the retaining wall and surcharge element of the project. And, of course, here in September, we're looking at this new IGA with PDC for construction, $3.6 million, as well as the permitting ordinance. After today, OHSU is scheduled to begin remediation of their site at the end of October, approximately, through December 2021.
 After that, the city's contractor would come on site to start building the road. As I said, that first stage would be surcharge, placement of surcharge materials, which is elevating the road and then letting that settle for about eight months. In the meantime, the city, with using anticipated state funding, would be doing remediation under the Markham Bridge. In December of next year, surcharge would be complete, and then we would build the typical improvements of the roadway
 as well as underground utilities, and that would be built in interim fashion. By the way, does the announcement that Mr. Zydale made last week have any impact on this planning, when he announced that he's going to get out of the barge business? It doesn't impact this particular segment of the roadway very much, but it certainly, you know, we're coordinating closely with them in terms of, you know, how the rest of Bond Avenue may be built, whether it would be built in one fell swoop versus two,
 additional phases, two or three phases instead of one additional phase. But it doesn't have much impact on this north of Porter segment. We do anticipate being finished with the interim roadway project north of Porter in October of 2018 at approximately the same time as Knight Cancer Research Building opening.
 And there is a distinct possibility that the final design, including going before design commission, may occur before then and concurrently with the construction of the interim. Look at project costs. This is – we are looking at an approximately $9 million project. Those costs are attributed to the technical complexity of the project. We're elevating this road as high as 17 feet above grade 11.
 We're using all-weather aggregate fill. We're building retaining walls along development frontages and a slope along the Greenway side. And you can see the three stages of the project there that add up to our total. And a cross-section there, that streetlight you see there on the left would actually be more of a temporary streetlight in our interim phase. Okay.
 And our project sources. The IGA that's before you today between PBOT and PDC would authorize $3,601,000 in North McAdam Urban Renewal Funds for the purposes of constructing the interim project. We are anticipating to get a grant from the state of Oregon through Business Oregon called the Immediate Opportunity Fund. It actually would be a $1,000,000 grant of which $750,000 would be used for the purposes of
 remediation under the Markham Bridge. And then the balance would be from City of Portland transportation system development charges, and that includes North McAdam overlay, TSDCs, as well as citywide TSDCs. And worth noting is that we anticipate having sufficient urban renewal and TSDC funding for the section south of Porter on Zidell property.
 The permitting ordinance, the other ordinance, this would allow remediation work and construction of the interim roadway without city land use review. And Bureau of Development Services staff and PBOT staff agreed that it wouldn't be appropriate to take the project through Type 3 design review at this stage, but to rather postpone it. And so Kurt was probably getting into this, but we agreed.
 We think this is a prudent approach because we have an abundance of regulatory assurance and review of the project elements. So specifically, OHSU and their remediation work, they have prepared a 700-page remedial action plan that is currently being reviewed by Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, as well as city BES staff.
 And we'll actually have BES staff and PBOT staff out there on the site inspecting the actual work that will take place. And similarly, when PBOT's contractor goes out to build the road, we have a designated construction manager that will be coordinating that work and going out there on the site and inspecting that work. And additionally, the roadway is consistent with the street plan as we amended it in February.
 And as we mentioned previously, we will still come back for design review and land use review for the final improvements to the roadway, including in the special design area where the roadway is adjacent to the river. Absent this ordinance, we'd be looking at redundant reviews and extra staff time and costs. So that was where we ended up with this ordinance for permitting the remediation and construction. Okay.
 So those are the two ordinances, the IGA ordinance and the permitting ordinance. Would that take any further questions? The only one I have is that this is a fairly unusual process. That's okay. I think this makes sense. Of the funds that we're spending or investing in these improvements, how much, if any, is
 will be sort of redundant in the sense that we'll do something different or we'll tear out work and replace it. In other words, $9 million, real money, how much is wasted, if any, by the fact that we're doing it this way versus completing the entire review process and then doing all the improvements.
 That would come down to the difference in cost between asphalt and concrete. That's the main cost there. It is a fairly typical approach that you'll see putting in the asphalt sidewalks. You see that in other locations in South Waterfront. You'll see that also along Southeast Water Avenue near OMSI.
 So there is some throwaway, but we don't think it's a significant amount. That's because we have to surcharge the site and let it settle, or because of the land use process, or both? Well, the surcharge process benefits the interim and the final product. The only throwaway elements are the asphalt sidewalks, and just the sidewalks, not the actual roadway. The roadway and everything between the curbs would pretty much be
 what it's going to be. We're also doing concrete intersections that are permanent. So there are many permanent elements of the roadway. The temporary elements are the sidewalks and the streetlights. That's helpful. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you both very much. I apologize for my tardiness. No problem. We had a little different schedule than printed today. Anyone want to speak on either of these items? Yes.
 If not, then they are both emergency ordinances. Let's take action on that. We had a substitute on this. Oh, sorry. Is there a substitute for 1066? Yes, there sure is. Okay, I have it in front of me. So Commissioner Novick moves the substitute. Second. Further discussion on accepting the substitute? Would you just tell the folks at home what the differences are? Steve, can you help me out? Yeah, a few minor changes. The most significant is the change of the title of the ordinance, adds the words...
 without land use review approval to the end of the title and that was to be more clear and transparent with the intent of the ordinance roll call on the motion to substitute the substitute no I I I and on the ordinance as amended
 First of all, I'd like to thank Kurt Kruger for rushing over to fill in for a few minutes. Thank you, Steve, for the presentation. And thanks to Geraldine Moyle from PDC who was waiting in the wings in case there was a PDC question for us. Hi. Hi.
 Well, folks will know that I don't lightly give up land use reviews, but I was convinced by Kurt Kruger in a briefing that all the I's will be dotted and T's crossed later. And in particular, there will be opportunities for the public to weigh in on the final design. So I'm comfortable. Good job, Commissioner Novick. Aye. Fish. Thank you all. Aye. Ailes. A long way since Vic Rhodes and I hastily drew a street plan for this district. And, yes, it was on a bar napkin. Aye. Aye.
 second ordinance please 1067 Novick Fritz aye Fish aye okay thank you all very much good work let's move on to the polled item which was 1074 1074 1074
 Authorize the city attorney to take action, including but not limited to initiating legal proceedings against Charles Iheanacho and Cheryl Iheanacho for breach of affordable housing property development contracts, recovering unpaid cash flow loan payments, and compelling contractual reporting requirements.
 Richard Saltzman's not here to talk about this item. Someone pulled it because they wanted to speak on this item. Is that right? Mr. Lightning pulled it. I don't know if he's still here. I don't believe he's here any longer. So let's go ahead and take action then on the resolution. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hale? Aye. Okay. Let's move to the regular agenda. Right. Wait a minute. Do I need to move to anything else this afternoon? Let's move. I'm sorry. Let's move to 1088. Okay.
 1088, accept evaluation of the effectiveness of the community benefits agreement piloted by the Kelly Butte Reservoir and Interstate Maintenance Facility renovation projects. Okay. I think our first order of business is to see if there are folks that were signed up last week.
 last time that are here still and wish to speak today because we had, I think, 10 people left on the sign-up sheet. So, Carla, oh yeah, maybe if you're here and you signed up, raise your hands. I see three or four people. So why don't the first two or three of you come up, please? We won't be too formal about it. You're on the list. We'll make sure you get heard and then move forward. This is on the CBA issue. It is...
 Thank you. Okay. Matt, would you like to begin? Go ahead. Certainly. Thank you, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. My name is Matt Malmsteimer. I'm an attorney with the Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters and the Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity.
 I'm here to discuss a number of issues related to the report on the CBA and also to address what I understand are some lingering concerns about some of the legalities of the tools that were used in the CBA. One that we've heard repeatedly is that there may be some kind of prohibition against the city becoming engaged in an agreement with unions because it appears to be somehow favoring unionism over non-unionism. There is no legal impediment to this agreement.
 to have the sort of agreement that the CBAs are or for the city to engage in those kinds of agreements. The state's public relations law specifically exempts governmental entities, such as the city, from its purview, and the state's public employees law, which does say that the city can't take a position on union involvement, union recognition, union membership...
 only applies to those unions that represent public employees, namely the city's employees. So that's not a basis to say the city can't engage in those kinds of agreements. Furthermore, that public employee law provides an exemption for any activity that the city engages in in connection with negotiating or executing a contract with a labor organization.
 So far from being a legal impediment, the state's public contracting law actually provides an additional layer of protection to the city from legal challenge on the agreement issue. And I know there are a lot of questions about why does it have to be signatory? What's the importance of signatory agreements in this venue? Well, I think one that's been repeated a number of times, Mr. Sussman.
 Myers spoke about it last week, is when you have signatory agreements and you have non-signatory, non-binding agreements, obviously the binding legal agreement is going to take precedent. That's just not amongst agreements. That's amongst the parties to the agreement so that everybody at the table not only is committed to it,
 but is legally bound to the other parties to fulfill those promises there's not a single other contractual obligation that the city is going to just say sure go ahead we trust you on it that would be obviously irresponsible and given the history as demonstrated by the ecpc presentation on good faith efforts on attempts to make headway in this avenue
 on simply taking people at their word and not having that kind of binding agreement, they haven't succeeded. The CBA has succeeded, and that's one of the reasons that signatory agreements are recognized nationwide, not just here, not just amongst CBA folks, but nationwide among the people that do this kind of work as best practice. Now, as an attorney for a union,
 I also want an additional layer of protection because I've got to worry about potential lawsuits against my client. And those can come in the form of people who didn't get sent to a job because of one of these agreements. Now, if I've got an agreement that's a lawfully executed commitment made with the city of Portland, with the governmental entity that my union's a party to, I'm going to feel much more comfortable saying,
 and much more confident in my ability to one, avoid a lawsuit, and two, defend a lawsuit from somebody who may be, if I don't have that agreement in place, looking at a collective bargaining agreement that may or may not be consistent either with the anti-discrimination provisions because most of the collective bargaining agreements I look at have anti-discrimination provisions in them themselves, and seniority issues. Both of those bear on this.
 And you don't have to have to take my word on that. The city of Seattle runs into the same issue, and that's why the city of Seattle has signatory agreements for all of these kinds of work, because they know that they need that in order to join with their labor partners in this work. And you don't have to take just my word for it on the fact that there's no prohibition against doing this. Look across the river. Multnomah County, they're putting together a project labor agreement that's signatory with the unions on the Multnomah County Courthouse.
 we're not just talking about this perspective we're talking about nationwide we're talking about region-wide thank you very much very helpful and then the final comment i'd like to make on this issue and i will take some time here because i think the issues are quite important and i want to make sure that everybody's informed about where we are with it is we said commissioner fish you said we're friends here we want to work in this together if your friend is telling you
 Need this I need to have this signatory component in order for this to work for us if best practices are Recognized as this signatory agreement if that's an essential component of it that makes it work and makes it binding Why wouldn't the city engage in that why wouldn't we use that tool? It's proven to work now the next issue I wanted to talk about and you should need you to be as brief as you can because we're way late We've got other people so go ahead understood the other issue is
 Dovetails back into some comments that I made previously at the ECPC presentation, and that's regarding the goals that we're setting for ourselves, what sort of goals those are. There was a comment that, well, the CBP on the Washington Reservoir is actually more aggressive than the CBA, and that's better. On the one hand, yeah, numerically the numbers are higher, but they're also aspirational goals.
 You combine aspirational goals without any kind of real community oversight on the ground and no signatory agreement, that's the complete recipe for exactly what the ECPC has been looking at and pointing to as being the failures of the programs that have been designed up till now to deal with this issue. And I would say, again, the ECPC provided you with a golden opportunity to take the next step because the precondition of those failures
 to move the ball forward on this are the very legal preconditions that you need in order to take those more aggressive steps and make those binding agreements and make those hard goals rather than leaving them aspirational.
 And so then the final issue that I'd like to bring up, and one of the biggest problems that I have with the recommendations, not just myself but the organizations that I work with and the organizations that I represent, is that the recommendations say we should only be using these on a small, minor portion of contracts that we're talking about, alternative procurements, not the competitive bid contracts. Well, again, there's no legal reason for that.
 The city has to award those low bid contracts to the lowest responsible bidder. And a responsible bidder is one that can meet all of the contract requirements. And that includes social requirements, not just the least cost. So that's something that can be implemented on all of the projects across the boards. It doesn't have to be limited to any kind of alternative procurement. So the final comment I'd like to make is,
 There's a reason that we're coming out saying reject this report. It's not that we want to jam up the works. It's not that we want to slow down the business of the city. We want to make sure that we get it right this time going forward. And the biggest concern is that the recommendations in that report do not take the lessons learned from the CBA.
 They take the best components of the CBA and shelve them and say city council, accept a community equity and inclusion plan that hasn't been presented to anybody on this council in any public forum, that hasn't been vetted by community, and that eliminates the best parts of the CBA that make it work. The recommendations are a step backwards. And so whether you call it accepting, whether you call it we're going to receive the report, whatever terminology you choose to use,
 Our position is this is a first step towards a regional policy in the same way that CBP is going to be a first step, and this is a follow-on to that. And don't go down the wrong path. If we do that, if we make that first step, it's that much easier to make those kind of mistakes, and we're going to be back here in 15 years bemoaning why didn't we do it right the first time. We've got the proven tool.
 and so i urge you the city council to vote no do not accept this report as written do not accept the recommendations they're pointing us in the wrong direction thank you thank you very much thank you welcome uh members of the council i'm beverly logan a leader with macchi metropolitan alliance for common good we're a broad-based organization of faith labor health education and other community non-profits who work together on the issues pressing on our families
 MACG has worked over decades, including in our original days as the Portland Organizing Project, on many different issues around publicly funded projects in Portland. We've had to fight repeatedly against misinformed and even fully anti-union sentiments with regards to fair labor standards that reflect key social values of our faith caucus and our other member institutions.
 I'll just say it's never made sense to us to pay less than family wages on a public contract and then have those workers go to the state or the county to get food stamps and health care because they weren't able to earn a family wage on their job with public money. So in addition to some other values, that's one part of why we have consistently stood up for signatory agreements, some kind of labor agreement.
 So when this CBA was being developed by a broad cross-section of community interests, we were thankful and hopeful that organizations like ours could stop wasting so much of our scarce resources on refighting the same battles for family wage jobs and benefits on every publicly funded project that we engaged. We thought this was a done deal, the CBA, and that it would establish a predictable and reliable floor for
 upon which community groups, private interests, and the city could build other critical elements to advance the common good. But here we are instead trying to prevent you today from ripping up those floorboards. MACG is troubled by this proposed reversal and rejection by the city of this thoughtfully articulated will of the community that has entrusted you with our governance. It feels very much like the results from the pilot projects have been selectively interpreted
 by interests opposed to organized labor and dismissive of the organized community process that produced the CBA. The pilot results speak for themselves, exceeding goals, even doubling delivery on targets. If the critique of the pilot results had involved the same community collaboration that produced the CBA, it would merit respect. Community groups have no interest in supporting a model that doesn't accomplish our goals.
 I want to say the status quo is a powerful thing. Moving a bureaucracy away from status quo requires bold and persistent leadership. The community engaged in a long, thorough, deliberative, and democratic process to produce the CBA model, which so far has benefited the community. We call on you council members to resist the pull of status quo and the influence of anti-union voices, internal or external, to the city's bureaucracy.
 We ask for your bold and persistent leadership in respect and support of the Community Benefits Agreement, complete with the union and PLA requirements the community saw as necessary to achieving its goals.
 To allow one perspective, distorting fault and dismissing victories in the initial tests of the model, to allow that to define how you proceed is not persistent and certainly not bold. We expect you to stand for the community and the CBA. At the very least, we expect you will allow CBA implementation for a period of time adequate to accumulate a sample size of more than a single moment or two early projects."
 To close, I'll say that eliminating union and PLA elements may well increase the profits of private businesses or the political power of ideological interests. Upholding union elements, however, increases the stability and prosperity of our workers and our entire community. The historical and economic record on this is very clear. When unions are strong, all workers benefit. When unions are weak, the middle class deteriorates and others suffer as well.
 You have control of the bureaucracy. MACG calls on you to resist taking it backward at the first opportunity and to use your power instead to steer it firmly ahead in collaboration with the community in support of the CBA. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Apologize. Thank you, everyone, members of the council. My name is Ranfis Gentinoviatoro.
 I'm currently with MRG Foundation and spent the past seven years as an organizer for immigrant-based, immigrant rights-based organizations. If I'm like looking over my shoulder, it's probably because I'm making sure my three-year-old is still there. So I apologize if I'm shifting over there. But I'm here today to support the further use of community benefit agreements and voice concerns for the supposed community equity and inclusion plan.
 I want to point out to the commissioners in the audience today that our procurement and development process is by nature exclusive. That has been historically designed for the benefits of developers and contractors. And although some would argue that the low bid process makes it less beneficial to the latter. I want to also exemplify that our nation and our city has a rich history of labor and community groups,
 that have tried to insert themselves in this development process to advocate for the rights of workers and the needs of the communities that today we take for granted. Some of those victories include a prevailing wage, worker safety, a bargaining contract. Some of those victories even include how we even got light rail here in Portland. I really wanna hone in on this key on equity. What is equity?
 Now, yes, last week I heard that equity is about the outcome, but I want to argue that equity is about process as well. That's equally important. We would not be here talking about equity or addressing inequality or inequity if it were not for a system that exists, whether we intend it to exist or not. So every conversation that we have around trying to address equity, we're really having a conversation about addressing the process.
 So I think it's very important that we address that. I want to sum up my support for CBAs in three points. The history of the success of diversifying the workforce, its inclusiveness in bringing multiple stakeholders to craft a CBA, and accountability through an oversight committee to ensure commitments are followed through, and that there is actual oversight. When the independent auditor was asked about the inclusion of participants,
 She made it known that people should be included in the development process. And to me, there's no more inclusive process than an oversight committee that looks at community partners as partners. Now, I think versus participants or just, you know, their comments being seen as suggestions.
 I want to drum in one important point about my concerns for a CEIP or the Community Equity Inclusion Plan that does not include a PLA or PLA standards. And that's this. Construction has historically had a bad record of worker safety standards and rights. We know that wage theft is an issue that affects immigrant workers as well as people of color.
 And it is very important that the city, as a steward of our taxpayer dollars, ensures that we keep a high standard for workers. If the onus now is on the city to ensure the outcomes...
 of not only the participation of people of color in the work site, they also have to ensure that their standards and safety and making sure that they're not becoming victims of wage theft are being ensured as well. Because that ultimately is the bottom line of retention. And if we cannot address that from the beginning, we're going to have a cycle where folks are feeling exploited and honestly do not, will not want to work in future projects. So I want to encourage the council
 to consider that. And that there – and if there's any consideration to move away from any PLA inclusions and any agreements, that we really need to look at how do we address wage theft in work sites that historically there have been issues on that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay, who else did we have from last week? Come on up, please. Go ahead, whoever would like to be first. Do I push a button or anything? No, it's on.
 Good afternoon. My name is Kennedy Morgan, and I'm with Northwest Infrastructure. We perform earthwork and utilities along with demolition. Having the advantage of listening to testimonies last week, I've spent the time since then mulling over what I've heard. It's interesting for a small-town girl who had little exposure culturally growing up, I never knew how much discrimination still exists in our society. I never thought I would see it firsthand and realize how impactful it can be.
 During my four-plus years with Northwest Infrastructure and working closely with our owner, Michael Martin, I've come to realize some significant things. First, the construction industry is cutthroat. We've had jobs that should have been ours. We were low bidder and thoroughly qualified. And yet generals ripped the job out from under us. They gave it to others who needed work more or found ways to get last-minute bids from others they'd rather work with.
 We have been told we weren't selected because they didn't feel we could meet their demanding schedule, and yet, they never asked us about the schedule. We never had a discussion about whether we could meet it or what our manpower looked like. Doing DOT work, we've seen firsthand as well how marginalized minority companies are. Until recently, DOT required ethnic-specific participation on many projects. Do you know how the majority of that participation was achieved?
 with flagging, with dump trucking, and by purchasing oil. Periphery positions, lower profit margin roles. Only once were we ever contacted about doing other work, digging or installing utilities, the areas of our business that have a higher profit margin. How does this system grow business? How do these companies gain capacity? The answer is simple. They don't.
 An unregulated, unchecked, and faulty system where big general contractors are allowed to keep big money in-house, subcontract to their favorites, and marginalize businesses like ours is destined to fail us.
 NWA had a chance to be a part of both pilot projects with the CBA. At Kelly Butte, we were a sub-tier to the general to provide all of the trucking for the duration of the project. More than half the overall trucking hours were performed by our trucks. The remainder went to a total of more than 50 small and larger trucking companies we subcontracted to. I won't say that the project was without pitfalls. We struggled against our customer calling out trucks on their own and not running them through us.
 The effect was that our contract value and participation would be reduced, and they benefited by paying very low rates. However, the oversight committee was invaluable. We called upon them more than once. The oversight committee was our voice to keep everyone in line and attempt to avoid further shenanigans. All in all, the experience was a good one. We learned a lot, and the $1.5 million in trucking contributed greatly to the growth of the company over two years.
 We also participated in the Water Bureau CBA pilot project. Northwest submitted a bid on the earthwork package. Within the earthwork scope, they required five years' experience in handling contaminated materials. Thank you.
 We knew we didn't have the requisite experience, but we had connected with an environmental company who was willing to lend their expertise as a consultant to ensure our employees gained the experience doing the work with the requested supervision. Unfortunately, despite our having been the only minority-owned bidder for the work, we were not awarded it.
 However, due to the CBA's involvement in the project, we did participate. An agreement was drafted whereby one of our foremen was able to work directly with the awarded contractor to gain the experience handling contaminated materials. The work was performed on a TNN basis for a total of $74,000. Without the CBA, we wouldn't have even had that opportunity.
 With the support of the CBA, Northwest has also transitioned to an industry-specific project management input keeping system, utilizing their technical assistance program. Doing so helps us to operate more like the large companies, providing reporting and detail that our bonding company and banks like to see. That's good. Try to finish up quickly. Yes, I'm almost done.
 The CBA provided funding for us to begin our training to set the system up. What we have learned as a result of the CBA experience is that having an oversight committee is paramount. Having an advocate, a board, and a group of people who keeps generals and owners in check is the only way to ensure compliance. It's also the only way to have a voice to ensure significant and viable participation occurs that enables a company's capacity to benefit. What I'd like to offer from a personal perspective in closing is this.
 As a country, we clearly have not come far enough from the war our ancestors fought. Statistics cannot be argued with. White, male-owned, male-run businesses are flourishing. Fortis, Hoffman, Connell, Kaufman, Hewitt, Stacy and Whitbeck, Remick, Walsh, to name a few. How many multimillion-dollar projects are run by the marginalized, minority, and women-owned businesses? Can you walk around the city and find high-rises built by companies owned by people...
 that looked like the audience last week ask yourself this do you believe the reason you don't is because they aren't capable aren't competent lack capacity in your heart of hearts if you say yes then you are the problem if you question why just look at the statistics listen to what people here are saying look at what they are capable of and look at how the cba has tried to bring a different approach to growing minority and women-owned businesses
 Thank you very much. That was really helpful. Thank you for coming back. And it was even more helpful that you stayed and talked to it. You could have sent it in by email, but being here to give everybody in the public information
 awareness of what's going on is really helpful. Thank you. One of the values of this set of hearings has been how much we've learned. So I appreciate that. If you would be willing, along with others, to leave us a copy of that so that council members could have that to read again, it would be very helpful. Okay. Thank you. My name's Chloe O'Dailey.
 I'm here to support the work of the Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity because the city of Portland should be using our public dollars and its purchasing power to end disparities in employment and economic opportunity in our communities to the greatest extent possible.
 Capping community investment associated with future projects at 1% of project costs with no clear plan of how these funds will be used and no meaningful community involvement and oversight is not an acceptable alternative.
 Think about how much better off we would be as a city right now if we had been utilizing CBAs for the past couple of decades. Many of the people who have been most adversely affected by gentrification would have had greater economic opportunities, making them and their communities less susceptible to displacement. We need CBAs because the city needs to do a better job of involving the community in decision-making, particularly communities of color.
 Asking people of color to participate in advisory bodies with little or no power to monitor and help implement policy will only serve to increase cynicism and division. More importantly, it is unlikely that the city will make any progress towards curing historic disparities without meaningfully involving the affected communities.
 I come from a working class union family. In fact, some of my family's income depended on public projects. My dad worked on Tom McCall Waterfront Park.
 And I'm also a person of modest means, but I recognize that I have had more opportunities to succeed because of the color of my skin and my cultural heritage. It is important to acknowledge that privilege when considering policy decisions like the council is facing today. I urge the council not to accept the staff report. Furthermore, I urge the council to rededicate itself to community benefit agreements, which have demonstrated strong results in our pilot projects. Thank you.
 Projects funded by the gas tax, because they are in the construction pipeline, would be excellent candidates for community benefit agreements that will continue to pull people out of poverty and provide economic opportunity to historically disadvantaged populations.
 And since I have a few seconds left, I want to say when I talk about these projects with the public and how impressive the results were and that the city seems to be dismissing them, they want to know why. And I can't tell them why. Because it's not because...
 We don't have enough women and minority contracts to hire. We proved that we did. It's not because they're not skilled. It's not because they're not able to come in on time or on budget. It's just because. And just because isn't a good enough answer to the people that dedicated their time and expertise to this process and to the workers who got to benefit from it. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. Thank you. Hello, my name is Crystal Magana. And my testimony is going to be a little bit different. I released from Coffee Creek 90 days ago after serving 16 and 1 half years. I went in at the age of 19 with only a GED education. I am a minority. I am Hispanic, first born generation here in the United States. I'm also Cherokee Nation and white. So I've faced a lot of obstacles.
 both during incarceration and upon release. If it wasn't for the CBA, I would have never had an opportunity to go through the Oregon Tradeswomen program and graduate that. I would not have had the opportunity to go to Mount Hood Community College and partake in a program to get my welding cert. I would have not had the opportunity to go through a HAWSWOPER certification program, nor would I have just signed my Local 29 Ironworker papers three weeks ago. This program is huge.
 The money, the community support, the folks both that are sitting here in this room, the people that unfortunately weren't able to get another day off from work, every one of them matters. One percent is not enough. There are more women than myself that are getting ready to release from Coffee Creek who are struggling just as hard as I am. I just happen to have a harder head, and I'm willing to hit more brick walls to get my goals accomplished.
 I urge you with everything within me to support the CBA and to push it forward and to open it up so it's wider and bigger. If you guys don't support the unions and the open shops, folks like myself, I have a 17-year-old daughter. I will not have a wage to, number one, support myself, but number two, be there to support her to get to college. And to have a future... I'm sorry...
 That doesn't include an incarceration. Currently, I'm housed at Transitional Service Unit at the estate in downtown Portland. And as soon as I start Ironworkers the first week of November, I'm looking forward to moving into an apartment. But in the meantime, I live in the heart of trouble, the heart of drugs and alcohol, the heart of recidivism. And if it wasn't for this program, I wouldn't be moving forward and moving out of that.
 So thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Okay. Others remaining, come on up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. First, I would like to address, I want to thank Mayor Hales and the committee members here. It's a pleasure and an honor to be before you this afternoon.
 My name is Nathaniel Hartley, and I'm the owner of Professional Lath & Plaster, LLC. We install metal stud framing, drywall, acoustical ceilings into your next year Lath & Plaster. We are 100% union. I'm a member of the Professional Business Development Group, and we are comprised of state-certified minority contractors and professional businesses.
 PBDG's primary purposes are to improve the business conditions in the construction industry by increasing the capacity and utilization of DMW construction and professional service contractors. Number two, to link contractors to major public works and private sector opportunities. We work with all types of contractors, union and non-union. We have over 40 members in our organization.
 and we have even more attend our meetings, 50 to 60, during our, attend our bi-monthly meetings. The CBA projects allow contractors and A&E professionals an opportunity to work on large projects that would have not been available before. Some of our firms had the benefit of taking part in our technical assistance services. Through their work,
 their capacity grew on bigger and better contracts. I directly benefited from the CBA. I participated at the Water Bureau project and it went very well for me. My territory was expanded. I was taught how to install rigid foam insulation, which has been added to my operation, which is a very lucrative market. Because of the CBA, my business is expanding.
 software, training, and now I'm able to operate on a higher level of functionality. I just want you to know that the CBA is a phenomenal program you guys have here, and I hope that you continue it. It's had a great impact on a lot of people. So I want to thank you for your time.
 Can I just ask you, sir, I was at Interstate yesterday thanking our water quality team. Did you do both drywall at the Interstate facility and insulation? No, sir. I did the insulation on the entire exterior and interior. Of the new building? Yes, sir. Well, congratulations. Well, thank you. It's a terrific building. We're very proud of it. Thank you, sir. Good work. Ready? Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council Members. Thanks for your time today. I think it's been a long day for you all. I'll make it great. It's been longer. It's been longer.
 Well, if I keep going, you're right. I am Jody Gutzlow-Parker, and I had the experience, the wonderful experience of working with people to craft this community benefits agreement, along with my predecessor at the Columbia Pacific Building Trades, Paul Riggs. He laid the foundation, and I was able to come in and, along with many others, help close that deal.
 I will forever be proud of my work there. It warms my heart to hear the stories that I've been hearing. I will forever be proud. It's been a while. I'm very nervous. You've been great. Thank you so much. Thank you. I was the co-chair also of the Labor Management and Community Oversight Committee.
 And that was not without its, I don't want to say struggles, but there's some complications. We got through them, and I was glad to help where I did. That impact is behind me now. But I'd like to tell you a little bit about A.J. Ben-Wellis. And you'll excuse me if I get a little emotional. You might want to give me a tissue on my head. That woman before us.
 Tore me up. That's a story. So A.J. A.J. Ben Wallace is a laborer. She was an apprentice when we were putting together when the project started. So we needed a minority. We needed a female. A.J. hit both of those marks. And she went through, let's see, I'm so sorry. It's been a long time since I've had to do this. I've been in the field working. It's much easier to run a forklift.
 She fulfilled all of her duties working for that pipe contractor, and I'll forever be grateful for her to come in and do that. She did that, all the while working to raise her three children. She's later gone on to become Oregon's first female bailman.
 which is working in a very dangerous job rigging the loads as the crane and telling the crane what to do, to fly them up to whatever stores they're at. She was so brave to do that, I'll tell you. I want to ask you, what do you think gave her the courage to do that incredible job? Please. I always will believe that the strong foundation she laid up at Kelly Butte
 It's difficult to be a woman in the trades. It's difficult, I'm sure, to even complicate that with young children at home, with her own story, with her minority status. She rose to the occasion and she helped complete that work. And I'll forever, ever be proud of her to do that.
 She's a strong laborer today, sorry, working with a major contractor building buildings here in this town. She remains committed. Her children now, if I may, another memo? Oh, sure. Thank you. Her daughter is now entering college. She has her first job. Her son is entering, I think, high school. He plays football, and he's grown. The youngest, he comes to our union meetings and stuff.
 He's a handful, and I admire her job there. But she's raising them right, and she did that with the benefit of a good apprenticeship. And I hate to say that we need to fill the slots. If you know me, you know that I'll go out. I'm obviously a female, but when you get me out on the job site, I'm a hard worker. It doesn't matter what my gender is. We work hard. We need those doors in.
 You know that. You helped pave the way to Portland Streetcar, and I thank you so much for that. I want to ask you to take another look. Just think about the women, the men that are being impacted. They're buying houses. AJ's buying a house now. It's just an amazing story, and I'm proud to tell it, proud to be a part of it. Thank you, Jodi. I got through it. Yes, you did. Thank you very much.
 Welcome. Grant Page. I'm here representing Power Plus Electric. It's been a long journey to get here. There's been a lot of naysayers, and I was told I could never get accepted into an electrical apprenticeship, especially not a union one. I was told that if I did get in, I would never finish because there's going to be too many roadblocks. I was told I'd never be able to start my own business. Okay.
 I'm glad I never really listened to the naysayers because I proved them all wrong, but they're still talking to me. The naysayers are telling me that although Portland is a good place to live, they're saying that we're not ready to have minorities participate in state-run and city-run projects. And I still don't believe them. I'm here to prove the naysayers wrong again.
 The city is going through an unprecedented growth period. I've always participated in the vitality and the growth of Portland, and I want to participate. I want to continue to participate, except for this time I want to participate as an electrical contractor. So I'm just urging you all to please support the CBA. The CBA does need some more oversight. It needs some teeth. So I believe that's the best tool that we have going forward.
 If it wasn't for people like Pat from Constructing Hope who testified on Thursday, people like Keith Edwards who also testified on Thursday, and people like Maurice who testified on Thursday. Those people, they reached a hand out to me, to a lot of people, but to me in particular. They didn't need to. They didn't get any extra money for that.
 But I think you can tell a lot about what's in someone's spirit and what's in their heart by what they do with their time and what they do with their money. I saw those people spend a lot of their time not only with other people but with me also.
 I didn't see them get any money for that, and that tells me where their hearts are at. So I believe that Maurice has made a lot of recommendations to add to the CBA, and I urge that you strongly consider those. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for your time. Okay, we've got to complete the list of folks that were signed up from before. One more. Come on up, please. Is there somebody from Labor's 483 here? No.
 No, I can bring up some issues that they put to me. Okay. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Kaki Marshall, and I am a master's in public policy candidate, 2017 from the Hatfield School of Government, Portland State. It pleases me to be here today speaking to you on behalf of the citizens of Portland. The information that I want to talk about today has to do with the –
 that was presented for your approval, specifically the report from what looks like is from the Water Bureau talking about the CBA. There's a page in that report that outlines a set of recommendations going forward that clearly describes a set of policies that are involving a new type of equity and inclusion plan being proposed here.
 in lieu of a CBA and talks about not continuing with the guidelines that had been proposed by the initial CBA. I'm requesting, and in fact I'm advocating very strongly, that you do not accept that report on the grounds that it violates the policies that you voted into ordinance in the Portland Comprehensive Plan. Portland Comprehensive Plan specifically states that on page, let's see, it's in the,
 GP 2-12, Guiding Principles and Policies. Policy number 2.30 talks about culturally appropriate processes, that planning of this nature needs to include consulting with communities to design culturally appropriate processes, meeting the needs of those affected by planning and investment in the project, evaluate use and document creative and culturally appropriate methods, tools, technologies, and systems to inform and engage people
 underserved and underrepresented groups about planning and investment projects, policy 2.31, innovative engagement methods, policy 2.35, participation and monitoring, talks about evaluating the document participation demographics throughout the planning, which includes the reporting period.
 Policy 2.36 talks about adaptability. The policies 2.26 talk about verifying data, which means that any data that was utilized to create that report that you're approving would have had to be shared with the communities and the coalitions that you engaged with in partnerships to create the community benefits pilot in the first place.
 There's policies that are being violated in here about transparency. We're ostensibly supposed to believe that the one signature on the bottom of that page is the one person that created that policy when it's clear that the plans and suggestions made going forward specifically reflect the exact structures that were put into place about putting the Portland building together.
 policy into place. So it's in effect you would be authorizing and condoning a bureau manager to provide you with reports that are negligent of following these policies that you voted into ordinance in the comp plan.
 In closing, I'd just like to say that change is something that sometimes is uncomfortable. When you guys voted for that comprehensive plan to include all of the communities that have participated in the pilot project and being a part of creating that report, you haven't provided the Bureau Directors with any training or insight into how to change their behaviors and practices to comply with those policies.
 So it falls upon you as our leaders to let them know when they submit a report to you that is no longer in compliance with new policies that you've set forward.
 So now is the time for you to stand behind the policies that you voted into ordinance on the Portland Comp Plan. Change isn't going to be easy. A lot of people are going to need to change the way they do business and the way that they present their findings to you in order to communicate, provide access for input.
 and make sure that the people who participated in the pilot project are not only given the data that's used to create the report, are able to give their participation to creating the report. It's transparent to them at the time which the report is being created, and their voices are being included in the information that you're adopting and accepting as a valid report. So, yeah.
 That's my point. It doesn't really matter whether it's accurate or not. The way it was created is totally out of compliance with what you guys have set forward as standards going forward. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Appreciate the testimony. I think we have one additional invited testimony. Oh, I know. Dante is going to come up. Dante James, the director. I believe he's still planning on coming up and providing some comments to us as the close of this part of the discussion. So, Director James, come on up, please.
 Good afternoon. You're going to shock me when I sit down. Good afternoon, Commissioners, Mr. Mayor. I guess I should say I appreciate the opportunity to provide closing remarks, but I'm not sure I do. As difficult as this conversation has been over the last couple of days of testimony, I truly appreciate all those who have testified and appreciate their passion and their commitment to this conversation.
 I want to preface my remarks by telling a story. I sit on the city's prequalification board, which is designed to determine prequalification for general contractors who want to bid on city work. It's a result of the disparity study and one of the recommendations that was created a couple of years ago. Contractors are required now to provide information on
 the last several years of projects that they have done private and public, and also required to provide information on the percentage of utilization of M&WBEs on those projects. And last week I was reviewing one, and of at least over 30 projects that they had listed as an example of the work that they had done in the last couple of years, out of all of those 30 or more,
 Two of them, two of them had any utilization of minority or women-owned businesses. One of those projects was, well, I take that back. The only projects that listed any participation were in two jurisdictions. One was Portland, and the other was one project done for the State Department of Transportation. All other projects they listed, at least 20 participated.
 Probably half of those were public. Eugene, City of Salem, McMinnville, Gresham, none of them had any participation of minority or women-owned businesses. Zero. So I say that to say it's clear that Portland leads the way in doing this work in requiring participation and utilization of minority and women-owned businesses as contractors. And if we don't do it, it doesn't happen.
 The private sector has no goals, has no expectations. It doesn't happen. Cities that don't require it, it doesn't happen. And so what we're talking about is institutional racism and sexism in the construction industry.
 And the testimony that you've heard over the last couple of days, as diplomatic as they were trying to be, detailed for you the institutional racism and sexism that exists in hiring and working on the site, as well as being a contractor trying to get a job. That's why we're having this conversation, and I just don't want to lose that foundational understanding of why we have to have this conversation in the first place.
 And so what my task today is, is not to talk about the CBA's good, bad, indifferent, but to talk about where, what has been put in place to move forward, at least as a draft concept. And it's been mentioned as the CEIP, the Community Equity and Inclusion Plan, as part of the conversation. And...
 So I'll tell you where that came from or how it began, which was a work group was put together at OMF to take the various tools that had been used, CBA, CBP, all of the documents, and distill the similarities across them and put them into a document for discussion. So each of those documents have been vetted by community in various ways.
 And so the goal was, and I wasn't even at the beginning of the process, the goal was to find the similarities in those documents and put them in one so that that could be then used for conversation moving forward. Okay.
 And the draft of that document has been provided to the ECPC, which clearly has now made it out into the community, which is fine. We're not trying to play hide the ball. We wanted to give the ECPC the first opportunity to look at it because it is a commission representing the city of Portland and representing not the city as in government, but city as in community and offering their thoughts and specific recommendations about it.
 They have been given the document. They have until tomorrow, I think, to provide final recommendations and thoughts back to the work group, which then will allow it to then be disseminated broadly to the community. And we have plans on talking to most of the folks who have been in the room testifying organizationally to give them an opportunity to then see the document that's been submitted.
 created and adjusted and provided with the input of the ECPC. So our plan is, the goal is, that that is what happens next once the comments from the ECPC come in. There's going to be a conversation October 10th with the ECPC and the city attorney, who's the keeper of the documents, to include and engage those comments from the ECPC. And then subsequent to that,
 we are meeting with or planning on meeting with lots of organizations to then have a broader conversation. So there's, and also the document itself absolutely has an oversight committee in it. By name, at this point it was looking at ECPC doing it, but that may not be the best methodology or mode to do that, but it was the placeholder initially.
 So there will be an absolute community oversight, at least in the document, oversight committee that is in place to do what's already been discussed as a necessity. The timeline is an aggressive one because there's a date on your calendar, December 14th, to bring that. I've been very clear that it's a very aggressive goal.
 If we don't meet it, we don't meet it because what needs to happen is community involvement and engagement and support and feedback. You don't want it to come to you and have this chamber filled with people who are screaming against it. There's a desire and an effort that will be real and true community engagement and feedback on the document.
 Again, the goal, just because it's on your calendar before the end of the year, and again, it's a goal. The aspirational goals we keep talking about, that's an example of one. So anyway, that's kind of the process. So I just want to close by saying this, and if you have any questions of me, I'm happy to take them. We were blessed today to see the proclamation around Hispanic Heritage Month.
 You know, there's Black History Month. Next week you're going to hear a proclamation or present a proclamation on Indigenous Peoples Day. Symbols are important. Those are beautiful examples of recognition symbolically. Symbols don't put food on people's tables. Symbols don't give people a job. Symbols don't do anything except look good on paper. So it's up to us to implement the meaning behind those symbols. And so that's...
 at least my effort and participation in this project. And so what I've outlined is how we see this currently set up to move forward. Thank you. Thank you. Questions for Dante? So the next opportunity for the public to weigh in and hear comments from the Commission is at the ECPC's
 October 10th meeting, is that what you said? October 10th is when the members of the ECPC will meet with the city attorney to help incorporate their comments into the document. Then it will go out and we will hold community meetings or meet with community organizations for their input and feedback. And then will it come back to the Equitable Contracting and Purchasing Commission before it comes to council? That's the hope in terms of timing, yes. Okay.
 And I just want – as if this isn't complicated enough, I'd like to add something that the Laborers for 83 reps brought to my attention yesterday, which is that we have in some of our bureaus entry-level positions and then working up to more senior positions, very similar to the apprenticeships and journeymen positions that we heard about in this conversation. So – and Commissioner Fish, I don't know whether –
 I'm pretty sure that actually the Water Bureau and Environmental Services do have that kind of training track. And I'm not sure that there is that in parks. And so I'm going to be looking at, are there ways within our city, the Portland city government, that we can be modelling this also?
 and do what Commissioner Fish was saying in reference to the Latino proclamation, helping to prepare people who have absolute qualifications which maybe if we don't have any more positions in parks that they the training they got in parks might help them get into a better position within the community. So I just wanted to mention that because it seemed like a very good answer. No, that's great. And to that point and points made earlier, the data that you got presented by ECPC I think
 I think it demonstrated two things specifically. One, that even if there were goals being met, that the goals were being met in very limited areas like trucking, like flagging, not in different areas and aspects of the work. Then secondly, in terms of workforce, the workforce numbers are being met in areas.
 not in any management, not in any supervisors' positions, very much entry-level positions, and tend to be met in one demographic as opposed to across the board. Mayor, can I engage you in a colloquy for a moment? Go ahead, if we have bandwidth left to do that. I have to confess, I've been...
 I've been up since 4. I know your goal is to get to the rest of the agenda. We have a lot of community partners here. So I want to suggest a way to bring closure today for this item, for your consideration and council consideration, and we can have that discussion, and I think Dante can help us. So there is no decision that comes out of this meeting that,
 with respect to a CBA, CBP, CEIP, or any hybrid. And I apologize to Commissioner Fritz for using acronyms, but I know we heard a lot of testimony last time about, you know, don't jump the gun and do something. So let's be clear. There is no new something that we are adopting. We're laying a path forward for some community conversations. That's number one.
 Number two, Mayor, you and I have slightly different pieces of this. So my bureaus did the pilot project. We've reported on those numbers. We've had that portion of the hearing. Your bureaus are overseeing the consideration of alternatives and different kinds of ideas, all with the goal of building on a success, all with the goals of can we get even a better outcome. So –
 But what I have heard in this hearing is a lot of heartburn about some of the documents that are before us. And that's why we've heard from a number of people, don't accept, because by accepting you're ratifying and we have concerns. So I'd like to propose a compromise that allows us to move forward with some clarity and allows us also to complete our agenda today. And that's the following. That in lieu of accepting the report on this item, we simply –
 receive the report as filed. And in our rules, there's a difference between accepting and receiving. And receiving just is a matter of transmittal and it's filed. And we don't have to officially accept and take a vote. We're just, and that's within your discretion under the rules. And it's been discussed with each of the offices as an option. That way it doesn't just go into the ether. It's going from here to here, but it's not being accepted. So that's my first suggestion that we simply receive it
 File it, not accept it, and postpone taking any official action on it. Second, I think it's important that we be clear that Dante, the director, has laid out a path. Those are aggressive timelines. The council may decide they're too aggressive, but that's for further conversation, and it's going to depend a lot on what kind of feedback he gets and whether it's feasible within this truncated timeline to come up with something.
 But I think he's also made clear there's going to be a lot of opportunity for public comment, and we may not get there. And third, nothing is going to change in the interim because we've already, as a council, adopted a CBP, Community Benefits Plan, for Washington Park. And we've set higher goals than we had in the pilots. So that's behind us. And there actually is no particular thing which we are being asked to adopt.
 We are continuing a process, and frankly, just speaking for myself, I have found the last two days of hearings on this, while they were raw and sometimes uncomfortable, I thought they were very helpful. And frankly, not just to ventilate some really tough issues, but I thought there were some new issues that were put on the table that were fantastic, like the regional approach, which I think is something that we have an interest in doing so that we're not just doing one-off job opportunities, we're creating a continuum.
 And also, you know, having some follow-up conversations about what accountability looks like, what oversight looks like, the legal issues raised by signatories. I mean, I've listened carefully, taken a phone book worth of notes today.
 So I think if we just receive it and don't accept it, we give ourselves more breathing room to engage some of those issues. Dante has laid out a path for considering a modified proposal, which we may or may not take up in the balance of your term, we may or may not accept.
 And beyond that, there is actually nothing we are doing to change the status quo. And I want to be clear because there was a lot of heartburn about that last time. But somehow this is leading to a change because we have already acted on Washington Park, and that's behind us. So my proposal is we receive it. We publicize the dates and the opportunities for a comment. But then we as a council decide whether this is a timeline that we're comfortable with. I like that proposal, and I'll take that as a motion. Second. Second.
 And we can discuss it or we can talk about it as we vote on it, but I think it is a way to resolve what we've heard, and I've heard a lot. Excuse me. I've got a lot to say. I don't think we vote on it. No, we don't need a motion, Mayor. We don't receive it. In lieu of a vote. You have the power as the presiding officer to say that's how we're proceeding. Okay. Then I'll be prepared to do that, but I also want to give members of the council an opportunity to comment. So would you like to start, Steve? Sure.
 Yes, I think that's a very good suggestion. I mean, I think that in the past three years, there's only been one report that I voted not to accept, which was the JTDF report, which had nonexistent content.
 So I was thinking that I could conceivably vote to accept this report without suggesting that I agree with anything in it. And there are certainly some controversial statements in the introduction to the report. I mean, for example, there's a statement that there were indistinguishable improvements using the CBA compared to the City of Portland's existing MWASB subcontracting processing goals that have been achieved on other alternative procurement projects before.
 that did not happen to CBA. I think that is one statement that is certainly subject to dispute, and I would not have wanted to vote to accept this report as a suggestion that I'm taking one side or another that's on a disputed issue.
 I think that the suggestion that we say we're receiving the report makes it quite clear that it doesn't mean that we're agreeing with everything in it. I also wanted to say that Commissioner Fish noted that maybe the timeline Dante has outlined is too aggressive. Commissioner Saltzman said in a previous meeting that he's seen every new mayor address this issue.
 and he expects the next mayor will as well. And I've already had conversations with Mayor Lech Wheeler and Tom Reinhardt, who will be his new CEO, about the importance of taking a long look at how we make sure that we engage more women and minority contractors and more women and minorities in the workforce of our contractors. Thank you.
 So, thank you, Mayor, for giving me the chance to expound. Mayor Redekopal Okay. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? Commissioner Fritz Thank you. I think I heard a lot of good testimony, both today and the last time we discussed this. And I'm very glad that the Equitable Contracting and Procurement Commission, which is very hard to say. It's no wonder why everybody says ECPC all the time. I'm glad that the commission is moved into the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Obviously, we need to figure out how to get it properly staffed as well.
 And normally we would want to have had a lot of these conversations heard by the commission before it gets to council. You will often say, Mayor, for the Planning Commission, that you want it 90% ready or 95% and then come to council for us to make the final tweaks. And it didn't feel like anything was close to 90% in these discussions. And Tom Reinhardt, who will be the new Chief Administrative Officer, will start work, I
 so he can hopefully be engaged in this process. Another person that I believe needs to be engaged is Christine Moody of Procurement Services, which who nobly stood back and let the community give their input, and I know how committed she is to equitable contracting and to finding ways of engaging more women and minority businesses and workers, because
 Because whenever she brings something to council, she's telling us what she did after the bids to make sure that the amounts of participation got better. And she's had some spectacular results. So I hope, and I want you to nod, Director James, that Christine will be very much engaged in this. Absolutely good.
 Thank you very much. And really great participation, especially for the people who came and told their personal stories, which were so moving and helps us really understand how important this is. Thank you, everybody, for your work. Thank you. Mr. Fish, would you like to make a few comments? Thank you, Mayor. I'll be very brief. I want to thank the city staff that pulled together the materials that we've been reviewing. I want to thank the LMCOC.
 I will speak for the Water Bureau that we've learned a lot from the two pilots, and we're proud of the results at the two pilot projects. And I am more convinced than ever that we are, despite whatever differences we may have about means, we are all united in the goal of creating more opportunity for women and minority businesses. I also think this council and every council I've served on in eight years
 has a consistent track record of supporting prevailing wage and high road labor standards. And so there are some legal and what I would almost say technical issues that we are disagreeing over or we are having within the family a lively discussion about. And I think people made very compelling arguments during this hearing. And now we have a chance to hit the pause button and to evaluate and consider those arguments.
 But I don't want anyone to leave this piece of our agenda over the last two sessions thinking that we are not committed to high road standards for working people, that we're retreating from prevailing wage, that we don't think that labor standards should be enforced, or that we're not committed to opportunity. How you balance all those things is hard, and the CBA is an example of a very well-intentioned,
 effort to craft something that could move the ball. One of the questions that I've had throughout this process as someone with a proud history of involvement in the labor movement is, can we do better? And I think sometimes the conversation, because this has been a little raw, and as Commissioner Fritz pointed out, it hasn't been as cooked as maybe we would like. I think sometimes people have maybe misunderstood that in asking these questions, we're not looking to retreat, we're looking to advance.
 And how do you advance and do so in a way that isn't divisive? Because the one part of this process that gave me pause was when I saw my friends questioning each other's motives. And that we can never do. That is a sin. We cannot do that. We cannot function in this room if we do that. And I hope we limit that in the future.
 I don't question people's motives. I think people have different life experiences and different perspectives, and our job is to try to reconcile things. But let's be clear. We start with a foundation of shared values. And without being flip, I think my one regret over a lengthy process is I think too much time has been spent focusing on the 1%, and I don't mean the 1% in the way that Commissioner Novick speaks about the 1%, and not enough about the 100%.
 And by that I mean we should never accept progress through the lens of how we spend a 1 percent carve-out. Our measurement of success is how we spend the 100 percent of the project funds in advancing shared goals. And we've been talking a lot about who pulls the levers on the 1 percent and we're going to keep the 1 percent. Folks, let's not take our eye off the ball. It's the 100 percent that we care about. And finally, just a question, a comment about accountability.
 I've been on this council long enough to hear all kinds of views about accountability. But the consistent thing that I've learned is that accountability cannot be delegated. And we can have oversight bodies and partners at the table and people helping us. But at the end of the day, the mayor and his four colleagues are accountable and no one else. And when a bureau says we're going to get to a better outcome,
 and puts the commissioner in charge and the director's name on that commitment. That is, in my view, as it should be. Now, how we get there and how members of the community help us get there is a good conversation. But the accountability in our form of government rests with the commissioner in charge and the director. And we can never, ever confuse that. We can never, as a substitute, say we're going to delegate that to some well-intentioned group of people, and then if we fall short, say, well...
 Too bad, because this council has to be accountable for those goals. And when the council says on Washington Park we're going to do better than the CBA, we're on the hook for that. And we don't get to 10 years from now and say, gosh, you were right, we should have had a different process for how we get there because we misjudged. A commitment has been made, and it's a rather audacious commitment, and we're on the hook for it. And I can't even use the excuse of potentially having my bureaus reassigned because I said as long as I'm on this council –
 we're going to achieve those goals. Thank you to everybody that participated in this discussion. I think it's been one of the most important conversations we've had. And I hope we can take the positive energy here and approach the next chapter in the spirit of doing better than we've done in the past.
 thank you mayor thank you commissioner let me add a little bit to these good comments um one i said this last time but i'll try to restate it in a way i hope that makes sense but that is um in one capacity or another i've been in this room for 14 years and we've been talking about this subject for the entire span of that time which included a 10-year gap um the the the this particular hearing
 all those 14 years, all the different subjects we've talked about, is the most peculiar combination of frustration, celebration, and agreement that I've ever seen. And
 It's a little puzzling in one sense. And you go back to the beginning of this hearing and you look at what Fred Miller listed as what we need to be doing. Break down the data on workforce. Alternative contracting is working better than low bid. We have to do better. Focus on a pipeline of talent for the future. Engage regional partners. Coach firm. Increase the pool of content. There's so much agreement in this room about where we should be and about what's working.
 and the CBAs clearly have been working.
 and i've learned a lot so that's the other thing i have learned so much in these two discussions in this chamber and i think one of the things that was illuminated right at the end is probably the most important point and that is we're still talking about this as dante said because there's institutional racism and sexism in our city it's in the construction industry and it's actually in city government as well not because we are racists and sexists but
 but because if we don't make changes that are real enough and big enough, then we don't achieve equity. And I've learned that from Dante James. Thank you. You know, a long time ago, Edmund Burke said, all that's necessary for the triumph of evil is for good people to do nothing. Well, in this case, all that's necessary for the triumph of injustice is for us to do not enough. And that's the point I've learned from this. The CBAs are a high watermark of doing more like enough.
 If I can put that a little inartfully. We did a little more like enough this time. Let's learn from that. Let's repeat that. Let's use that tool some more. I get that. Some other things that are clear. If the community is not a partner, there's no progress on this. So the community has got to be an actual partner, not just making nice words about that. It's got to really be true. That includes real oversight. Okay.
 the Equitable Contracting and Purchasing Commission, and the Labor Management Community Oversight Committee, I like the sound of that, are both attempts at having that kind of real oversight from both labor and management and the community. We've got to have that in this case. We've got to have real data.
 disaggregated about who's getting the work and how much of it and how many hours what progress are they personally making words of good stories I don't mean to denigrate those stories or to minimize them at all that was a teachable moment as well each of those workers who came here and told us their story so thank you for them and for those who have helped them we got to create real consequences for non-compliance
 There's got to be real teeth to this because if we're going to push people in an uncomfortable direction past barriers of racism and sexism, then we've got to have penalties for not going where this community says we must go. So equity is hard work. It's worth the extra time, and I appreciate the amount of time that the council has put into this discussion.
 It's worth a lot of energy. For the remaining time that I am here in this position as your mayor, I'm going to keep pushing this progress and the use of tools that work, including community benefits agreements, because they do work. So thank you all for really helping us understand better. Actually, I want to close by sounding a little negative. My colleague Dan is not here to defend himself, but he says,
 He could have been interpreted in what he said last time is that, well, you know, nothing ever changes. We talk about this every time a new mayor comes in. Well, that's true. That's because we're not there yet. But we've learned some things here, and we've got some tools that work, and we as a city will use them. I will, and I believe the next mayor will as well. And I know that my colleagues here want to make this work and to make this progress real and stick and grow. So I learned a lot. Thank you all. More progress to come. This report is received and filed.
 Thank you. Mayor, can we go to 1078? We need to do, yes, we're going to go to 1078. And then before he leaves, we've got to do 1083. So we're going to do 1078, and I think we can do that in time to get 1083 in before Commissioner Novick leaves. So 1078, please. Report from the Special Appropriations Committee on recommendations for grant awards from the Special Appropriations Fund and the awarding process. Ms. Wiggins. Yes.
 Mayor, Council, I'm Rachel Wiggins from Mayor Hales' office. Apologies in advance. I think we are all a little tired, so if I forget some items or get a little loopy, that is why. So I am here as a representative of the Special Appropriations Committee. If you'll remember, I came to...
 back in June with a resolution around forming that committee and some guidelines with which we would use to review applications. Before You is a report that includes both the committee's recommendations for funding as well as a report out of how we got to those recommendations as well as recommendations for moving forward. So first, how did we get there?
 This committee was created as a way to address the concerns around awarding special appropriations funds in the budget process, it not being competitive or as transparent as it could be.
 Council felt that this would be an appropriate step forward to make this a more accessible and equitable process. So we established five areas with which people could apply. Opportunities for youth, community health, community-based arts and culture,
 expanding economic opportunities for Portlanders and limited-term special events. The committee received 80 applications from organizations. Initially, we established six different means of evaluating those applications. Does this application address one or more of the city's measures of successes as established in the Portland plan?
 Does this organization or request impact an underrepresented community? Does it address the city's equity goals? Does it have a positive citywide impact? Does it have measurable outcomes? And is the program feasible? That last one was specifically because these are one-time requests, and we wanted to ensure that –
 by funding organizations, we weren't putting them in a position where either they were going to be in a lurch year two, or they would need to come back to the city expecting ongoing funding for a one-time request. Um, so the committee, uh,
 awarded scores out of 10 for each organization and used it as a means of establishing which ones needed to be discussed. Again, this process was created to be more rigorous than a political process, but still have the flexibility so that the committee could address issues and questions as the process moved through. It is the first year, and we recognized that the process was
 that it wasn't going to be perfect year one, and we didn't want to tie our hands and make it
 less good of a process. So in taking a look at the applications, a couple of things rose to the top. One, we placed an emphasis on organizations who either had never before been funded by the city or were not currently being funded. We did get some requests from organizations who had received funds in the 16-17 budget and then had additional asks through special appropriations.
 Additionally, when taking a look at the asks, we prioritized those that were more than just an FTE request. Again, concerns that by hiring an individual, what was that organization going to do come July 1 without city funding?
 And lastly, we had $1 million to allocate out, and recognizing that there were 80 organizations requesting funds, the committee felt that it wasn't appropriate to reward more than 10% of that fund, so $100,000. To any one? Yeah, to any one organization? Yeah, no, one organization doesn't get more than 10%. So using...
 Those emphases as well as the 10%, we came up with this recommendation, which is 20 organizations. Half of them are fully funded asks. Half are partially funded asks. We are a little short than $1 million. I think it works out to $106 and some change. But it didn't make sense just to throw that at an organization and expect them to account for it.
 So from this process, we came up with a couple of recommendations and encouraged the Council, one, to continue on. But if they do, some suggested tweaks. One, that organizations should only submit one application. We had several organizations with multiple asks. And it was a little difficult to weigh both those asks against each other and other organizations. Again, no requests should be submitted.
 be awarded more than 10% of the fund. Organizations not currently receiving city funds should be given priority consideration. Probably the biggest being to move the process up. There were several instances where we felt that an organization should get funds, but perhaps not through the special appropriations process, whether that be arts tax dollars or to connect them with the Bureau and have a Bureau fund it since it seemed more appropriate.
 And because we were outside of the budget process, we couldn't have those conversations. So you will see in our recommendations, there are a couple of arts organizations that we think would benefit from art tax dollars. Specifically, the Young Audiences of Oregon, they have a program within Kairos. And we think that that's a great opportunity to connect Kairos with art tax funds and have it be supported that way. Okay.
 And then lastly, just some questions that should be added to the application. What outcomes does your organization already track? That was a big question for the committee in terms of how do we ensure that the funding is actually going to move a needle. And then if you're using these funds to create a new program or to hire an FTE, what are your long-term plans for funding that position? And then just asking them to break down their budget into one time and ongoing costs.
 So that is where we are. Rachel, I have one question for you. Yes. I know it's late, but there were seven, almost seven times the asks than the available funding. You had five categories. You were in your inaugural year making up sort of developing guidelines and rules.
 And not only do you have a recommendation for how to allocate the million, but as I understand it, it is the consensus recommendation of the committee and that no member of council is currently planning to offer an amendment. That is my hope. To what do you attribute that outcome? Okay.
 I think, one, having it be a staff process was extraordinarily helpful. We came into a room without egos and attempted... I do not mean that to be offensive, but it... We went into a room attempting to make a process work and to get... Recognizing that nobody wanted to duke this out in council chambers. And I think that each staff member was very committed to awarding
 good organizations with good asks, not organizations who knew their boss. Well said. The rest will be dealt with as an HR matter privately. I appreciate the good work of the staff. I would have a slight bias, and I would say Rachel Wiggins is the reason for that. But your colleagues did good work as well. They were wonderful. What I heard from Jamie...
 sort of the briefings from the meetings where they were really lively and they were open and there were some big disagreements along the way, but somehow you came together around a set of recommendations everyone felt very strongly about. So I'm going to join with the mayor in saying congratulations to you. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else that wants to speak on this item besides Rachel? Mayor, I move the report.
 is there a second nobody else wants to speak doesn't look like it people that are smiling i got chosen all right roll call please sorry who's seconded second it was second yes novick
 First of all, I'd like to thank the mayor for recommending that we move to this kind of process to do special appropriations. I think this is a very transparent and fair process, and it's given the council offices the opportunity to discuss the merits of each application and the priorities of each office based on a set of criteria in detail. Thank you.
 Really appreciate the hard work of the committee Rachel Wiggins Tim Crail Tia Williams Jamie Dunphy Eric and evil Eileen row and Sheila Craig as Commissioner fish just noted did an incredible amount of work and
 engaging in a process we've never engaged in before. So thanks to them very, very much. Really appreciated some of the suggestions for tweaking the process that Rachel mentioned that the committee offered. For example, asking in future rounds, what outcomes does your organization track? I think that is an important question to ask that will enable us to make sure that we're –
 giving funds to organizations that in fact do track outcomes and have a proven record of achieving those outcomes. There is one
 that, as it were, that the committee adopted that I'm a little uncertain about, which is the idea that you should only allocate no more than 10% of the funds to any one project. I can imagine there might be a year where you get two half-million-dollar projects that would be transformative, and it might be a better investment to do that than to break it up into numerous...
 But that can be a discussion that we have in the years to come. But thank you very, very much for all your work and in particular, thank you, Erica.
 Ritz. Well, I agree, Mayor, that I think this is a much better process than has happened before, and so I hope we can continue it. Congratulations to the 18 organisations that are receiving these public tax dollars, and some of them have representatives here, presumably just to make sure that nothing falls off. And I don't – I won't – I believe that the ability of the staff to meet together, all five of them, with their grant staff.
 is part of the reason that we got to a good product. And certainly Tim Crail, my representative, was checking back with me, but not very much. The appropriate amount are the things that are really important to you. I hear what you're saying in terms of the transformative project. I think that it is special appropriation money and that...
 spreading it amongst more organisations is probably the better way to go. And as was noted by Rachel, who also is fantastic, thank you, Rachel, some of them could go into a Bureau's budget or into the big projects. So it will be nice next year if we do this. I don't know whether we're going to be able to with the budget. I do agree with the committee's recommendations. And then the extra piece would be that there were more people in the –
 audience giving testimony on the budget, the big budget, then we're able to get away for this one today. So that's another maybe stepping up the transparency is by running them concurrently. Thank you very much. I. Yes. Well, I'm just going to repeat what people have already said. Charlie, I think this was a good idea, and I think it's produced a great outcome. So thank you. Rachel, I, Rachel tires of hearing this, but, you know, she's a.
 fan favorite in my office and because of the great work she does and you did play an outsized role in in getting everyone together and getting the consensus so congratulations jamie dumpy on my team i've never seen him so actually excited about an assignment and and the sense i got was everybody who was designated really took this on and and and gave it their best i'm very proud of these uh of these organizations we're funding
 And I could go through each one and tell you why, but I'm just going to pick one and then shut up. And that's the Confluence Project. And the Confluence is one of the smallest dollar amounts. And for some people, maybe a head scratcher, they look at it and say, why are we funding this? Well...
 This is the project that is investing in Maya Lin's monumental piece of naturalistic art, which will be installed on the Columbia, which dates back to the removal of Slough Falls and the damming of the Columbia and the consequences to Native people and to commerce.
 And the concept here, so why Portland? Well, we were approached because on the theory that every single government in the stream of commerce had some benefit from the dam that also disadvantaged a Native American community. And what a beautiful statement if every government had.
 that's impacted by that decision gives a little bit of money, symbolic amount of money, to a non-profit which is going to revisit the heritage of this site and reconnect all of us to this river and to our history.
 Mayor Hales, I'm hoping that you and I can prevail upon the county to match that amount because I think that would be a wonderful statement. But every government, every government along the river acknowledging that in one way or another, either it contributed to or benefited from a decision which has great historical significance to Native peoples. I think that's a beautiful thing we did. It's a small amount of money, but I'm proud this council is making that statement. Thanks to all my colleagues. Bye.
 The only thing I'll add to these good comments is this worked out better than I hoped. Not only that we got to yes through a really effective process of staff conferring and synthesizing, but if you look at what we're doing in the community in terms of community benefit,
 through all these organizations and what they've come up with, it's another case of this is magnifying the effect of good government at the city in ways that we wouldn't have thought of.
 just like the innovation project that we have in our own bureaucracy comes up with ideas that we would never, the five of us, come up with. So I'm just excited about what's going to happen in Portland because of these organizations that have gotten some help from us, in addition to the fact that we're doing good work here as a team of people that care about the city. Bravo. Well done. Aye. Aye.
 Okay. Let us try to deal with a few emergency items before we lose a quorum. Mayor, I'm sorry, before that, 1079 is actually an emergency item. I know, I was going to say, I noticed the asterisk. So we're going to take 1079 next, please. 1079, authorize the chief of police to execute revenue-generating police secondary employment agreements with hiring businesses for amounts not to exceed $100,000. Senator Shover, thank you for waiting.
 Thank you, sir. Mr. Mayo, City Councilman. I'm Lieutenant Eric Shover of the Portland Police Bureau, obviously. I wanted to speak with you quick and fast about an ordinance. For about the past 20 years, the Police Bureau has been providing secondary employment to businesses and committee members throughout the Portland area.
 This ordinance is designed to shore up some discrepancies that was found when I was tasked with this project of working on police secondary employment. Currently, the Portland Police Bureau is authorizing and signing most police secondary employment without council approval.
 And during recent research, it was revealed that there's no specific ordinance or ordinance language that covers this allowance. This ordinance, like I said, will fix the discrepancies within the ordinance and delineates a clear process for community members to hire police officers for secondary employment.
 This will allow the police bureau to move in more of an agile and quicker response to the community needs. And there's nothing in this ordinance that would be adding extra cost or negating any police patrol services. As a matter of fact, this will add additional officers in any particular time on the streets for patrols. As I said, this is a cost-neutral ordinance.
 all secondary employment has been reimbursed to include any administrative fees that Take part in the hiring of police officers by community members This ordinance has been reviewed by the city attorney's office and the City Fiscal Department Bureau And they all approve and recommend this ordinance. Thank you Let me ask the obvious question from this morning and that is if we're short of human resources Does this still make sense and how is it regulated? I?
 Yes, sir. It does quite a bit. What this does, this is only hiring of officers that are in an off-duty status. So it has no effect on patrol staffing. As a matter of fact, it will enhance it because the officers who are hired for police secondary employment or available for calls that could be generated by the businesses and entities that are actually hiring the police officers, it literally puts them at the spot where they're...
 these entities and events could cause police calls. And it puts them there. It actually limits the criminal activity and so forth. And they're the first person in response to any kind of issue that happens there. And it puts it on the entity in the business that's creating the event. They're paying for these officers. And so it limits taxpayer money.
 for these events. Okay, thank you. Other questions? I'd just like to explain that in different words because I didn't understand it and had several of the concerns that Dan Handelman had sent in documentation at the previous time. So I'm just going to say it and then you can tell me if I've got it right or not. So the officer is on their day off. They get...
 a day off, and they can choose to do overtime on the bureau, or they can choose to sign up for one of these contract jobs. If they go for the contract job, they are doing police work. They're in their official police uniform. It's not that they're in a security guard uniform. They are on duty. And they, for instance, in a business that's getting a lot of shoplifting, they write that up right then and there, and they don't have to call anybody else, which is how the patrol officer would...
 would be free then to do other things because if there's, I would think a shoplifting call would be a lot less urgent than some of the calls that people do in patrol cars. And the cost is completely paid for by the contractor and includes benefits and retirement pers, those kinds of things too.
 Yes, ma'am.
 the contract. So they're not going to be at a business that we wouldn't like to support. That is very correct. And one thing to add to that, ma'am, is regarding the patrol staffing, minimum staffing levels, if we have to force or order officers in, the contracts are all stipulated to the fact that patrol staffing comes first and we'll cancel that contract if we need that officer for patrol. Fabulous. And then further in discussion with Deanna, I
 I'm wondering if this contract might solve the problem of the rock and roll half marathon that the Rose Festival could apply For a contract for something like this Thank you anyone want to speak on this item mr. Johnson, okay, come on up Save a couple these emergency items for tomorrow
 Good morning, Commissioners. Charles Johnson, for the record. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for elaborating about her conversations with Deanna Wesson-Mitchell. There's still – I don't know if it's impropriety, but when we talk about having a police human resources crisis and then we see these officers serving – I mean, my activity is mostly limited to downtown, so I don't know if businesses in lower financial traffic areas of the town are able to really afford –
 to buy extra protection. People are renting a higher level of police service. I mean, arguably, we're in a capitalist society. They won. They're the winners. Apple Corporation, they have $186 billion in cash assets. They can rent all the enhanced security they want. But I still think that the people of Portland in large number, when they look inside the Apple Store, they don't want to see a Portland police trek bicycle just sitting around for eight hours.
 Because that's how this contract works, is when the officer that comes from the bike squad, they may or may not get a car from the basement of the Portland Police Bureau and park it in front of the Apple Store area for a few hours. Now, there are arguments that that is a deterrent tool. I kind of would like to have more police vehicles and not tell people that we have less police because I do believe in the deterrent power of the police vehicle. But I don't think it's essential that you...
 vote no on this, although I would like it. But I think that you need to be prepared to understand that the community is not fully persuaded that this is really good community safety policy. It's really a chance for officers who often tell us that they're, we're so stressed out because we're understaffed and we can't work. But hey, I'll go hang out in Target or Apple Store for eight hours if you give me whatever the numbers are in this PDF. We can look at them.
 I mean, their normal human resource number hours. To a lot of people in this community, to a lot of the Latino employees that just stood up here, they may seem like really generous compensation amounts. So vote your conscience. No is a good choice. And if you vote yes, just remember that I'll be encouraging all dissenters to perpetually hold your feet to the fire on this decision. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Anyone else? So it is, after all, an emergency ordinance. So let's take a vote, please.
 Novick? Aye. Ripps? Aye. Risch? Aye. Hales? Needs to be used with care, but it is a good tool in the right hands. Aye. Mayor, I have a request. Okay. I think we can do 1083 in five minutes. Okay. And my staff have been sitting here patiently waiting all day. Let's please do that, and then we'll see about everything else.
 1083, would you read it, please, Carl? Yes. Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for construction of the Mount Scott Community Center heating, ventilation, and air conditioning replacement and direct digital control upgrade project for an estimated $581,525 and add the Mount Scott Community Center HVAC
 addition project to the Portland Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Capital Improvements Plan list. Thank you. It's pretty much explained in the title, but I have to. All right. Yeah, that's a minute right there. What else do you want to add? Well, Mayor Hales and ministers, thanks for a long day and listening to this. But again, we're here to gain your...
 your approval of the ordinance that was just read. And I'm going to turn it over to Jerry really quick, the project manager, to briefly describe the project. All right. So, Mount Scott... Put your name in the record, please. Jerry Verhoef, Senior Engineer Associate with PORCS, and project manager and construction manager for this project.
 mascot buildings were originally the original building was built almost 89 years ago and then other pieces were added as it went along the first HVAC going in about 50 years ago so and some of those same units are still in place which is more than twice the anticipated life cycle of these units so this project will replace those and get more efficient buildings
 units in there as well as expanding the areas that have correct heating and correct cooling.
 to make it more supportive to having patrons as well as staff in there during the hours that they are open. Part of this ordinance is asking for the add to the SDC list. And the way that will come about is that ask is for the unit that will be for the gym unit.
 Currently in the summer months, the only programming that can be done there because of how hot it gets is in the early hours when it's cooler, and then in the evenings we're drop-in, and then that's not well-organized.
 Not a lot participate in that because it does get so warm in there. So the SDC ask of $120,000 is going to put that unit with an air conditioning cycle in it, allowing them to expand the use of the gym during the summer months, as well as expanding the capability to do cooling centers for senior citizens and also for first responders. Thank you. Any other questions? Anyone else want to speak on this item? No.
 Commissioner Fish back there. So we'll need to get Commissioner Fish back for a moment so we can take this vote, and then we'll move to items that don't require all four of us. Thank you for the very succinct report. This was a one-time general fund allocation in the 2015-2016 budget. Yes. And the $120,000 or so that Gerry just identified is approximately 20% of the cost.
 Well, instead of making comments when we vote, I'll comment now, unless that's Commissioner Fish. It is. Nope. All right. I'll be here in a moment. Twenty-three years ago this month, I stood on the crumbling edge of the old Mount Scott pool with Charles Jordan and suggested to the voters of Portland that we ought to pass a bond measure. So that's one of my favorite memories of my public service. Not only that doing that with him at that moment, but that people said yes and agreed
 The outdoor pool is gone, and here we are. So we didn't do everything the building needed, obviously. That's why this is here. But we started a train of events that leads to today. At that moment, I believe it was September 1993. So because we put it on the ballot for May of 1994, that's when the voters passed it. There I have to ask, did you subsequently memorialize that commitment on a bar napkin? No, no bar napkins were involved in that one. Okay.
 But a lot of great meetings with Mary Ann Cassin and David Judd and Charles Jordan figuring out what we should do, where and when. Okay, we're ready to take a vote. Commissioner Fish is in the house. So roll call, please, on 1083. I was monitoring this on the television in the restroom. Okay. No mercy break was allowed. Go ahead, please. No. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you very much for staying for this one. Thank you, staff, for sitting all afternoon and for all your good work. It's especially nice to have a chief engineer who's also a woman. Thank you. Aye. Aye. Aye. Okay. We have some emergency items we'll need to carry over for tomorrow, namely 1080.
 Do you want to carry over the – I think 1080 was referred back, yes. Right. Oh, was it? I'm sorry. We have a Water Bureau thing teed up to go. Okay. So 1080 is referred back to Commissioner Salter's office. Let's go ahead and try to do the rest, 1081. All right. You want to do that today, Commissioner Fritz? Yes. Urban Forestry Trust Funds. You want that read with 1082? 1081. What's that? Oh, okay. Could you just come up, could you just –
 because you want to do it now yourself or do you want to carry it over for tomorrow oh we can carry it over tomorrow if they want to make the report it is a good report oh let's do that let's carry this over to tomorrow and just to look at it up front uh what about that was 1081 and 1082. you want to do those both then sure okay 1081 10 carried over tomorrow um 1084 is a second reading so let's do that please in 84 i'm in contract with titan utilities
 LLC for additional compensation to complete existing contract work and to perform required structural repairs to the pipe supports for the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant. I've earnest 30 inch main force main repair project number E10629 for $350,000. Questions before we vote? Roll call. Ritz. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Hales? SOS. Save our swallows. Aye. 1085. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder and provide payment for the construction of the Cornell Road Services McClee Park project at an estimated cost of $600,000. Mr. Fish? I'll turn it over to the Chief Engineer of the Portland Water Bureau, Teresa Elliott.
 I will be extremely brief. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. All I'm asking for is to have the authorization to go out to solicit bids for a low-bid contract, hire a contractor to install a water line in northwest Cornell Road at about $600,000 is what we're estimating it to be. Okay. Any questions for our engineer? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay.
 if not pass it's a second reading next week and 1086 is the second reading please initiate foreclosure action on four properties for the collection of delinquent city liens roll call thank you sir marco maciel who did a good presentation and a thorough job on this i fish
 Thank you, Zombie House team. Aye. And we are recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m. Can I just ask a housekeeping matter? Yes, please. So tomorrow afternoon we have the pub report. Right. Followed by consideration of a code change. Yep. What is your pleasure? Are you going to carry forward things until tomorrow afternoon? The only thing we've carried forward, I believe, is 1081 and 1082, right? So we'll just take that report.
 Yeah, we'd only need 10 minutes. We don't need long. So 10 or 15 minutes. So we'll tell everyone, be here at 2, but you may start a few minutes later. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Yeah. Okay. Does that work? Yeah. We're recessed until tomorrow. Wow, what a marathon. Thanks for being so good to me. Yep. Yeah. No good deed goes unpunished.