good afternoon everyone and welcome to the September 22nd meeting in the Portland City Council would you please call the roll Saltzman Novick Fritz here fish here hails here Commissioner Saltzman is away Commissioner Novick is I think Commissioner Saltzman is still away but Commissioner Novick is on route and we'll be here in a couple of minutes but we want to get started out of respect for your time and the fact that obviously there are a lot of people here to participate this afternoon we have
 We have three items on our calendar. We'll be proceeding into those. If you're here to speak on those items, please let our council clerk know, and she'll make sure that you're on the list of folks to testify. We have some invited testimony, I believe, on some of these items. The commissioner official will walk us through that.
 many of you have probably been here before, but welcome to the Portland City Council. We want everyone to have their say, and so therefore we have some basic rules of procedure here, and that is you need only give your name. You don't have to give your address if you speak. If you're representing an organization, let us know that, please. It's required by law.
 And we also maintain some rules of decorum, and that is if you agree with somebody's viewpoint and you want to give them affirmation, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand or a wave of both hands. And if you disagree with them, polite hand gestures that are negative are okay as well, but we ask that we not applaud or make verbal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view so they feel that they're free to express them here.
 We make exceptions for schoolchildren and visiting dignitaries, so if you're one or more of those things, you'll probably get a round of applause. But otherwise, let's keep it nonverbal. With that, please, would you like the first two items or read all three items? Okay. So, Carla, just go ahead and read all three items, and then I'll turn it over to Commissioner Fish to introduce them.
 1059, accept contracts with Hoffman Construction Company and Michael Willis Architects for the design and construction of the Interstate Maintenance Facility Renovation Project as complete and authorized final payments. 1060, accept contracts with Hoffman Construction Company and MWH Americas, Inc. for the design and construction of the Kelly Butte Reservoir Project as complete and authorized final payments.
 and 1061, accept evaluation of the effectiveness of the Community Benefits Agreement piloted on the Kelly Butte Reservoir and Interstate Maintenance Facility renovation projects. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. And while I'm listed here on the agenda, I think it'll become clear about what my role is and what the Council's role is. So
 The first order of business we have today is to accept the report to council on the closeout of the Kelly Butte and Interstate Building construction projects. Teresa Elliott, the chief engineer of the bureau, is here. We've budgeted about 10 minutes for this, and the action that the council has been asked to take today is to accept the report.
 My hunch is that most of the people in this room are here for the next two items on the agenda. So, no, everyone is free to testify on all three items, but my hunch is that this is not the item that you're here to testify on, unless there's something in the final closeout report on these two projects that you disagree with.
 The next two items deal with an evaluation of a community benefits agreement that was used and then has some further materials relating to that. And for those matters, Mayor, we have agreed to have a couple of panels where we'll have the issue framed.
 Again, everybody is free to testify as many times as they want, but I'm guessing this is the least controversial matter that we have, and that's why we have budgeted 10 minutes of the 90 minutes for this. So with that, I would like to introduce the Distinguished Chief Engineer of the Water Bureau, Teresa Elliott, who is going to present the closeout on Kelly Butte and Interstate. Welcome, Teresa. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hills and Commissioners. I'm Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer, Portland Water Bureau. As Commissioner Fish indicated, we have three reports before you today. The first two are to close the two projects. I'll be speaking briefly about those in a minute. The third report is the evaluation of the community benefits agreement on the city's two pilot projects. Fred Miller will be covering that report shortly. Teresa, so I apologize. I remember I had too much coffee at lunch.
 So as you just indicated, the first two items relate to the closeout. Right, and the third one. And that's why they were read together. And we are accepting a report and accepting contracts. It's the third item that I think most people are here for. We'll have a panel, and then we'll frame that. So thank you for correcting me.
 Sure. I was trying to be polite. I was less so, but we've got it now. OK. So the Kelly Butte Reservoir Project included construction of a 25 million gallon buried reservoir. This project replaced a smaller above ground 1960s era reservoir that was not expected to survive an earthquake of any significant magnitude.
 The project also helped the city comply with LT2. There are three contracts in this report to council that I'm asking for your acceptance and authorization to make final payments. Those contracts are for MWH America for the design and construction services and then Hoffman Construction for the pre-construction services and the construction services contracts.
 My overall project budget in 2009 was $90 million. The total project costs for the design and construction have come in at about $64 million, I rounded, or about $26 million under budget. Most of the savings were during the design and pre-construction services as the project proceeded from a low confidence rating to a high confidence rating. And in the construction contract alone, we saved $6.7 million. Okay.
 Our MWESB participation during design was 19%, 12% during the pre-construction services, and 25% during the construction contract.
 The interstate maintenance facility renovation replaced 1925 unreinforced masonry buildings with modern seismically designed highly functional utility complex. The complex houses critical facilities, personnel, and other resources that are essential for us during and after a major seismic event. There are three contracts in this report as well for you to accept, including
 and make authorized final payment. Those contracts are for Michael Willis Architects for the design and construction services, Hoffman Construction, again, for the pre-construction services and the construction services contract. Our overall project for that in 2011 was $50 million, and my total project cost has been $49 million.
 Our MWESP participation was 26% during design, 3% during pre-construction services, and 38% during construction. In both reports, you'll find the post-project evaluations attached as exhibits, and all work is complete, and I am asking for your acceptance of the projects as complete and authorized final payment. Thank you.
 And I'm available for questions. Okay. Thank you. Questions? So, Mayor and Commissioner Fritz, both projects completed on time and under budget. And both projects part of a long-term capital plan to make our system more resilient. The interstate facility is sort of one of the nerve centers of our system.
 And obviously, Kelly Butte has been the center of a longstanding dispute about federal rules and our compliance, water quality, and resilience. This is something of a milestone in accepting this report and then on Monday breaking ground on the new reservoir at Washington Park. We've really turned a page.
 And I just want to say about Theresa Elliot, when Mike Storr got the big job and was promoted to director, we had a big decision to make, and that was to select someone to serve as the chief engineer. Fortunately, we had someone in the Bureau who was superbly qualified to take on those responsibilities, who's also the first woman in the history of the Bureau to occupy this position.
 And I think you can see from the report that she has presented today why we have such confidence in her work and why we are so proud to have her serve as the chief engineer for the Water Bureau. Thank you. Thank you very much. Nice job, Teresa. So questions for our engineer? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And do we have folks that want to testify on these items? I show five people. This is for items 1059 and 1060. I have Ron Robbins, Nate Stokes, and Jonte Hendricks. Thanks.
 Okay. And again, as Commissioner Fish said, if you're really here to testify on the third item, you can obviously be signed up for that as well if you want to wait. But if you want to speak now, that's okay too. Might as well be the first, all right? Here you go. First with the most. Come on up. Welcome. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Ron Robbins. I'm contract administrator for the Carpenters Union here in Portland. I was involved in...
 well we started putting the cba together and and honestly that that agreement you know we were lucky enough to get that uh with the blessing of the city council applied to two pilot projects but i can tell you from uh its earliest beginnings that uh this approach to um excuse me excuse me
 What you're supposed to be testifying on right now is about whether the project is completed or not. Yeah, so the CBA part, we really are saving for the third item. Maybe. I am speaking out of – I think you are. But if you don't mind waiting, that's really the third item on the list. So this is really just about the project reports themselves, not about the CBA. That's why we broke it out as a separate item. I haven't had the briefing on that yet, sir. On that, I would encourage you not to accept the report. Okay. Thank you. So is it Nate Stokes, Jonte Hendricks –
 This is for item 1059 and 1060. You've signed up for that, those two. Again, we'll assume you've signed up for the other one if you don't want to come up now. What about Ramona McCarter and Kennedy Morgan for item 1059 and 1060? Okay, so it sounds like they're here for the CBA issue, and we'll make sure they're heard on that. Yes, if you signed up on the wrong list, please come and sign up on the correct one. Well, let's just assume that they're signed up for the third item and call them then. We don't have to make them sign up again. Yeah.
 okay all right anyone else on these first two project reports if not then let's uh take a motion please on accepting the report on 1059. is there a second second okay discussion vote please that's
 First of all, I need to give credit to Commissioner Randy Leonard, under whom started all these projects. And I echo Commissioner Fisher's support for Chief Engineer, Teresa Elliott. Not only did she do the technical part of building the reservoirs, and I got to see them as they were being built, which is absolutely fascinating.
 But she also has done a fantastic job of the outreach to the community and working with some very invested community members, particularly at Mount Tabor and other places, connected with these projects. And I am very, very pleased that you're now serving as the Chief Engineer and it must be very satisfying to come here to give the final report. And job well done. Thank you. And Commissioner Fisher, of course, you're picking up that work from Commissioner Leonard and explaining
 explaining it every step of the way, I think, has been helpful in getting the community to understand what has been done and why, and that we are now closing out and saying that construction is a job well done, both by the Bureau staff and every contractor and worker that worked on them. Thank you, everybody. Aye. Yes. Well, I want to thank everybody who came out to witness this moment at the City Council, because you won't read about it in any part of the media, because there isn't room for these stories.
 And you will see a headline someday that we were either over budget or didn't get it done on time. But the reality is that the infrastructure bureaus that I have the honor of leading more often than not get it right. And that means using ratepayer dollars wisely, producing good value, and meeting the basic services that people expect from these utilities.
 I want to thank Mike Stuer, who's not here, but hopefully listening, and thank him for his leadership. I want to thank Teresa Elliott and all the professionals that work with her, who have worked so tirelessly to bring this day to this point. I want to thank all of our partners, public and private, that worked collaboratively to get a great outcome. And in our first official setting, I want to introduce the new Deputy Director of the Water Bureau, Gabe Solmer. Gabe, would you raise your hand? Thank you.
 And we're delighted that Gabe has taken that position. It's a new position at the Bureau, and it further strengthens our senior management team. Aye.
 Well, there are a couple of persistent myths about government that get applied to this one, too. One is that the government, this one included, spends its money on pet projects. Truth is, any of you who have been in this room for budget hearings know we spend our money on basic services, police, parks, fire, transportation, water, sewer, stormwater. That's where your tax scholars go in Portland, and that's what we're here to do.
 And that myth will be around no matter how careful we are in spending your money. But there are some people from the outside that look at these things like Moody's Bond Rating Service that gave us a triple A bond rating again this year as they have for three decades. So I'm proud of that and all of us who manage these bureaus and these projects should be. And the second you've mentioned, Commissioner Fish, and that is there will never be the headline of once again, city brings project in under budget and on time.
 but you did, and we should be thankful for that and proud of that and impressed by the good professional work that this Bureau has once again delivered. Well done. Aye. And a motion on the second report, please. Move acceptance of the report. For the discussion, roll call. Novick. Ritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, now let's move to the third item. And, Commissioner Fish, I think you have some invited testimony up front. Okay, thank you, Mayor. Let me review the run of show, and we'll ask first Fred Miller to come forward. Fred Miller is the Chief Administrative Officer of the City of Portland. He's going to provide an introduction and lay the groundwork. Then we're going to have an invited panel from the LMCOC report. We will then have an invited panel for the CBA evaluation report.
 Commissioner, I'm calling foul on the acronyms. Could you just explain for the first time what all of those letters mean for people watching at home? Okay. Sorry to interrupt. Fred, I'm going to let you handle this. And then let me just say we have invited guests, eight speakers, who will be given three minutes each. And then...
 the distinguished director of the Office of Equity will have a chance to speak and do some wrap-ups. So, Fred, take it away. Okay. Thank you. So first, the LMCOC means? Labor Management Committee. And what was the other you said? CBA means? Community Benefits Agreement. Okay. There we are. I saw some shirts that said that, so I know that one. Fred Miller, Office of Management Finance.
 Two of you suggested that with the last presentation there might be a lack of headlines, and I'd like to be able to address that. It looks like lots of interest in this topic, and I want to lay some of the groundwork for how I think you might have –
 Essentially, I'm here right now because the Council asked that when these CBA pilots were done, that someone come back and make a report. I think that's the reason for this meeting today. Okay.
 in which I'm not really a player. The reason I am personally interested in this is because it helps define the future on where the city is going to go with respect to these 1% contributions as well as how we handle minority and women businesses and workforce. So Dante, at the end of all of this, will come up and talk a little bit about where we're headed, but I would hope that...
 The discussion between now and the end will help illuminate where the council wants to go. And pilots are designed to learn something about a process. And I'm sure that's the case when we're talking about these pilots. So let me try to focus, because I think there's some real opportunities before the city. And I think there's a positive future here if we can get all of our learnings right.
 And most of my jobs in the last few decades have been problem solving, where if things are easy, you don't pay any attention to them. But if there are controversies, then you think about how do you best get to a solution. And frankly, this is a good model here, because I think it's worth talking about what this session is not about, and then where I think there's agreement probably among all parties here. And if we can focus on that...
 the disagreements become clear, and that's where there are decisions to be made. The first thing that this hearing isn't about is Portland Building and Washington Park Reservoir, because the decisions have already been made on those things. They're proceeding, and I think in both cases we've learned from the pilots and benefited from that.
 In both cases, they've gone to an alternative contracting approach rather than low bid. And again, in both cases, we've got the most aggressive goals of any projects in the city to date. So I think generally if people understand what's happening, I think those are in good shape. But that's not today's presentation. And today I want to talk about points of agreement. Okay.
 I think that there is no agreement from anyone I talk to on having aggressive goals for minority women, both businesses and workforce. No disagreement. No disagreement. Did I say no agreement? If I did, I'm sorry. I might hear you. Yeah, in fact, okay.
 Right now, I don't know which it was, but anyway, I think we've got general agreement. And also there's agreement that we should break down data to a more refined basis so we can see journeymen, apprentices, and so on, and by ethnicity. I don't see any controversy on that.
 Second comment is I don't see any controversy on improving our data collection and what we show in terms of all the projects. Christine Moody has developed, is moving along a new software that's been sent to the ECPC for comments. I think everyone's agreeing that a new system is a good idea and makes sense.
 I think, again, there is no disagreement that an alternative means of contracting produces better results than low bid. The statutes require low bid unless there are some steps taken for you to approve an alternative approach, in which case you do something like Teresa just did, come back with the results and see if the criteria were satisfied. So the alternative method...
 It clearly is better. The real question, one question there, is where do you draw the line? Because it gets complicated through the alternative method, whether it's a CBA or CMGC or progressive design build. What's CMGC? Pardon me? Tell the viewers at home what CMGC is, please. Instruction Management General Contract. Okay.
 Those all produce better results, but it doesn't make sense at some low level of a $100,000 contract or a million. In the CBA resolution, $15 million was the point. I'm not sure it can't go lower than that to do an alternative contract. That's a decision that you will have to make as we proceed in the future.
 There is disagreement on which is the best alternative method. And I think there are lots of people, if I read T-shirts correctly, who would say the CBA is the best method. Some data will show that it's comparable to other alternative methods. But if there's a point of controversy, that's one of them.
 but it's not that is it you shouldn't be comparing any of these alternatives to low bid and say therefore it's better you should compare alternative methods to alternative methods and that's essentially where we're trying to proceed as far as the city goes in the future
 I think there's general agreement that we should have a focus on a pipeline of talent for the future, that just doing a project and then people having nowhere to go after being trained, and maybe not even being trained in time to do the project, isn't as successful as an alternative if we have ongoing programs where we can both train people and have a continuity of opportunity on different projects. And that's where...
 I get encouraged here because if I look at the region, and I personally think, I don't think there's unanimity on this, that we're better off if we can get a regional approach because we would have, if that were implemented a couple of years ago, we'd have the Portland building, county courthouse, convention center hotel.
 portland international airport expansion and the real gold mine i think probably is harbor cleanup we have huge opportunities for employment programs
 We've got to know the mechanism that we're going to use, but I think the city could be considerably better off if we proceed where our 1% goes to some common continuity of opportunity, and then we get the rest of the regional partners together, and they're interested in that. It's just that we need to get the city together, and that, frankly, is what Dante is working on and will be back to talk about. Okay.
 As I review all of that, I think there's a lot more agreement than disagreement. It's which alternative contracting. Probably there's some question about how do we proceed in the region. But those are not – that's not the whole apple. Really, there are a lot of agreements saying let's have aggressive goals, do the data right. And I think things have improved, and I think we've made them improve with the Portland building and
 and Washington Park Project, but we can get better. And that's what Dante is working on, and we'll be out in the community to see how to improve whatever draft he now has. So having said that, I'd like to think that that will help focus your thinking about what are we really looking at to improve? What have we learned about the pilots? And the Labor Management Committee, as Commissioner Fish said, has a presentation based on their experience of,
 The Office of Management and Finance hired Framework as a consultant to take a look at the review in terms of process and how they worked. And then I know there's invited testimony, and I have no idea how many others are testifying. But by the time we finish, I'd like to think you'll have learned something positive about this, and then Dante can say where he's headed.
 Fred, one final point of clarification. Thank you for sort of laying out the flow of the hearing.
 I've received a couple of emails from people saying, in effect saying, that they don't want to see us today act on anything that's being accepted. My understanding is we're being asked to accept reports, not change policy. Is that correct? That's correct. But frankly, I don't know what difference it makes if you accept it or not.
 We've had the pilots, and we've learned something. If you said you didn't accept it, okay. If you accepted it, okay. That doesn't change anything. Just to be clear, today's hearing is not for the purpose of beginning to draft a new CBA, CPP, or any other policy. That's correct. It is to fulfill the requirements of the original Community Benefits Agreement resolution that said there would be a report back to council. That's correct. And if this were a non-controversial resolution,
 You'd probably vote right now in the way that Teresa did it. She said, okay, we accept it. But it is controversial, so now you've got testimony. But at the end of that, I think it's really what we learned out of the process. Well, and you've just given us your version of this, which is, so when we do make policy, what have we learned from this? Right. And I guess that's what I want to hear from the community as well, is that when we do make, as we do make policy. Correct. What worked, what didn't work, what could work better? Right.
 that's what we really need to know in this discussion, which we're having this afternoon. Yeah, right, the report itself is a report. We're not adopting new or old policy. We're not either affirming what we have been doing or saying we're going to do something different. But we want to hear about that. Correct. Thank you, Fred. So let me invite up John Gardner, Bill Kowalczyk, Connie Ashbrook, and Casey Bernard, who are going to give the LMCOC report. We've budgeted 20 minutes for this, so if the four of you could...
 excuse me, the five of you, four of you can come forward. Drag up an extra chair if there is one, and we can get all four of you up here at once. Steal somebody's chair. Thank you. I think we're good now. Okay, thank you.
 Here we go. And we're going to ask each of you to limit your initial comments to three minutes, then we'll take some council questions and discussion. Who would like to start? Connie? Thank you. We have an order. We have a video that we were hoping to play first. Okay, great. Carla will probably need to assist with that unless you're really, really good at bad computers. So ours is particularly arcane. Yeah, I know.
 It takes a village to start our PowerPoints. There we go. Start button down there on the left. All right. The CBA offers a number of things that are different from traditional programs. One is community oversight. The community oversight piece is huge because you bring a number of organizations to the table with management that help provide support.
 input that historically has not been allowed or welcomed or even asked for at the table. Next it provides a training fund and that training fund is specifically designed to support outreach, recruitment and training of folks that are in the pipeline that support the trades industry, all of the apprentices. You need to have some funds that help support those programs that are providing
 community members with these opportunities at a career. Yeah, the CBA supports Portland Youth Builders. Without Portland Youth Builders, I would have never got a job. I would have never got my GED, and I would have still been on welfare trying to figure out how I was going to take care of my kids. And like basically, I don't have to go find my work. My apprenticeship, my union finds my work for me. There are folks in the community, there's groups in the community that are not involved in the CBA.
 And I think there's opportunity at the table for those voices to be heard. It's a very diverse coalition that makes up the CBA. And yes, unions are involved, but we're just one of the partners in the overall agreement. It's that diversity and the grassroots, the community that supports these agreements that really makes the agreement what it is. And it is something special.
 but it can only be that if we can get more involvement from the community. Any contractor that wants to grow and increase their capacity and become successful, they should seek out the CBA. The CBA is providing everything that a contractor needs, knowledge, information, processes and procedures, what to do, what not to do, how to set up,
 your chart of accounts for your QuickBooks. How to manage your business, not just jobs, but how to actually manage your business. How to become, to go from being a technician to becoming a manager on to becoming an entrepreneur.
 This is what the CBA offers. I can't speak highly enough of it. I really mean that because I think that for the first time, it's actually doing something meaningful, and it's going to have long-lasting effect. And one of the things that I have noticed in the past
 in mentoring subcontractors and trying to get diversity in the workforce on our other projects is that you kind of, at the end, you just go, well, did I really accomplish a whole heck of a lot? Or did I just go through the motions? Did I just meet...
 some goals that we said we were going to meet. You know, it's one thing to say you're going to have a certain percentage of subcontracting with minority firms, women firms, disadvantaged firms. One thing to say it. It's a whole other thing at the end, not only...
 doing a lot better, but seeing that these firms have gotten better and they're likely to be able to go forward as a better firm. This takes years. This isn't just two projects that we did over the last couple of years. This is something that takes years to do it, but this is the first program that I've seen that I think will actually be able to do something effective. Thank you.
 Can you hear me? Yes. I'm Casey Bernard. I currently work for Work Systems, the local workforce development board, and I previously worked for the Emerald Cities Collaborative. Over the last four years, I provided significant staff and project support to the Labor Management Community Oversight Committee on the CBA pilot projects.
 You're going to hear from many people today with differing opinions, and I encourage you to listen closely over the next 20 minutes to your fellow community members who serve the CBA pilot projects as committed, open, and transparent partners with one common goal to make this city a more equitable place.
 In my opinion, the CBA has helped the city to move toward this goal, and only this brand of continued transparent oversight in partnership with community and labor will help to achieve the equity for all. I implore our city council members to embrace these community partners instead of turning the focus inward and pursuing equity without true community participation. Thank you. Malcolm.
 Whoever's next. I'm continuing. I'm sorry. I thought you were starting. No. I'm trying to cut you off. So this next slide shows everybody a list of participants, the membership of the CBA Oversight Committee, which included city staff, community, training, union, and contractor partners, all working together to implement the CBA and deepen equity efforts.
 The group met throughout the pilot projects to review city and contractor data about diverse worker and contractor utilization and develop collaborative strategies to implement the CBA. And you may be wondering, why was the CBA needed in the first place? In plain terms, to help address historic inequities.
 As we all know, the City of Portland commissioned a 2009 disparity study, which showed statistically significant underutilization of minority and women-owned prime contractors on city construction projects.
 In 2012, in response to the findings of the study and the outcomes of the Fair Contracting Forum, the city passed a resolution titled Social Equity Contracting Strategy to Increase Minority-Owned, Women-Owned, and Emerging Small Business Utilization in City Contracting. This resolution applied aspirational goals of 18% minorities and 9% women on city-funded construction projects.
 And these goals apply broadly to all city-funded construction projects, including low-bid, not just projects procured through alternative contract mechanisms like CMCG. On September 5, 2012, I was here when this city council passed the CBA resolution. And today I'm going to talk a little bit about some of the historic equity outcomes we've achieved over the last four years.
 So broadly, what's in the CBA? A focus on hiring workers from local low-income areas. Career pathways for current and future workers, that continuity of opportunity that Fred Miller discussed earlier. Workforce diversity goals to increase the diversity of the workforce. And also goals to increase the utilization of minority women-owned businesses.
 It also included training, outreach, contractor technical assistance, and compliance funds to support all of these activities and move the equity needle. Next slide. So these are some of our results. All of the data was provided by the city's procurement and contracting department as of April 2016 when both projects were substantially complete. The pilot projects achieved incredible results in workforce diversity. Okay.
 First, the CBA disaggregated the workforce goals to drill down on all levels of work with specific goals for apprentice and journey-level hours. This was done to monitor and ensure that diverse workers were being brought into the pipeline through apprenticeship and that these workers were being retained and provided opportunities to continue work as more senior journey-level workers.
 With goals including 20% of work going to apprentices, 18% to minority workers, and 9% to female workers, both CBA pilot projects were extremely successful on nearly all fronts. Just looking at Kelly Butte, 50% of apprentices were minorities and 28% of apprentices were females, far exceeding the goals of 18% and 9% respectively. Thank you.
 On Kelly Butte, 29% of journey workers were minorities, far exceeding the goal of 18%. And female journey workers was the only area where the CBA failed to exceed its goals. This shortcoming was discussed in great length at the oversight committee table and was identified as an industry-wide problem that requires significant resources to move the needle. Partners believe that more CBA-type projects would provide just that opportunity. Thank you.
 So the next slide shows some of the outcomes from the Outreach and Training Fund. They supported the pre-apprenticeship training of 104 diverse workers. As you can see, 41% of the people trained were women, 41% were African American, and nearly 70% were people of color. These efforts enhanced the diversity of workers in the pipeline. Thank you.
 Next slide. Regarding business diversity, the projects also achieved incredible results for the utilization of underserved contractors, such as disadvantaged business enterprises, minority-owned business enterprises, and women-owned business enterprises. The CBA disaggregated the goals for these disadvantaged businesses from the goals of the emerging small businesses, and we believe that helped to achieve historic results.
 As you can see, across both CBA pilot projects, 26% of total dollars, almost $24 million, went to disadvantaged contractors, and there were 68 of these contractors working across both projects. To clear up one common misconception, both union and non-union disadvantaged contractors could and did participate on these projects.
 And to put all of this in context, we looked at the performance of the two pilot projects in 2013, after the pilots had been underway for only eight months. We found that the amount of revenue earned by African-American-owned firms on the CBA pilot projects, at $5.9 million, had already exceeded the total dollar amount of five years of contracts to African-American firms, as identified in the disparity study in 2009.
 The CBA Disadvantaged Contractor Technical Assistance Fund supported TA to 26 disadvantaged firms who either worked on the CBA pilot projects, bid, or could have bid on the projects. The TA program also helped disadvantaged contractors to build their capacity to do this work going forward and included hands-on business coaching and access to estimating and bidding software and training.
 Of the 26 disadvantaged businesses who received TA, 17 were non-union and nine were union contractors. The contractors were surveyed and gave TA services high marks, with an average score of 8.93 out of 10 in their satisfaction with TA services. We are very proud of these incredible equity results on the CBA pilot projects. We hope that the City Council and community members are too.
 I believe City Council had a long discussion about the City's efforts around construction equity during the ECPC presentation last week. As the City's own data showed, we still have a long way to go to meet the goals of the City's equity resolutions. Here, the CBA pilot projects have shown tangible progress towards equity. I ask that you build on these efforts and apply the lessons learned instead of throwing the baby out with the bathwater. Thank you. Thank you.
 Maybe a question now, because it's in your wheelhouse, but others may want to address it too. We heard some pretty disturbing reports at the ECPC discussion about utilization of workers in terms of the number of hours they actually got to work versus the fact that they were in the workforce for the project.
 You want to comment on that problem? Or, again, if I didn't want to comment on that problem, but, you know, numerically, obviously it looks very good. But we heard that at least in some instances, not necessarily these projects, but in some instances, there was some gaming of the system and people didn't have really the hours that one would reasonably expect that they would have if they were in the workforce for a major construction project. Okay.
 I can't comment on the specifics of that presentation, but I would say it highlights the need for looking at the detailed data as opposed to the aggregate percentages. Right, sure. And doing that on ideally a monthly basis with a shared oversight structure. Good, thank you. Great, who'd like to go next? Does everyone want a chance to speak, or is it a…
 Yeah, all four of us will be speaking. And the only thing I would add to that last comment is that that is the history of Portland, where contractors move workers around based on the expectations of the public owners or the owners themselves. And so with the Oversight Committee, we had the ability to look at certified payrolls on a monthly basis to avoid those types of historical mistakes. So, I mean, again, that's why transparency and oversight is important. Good point. Thank you. Okay, who would like to proceed? Yes, I'd like to speak next, please. Okay.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners, Mayor Hale. My name is Bill Kowalczyk. I was a non-union carpenter for 25 years, and I worked at Portland Youth Builders for 15 years as a construction manager and currently as a construction specialist. At PYB, I managed our BOLI-certified pre-apprenticeship training program for low-income diverse youth 17 to 24 years old. I want to discuss the historic nature of the LMCOC and its roots in Maui, the Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity.
 The LMCLC is a historic governance structure of partnership between the city and the community. Please note the broad representation of the Maui partners. Bear in mind that these folks representing diverse sectors had significant differences to overcome. Two formative experiences contributed to the vision of the LMCLC.
 One was the South Waterfront experience, sitting on that oversight committee, and the Edith Green-Wendell Wyatt Federal Project. So bringing these disparate groups of folks together, community and labor, together with city staff and contractor representatives into the LMCLC is a historic innovation.
 It reflects a wealth of social, technical, and political capital leveraged and united to address the nagging inequity in construction workforce and contracting. Unfortunately, this, which should be a kumbaya moment, has actually become a very frustrating experience for me. Many of you know the LMCOC got off to a bumpy start.
 In spite of the unanimous vote for the CBA by council, city staff appeared shocked at being thrown together with a committee of community and union folks. Leadership by Commissioner Leonard centered the LMCOC. In a meeting he convened, Leonard reminded all the participants of our mission to build equity and that we are all dedicated to excellent public works projects. The LMCOC returned to the table.
 We started from scratch, developing rules for conducting meetings, and over time, evolved efficient systems. Keep in mind, we had to set all of this up in real time. We received monthly data collected by the city and reviewed it with a general contractor, as was mentioned earlier. We worked together to meet or exceed CBA worker and construction thresholds.
 The contractor and subs provided the demand for the diverse workers. The unions and pre-apprenticeship programs helped provide the supply from alumni and current students seeking apprenticeship. The objective of the CBA was to deliver diversity to the industry, not necessarily these projects. The LMCLC process built relationships between industry partners, paving the way for future equity efforts. Remember, this was a pilot project anticipating future projects.
 This process, which began with tension and apprehension, steadily shifted to cooperation and collaboration between LMCLC members. However, as months went by, it became apparent that city staff were still not engaged. There was resistance by city staff on the LMCLC to make summary reports more understandable. City staff made repeated comments that we were getting the same results they always got, never providing evidence. Thank you.
 enthusiasm expressed by the contractor and other representatives at successful intervention in workforce problems was not shared by city representatives. I and others became concerned that some city staff had a vested interest in proving that their past equity work was the best that could be done. Our repeated attempts to arrange a meeting...
 to arrange a report to council through voting city representatives on the LMCOC were thwarted. We were told, wait until the projects are complete. We heard rumors from non-LMCOC staff that city officials were out to crush the CBA. Fred Miller, in an interview with the Willamette Week, fanned phony flames of conflict of interest, and Commissioner Fish promoted a different program than the CBA. No consultation with the LMCOC on this.
 Conveniently, 50% minority apprenticeship participation on Kelly Butte or 34% female apprenticeship participation on Interstate was not mentioned in this article. Are we to believe that that was just the reporter? We had to resort to individual meetings with commissioners and the mayor where we received mostly supportive platitudes. Thank you.
 Our attempt months ago to plan for today's report to council with the LMCOC staff were first ignored, then delayed until 10 days ago. When we finally met, we were given an agenda allocating 10 minutes to our report after four years of work. Responding last week, the date of this report was changed, making it impossible for many of my students and staff to attend this council meeting because of our annual fundraising events today.
 City staff were apparently directed to not participate in this LMCOC report. Meanwhile, the city staff forged ahead over all these months, shaping an equity strategy behind closed doors, without transparency, and marginalizing the successes of the CBA. As was mentioned, there's no input into the Portland Building Program. It was just delivered.
 Now we're told the city staff are presenting a new equity plan called the CEP today, written before and without the LMCOC's report to council, again, our first in four years, and buried in the evaluation are policy changes. Where is the inclusion? Where is the citizen-city collaboration? It feels like all this work, all this capital is squandered.
 This feels like a political game to neutralize the LMCOC. And city staff hold all the cards, including setting the agenda. Here are my hopes for the future. Equity strategy must include real collaboration with the community and labor, not tokenism, not gestures after the fact, but real inclusion with city support, not subterfuge. I strongly urge the council not to accept the evaluation report.
 I urge the Council to include Maui members of the LMCOC in any new equity plan. We paid our dues. Finally, the problem here is institutional inertia, in my opinion, and internal resistance to change. I heard a quote this morning on NPR. You can't solve the problem by using the same thinking that was the source of the problem. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Who's next? Okay, who would like to go next?
 Good afternoon, Mayor, City Commissioner. I'll push the button on the base of that, please, Connie. Thank you. Okay. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Commissioners.
 Thank you so much for the opportunity to address you today. My name is Connie Ashbrook. I'm the Executive Director of Oregon Tradeswomen Incorporated, an organization that educates diverse women and girls about careers in the building, construction, manufacturing, utility, and other trades, as well as to help apprenticeship programs, employers, and government agencies diversify their trades workforces.
 I worked in construction for 17 years, mostly as an elevator constructor, before coming to lead Oregon Tradeswomen in 1996. I served on the Oregon State Apprenticeship and Training Council for nine years and for the past six years on the Federal Advisory Committee on Registered Apprenticeship. Oregon Tradeswomen has run our pre-apprenticeship program for women since 2004, and just this year graduated our 1,000th student.
 We've had a huge impact on the number of women working in the trades in Oregon. Over 7% of Oregon's apprentices are women as compared to 2.8% nationally. And the apprenticeship programs that we work with most closely have over 9% female apprentices. About one-third of Oregon's female apprentices are Oregon Tradeswomen graduates, and some of them are here today, and I hope they would wave that they are here.
 I'm very proud of them. I am here today to speak in favor of the community benefit agreement and the whole process of the labor management community oversight committee. I'm here on behalf of Oregon Tradeswomen, but also on behalf of the other two pre-apprenticeship programs that were involved, Constructing Hope and Portland YouthBuild. Together we did amazing things on the two pilot projects.
 I want to say thank you very much to the City Council for the resources from the Community Benefit Agreement. Because of these resources, we were able to train 27 women to prepare them for the trades, including 24 of them being women of color. Today, three of them are working for the Portland Water Bureau as a water meter beater, a water service apprentice, and an environmental technician.
 Fourteen others are working as carpenters, electricians, laborers, tree trimmer, line worker and steam fitter apprentices. Four others are working in trades-related fields such as cabinet maker and electrical material handler. 21 out of 27 formerly low-income women now working in high-wage, highly skilled careers thanks to your investment. You should be very proud.
 And there were similar results from Constructing Hope and Portland YouthBuild. Overall, as you've seen, bringing 104 low-income and minority individuals out of poverty and into the middle class. The majority of them City of Portland residents now becoming taxpayers and ratepayers, helping to support our city.
 We also want to thank the city for the opportunity to sit on the Labor Management Community Oversight Committee. It really helped us bring the issues of a diverse workforce to greater prominence and attention on the project and to solve workforce diversity gaps in real time and achieve significant numbers on these projects.
 I can't begin to thank you enough for the opportunity to problem-solve in real time, during our monthly meetings, and to make sure that the workforce diversity gaps were taken care of quickly. What usually happens is the gaps are reported at the end of a project when everybody says, oh, too bad, we tried. Well together, we didn't just try, we did it. We should all be very proud.
 I want to dispel a few of the misconceptions that have been stated in various city reporting documents. At Oregon Tradeswomen, Constructing Hope, and Portland YouthBuild, we pride ourselves on our integrity, on our service to the community, but also of our shepherding of the resources our funders give us to do our good work in the community. Through our professional audits, oversight from our board of directors, and quality reports,
 We provide careful stewardship of the public dollars to make sure they are used wisely and for their rightful purpose. And that outcomes are clearly reported on. Because of this integrity, we are offended that our integrity was questioned by the city.
 We carefully recused ourselves and made sure we were not part of discussion and decision-making when we stood to have resources allocated to our organizations so that we could serve the community. We signed conflict of interest statements acknowledging any potential conflict of interest.
 Our three organizations were at the table at the LMCOC because we are subject matter experts, the only ones locally providing this valuable service to the community and to the construction industry. Our expertise was needed, valued, and effective. A complaint has been made in a city report that few of the trainees funded by the Community Benefit Agreement worked on the Water Bureau projects.
 But we always knew we would be preparing for the future, building the pipeline of workers to be more robust, so that they would be available for future city projects. And the CBA projects benefited from our past work. A full 40% of the women who worked on Interstate and Cali Butte were graduates of our pre-apprenticeship program. We properly made competitive bid on the dollars available.
 Work systems proposals and reporting documents, contrary to what have been said, are detailed and rigorous. Our organizations were selected because we had the needed expertise and capabilities. We agree that this was a pilot and the roles need to be clarified, that a more formal structure needs to be developed and city staff
 struggled with the demands on their time and need the additional time to work on these. We agree that examining and learning from the best practices and transparency of data of Seattle, Boston, and other communities would strengthen the city's workforce program. Unfortunately, the results give the impression that the city of Portland does not care about workforce equity on their public projects.
 We heard that the city is working on a new plan. Thank you for keeping trying. We wish that those plans had been in place on the Portland building and the Washington Reservoir in as in-depth and quality as they were on these two pilot community benefit agreement projects. Our concern that any plan needs to include greater efforts towards workforce diversity, not just...
 contracting diversity. Today's construction workers are the business owners of the future. Unless diverse men and women get to become apprentices, become journey level, have opportunities to move into supervisory roles, we will not have a robust and diverse contractor pool. Please do not accept the City Pilots Report as written.
 The City of Portland needs to fully engage with the community in a meaningful way before making significant policy decisions about this tool. Thank you very much.
 Excellent. Folks, again, give hands or thumbs up, but let's hear people. Go ahead, please. Good afternoon, Commissioners, Mayor. My name is John Gardner, and I served as staff for CAUSE during the course of the Community Benefit Agreement. And I'm honored to be here to celebrate the game-changing program that was the City of Portland's first use of a Community Benefit Agreement on city-funded projects.
 Before I go further, I agree with what was said earlier by Fred Miller and others in terms of Theresa Elliot and her amazing qualifications and jobs over the last four years. And I only say that because I'm going to be using the term city staff a lot. And when I use the term city staff, it's not necessarily specific individuals. It's referring to a culture of feigned transparency and collaboration that unfortunately occurred after the fact outside of the LMCOC meetings, which again is why I think we're here today.
 So to be clear, I'm not here to call into question why, although you as a council unanimously approved the CBA resolution in 2012 and asked staff to consider applying the CBA template to other projects four years ago, staff ignored that advice or that guidance. And projects like the Water Bureau Reservoir Project and the Portland Building were never considered. Okay.
 I'm also not here to complain like others have in terms of the lack of willingness from city staff to allow us to bring our progress reports, which you asked for four years ago, and give you updated context for how well we were doing and how we're achieving those goals.
 And finally, I'm not here even to ask you or your staff to report on your overall progress related to increasing minority contracting and workforce utilization outside of the CBA, because remember, your first commitment was to increase contracting and workforce utilization. The CBA was only a contracting template to use to that end. So I am curious about how things have gone outside of the CBA, but that's not why we're here.
 Now I'm here to give additional context to one of the City of Portland's greatest achievements in equity, diversity, inclusivity, transparency, and shared economic growth, which I feel the city can and should take credit for.
 So additional sort of background for all this. You know, what happens after the celebration and the parade, which we had here four years ago, was I was part of a negotiating team that met with the prime contractor and city employees to discuss the operational implementation of a brand-new contracting agreement.
 Now, you should acknowledge the conflict and anxiety for that group who had already received contracts. The CBA was something that happened after the fact to two fairly large contracts in
 We know you have a contract awarded, but here's what we need you to do. We need you to look at all the contract documents, your approach and your proposal, and infuse this high-road standard approach to ensuring community equity and transparency. And so as much as you think that's a good thing, if you're on the other side of this fence, that's a lot of work. And it created a lot of anxiety. Okay.
 I believe this added work and an expectation of transparency put an initial cloud over the project in our first few months of meetings. And although the prime contractor in time showed amazing leadership in implementing the CBA, I felt that for some project staff, the negative assumptions of this new contracting method ultimately never went away and unfortunately polluted much of the information that you and other city staff have received about the progress and the work of the CBA over the last four years.
 I'd also like to talk about city oversight. I can't help but notice a lack of city staff standing arm in arm with us. This was a joint community and city project, and the fact that we have segmented our presentation is just an example of sort of the lack of transparent collaboration and collegiality that although we enjoyed when we celebrated the monthly successes, as we got nearer to the end, the rationale of why we weren't looking at other programs speaks to me that we really weren't the team I thought we were over those four years.
 Make no mistake, the city oversaw the implementation of the CBA pilots of both projects. They were the first and last word. They were the decider, whether it was a conversation about contracting, project phases, assessing damages, approving contracts, and clearly communicating to council.
 The public owner member of the LMCLC, which is just a transparency board, was the city of Portland. They had the last say. So this idea that some volunteer committee was pushing the billion-dollar enterprise that is the city of Portland around is crazy. In terms of project development, I agree with Mr. Miller's comment. This was supposed to be a pilot, but it was not supposed to be implemented in a vacuum.
 And unfortunately, very soon after the project was let, we began hearing from staff that we're not going to do anything else, although you asked them to, until this project is done. Which, again, was not in the minutes of the resolution passed four years ago. But it was the feedback that we received. And so unlike a pilot project, the feedback that I have heard over the last few years has not been about what we were learning or how it could be systemized to help improve overall city contracting.
 efforts, the feedback was much more like, when will this end so we can get back to business as usual? In hindsight, looking back on what's transpired, I feel like we never really had a chance. Now, by no means do I believe the CBA was perfect. And there was a lot I agree with in terms of the city's procured evaluator, an evaluation and a procurement I never saw until it was actually secured by a partner, which is strange because all of our procurements were public. But if you compare... One second. I don't think your slides are up. Go ahead. Oh, okay. Sorry. Okay.
 Oh, they're amazing. There you go. Thank you. Deep.
 So, again, by no means do I believe the CBA was perfect, and there was a lot I agree with in terms of the city's procured evaluator. But if you compare both reports, although there's a lot of overlap, there's also a lot of difference. And even though we're talking about the same projects, it almost feels like a tale of two cities, with one coming from the perspective of what did we learn and what can we improve, and the other reinforcing a narrative that the project had multiple problems and was a bad idea from the start. So let's get back to business as usual, because we know best. Thank you.
 So the LMCOC was important but had too many responsibilities. I agree. We didn't know what we were getting ourselves into. But I also believe that it's a best practice for community and stakeholder oversight, especially with the lack of coordination and infrastructure provided by city staff. COS was only intended to be a training fund administrator but took on other responsibilities for all three funds, primarily due to the city's lack of management and leadership.
 CBA governance provisions created potential for conflict of interest. Untrue. Although public contracting is ripe for potential conflicts of interest, as many of you know, our process included safeguards like recusals and conflict of interest statements on all of our procurement scoring documents. For example, and I would encourage you to look at this and tell me what about this isn't clear in terms of recusal or acknowledging potential conflicts of interest, and this
 And this is one example of what your staff signed as they participated on the procurement processes. CBA program administration costs were relatively high. Untrue. The city agreed to the administration fees, which included personnel, operating, administration, and indirect rates to cover all the costs to building out the procurements, managing the resources, taking on all three funds, and to build the procurement process.
 And operationalizing the project, I would love, and I try to do research about the city's internal costs as it relates to managing programs. So the idea that the city could do this for less, especially in terms of a pilot, I would love to see as a taxpayer. I think you've got a great bargain and a great deal, and I think a lot of what we develop can be used to bring down the costs on future models. Startup and admin costs in TA programs were
 may have outweighed short-term benefits. Tell that to Nathaniel Hartley, who you saw in the video, and other MDB contractors that scored the service incredibly high. New models do tend to cost more to develop, but taking the lessons learned and the proven technical assistance approach meant to be applied to additional efforts will save money in the long term.
 One thing I'd like to say is the city has, for years, way beyond the CBA, provided technical assistance to minority firms. But all those efforts were found lacking in your 2009 disparity study. So the idea to sort of judge a new approach where contractors were served and were appreciated the service when your own house is not in order is surprising to me.
 One thing I obviously agree with that your evaluator find was procurements use good practices. I would argue if you look at the report, they maintain that we use best practices in procurement. And so that was one of the things that obviously I personally took offense to because we tried to establish a very high mark for transparency and clarity in order to sort of let it be used again and again. And I think if you look at the documents, many of them can be updated and used for any future investments.
 CBA fund contracts, CBA 1% fund contracts were not performance based. Actually, your own report states that training contracts had enrollment, training, and completion goals, and the community construction program used well-established and time-tested service models that had been successfully used prior to the establishment of the CBA, and that the program exceeded originally in a revised program enrollment goals.
 One thing to note is when earlier when someone spoke about the 104 scholarships that the CBA provided, when we contracted with the CBO training providers, we only contracted for about 80 scholarships. So not only did they overperform their contracted goals, but they leveraged their own infrastructure to bring additional opportunities to others in the community. So the idea that we didn't pay for actual services, again, it's crazy and it's disappointing. Compliance.
 Activities were duplicated and not all compliance funds were spent. So a finding is that we didn't spend all the money
 I think someone said this earlier. So we save money because I agree. The city has good compliance resources available. So there is some duplication. And that's why early on we decided not to take any program administration funds from any of the direct services, but instead city staff came back to you all and asked to take some money out of the compliance fund to fund the administration of the project, which is, I think, a great best practice model that doesn't reduce the actual services to minority contractors or workers.
 Comparable projects also achieve good results against the CBA.
 So this slide's a little hard to see, but my understanding is this is what happened when the city staff were looking for other examples amongst the city's history of contracting to show how good you do outside of the CBA. And what we have here on these six examples is the Interstate CBA pilot, your Southwest Moody Ave streetcar project, your Kelly Butte CBA pilot, Streetcar Loop, and Balch and Mt. Tabor.
 So I would first say Balton and Mount Tabor are not comparable. And if you look within your own evaluator's report, you'll see other examples, whether it's contracting or utilization, that those projects didn't achieve the same results. I would further suggest that if you're looking at Southwest Moody Avenue and Streetcar Loop,
 Those were TriMet-partnered projects where TriMet applied to the FTA and served as a pass-through to fund those projects. But in doing so, the City of Portland had to achieve the TriMet's DBE program goals, which were actually set higher than the CBA goals for DBE participation. So the idea that the City of Portland has this long history of diversification in terms of utilization and contracting is just not true, and that's why we're here in the first place. So...
 The lessons are taken, these lessons are taken verbatim from the evaluated report, who I believe you'll hear from next. My point is that these are the real critical elements that we all agree need to be included in any agreement going forward. And I agree with Fred, there's some overlap and there's some agreement. And it is clearly described in your own evaluation. Yet when you look at the report that's being presented today, none of those components, these components are included here.
 that you're being asked to pass. And I know there's some confusion about what we're being asked to pass and what it really means. It means you sanctify the findings of the CBA, which don't actually speak to best practices that your own evaluation asks you to include in any models going forward. And that's why I think there's so much pushback today, because it's not clear what it means to canonize or to agree with the report you're preparing to accept. None of these real lessons learned regarding the success and challenges of the CBA
 CBA model are being carried forward and if anything they are being intentionally dropped in the proposing next steps. This is both confusing and concerning and I would just – for time purposes I won't go through all of these although you can see this is about goals, this is about accountability, this is about participation of key stakeholders. I did look at the report and the idea that you may convene an advisory committee. I mean
 I mean, what a strike against transparency and openness. And I think that is one of the best practices. So the idea that you may or may not do that, or that you'll only apply equity goals to CMGC projects as opposed to what you've already committed, which is any time you spend dollars over a certain amount, you're going to champion equity. I mean, that's not just a retreat. That's almost a betrayal.
 So because these lessons learned are not explicitly outlined in the report as written and are not at all reflected in the recommendations found therein, I encourage council to take a step back, not accept the report as written, and work more closely with community partners to come up with a summary report that accurately reflects the CBA pilot results and clear next steps based on fact and goodwill. Also, my recommendations are, as someone who's been through this and lived through this, both as an outsider and now as an insider in my role at TriMet,
 I encourage you to continue pursuing High Road Construction and Career Pathways investments through a collaborative and transparent process, which again is not what your report speaks to, or sorry, even the new program model.
 I encourage you to continue to set clear and explicit goal settings and have real monitoring so the idea of wage theft or gaming the system and moving workers around where they don't actually get moving up through apprenticeship is a thing of the past because it's happening, mostly outside of the CPA, by the way.
 and that you have clear engagement and commitment secured by all relevant parties. That includes community-based organizations, training organizations, labor, fund managers, whatever it looks like, and that you have built in mechanisms that we had to develop in the CBA to support the necessary community capacity building. I also will encourage you to identify an external neutral fund administrator, whether it's BOLI, the Oregon Employment Department, or your workforce development board.
 Because the idea that conflicts of interest can be avoided are an inherent, either in this body or others. You need to find someone neutral who can either leverage their own resources or can be that table to have this conversation that can be overseen by city staff.
 But A, it's too expensive for you to administer this fund. B, there's no way to avoid the conflicts of interest that I'm sure you're going to hear across the next few presentations in terms of all of the different voices who want a role in this. They can all be at the table, but you need a neutral partner to administer the funds. And that you continue to have ongoing and meaningful oversight and accountability. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions for this panel? So, Mayor, I have one question, and frankly, I appreciate your...
 The testimony in it, what I want to separate out is the testimony that anticipates the next presentation because a number of the concerns you've raised are to the independent evaluation and those findings and probably in retrospect we should flip this so we heard that first and then heard your rebuttal. But that's a big piece of what I heard and I've taken pretty good notes on that.
 I've heard some references to the level of cooperation and participation by city staff. Obviously, that's something we take very seriously. It is somewhat inconsistent with what we heard from ECPC last week or the week before.
 in terms of outcomes in this project, and I have a hard time reconciling the notion that there was half-hearted participation on the one hand, and yet we got great results. So maybe that means we could have gotten even better results, but there's a contradiction there. There's a contradiction. But I'm going to go back to something that someone said that I think frames for me
 the difficulty in reconciling a number of things we're going to be talking about today. And so I'm going to offer anyone on the panel a chance to respond to this. And that is we're throwing the baby out with the bathwater. And I take it that that is the verdict on the community benefits plan that was negotiated with the community and accepted by this council, and is going to be the guiding principle for the work we're going to do in Washington Park. Now, throwing the baby out with the bathwater is a very important,
 colorful and very resonant expression. And it suggests that we have somehow abandoned some basic principles along the way. And as the commissioner in charge who cares deeply about this issue, I don't understand that. And I want to give anyone a chance to just explain what we mean by that. And let me just set the stage.
 The explicit framework for the community benefits plan was to take the lessons learned of the community benefits agreement and improve the outcomes. That was the explicit goal of that process. No change in the 1% set aside. No change in accountability except the city did something which we're often accused of not doing enough, which is the city said we're going to be accountable for reaching the goals ultimately.
 And then we did something that I thought was noteworthy, and it was certainly noteworthy when we unanimously embraced the community benefits plan, which was the successor to the community benefits agreement. We set higher goals for MWESB participation across the board. We set a more ambitious framework for equity and opportunity in this project. And we said that at the end of the day, we're so committed to this, we're going to make the city accountable, not some committee.
 And we didn't disband any committee. We have an advisory committee made up of, we hope, the same thoughtful and knowledgeable people. But the city said we're lifting the bar, and we are going to be accountable for reaching those goals. I have to say that's an entirely different impression when I recite the facts than I get from listening to this presentation. And so I have to ask, what is really dividing us?
 So I've had meetings with friends here and friends in the audience, and we've had very frank conversations, as we often do. And what I have been told that the central flaw of our approach going forward is that my friends in labor are not signatories to the CBP. You can nod your head, but that is, in most of my meetings, has been what I have been told is the central flaw of this approach. And I welcome your view on that, but that has been framed as the central flaw.
 Let me just – could I correct that, please, Commissioner? I hope you correct more than that. Well, I'd like to start with that. First of all, it's not a question of focusing on labor signatories. It's community partners being signatory to a CBA agreement or to some other kind of agreement in which you actually have oversight on a monthly basis in real time as opposed to an advisory committee –
 that's so rarely convening that it's not in real time. And keeping in mind that the CBP was designed for much smaller dollar amount contracts. Okay. So fair enough. And so a document that has signatories, whether it's an MOU, whether it's the CBP, whatever you want to call it, is a central stumbling point that has been expressed to me.
 No change in the set-aside, the money, higher goals for the project, with the city accepting full responsibility for reaching those goals. I just want to make sure I understand because I'm missing something. Right. How does that end an experience under the CBA that both the ECPC and you have said we should celebrate? So my question is, if we have said we're going to raise the bar,
 How did we throw the baby out with the bath water? What am I missing? So what I would say is two things. First, I think you're missing one of the greatest points of the CBA, is that it's a collective responsibility. No offense, but the city has been found wanting when you try to do it yourselves. Clearly, it takes work.
 you know, CBOs who can recruit people of color and folks in poverty and then train them and then partner with signatory or union-based trainers, which represents 70% of the training organizations for apprenticeship in our region. It's like the idea of saying, hey, PCC and Mount Hood Community College, we're going to offer free community college, but not through you. So this idea that, A, the city can do this by itself because it has such a great track record
 is a little disingenuous or I think it's commendable, but it's a little naive because it took a whole village of historically partners who didn't work together, community-based organizations who didn't trust labor, labor who didn't trust minority contractors, minority contractors that were still waiting for the city to step up. I love the new numbers on the Portland building. I think you have great staff focused on it, but you're leaving out this collective community table
 Forget about the signatory. Although when you sign something, you're on the line for it. And all the members of the community oversight committee were on the line. It was never going to be if we failed, the city didn't do something. It would have been the trades didn't step up. The community didn't step up. It was a collective. We never had that problem, mostly because of some...
 sunlight, but also because of shared agreement that was canonized by putting our or our organization's names on the line. So that to me is an important, a very important question, issue. It's about trust and it's about accountability and how ultimately I think we all agree will be judged on the numbers. So we're talking about means and not ends. And I also just want to, I just want to make one point. The author, the underlying resolution, and I'm not here to
 I'm going to respond to this because my bureau ran the pilot and because I have a commitment to this work. I'm just one member of the council. I'm not the person that did the independent review of this, and the only substantive role I've had recently is to say we're going to raise the bar on Washington Park. And I thought at the end of the day that was the most important part of this conversation was raising the bar for participation.
 And I also thought, because the city is often accused of not following through on promises, being accountable, I thought having the leadership of the city be accountable to that was actually a step forward. We have a disagreement about that because you have a trust issue, and I get that. And history is a guide, although I don't think the utilities have been the greatest offenders, in fairness. But let's be clear. I mean, I just don't want the rhetoric to get in the way of the record and the relationship.
 Because you would almost think if you'd parachuted in here from another planet that we actually had a fundamental disagreement about ends and that we had some deeply principled divide about how to get there. There are some nuances, and I listen very carefully to your testimony. And frankly, the one umbrage I would take is the idea that we've marginalized you by having you come together.
 It was my view that having this oversight committee come and take as much time as they need to present to council was honoring your work, not marginalizing it. But I have a sense that a number of things have been flipped upside down. We don't disagree about ends. We've set a higher bar going forward, and now we're talking about whether there are signatures. I just want to be clear. And if it comes down to a question of signatures –
 I don't have the final say on this. We've adopted a CBP. My colleagues are all going to have views on that. I think you make a point, and I think we should engage that point. But I would just caution us not to say that the absence of a signature represents retreat from a commitment. And maybe enough damage has been done somehow, even though I have been told that the results were pretty good on the CBA, so I'm not quite sure how to reconcile that.
 But I don't want to leave a misimpression here about shared values. And I don't want you to think that the city has spent four years undermining this cause because it's just not true. And if you have specific examples, because we've talked in the abstract, we've stayed away from identifying people. If you have specific examples, I want them. It doesn't have to be in this form. I want specific examples of any city staff that has subverted your work.
 And going forward, let's be clear, other than the community benefits plan where we raised the bar, this council has taken no further action on CBAs and the future of CBAs. And as the mayor said, the purpose of today's hearing is to hear from all of our friends, and there are some disagreements in the community. And then it is this mayor and the next mayor that have the authority to figure out where we go on that. But I just, when I heard throwing the baby out with the bathwater, I thought at some point we took a wrong turn here.
 And I just go back to the 1% is inviolate, the bar has been raised, and the dispute is about a signatory. And that may warrant this level of conflict, but it does not, in my view, in any respect, represent a breach of agreement on the underlying goals.
 Can I speak to that? I made that statement about the baby in the bathwater. I would say the baby is the means. The baby is the process, and that's how you build trust, and that's how you really make inroads in equity. These are hard issues that take a lot of partners working together.
 And the sense right now is, yes, let's all set that bar higher. Let's set those goals higher. Let's achieve better numbers. But let's not forget how we achieved the CBA numbers in the first place. And it really takes that community and turning inward and doing it internally without that real meaningful input and expertise from the community and labor seems like a misstep, in my opinion. That's where that comment came from. Okay, thank you. Other responses?
 Just two things. First is I think originally my rebuttal, as you called it, was meant to be after hearing the presentation from your evaluator. So to that end, I do have copies of sort of our responses to the initial evaluation that I'd like to provide for all of you and have entered into the record. Secondly, one small example that I will use that I feel was a way of undermining the
 big success with the beginning of a small potential problem was I had an opportunity, I think, two years ago to visit Commissioner Saltzman's office. And I apologize, he's not here. And to talk about the success of the CBA, which he was really interested in, or he gave us time to at least have the conversation. And his first question, or seemingly the question that was most interesting to him, was, what
 Why are you spending $4,300 supporting the cost of meeting participation of CBOs, or why did you spend that? So, again, this is over a $100 million project, and I was like, so you've seen our draft report or an update, so you see the numbers. You see the good things, and you're asking me about a $4,300 –
 where the meeting attendance payments that the city asked caused to develop an MOU because the city and the prime contractor recognized that the only ones not being compensated for their time, their travel, their mileage, their expertise were the community-based partners participating in the planning process.
 So city staff asked us to do that. We did that. We documented their attendance because the city gave us the attendance rosters, and that was the first question, not how are you guys beating historical city numbers. It was where is this $4,300 going to? So to me, someone told him. They didn't own the fact that the city asked us to develop that process and procedures. Someone told them there was a questionable expense.
 Can I just spell one last thing? Because we're getting to a point now where we're attributing motives. No, but you asked for an example. I just want to give you an example. But it's very hard to shadow box without specifics, and we're making assumptions. And I will say, as the commissioner in charge of the utilities, for the record, that I am grateful for the service of the LMCLC. I am grateful for the work that you did.
 the findings of the independent pilot evaluation are findings of an independent evaluator, which we are free to accept, reject, or accept, impart, or reject, or whatever we want. But it was prescribed by the underlying resolution. It's an independent evaluator's findings. You disagree with many of the findings. That's your freedom. That's the purpose of this hearing. But perhaps we should have started, and it's my fault, and I should have started by saying thank you for your service. And it sounds like you haven't had enough
 We haven't had enough occasions to say that, and we haven't had enough occasions to celebrate the progress, and we haven't had enough face-to-face conversations to talk about our shared goals. That's my takeaway from this conversation. But I also want you to know, because Mayor said at the beginning, and I want to make sure we're all clear on this, we're not going from this hearing to sausage making. This is a hearing to hear from the public on the matters before us.
 And I guess if anything, while I think I disagree actually pretty strongly with a couple of things that were said, I appreciate that we have the relationship where you in a forum like this are so candid with the council about your views on this matter. And I have no doubt that we have shared values driving this thing. There may be some differences about means. But at the end of the day, I actually will tell you that I'm much more interested in outcomes these days because we end up spending a lot of time, in my opinion, fighting over the wrong stuff.
 I'm interested in outcomes. And in the CBP for the Washington Park, the city has said we are accountable for those outcomes. And you're going to hold us accountable whether you're a signatory or not. I know that. So thank you. Thank you all very much. So let's move on. We have one more. We have another panel. No, we don't. We have Linda Lewis is from Framework LLC is going to present the CBA evaluation report. Thank you, Commissioners. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 Linda, I apologize. We probably should have had you first and then some commentary to follow, but welcome. Okay. Carla will assist if needed with our complicated PowerPoint procedure here. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. Well, my name is Linda Lewis.
 I'm the principal of Framework LLC, which is a single-member limited liability company that's based in Ridgefield, Washington. And I happen to be a WBE, a woman-owned business, both in Washington and Oregon State. And I was retained to do an independent evaluation of the CBA. And so I want to share with you my findings. Again, these are my findings. These are not the city's findings. This is an independent evaluation. Okay.
 And I'll speak to some of the things that John raised in the last presentation.
 Before I get started, I guess, though, there are a lot of people in this room that I had the pleasure to speak with as a part of my evaluation, including John Gardner and some of the members of the last panel. And I just want to say that I thank them immensely for their cooperation, for their being willing to take time with me to collect information to help me out. So I was very pleased to work with these individuals. Thank you.
 I want to share with you the evaluation findings, but I want to tell you a little bit about the evaluation approach first. Very quickly, there were four components of this evaluation. First was a financial analysis of the 1% set-aside funds. What we were looking at was where and how were funds were authorized, how they were dispersed, who received them, what they were used for.
 Second, we did a program and process analysis. And I should say, when I speak to we, I subcontracted with Paul Lewis, who happens to be my husband, but he did the financial analysis and worked with me on this engagement. We did a program and process analysis looking at program outcomes and objectives. Were they clearly identified? Were they well understood? Yes.
 We looked at contractual relationships between the various entities. We looked at the way funds were awarded, and we also looked at monitoring activities. Third, we conducted a performance analysis. We looked at whether or not the CBA achieved its goals and objectives. We compared the two pilot projects, the two pilot Water Bureau projects, and we looked at the effectiveness of various strategies that were funded by the 1% money.
 And finally, we did a comparative analysis. We compared the pilot projects with similar city projects, and we also looked at the way that funds were awarded, comparing them with other city programs that also grant funds. So based on the four components, I want to share with you some of the things that we found very quickly. Thank you.
 Well, I should mention, too, that this was a pretty comprehensive evaluation in a very short amount of time. We interviewed 17 representatives from the different entities that are represented here. We reviewed lots of documents and lots of data, including LMCOC minutes and various artifacts of the project over the last four years.
 And we conducted an onsite review of the WSI and cause records since they were acting as a fund administrator, that joint entity, and I'll speak to that in a minute. I want to say that what we did, though, was a review and not an audit. So we were attempting to do an evaluation but not an audit of the funds or any of the procedures that occurred. So briefly, findings. As you've already heard from other testimony today,
 In terms of performance against goals, the pilot projects were very successful in meeting most CBA goals. As you've noted and I'll show you in a minute, all of the projects, pilot and non-pilot, struggled to meet goals for journey-level hours worked by women. But I would like to talk a little bit about a point that's been made and critiqued by earlier testimony,
 Comparable projects also achieved good results against these goals, and I want to take just a minute to look at those. So we were given four comparable projects that were similar in size and scope to the two pilot projects and that were using alternative procurement methods.
 And what we did was we contacted the contractors, we looked at data, and we looked at performance. And what we learned was the CBA performed very well against CBA goals, but some of the other contractors did as well.
 And in the area of utilization of minorities, you can see the performance on this graphic. The goal was 18% in the CBA. All of the comparable organizations except for Mount Tabor met or exceeded that.
 quickly looking at the utilization for women. Everybody struggled with the 9% of journey worker hours being dedicated to women, but everybody except Mount Tabor, all the projects except Mount Tabor, were successful in exceeding the apprentice work hour goals for women. And then I...
 I flipped this chart on its side. It's sideways in the report, and John Gardner pointed this out. It's a little bit easier to see it this way, although the lines are a bit faint. This is the performance of comparable projects against CBA contracting diversity goals. Okay.
 And what this shows is that Interstate and Kelly Butte were very successful in meeting diversity goals. In other words, in terms of the percent of hard construction costs that went to minority women, disadvantaged business, and emerging small business firms.
 All of the projects, though, were reasonably successful, and all of the projects struggled a little bit except for Interstate, Southwest Moody, and Kelly Butte, meeting the 22% diversity goal. Excuse me, meeting the, yes, the 12% goal. So I share these with you not to say that the CBA didn't
 wasn't necessary because that's not what we're attempting to represent here. Excuse me. What we're representing is, and our evaluation wasn't comprehensive enough to know all of the reasons why the pilot was successful and other firms were also successful, other projects were also successful in meeting goals. I share this only because...
 the other projects did achieve goals and would have achieved the CBA goals. And as John pointed out in the last panel, there are likely reasons for success. And I think these are important because there are reasons that the CBA was successful, but there are also perhaps reasons that the other projects were successful, and they do need to be taken account of as the city moves forward in whatever solution it chooses to.
 First and foremost, well-understood goals for workforce and contracting diversity, including both apprentice and journey-level goals.
 The CBA had very well spelled out goals in this area. Some of the other projects had goals spelled out as well. Not all of them were as refined, and not all of them used a breakdown of apprentice and journey level. But goals were there. And what we were told in our interviews is that if contractors are given goals, they will do everything they can to achieve them.
 Accountability is extremely important, including active compliance monitoring, which you saw in the CBA, and you also saw in some of the other projects, or you would see, we saw. Participation of key stakeholders, hugely important.
 and stakeholders including labor organizations, participation in real-time project workforce support and program design. This is where the CBA really excelled, but what we saw in other projects was the stakeholders were also involved, not to the extent as they were in the CBA, and we do believe that key stakeholder involvement is critical to the success of any endeavor going forward.
 Contractor commitment to the city's diversity goals, capabilities to support them, and willingness to participate. Huge. If contractors are committed, then projects will be successful.
 And finally, investments in outreach, training, and technical assistance to minorities, women, disadvantaged, and emerging small business firms. And what we found in our evaluation was that a lot of this outreach, training, and technical assistance occurred on the non-CBA projects. So that may have contributed to the success of some of the non-CBA projects. Again, our role wasn't to prove what...
 reasons for why things worked and why they didn't on all projects, but these are the likely reasons that we ascertained from our work and from what the literature told us. We also looked at the 1% program performance.
 And the 1% programs, again, are those funds, the three funds that were funded by 1% of the construction money that was set aside for that purpose. What we learned was that the programs did indeed achieve positive results, but not specifically for the pilot projects.
 You've heard before that few participants were actually employed on a pilot project, and that is true. There are some reasons for that. Pre-apprenticeship training programs were funded after the construction contracts were set, and as such, they had limited ability to plan for project needs.
 Had that pipeline been up and running earlier, they might have been able to get more of those participants onto projects. That's not to say they didn't do good work, because they did. They trained a whole lot of people, and they were very successful in what they did. Just those participants didn't end up on the pilot project.
 Technical assistant program, the design and the development and the procurement of getting that program kind of up and running from scratch, that took a lot of time, took a lot of resources. And so by the time the program was up and running, there were opportunities to help firms, good opportunities, good work was done, but not a lot of firms were employed on the pilot projects. Okay.
 What our conclusion was as a result of this evaluation was that the 1% programs are most likely to provide longer-term community benefits, and by that I mean community benefits for many projects, not just for the pilot projects. So we're not saying that they weren't a success or that they failed. We're saying that those benefits are yet to be observed.
 We took a long look at CBA structure and governance and some of the findings I need to explain to you because I've heard them taken out of context. We found that the LMCOC was a very important organization, had a very important role on this project and on the pilot projects, but it did have too many responsibilities for basically a volunteer organization with no legal identity and no formal staff.
 So the CBA created this organization but gave it no legal authority, which caused some problems, and I'll go into that in a moment. So you've heard talk of conflict of interest, and what we've said in the report is that governance created potential for conflict of interest. We never observed any conflict of interest.
 We did observe, however, that a very small number of individuals designed programs and awarded contracts and were fund recipients. But that was sort of the nature of the beast. A small number of core people did a whole lot of work on this project to make it successful. But the way that the CBA was structured...
 gave some appearance of conflict of interest. Now, as you've heard in earlier testimony, folks were very sensitive to this. They were aware of it. They discussed it in their meetings. They said that they recused themselves from procurement processes, and we agree all that that was true. We did not find conflict of interest.
 But what we didn't find was signed conflict of interest statements, even though we asked for them several times. They may have been there. They just didn't migrate their way to our project. And so going forward, we believe that that's an important thing to do for any governance structure that gets adopted. Thank you.
 I mentioned the contract, or I mentioned the relationships between a small number of people. Another relationship that complicated fund administration was the basic contractual relationship among all these groups.
 So the CBA document gave the LMCOC authority for fund oversight and management, but the LMCOC, again, had no legal ability to spend or receive funds. They're a volunteer organization, but they had no legal ability. They're given all of these responsibilities, and they're given all this authority, but they don't have really any ability to do anything with it.
 The CBA also identified WSI cause as fund recipients, but unfortunately there was no real contract or agreement with the LMCOC because, again, there was no legal ability to do that to perform the role. So over time, the parties adopted some ways to pass the money through, which weren't ideal, but they did what they had to do given the nature of the beast.
 and they passed the 1% funds from the city to Hoffman through a contract and then on to cause using a purchase order. I won't belabor this too much, but just understand that the city had a contract with Hoffman to do the construction work. The 1% money went to Hoffman, who in turn used a purchase order to get the money to cause, who used an existing contract with work systems to get the money there so that the work could continue.
 I raise this only because it's not ideal. It's something that we would say, if you're going to do this in the future, don't do it this way. And that's the only reason we raise it in the report.
 As John mentioned earlier, we found that WSI, who was acting as the fund administrator for the CBA, used very good practices for procurement, invoice review, and payment authorization. We had a chance to look at their records. Again, not an audit, but we wanted to see how things were transpiring, and we found good practices being used there.
 Much has been made about the comment in the report about provider contracts not being performance-based. We didn't raise this to be critical necessarily because they weren't required to be performance-based. Many jurisdictions do have that requirement. The City of Portland doesn't necessarily require
 But in terms of good practice, it's always good to find opportunities where you can pay for actual contractor performance. And by that, I don't mean just delivery of widgets. I mean achieving desirable outcomes. Most of the contracts, by definition for the contract,
 outreach and training programs, for example, are cost reimbursement contracts, and that's pretty traditional for that type of contract. But what we would recommend going forward is looking for ways to make things more performance-based. And then there's the issue of administrative costs. We do believe that they were high relative to some city programs, and our experience has been that
 So 14% to 15% or 16% is probably more in line. The 17% number, though, does include startup costs, and so it makes it a little bit difficult to do a comparison. So there was a lot of startup involved in the CBA program, which added to these administrative costs. Okay.
 So moving forward, again, we were hired as independent evaluators. We weren't hired to do a design for a revised CBA or to throw out the CBA and come up with something net new. But we did identify some recommendations that we believe are important going forward or opportunities to use in whatever the city elects to build for a community benefits instrument.
 In terms of government, we believe it's really important to organizationally separate project-related activities. Those are things like utilization, placement of employees, technical assistance from fund administration, the things like accounting, procurement, contracting. Those got co-mingled to some degree on this project, and they really need to be separated.
 It's important to define manageable committee roles and responsibilities. So if you're using committees going forward and if you're using something like an LMCOC, then you need to clearly define what it is they're charged with doing and make sure what it is they're charged with doing is doable under their charter and provide adequate staff support. For fund administration, it's important to have any and all contracts in place before work begins and not try to do that after the fact.
 we do believe it's also important to require signed conflict of interest statements. If it was done on this project, great. We didn't see evidence of it. It needs to be done going forward. It's also important to include project closeout procedures and think about researching and considering performance-based contracting.
 Oversight is incredibly important, as you've heard in previous testimony. We would add to the oversight. We would advocate for program and financial audit provisions, kind of above and beyond what individual programs get audited by virtue of their funding.
 We'd also advocate for improved and expanded program evaluation and performance monitoring. And earlier testimony talked about some of the things that are in the works for disaggregating data even further and looking at participation of minorities and women in terms of ethnicity and some of the other details that would give you more information to work with.
 In terms of the programs, we'd recommend that you use the 1% program funding to create a pipeline of qualified, diverse individuals and firms for multiple city projects, not just one project at a time. We recommend that you provide ample lead time to organizations who are trying to build your pipeline prior to starting a contract, and we would hope that the contracts would get cut after the...
 the agreements are reached and not the four. And it's important to differentiate the kind of technical assistance that the CBA or other 1% set-aside programs could provide. Differentiate that from that which is typically provided by contractors because what we learned in our comparative analysis is that contractors do indeed provide technical assistance.
 It is different than what you saw in the CBA pilot, but you need to make sure that those are differentiated so that there's a value add there. And with that, I'll turn it over to you for questions. Questions. Linda, thank you very much. I'll just make one comment about conflict of interest and training. So I've taken a deeper dive on that and plan to bring some stuff to council later this fall. The reality is...
 The city guidelines on those disclosures are anything but clear, and they are in fact treated as if they are voluntary and not mandatory. And there is, in my judgment, inadequate training that accompanies that, particularly in areas where people de facto become public officials in performing a function. And I think one of my takeaways from this discussion
 independent of your report is that the city has to create some clearer guidelines and expectations in terms of whatever you have to fill out what do you have to disclose and then providing training because a lot it seems to me a number of the things that you identify in this really come back to us in terms of not providing clarity and the necessary training for people to perform the function we're asking and these are actually citizen volunteers so I think that's an important point right
 So I guess another point I just want to raise and get you to respond to, and that is if you listen to this discussion and this debate here today and otherwise over the last few weeks and months, you raised the importance of participation of key stakeholders. Aside from the substance of what's been accomplished in these pilot projects and the goals that we have set and are setting,
 And aside from the substance of what works, quite a bit of agreement about that, there's a big divide here about how much power will reside in community-based oversight versus the bureaucracy. We heard that very clearly in the previous presentation. Thank you.
 respond to that um respond to that i mean that's that's that's the big that's the big item in the room here i think or one of them anyway right uh which is how much uh you know it's our responsibility as elected officials to change the culture and practices of the city in ways that it makes that make the city work better and also ways that make it work better for people outside of the bureaucracy we're all public servants here
 And so it's our job to sometimes require and direct our employees to do things that are uncomfortable and different. And like any big organization, we get resistance to that. So a big part of the point that we've heard so far in this discussion and otherwise is you won't get that change unless there's real power in an oversight function. Tell me what you think about that.
 Well, and by that I think you're implying that it has to be an oversight function of community-based organizations. Right. Oversight of us. Yeah. Speaking collectively of the us here. Yeah. What we found is that oversight is incredibly important and community participation is incredibly important. Now, how you mix those two things is sort of the difficult decision that you have to make. Okay. Yeah.
 I would hate to see going forward that the community-based organization piece of it got left behind in the move forward. Whether or not that means, though, they have to have the same level of oversight that they have right now, I don't know that I'm equipped to speak to that.
 But I do believe that the community-based organization involvement is huge because that's been suggested both in the work that we've done and in work that other jurisdictions have done in looking at this issue. Very helpful. Thank you.
 Other questions? Thank you very much. Appreciate your report, both here in front of us and here in this discussion. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mayor, we have some invited guests, and we'll just take them in order, groups of four. Nate McCoy from NAMCO, Pat Daniels from Constructing Hope, Keith Edwards, retired IBEW, now on the board of Constructing Hope, and James Fashion. Please, come on up for...
 uh others on their behalf thank you nate why don't you start right thank you for having me today mayor commissioners uh pleased to be here this is definitely a lively discussion uh as you mentioned i am uh the namac uh ed the whole thing slides down if you want oh big box will slide if you okay okay all right so again namac uh national association of minority contractors organs chapter
 Again, I represent a national organization, not just a local organization. We have a membership of 33 minority-owned businesses, 28 public agency partners, including prime contractors of various scales that work on City Portland projects.
 And really what NAMAC's mission and really its legacy is all about is building bridges and crossing barriers. So really what I'm going to be talking about today is really about the barriers that our contractors face. Obviously, workforce is a huge shortage in our community across the board. There's barriers.
 numerous reports that say that there's a lot of work to still be done. The conversations that I'm in, it seems like somewhat sometimes we're undermined and not really at the table. Some of the reports that we've heard from today, I see logos of our affiliates that aren't really connected to these conversations. There's email exchanges that come and go, but really not
 bringing the conversations together. Our mission is really about creating contractors that work on city Portland projects. And what I know by from numbers and experience is that our contractors are not being put to work on city of Portland projects. And it's not a strange phenomenon that minority contractors generally hire minority workforce. And if you looked across the board at most of our contractors we represent, we're
 Nobody's really stretching far enough, I guess, to really identify the issues around our engagement. You know, we hear a lot of stories from our membership about CBA projects, non-CBA projects, signatory agreements, as you spoke to, being barriers. We have contractors that are well off, that do very great work, that are union and non-union. But when we get to the point of, you know,
 bypassing where some of our contractors are and what their needs are we're never going to get to a point of actually acknowledging where the gaps are in the industry and as i spoke to last week really what i want to make sure that we don't forget about in some of the discussion that's happened is regardless if we're looking at a cba or community benefits plan let's look at as we heard from linda who just spoke let's look at the performance in the track record of these projects
 We no longer want to talk about MWESB. We want to talk about minority, we want to talk about women, and we want to talk about ESB. And I think what happens is we lump the conversations together far too often, and until we get to a point of disaggregating as she spoke to,
 The devil's in the details. So, I mean, I think what I really credit myself for doing when I was a housing commissioner once upon a time was really to listen to our community, listen to our contractors. I never had challenges on projects that I managed for the Housing Bureau, meeting the numbers, going out to the community stakeholders, meeting the numbers.
 partnering with NAMAC and MCIP at the time and really disaggregating information so we told the real stories the stories I hear is that there's a lot of discrimination there's a lot of lack of trust and we've heard that theme tonight there's a lot of nuances and things that I think you know we try to put everybody in the same box and I don't think people were at the same scale of company wise
 We have technical assistance providers. They're not tapped enough on these projects to help support it. I actually commend the statement about a 1% across the boards. We're not looking at just one project.
 We have workforce training apprenticeship programs in the room. Very, very great organizations should be doing the work they're doing, but a lot of them are passing off their pre-apprentices to union or non-union shops, and I think that's where sometimes things can get a little dicey. And really, really what I'm up here today to really discuss with you guys is let's look at the positive things that we're doing. I mentioned last week we have two parks projects where we actually have prime contractors of
 of color working on them. Housing bureau projects, prime contractors of color working on them. Not subcontractors, prime contractors.
 We're out here in the school systems, and in my NAMAC newsletters that are in the DJC, I'm sure you've read them, we're out here talking to the Portland Public Schools with kids. We're not getting paid to do this. We're not making, you know, any kind of commitments that feel dicey or that kids can't actually tangibly see as a career pathway. We're really trying to build the relationships. And I think sometimes...
 Some of these workforce efforts seem like a production cycle, almost like we're just trying to get in and meet the numbers without really trying to sit kids down at some point in time and say, look, there's this contractor who actually is an electrician that looks like you that might want to take you out and show you some job sites.
 We do this stuff all the time, but nobody talks about it. Nobody brings us in to say, how do we utilize and tap into what you're doing to enhance our programs? So I think those are core things that have to happen. One of the things that I wanted to say also along the lines is there's just so much tremendous undue burden on the contractors that we're trying to work with, compliance requirements. You're talking about contractors that might have four or five employees, some more, some less employees.
 and would love to work on city projects, but who is sitting these contractors down besides Nate McCoy and saying, how do we meet you at where you are and be an incubator for your business so that we can utilize you on projects? Right.
 Now, I've come up with a couple of recommendations, and I really am open that we can have a dialogue of some sort because I'm sure some questions will come up. But there's a couple of key things, just real quickly, wearing my prior hat as a construction manager, that I saw being a city employee and really being invested in equity projects.
 during the duration of my tenure was we need to make sure that we actually have a tangible conversation about CMGCs versus low bid processes. I've never had anybody really talk about that. I don't hear any other groups talking about how the movement and traction of growing businesses is so impactful if we really take a hard look at other alternative contracting methods. Okay.
 I did hear Fred in his opening comments say that one thing we have learned is that if we move away from low bid and look at alternative contracting, that's where the action happens. So is that – I mean, that's –
 that we agree with that proposition, that moving away from low bid actually gives us more opportunity to get to our goals. Absolutely. And I would agree, but I think what gets confusing in the process is that sometimes community stakeholders aren't a part of those conversations. So I can't tell you how CMGC has put together the process steps in place to justify it or not. It seems like if there was a little bit of a community engagement in that process –
 Maybe we might as partners and advocates of contractors be able to work side by side with the city to figure out What kind of projects make sense what size the projects look good?
 look good? How can we really support contractors who really want to engage and really market these projects to these contractors, not the other way around? Because I feel like sometimes contractors or city government would like you to fit into a nice pretty box, and we need to step back and really see how we can actually dissect that and really do something more proactive and more actually in an engagement role. So that's one thing.
 And I'm talking about $10 million and below type size projects, which again are parks projects. The second is the threshold of workforce training and hiring. And I know there probably won't be a fondness in the room for this statement, but being a city manager and working with housing developers and contractors, it's very challenging for a business like ours,
 with a $100,000 threshold to really, at that size, really manage the compliance reporting and documentation that it takes to keep up with the workforce training and hiring programs and processes. And I really, for the last eight, ten years have been wondering, well, what kind of impact in the workforce are we making with businesses that small or contract sizes that small? Is that one apprentice? Is that two apprentices? Most times that's all it is. So, you know,
 Why not limit that threshold a little higher, put the threshold a little higher, closer to 400,000, where we know maybe some contractors won't drown in the paperwork, won't be penalized for not meeting maybe some of these workforce goals? Because most contractors doing maybe 400,000 plus might have a little bit more systems in place where they can actually support the workforce needs and be able to appropriately run their shops in a way where they can respond to those compliances.
 Mr. Nate, we have a lot of people that signed up. So I'm going to ask you to give us one more, and then I'm going to ask you, if you would, to follow up in writing with these recommendations. Mr. Absolutely. Mr. And we will continue this conversation, I'm afraid. I want to also make sure between now and dinner that we hear from everybody just get a complete record. Mr. Correct. Mr. But thank you for also being very precise in your recommendations. Mr. Absolutely. And so lastly, and not to say the least, you guys already have a program that's thriving right now, Prime Contractor Development Program.
 led by Stacey Edwards. I mean, I don't hear enough acknowledgement of the great work she's doing. She is a rock star for a lot of the members that we support and has really been an ally and advocate. Christine Moody made the greatest hire I think she could have made in hiring her because she is really running feverishly through city agencies and some of our bureaus that do procurement to really dial in on projects that make sense
 for some of the members that we support and the members that are generally, you know, not associated with NAMAG. And I think where we need to take it is what you'll hear is that some of these dollar projects are too small for some of the ones that are a little bigger. So I want to recommend that we look at maybe at another tier bracket between one and four million, somewhere in that range where some contractors who aren't interested in bidding on 500,000 and below projects
 or have outgrown that size, should have something that works for them. And we're not talking about sourcing projects to anybody. We're talking about that group that she supports, over 40 contractors bidding against one another on bigger projects. And I think that's the thing that would help support, like, real growth, real capacity building. And with that said,
 I will shut up and let others speak since we have a big agenda, but certainly it's important for us to recognize some of these things we can do now and not in the future. Great, great. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor Hills. My name is Pat Daniels, and I'm the Executive Director for Constructing Hope. And I'm basically here to just give context to the people who benefited from the Community Benefits Agreement. The mission of Constructing Hope, we're in the business of rebuilding the lives of people in our community through encouraging self-sufficiency through skill training and education in the construction trades.
 We target people who are low income, we target people coming from incarceration, and we target just our community.
 So with that being said, our role here was to provide certified trained minorities and women for the CBA project and create a pathway for them to enter construction. So I believe that we did that through the Community Benefits Agreement, which we've talked about. And a little bit later you'll hear from Isis Harris and Melina Weisner, who are two women who benefited from this project.
 I think the CBA was a great tool that helped us accomplish that mission of opening the doors for people of color and women to enter the trades. And just to give you a little bit of context, we're one of the programs that received the largest amount of funding from that project. Prior to receiving those funds, we were running classes of 16 people per year, 16 people per class three times a year.
 Those funds helped us increase our numbers, which I want to go back and just say the diversity study that the city had showed a true absence of African American men in the trades. Through that project, we increased our numbers, inserting 62% of African Americans.
 of our numbers increased by 62% with African Americans on that project. And so it was due to the support from the city on those funds. That also increased our training by 25%. It allowed Constructing Hope to increase our numbers from 16 people per class to 25. So again, that was a great pathway for these folks. Our number of folks just going into apprenticeship, as we said, not everybody was going to be on those projects.
 It was lit. We were already behind. But what we did was we increased our numbers of people entering apprenticeship by 30%.
 So I just want to say that we appreciated the process and bringing community and labor in good faith to the table. I have heard that there was, you know, some distinguish of separating union and non-union, but I want to say that Constructing Hope has relationship with both union and non-union. We work very closely with the unions, and we have direct entry with Northwest College of Construction for a non-union apprenticeship program.
 So I just want to thank you for allowing us to come today, and we would just like to say that there was a lot in the report that is not showing all of the lessons learned, and we appreciate it if you did not accept the report as written. I'll leave now. Go ahead, Keith. I thought you were going to validate my parking ticket. Good afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon, Commissioners.
 Thank you for allowing us to be here to give you some information today. I just want to give you a little bit more about my background. I started, I've been in the Portland community since 1958. I've started my apprenticeship in 1969 in the IBEW. I'm a union electrician.
 And in those 45 years that I was a union electrician, I've seen a lot of water under the bridge. And I've been recruiting for all those years, trying to bring about change in our industry as well as building trades in general and making sure that we had some diversity and inclusion. It's been a challenge, but at the same time, I think there has been some good times and there has been some successes. Thank you.
 I am on the board at Constructing Hope, and I heard some testimony earlier about conflicts of interest. That's the reason I didn't want Commissioner Fish to leave, because I may have a conflict of interest, simply because Constructing Hope does work on prison-to-work pipeline for African Americans and others in our community.
 But I think everyone in this room, everybody in the state of Oregon, should have a conflict of interest or self-interest in that respect, simply because 1.8% of the population in this state is African American, whereas 9% of our prison population is African American. So that puts it on everybody's plate. So with that, I'd like to say also that the CBA has worked.
 It's been very successful. It has certainly a better track record than the city has in regards to diversity and inclusion. There's nuances that probably need to be added to it. It's not perfect, and it can be changed, and it can be made better. That's for sure. I also wanted to say, too, that I do, being on the board of Constructing Hope, Pat Daniels
 asked me one time about bringing someone from the non-union electrical apprenticeship program, the training director on board, to our board. And I said, certainly, I don't have a problem with that. I have a real problem with telling the participants in our program that they only have one option, and that's to be union. Because I'd look real crazy when they can't get into a union program and they have to wait six months or a year to reapply. They need to go to work, and they need to have those opportunities available to them. Also...
 I know people that are members of NAMCO as well. And when I was involved in the process of developing the Community Benefits Agreement with Maui, I personally invited members of NAMCO to get involved and to participate. And I also just want to say that I think that going forward, I think that there are some great opportunities here. But the CBA has clearly shown that aggressive goals can be met, and those goals could be more aggressive.
 But I think that the city council is not prepared with the information that you have available to you here and with the report to make a decision, given that the report was, I think, flawed in a sense because of the information that's been put in that report. It's a little bit biased, and I believe that it should have been a report that is certainly objective.
 I just wanted to share again that with my background and my experience, and I wanted Commissioner Fish to hear this, that he's never spoken with me, and I challenge anyone. There's no one in this room that has more construction experience than I have. I've been in the industry since 1969. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. There's a button on the bottom of that microphone. Just please push that. Everybody will be able to hear you. There you go.
 Good afternoon. My name is James Faison. My company is Faison Construction. I just want to clarify, Faison, we are a small contracting company, and I just want to speak a little bit about the CBA. We know that if it wasn't for the CBA, we wouldn't have done the big projects that we are on.
 Our goal is to employ people and to give kids a chance. We stand on the street corner on Martin Luther King and Ainsworth every Sunday from 2 to 4, just passing out flyers and talking to kids. Just a group of minority contractors just trying to get kids to know that they have alternatives. And we're pretty proud of that, and it's successful. If we can get one kid a week, we're happy.
 But going back to the CBA, it has worked for my company and has helped me to get kids in and get them off the streets and working for long term. We're trying our best to... We know that there's problems. We know that this program should be not only for the union workers. It needs to be for the non-union workers. And sometimes for the non-union workers, it's hard for them to get...
 involved in some of the contracts because it's just too hard for the smaller companies. The smaller companies can't have a journeyman carpenter and an apprentice carpenter and a labor journeyman and an apprentice. It's pretty hard to run a company when you're a small company and to carry that kind of a load. So...
 I think it would be nice that if everyone could put their own agendas to the side, unions, workers, and you guys, and try to put together something where you can sit down across the table and talk and try to work out something between both sides. There's a lot of people that's willing to volunteer their time to make that happen. Thanks. Thank you. Questions? Thank you all very much. Appreciate it.
 Thank you. Mine, I would say that we have another panel, Steve Sims, Ray Espana, Tony Jones. Is that right? So come on up, please. Good afternoon. You want to start? Sure, I'll start. Steve, whoever. Thank you.
 Mayor Hales, council members, Steve Sims, I'm the administrator for the apprenticeship and training division at the Bureau of Labor and Industries. We are responsible for the oversight and administration of registered apprenticeship programs in the state. And I'm here simply to talk about a small policy slice of this very rich pie that you've been biting into today.
 and that's the issue of the impact of mandatory apprenticeship requirements and aspirational diversity goals for women and people of color in public contracting.
 We've spent a considerable amount of time over the last few years trying to find the root causes for that underrepresentation. We've hired researchers from Portland State Universities. We've hired interns. We've done lots of research on the statistical disparities and also some anecdotal research. And I think that one thing we've concluded is that these requirements have a positive impact on changing those results.
 In August 2006, women represented about 5.4% of all apprentices registered in the state of Oregon, and ethnic minorities represented 13.5% of all registrations. I use statewide figures, quite frankly, because about 75% to 80% of all apprentices in the state work or live in the Portland metropolitan area.
 In the past, in the 10 years since that time, through August of 2016, the percentage of women has increased to 6.3% of all registrations, and the percentage of protected class minorities have increased to 18.1%. So there is decent progress with respect to increase in the minority participation, but the nagging issue is how do we bring up the participation of women in registered apprenticeship programs in this state?
 The active registration figures do not even address a more daunting challenge, and this is why the mandatory apprenticeship requirements are important. We did a study where we took a four-year period, 2006 to 2010, and to give us a full cohort, the average apprenticeship program lasts four years. We wanted to see what happened with completion rates over the course of four years.
 In focusing on that four-year period between 2006 and 2010, only 21.5% of all African American apprentices who entered an apprenticeship program completed, and only 38% of all women who entered an apprenticeship program completed and become journey workers.
 In other words, we lost almost 80 percent of the African American apprentices who made that investment and 62 percent of the female apprentices who started during that four-year period. In contrast, during the same period, the average completion rate for Caucasian male apprentices was 54.5 percent. African American apprentices are much more likely to exit their programs during their first six months of their apprenticeship
 23% of them during that study period exited during the first six months, and 32% of all women, while only 12% of the white males who entered their programs exited. We can get people in. We are having a problem getting women and people of color to complete their programs. Yes.
 To update those figures for fiscal year 2015, the numbers are amazingly similar. Fifty-two percent of all white males completed their programs, while women completed at a 30 percent rate. And let's see, all protected class minority groups had a 44 percent completion rate.
 Our study has determined that there are three basic reasons as to why there's such a high loss rate for women and minority apprentices, but I really want to focus on one that directly goes back to the mandatory apprenticeship utilization requirement. We know statistically that women and people of color face longer periods of unemployment between their apprenticeship assignments than white males,
 There are a variety of reasons for that. They don't have the same informal network to stay employed. But the bottom line is for minority and female apprentices, working a full-time minimum wage job is preferable to the wage and job instability of participating in an apprenticeship program and not knowing when you will work again. So they leave.
 Public contracting requirements that mandate the use of registered apprenticeship and establish workforce diversity goals can help get more underrepresented workers through their apprenticeship program. It generates demand for those workers, and as you could see from the numbers that were discussed earlier, particularly with respect to Interstate and Kelly Butte, it works. When you tell contractors this is what we want to see, they perform.
 The city should be applauded for its efforts dating back to 1996 when the Workforce Training and Hiring Program was first implemented. We know that mandatory apprenticeship requirements with aspirational utilization goals for women and people of color result in greater opportunity. Number one, there is a demand for new apprentices, and that's where you're going to get more female and minority apprentices, by bringing them in new. And it also creates a greater demand for them to continue to work.
 The two CBA projects that were discussed today, Kelly Butte and Interstate, both produced female and minority participation rates that are substantially higher than our overall participation rates for women and people of color in this state.
 It has a dramatic difference when you're talking about the difference between 6.3% female participation and 18%, I believe, on interstate. I think on the two projects collectively, the average was about 46% minority participation, and we have a statewide average of 18%. These projects drive the numbers to create more opportunity for women and people of color. The causal relationship...
 If a public owner, and I think these type of strategies should apply to all public owners, if a public owner can actively promote and encourage its vendors to hire a diverse workforce, more responsible contractors and their affiliated apprenticeship programs will deliver. And that's not a union issue or a non-union issue. It's a performance issue.
 The other thing I wanted to briefly speak about is the issue of pre-apprenticeship programs. And I heard a couple of things regarding pre-apprenticeship programs. I want to talk briefly to some of the other strategies we engage in. We have a contractual relationship with ODOT where we have about $2 million per biennium to provide supportive services, recruitment, and outreach targeted for women, people of color, and disadvantaged communities.
 when I buy a spot in a pre-apprenticeship program with our ODOT dollars. I'm happy when I see that person who might have come in and their first job was a highway job, but then I find out they're working a city of Portland job. I'm happy. I know that another thing we do with our supportive services dollars is we buy tools, equipment. We help with child care. I know when I get a request from an apprentice,
 who says, I need help with childcare so I can go to work. And I say, well, you want ODOT dollars to do that. What job are you working? I'm working a city of Portland job on vertical construction.
 I don't have a problem with that. They're working in the trades. They're working as a carpenter or a laborer or an operator, and they can be building a building for the city of Portland one day, and six months later they can be on a highway job. We need a unified approach leveraging as much funding as we can to support pre-apprenticeship, and I truly believe the 1% set-aside is one way to build on that continued support for pre-apprenticeship.
 In closing, some progress, some progress has been made in addressing the historic underutilization of women and people of color in the trades. Utilization requirements, aspirational goals, pre-apprenticeship programs, and technical assistance to contractors, as the prior panelists spoke about, have been essential parts of this progress, and the city should continue its leadership in these areas. Thank you very much. Thank you. Sir, I'm sorry that...
 Nature called, and I wasn't here when you began your presentation, but I just want to put a marker down. The comment you made about a unified approach, so we don't have a series of one-offs, but that there is a progression and we can knit together contracting opportunities, I believe is the next big thing we need to look at, and not just locally but regionally.
 And not just, obviously, city projects, but state projects and Metro and others. And I think if we can work collaboratively towards that idea that you start here, but you continue to go, and it's not just, you know, your job ends here and you're unemployed and you have another thing. And by the way, I think, Ray, the big opportunity we're going to have in this area comes with Superfund.
 because we have a 10-year horizon, and we can start looking at long-term job training, long-term skill development. But that idea, and I think it's been alluded to by OMF and by procurement, of knitting this system together with our partners, I think is a big idea that's come out of this discussion, and I think we have to take a good hard look at it. So thank you.
 Mr. Sims, thank you very much. You just gave us another independent assessment of how this has all worked. And I suspect that where we're going to end up at the end of today or in the future is a work session to look at what way forward. There has been lots of different advice. I hope that the Commissioner of Bratavacchian will allow you, and if you'll be willing to come back for that to help,
 craft whatever the next iteration of this process is. So thank you very much. Did you submit your testimony in writing? I did not. If you would please. It would be most helpful if you would. Thank you. Mr. Espana. Yes, thank you. Ray Espana with NAAF. It's a blessing to be with you today as it is always. I am going to try to be succinct and hopefully on point.
 And I'm asking you to listen to my words with your heart, with your mind, with your spirit, as you kind of try to manage a lot of information and a lot of passion and stuff as you come to know it. And I was thinking about what I would be saying to you today, addressing friends. And I thought about Commissioner Novick and I.
 participated in a panel at PCC, and I think it was sponsored by labor at the time. But it's 2007 as things begin to crash and unemployed people and what are we going to do and stuff. And so I participated, got to meet this young man. And the messages that I was hearing, the stories, the concerns, the fear, all that stuff of –
 Being unemployed, or how do we get to this next thing, is things I hear union, non-union, it's reality. And so that began the work for me to contribute to a coalition of labor and community to address a common goal of putting people to work and creating the housing and being healthy and watching our children grow up.
 And I think there is no disagreement about that, right? And so let me begin to say that I want to, again, express my gratitude for City Council in 2012 for passing the original ordinance. It was...
 I heard about the passing of the ordinance while I was in a hospital bed in Seattle, recovering from a health issue, and I'll just leave it at that. But I couldn't have been more proud of the folks that presented the idea, had worked for years on that idea, that I hope that was responsive to the enlightened, excited leadership of the opportunity, right?
 And so to that end, I just have complete gratitude for the leadership that created that opportunity. And I'm here to help celebrate what I think have been phenomenal results and the performance of that effort. You've heard about the LMCOC, I'm not sure the... That's right. Yeah, but friends who have spent time to make it work. Right.
 And I think, you know, I just want to recognize and I respect the effort by all those that participated in achieving significant results. And I think it did one thing. And we're going to be talking about it. You're going to be talking about it. It, in the community, I believe, created and fosters the idea of hope for people. A path, a way, a connection, an opportunity by any door.
 Whether it be on MLK and Ainsworth, to wherever you go, there's a way to get to what you need. But, however, I'm also kind of very confused and disappointed, frankly, with what I identify, this is me personally as I look at you, is I identify as the cities, and I use that blankly, the city,
 not personal, as the city's lack of true equity understanding and awareness. I think there is a missing piece or something. I'm not sure. I'm totally frustrated about this. I believe that equity has a clarity of purpose, that it's a focused, intentional series of actions,
 It's built on guiding principles, simple principles that I would hope we agree on, on principles of inclusion, recognition and appreciation of community, all the stakeholders that fill this room, the community partnerships and coalitions that have come and formed.
 That's who's out here supporting or having their eyes on and fill this room who are going to give you a slice of the truth. We all tell our truth in some ways. But equally important, I think, with equity is now the challenge before any advocates on equity, and that is the accountability for achieving not aspirational goals but achieving real results. I'm pleased the commissioner talks about, you know, the buck stops with him and he's –
 on your behalf that you're taking and rising the expectations, and I think that needs to get translated and maybe translated in the part of the training of city staff to understand completely what that means. Because I think there's an information and learning or competency gap because the concern I hear in other tables is the lack of progress on closing gaps of equity or inequities.
 The coalition, the work that we do, has been very clear on the social economic disparities in our community. Very clear. The data case has been made of public policy failure in this regard. And so we need to move forward with looking at the inclusions. And any attempt to frame moving forward without community, I believe, is doomed from the start. Right? So there must be clarity of message here.
 to me, and you can only speak to me, Nick, Commissioner Fish, that when you say that you're raising the expectations and you can be personally or administratively, you're the leader in some regard, I believe your truth. And I hold you personally responsible, knowing that you may not be at any of the meetings that will happen somewhere else. So somehow your personal commitment and your commitment
 your belief has got to be translated. And I think it's a challenge by any of you who want a more socially just community to translate good intentions and policy into practice. So when you continually see reports that show the historic inequities on contracting, on participation of minority contractors, when have you asked why?
 When was the last time you asked why? We keep on seeing results saying somehow we keep on getting the same old shitty results. And we don't get it. It can't, it's got to be beyond us. No. The CBA effort proved that performance, if outlined, can be achieved, can be met, and that is the owners of projects need to be clear and set those expectations. That was...
 Those, I hate the military, those marching orders to staff, to implement those practices, to change, the resistance to change is embedded in the city hall structure or in your other building. The equity is a reform agenda. It's a change agenda. And how long do you intend to wait? Don't ask me to wait. Don't ask me to wait.
 Right? And that's part of the message that I have a little bit of trouble with today. And I'll, I'm sorry, Tony, let me just kind of wrap this thing up here. So I'm not completely sure what actions of any you're going to be taking today. I would hope that you hear...
 the truth that many need to speak. I looked at what I would call a staff report to frame this kind of session, and I found the staff report deficient. Deficient in giving you clear direction that was completely quite thought through. And I don't want to throw the rider under the bus. I'm just saying I looked at something that was utilized
 to kind of suggest let's move forward. And what was missing clearly there for me was the role of stakeholders and community, not recognizing and integrating a sense of accountability. And I think the last thing I think you would ask me is that I guess I recognize the lack of good faith, goodwill in this matter, and that really concerns me.
 If we're not being invited to meetings, our agenda is being this. And so I think it would be a tragedy to move forward if it remains unclear and unsupported, as you consider...
 your next actions. And let me just close by saying that I'm not going to talk about other points to try to reinforce my point. I'm just saying that I think I understand what the challenge is on your behalf. I don't sit on that side of the table. I think the challenge is clear, and clearly the decision is yours. Thank you very much. Thank you. Tony?
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hale, City Council. My name is Tony Jones. I'm the Executive Director of Metropolitan Contractor Improvement Partnership. Real quickly, we're a business center for contractors. We have a plan center. We provide monthly workshops, and we do one-on-one coaching and counseling. We were founded by NAMAC in Oregon in 2008, and I've been the Executive Director since then.
 I reviewed the reports and the surrounding supporting documentation, evaluating the CBA services on Kelly Butte and Interstate, and I want to discuss the following. I mean, I want to discuss some recommendations and revisions to the model, why I believe a broader model is needed. I also want to talk about technical assistance because that's what I do every day and technical assistance costs. I want to talk a little bit about union investment and improved practices in relationships with unions, and then just close quickly with a couple of recommendations.
 I believe that a broader model is needed, and I'm going to reiterate for a second, just to remind you, of where the city is with regard to contracting with minorities and women. As you know, from the 2014 data, the city awarded $76.3 million in prime contracts. Ninety-five percent of those dollars went to white male contractors. Only five percent of all prime contracts were awarded to minority women firms.
 So, despite, you know, the successes and even some of the challenges with the CBA or other CMGC projects, overall, the city's track record, you've got a long way to go. So, you have to have a broader model. Models where you're doing one-offs or one project here or there is not going to get you to the goal that you need to accomplish.
 The city lags on its goals. And I also think that you need a two-pronged strategy for capacity building, project-based assistance, and you also need assistance in building the pipeline. And I do want to kind of respond to some comments in the report about technical assistance and technical assistance costs. One of the things I want to point out as a technical assistance provider is that when we work with minority contractors, when folks come through our door –
 They don't automatically say, I want to work on a city project. They don't know where our funds come from. They don't know what restrictions we have on our funds. What they do know is that I need help with my business. How do I write a business plan? I have a problem with a change order. I'm not getting paid.
 How do I get started? How do I solve these certain business issues do I have? I want to partner with another contractor to do work. How do I do that? They don't necessarily know where we get our money from, but they know that they want this type of assistance on their project. We view our role at MCIP as an organization that is really trying to build that pipeline of contractors that are going to be working on city projects and other projects and really helping that owner meet the vision.
 If they really want to do residential projects, I support their vision because that's their vision. It's their company. It's what they're passionate about and what they want to do. So I really support the city really evaluating it as it provides technical assistance. Project-based technical assistance is absolutely needed as you're working on specific projects to make sure you accomplish your goals.
 But to get there, we have to continue to develop a pool of contractors that's available. And the same thing happened on the workforce side. So when I read the report and had comments about, well, so many dollars went to contractors that didn't work on the project, my feedback is the challenge is that's part of the real world of contracting. Only so many of those contractors are going to get on a project. But some of them may want to have continued interest in working with the city and want to know, how do I get there? I think...
 Tony, without going into any depth on that, I'm going to say this as discreetly as I can. The one challenge, and I just want us to keep this in mind, is that these were both pilot projects funded with ratepayer dollars. Well, when I'm talking, yeah. You don't have to – you don't have to –
 we don't have to uh debate that point i'm just saying i'm just saying that that um we have a particular burden of showing that when we use ratepayer dollars the benefits accrue to the project we have more latitude with general fund dollars one of the things that i've been thinking about is
 apropos of your point, is substituting out general fund dollars for other dollars, color of money. But I'm just saying we are a little more limited in what we can do with ratepayer dollars, and we can't quite be as broad in our application. Well, I'm looking at a broader strategy, Commissioner Fish, because I'm looking at the overall goal and helping us at least share my ideas in concert with others' ideas.
 how collectively we can accomplish the goal. So overall, bottom line, it's not about the percentages, but putting the businesses to work, putting the workers to work. And that's when folks come in our office, like I said, they're
 That's not in the back of their mind about rate paying their dollars. I hear you. No, no. And I know since we're friends, you don't want me getting sued. I'm just saying that it's just a detail. Yeah, I understand. I'm just asking you to keep color of money. No, I, yeah. So I'm just saying we should try to find other ways and be creative.
 Real quickly, I do want to comment on, because I was slightly concerned, even though we had a small contract in the project, we were held accountable, even though we had like a $5,000 contract in that project. We were held accountable. There were goals set on what we were supposed to do as a service provider to help that small business move along. We had one small business we did not move along with because it didn't work out. We had one small business that did. And there was accountability held to us.
 to us in providing the technical assistance. And I really think that that's really an important message because there's always a concern about, like you said, are we making an impactful investment? And I do have a concern about how we look at and address programs that serve communities of color. If you have an overall project that was under budget,
 I'm not saying you should never look at the efficiencies, but if the overall project is under budget, to me, there's an overall success. I'm not saying you never look for improvement, but sometimes I get concerned as a leader of color of how we look at investments in communities of color to help them grow when they have had this disadvantage for numbers of years. I'm not saying just give out money, but I'm just saying we should just consider that and look carefully at how we're making investments and recognize...
 We do have to invest to help grow and get to the scale so we can continue to work on your opportunities.
 One of the things I want to talk about is more broader, not necessarily specifically on the project, but sort of investment by signatory trades. In this particular endeavor, I know that they put a lot of volunteer time on the table. I know that they also invest a lot of dollars probably through their own respective programs to help get their apprentices into the program,
 trained up and what have you. But we all know that they do have resources. They are fairly strong organizations. And talking about creativity, are there ways that we can partner with these organizations to bring more dollars to help
 build a capacity of not only the contractors, but as well as the workforce, where we could have maybe some unrestricted dollars to be creative and do some things that we've been trying to do to help get more minority workers and more minority contractors participating. The other comment I do want to share, which is one of my biggest concerns, is also that small
 Non-signatory contractors do a number of times struggle in working with signatory trades.
 and becoming signatory. And there was a challenge on the project with a contractor that did become signatory, but he has felt, and this is his own words, sharing with me in office, is that, you know, after that, he feels like he's continued to get pressure from the signatory trades to continue to be signatory even though he, you know,
 wasn't sure he wanted to continue. So I think we need to just improve how we engage with those businesses because we do want to have businesses feel like they can partner with signatory trades and go forward, go forward, go forward. Some of the recommendations I make is that I do think that we really need to ratchet up
 this type of effort. We do need to ratchet up a model that, frankly, not just looks at one project, but a series of projects, and how can we use that series of projects to accomplish some of the goals that we want to set overall, not just on individual projects. And it does include all the stakeholders that I think we've involved, and they need to continue. But I do think it needs to be a broader
 broader, larger effort. And I do think that we need to consider whether firms need to have any type of signature, be signatory to an agreement at all that's connected to the trades.
 I have no problem with the trades actively participating, but some of the small businesses we work with were very concerned about – that's what frightened them is that, oh, I'm signing with the union, whether it's true or not. So can we consider a way that a partnership that we can really coach firms versus them signing to and signing on to an agreement?
 But I also think that there's a quick list of things. We need to develop the contracting and workforce goals based on the projects that we think might best fit minority women workers and contractors.
 We also need to develop an implementation strategy that continues goals, monitoring and accountability. We need to set aside financial resources to increase the pool of contractors and workers. And like I said earlier, we need to have dollars that work with firms specifically on projects and ways that we can continue to build a pool.
 And we want to continue to partner with the unions to collaborate so that we can market their services and how they can benefit contractors and workers, and where small contractors don't feel like sometimes they're being penalized for being in some type of relationship with the trades. Well, Tony, my one takeaway from your testimony is that this is going to take a number of work sessions that I will set up with Mr. Fritz, because –
 While there's a number of things that have been said today that I fundamentally disagree with, the positive feature of this forum is that people are pitching really good ideas and also getting to what we all care about, which is results. And I sometimes, in my job, I sometimes think we end up arguing over the wrong things. Maybe that's what my wife says to me sometimes. That's why it echoes in my head.
 But I don't think we disagree about goals, and I have heard some spectacular suggestions today on things. And one thing I didn't hear from you but that I hear consistently from folks that you work with is access to capital and bonding. And I think the challenge of government is not to look at these things in these little boxes. It's, as you said, sort of look holistically. Right.
 And that might be the gift this forum is giving us, is to look more broadly at how we get to those goals and figure out what the array of tools we need to help people be successful. So I appreciate your testimony. Now, Mayor, we are halfway through this forum. We're going to let people take a bathroom break. But no, we're now going to move to the public comment phase. And then, Don, thank you, sir.
 our distinguished director of equity is going to stick around and give us a closing statement. Well, yeah, let me actually do a process check here because I think we're actually going to have a quorum problem.
 So – Carla, how many people signed up? Like 44. So they may not all still be here. Raise your hand if you still want to testify. People that still want to speak? All right. We might manage it. We're going to lose one of our members at 5 and another at 5.30. So another option, in addition to trying to hear as many people while we still have a quorum as possible, is to save further discussion with staff, including our Office of Equity and Human Rights Director and maybe others involved.
 until we continue the hearing because we might need to do that, and I've got a time available on the 28th if we want to. I will second that, Mayor, and I also think it's important that we restate that there is no substantive action we're taking on any changes to policy or whatever. This is a forum with decisions to be made about how we begin to process this information. Right. But to the concern that some people have had that we're on the precipice of doing something, that's not true.
 Why don't we excuse Dante and just go to public testimony? Dante is free to stay and listen, but I think we'll save your analysis until we continue because I have a date and time of the 28th at time certain at 2.45 p.m. Dante, how long was your presentation? A minute.
 Well, let's see, Mayor. Maybe if everyone stay within two minutes. All right, let's see if we can be brief and maybe give Dante a chance at bat while we're still here. Well, I actually have several questions for other staff as well. Okay, all right. Well, let's proceed into testimony and see how we do. But we are going to lose a quarter to 5.30.
 to show solidarity with one point of view, I just restate that we'd rather hear it clearly stated once than repeated 20 times. And if there are 19 people that agree with you and there are people willing to give up their slot, you could just acknowledge that there's other people sharing that view. But the sheer weight of the same testimony doesn't make as much of an impression as the quality of one testimony. Okay. Onward. The first three are Maggie Tallmadge, Hayes Witt, and Bev Logan.
 And they'll be followed by Ngenge Harmon Johnson, Iris Gandila, and Isis Harris. If you're hearing your name, Ngenge, come on up. I think some of those other folks aren't still here. If you're upstairs and you're on the list, you might want to come down. I think a lot of people have left, so come on down if you have signed up there. All right, let's take these two community leaders. James, come up. We don't want to— Appreciate it. Maggie, go ahead. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commission. Mayor Hales. First, I'd like to offer my support to the many others, John Gardner, Casey Bernard, Kelly Haynes in the audience, Maurice Rahming, Ray Espana, who have offered testimony against the watered-down program and document that the city has in front of it. There's a better way.
 The CBA pilot Water Bureau projects delivered dramatically historic results, illustrating the potential positive outcomes when this tool is applied to large capital projects.
 Second, I'd like to direct my testimony not only to this council, but to the city staff working on this project. I want to ask you to take the time to see things through my eyes, through the eyes of the members of the Coalition of Communities of Color, and many of Portland's people of color. When I walk through the central city on my way to the CCC's office in Old Towne,
 I pass by many of our downtown restaurants, and when I look into the windows, I almost always see a sea of white faces. Portland's people of color, we're not there. We're a third of the population, but we're not there.
 If I start to make my way across the river, and I walk by the many new buildings that are changing our city's skyline and image, and I look at the signs on the construction fences, I see the names of construction companies, general contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, and I see the names of professional services firms, architects, engineers, designers, businesses that are building multi-generational wealth and reputations in our construction boom.
 Portland's people of color, we're not there. And often my work takes me to the many institutions that lead our city. Our philanthropies, our financial institutions, our health systems, our development sector, our universities, our governments. I see CEOs, bureau directors, decision makers. We're not there.
 So staff and council, when you hear testimony today about the shortcomings of the program, when you listen closely to our guidance about why and how the program needs to be changed, what we're really telling you is that we've looked at the program closely, and we're not there. So the main issues with the document proposed...
 And I'll defer to a lot of the experts in the room to – MS. Excuse me. Could I just suggest that you send it in writing since we're not going to be taking action today? MS. Thank you. MS. And are you representing somebody at this – MS. I am representing the Coalition of Communities of Color. MS. Thank you. MS. Thank you. MR. Maggie, if there's a watered-down version of something that you're testifying about, could you also include that in your testimony? MS. Yes. MR.
 I think it's late now. My name is James Posey, Mr. Mayor and other city commissioners. Listen, I just want to give a little different take here because, you know, I've been around this for quite a while myself. And we have an example of success, and that's TriMet. I wish I could give you – I mean, you're looking for ideas. Why reinvent the wheel? No CBA, no.
 They're touted across the nation. They have a national reputation. Why are we going hither and there, et cetera? Let me just tell you what Fred Hansen said to, I think, his staff. I wasn't there, but I heard, hey, you guys,
 I'm paying you good money to get this job done, both brick and mortar and diversity. Come back to me with solutions. I want it done. No excuses. No tolerance. Now, what really underlines this whole thing, and you know it, all of you sitting on this board, the elephant in the room is racism and discrimination. That's the truth.
 And unless we speak that and get it out into the atmosphere, we're not going to solve this problem. I don't care how long or whatever we talk about. It's racism and discrimination. No tolerance. We're looking in North Carolina where you've got riots. You know, I'm around long enough to know the racism and the stuff that happened in Watts and all that. You know, I'm that old.
 And really, it was about the Warner, the reports that were back then, the absence of opportunity and communities of color. I suggest to you, Mr. Mayor, and you, Mr. Commissioner, since you know the leadership responsibility on this thing, you could say no tolerance for racism and discrimination. When the unions come to the table and tell you all these stories and this and that,
 Where is your diversity? You want to work for the City of Portland. You want to use taxpayers' dollars. Where is your diversity? Let's see how many journey people you have in your craft and your organization. Let's see what you can do about making diversity work. The onus of control and responsibility should be placed on those who are seeking an opportunity with the city trying to take my taxpayers' dollars.
 And that also applies to the contractor, both minority and general. You know, when I read in the paper about Hoffman taking that $500,000 and what's his name? I forget his name. Brink said something about, well, we should get that dollar. It's just hard work. Well, I don't want to start cussing here. But at the end of the day, they got me.
 It was their responsibility to have diversity in their program, and we're paying them to do that. And I listened to John Gardner, consummate bureaucrat, Mr. Sims. They've been around for years. These guys are over here wringing their hands about a community benefits program that really is the owner's responsibility for assuring that we have diversity, should rest with those coming to the table. Right?
 That's why I could never understand why you would approve a CBA without first asking those unions, what have you done? Why should you allow a CBA? Your workforce for the last 40 years have been in absence of anybody of color.
 If we're talking about the diversity, look at the onus of control. Look at where the money is. Why don't you make the unions put together all the money for all these outreach programs? And I want to put Tony out of business. No offense, Tony. I want to put off. I think he agrees with that.
 Yeah, I want to put her out of business. We will know when we're making success when this young lady here, who I saw back in the day, is no longer in business because there will be enough responsibility shifted to the people who get the benefit to make this thing happen. That's really what I want to say to you all. There are a lot of other things. The regional idea is good. In fairness, we're running out of time. Could you put the rest in writing? Yeah, I will. But I want to commend you on the regional idea.
 Ask Ron Wyden. Ask the guy at TriMed. The whole concept of a regional approach to this thing needs to occur yesterday. Thank you. Thank you very much. We have the distinguished executive director of Urban League. You're on, Nkingi. Thank you. Hi there. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, I will be brief, and I would ask you to perhaps cast your gaze past the immediate subject at hand.
 I am here to both support what some of my counterparts have said from Constructing Hope and other organizations, including coalitions of communities of color, because there are partners in this work. But I want you to look past sort of the immediate report and some of the details that you've heard today and think about your jobs more broadly. Thank you.
 You ask us as community-based organizations to come to the table to work together with other organizations, with citizens in the community, and with city bureaus all the time. You see me here regularly and in other places doing this work because it's what you tell us is the way to reach the goals that we want to achieve because you as electeds cannot do it by yourself. And we, those groups who are not-for-profit organizations, come together and say, all right, we'll do it. We're signing up to do the work.
 And many times, folks and organizations like the Urban League, for example, who don't directly have a dog in this fight are at the tables. Maui, we're there. One of the first meetings I had when I took over as president of the Urban League 18 months ago was related to the CBA so that I could start to learn how this works and what the details are and who the bodies and the folks are. All right, we're here. We're partners. We're ready to learn and to work together because you ask us to, to reach the goals that we have together. Thank you.
 Now we're here before you today telling you that we've done the work and done the process and done our part, but the report that's in front of you doesn't meet the standard that we've set for ourselves together. So look past that for a moment and think about all the work you do related to getting kids summer jobs, all the talk that's happened in this chamber and elsewhere with your constituents related to housing stability and folks being able to afford a heap of roof over their homes. Look past a little bit further and think about what we're trying to do with graduation rates in this town
 the way we're trying to improve health equity for everyone. Now come back and think about what we've all been talking about today. All of those things are very much connected, and you can't think about them separately. So when we're telling you that this doesn't meet the muster, it's not just in the silo of the immediate data. It's considering the fact that black folks in this town and black men in north and northeast Portland still have unemployment levels in the double digits. That's not true of anyone else.
 It's directly connected to some of the failures by folks who are making big bucks, building big projects in this town, and aren't hiring the people who have lived in those communities for a very long time. And you have the opportunity and the responsibility to do something about it. The folks who work hands on the ground every day, my organization and others, are telling you that what's in front of you doesn't get us there. So my request is to you is you consider our words.
 and think again about what's been presented to you by city staff and others, and know that we come to you in good faith, prepared to continue working with you, but you've got to reach back towards us. You've got to let us know that when we put in this work for years and years and months and months, and we do it for free or for, you know, on the cheap, that we've got to know that you're similarly investing and will believe us when we tell you what we have found in the end.
 That's my request to counsel today. Thank you for your time. Could you just put your name in the record, please? Put your name in the record. I will. Thank you for doing that for me, Mr. Mayor, but I am Nikenge Harmon-Johnson, President and CEO of the Urban League of Portland. Ma'am, you're on. I'm not sure if I follow the proper protocol. I heard you call my name. I'm Isis Harris. I'm currently an apprentice with the IBW and a former graduate of the Constructing Health Program.
 And today I came here to talk about the merits of the Constructing Hope Program, what it's done for me, but also to speak on some of the struggles that people may face in going through apprenticeship and getting into, or excuse me, even finding the road to pre-apprenticeship to get into apprenticeship. I went to prison in 2005. I was released in 2011. When I was released from prison, I went to school, but in trying to find employment, I faced hardship.
 several different obstacles. Shortly after getting out of prison, one of my children was incarcerated. Shortly before finding Constructing Hope, one of my children was shot in the face.
 There were different things that I had to deal with as far as just staying on my path, as far as staying focused on what I wanted to do, but Constructing Hope was instrumental in helping me to not only chisel down my goals and to find out what it was that I needed to do in order to strengthen myself from within, in order to make sure that everything that I was doing around me reflected what I actually wanted in my life, but they gave me a feeling of confidence. They gave me...
 the tools that I needed to go into the workforce. They helped me to create a vision for my life that helped me to establish goals that were realistic. And as I continued on my path and I started to achieve those goals, I was able to basically position myself with the IBEW in an apprenticeship. I started off as a material handler.
 I've been in the apprenticeship for a year now, and I can attest to some of the challenges on the work site as well, as going to a work site and seeing no one who looks like you. I'm currently on a work site. I'm the only black woman, and there's two women on the site. It is challenging at times to feel inclusive or to feel included in different situations because the parallels are so different.
 people that I work with who are journeymen who are the same age as my oldest son. So it's there's these different chasms that you have to kind of jump in order to continue to push yourself forward and to know that okay I have all these obstacles that I've made it past but just getting into apprenticeship it doesn't solve everything.
 but it does give you the pathway in order to make your life better. And again, the foundation for me being where I am today is Constructing Hope because even as I went through pre-apprenticeship in college,
 I had to worry about housing. I had to worry about transportation. And they helped me with some of those issues. The administrative assistant linked me in with her husband, who got me a part-time job while I was going there. Those are the things that they do. They go above and beyond to ensure that you can be successful in the goals that you set forth.
 in getting into the apprenticeship. The apprenticeship, again, it wasn't an immediate fix, but it did help me to see forward. It helped me to have a vision on what my life would look like, because you can pretty much measure it out. As long as you continue to work throughout your apprenticeship, you can measure out what your financial goals will be, what your stability will look like, or what type of things you can attain for your family to have that feeling of security.
 Constructing Hope has always been there for me, regardless of whatever I'm going through. I can always call Pat Daniels, and I can tell her what I'm going through, and she'll direct me to the right resources, anything that I may need in order to get to that next step. And I'm proud today to say that I'm a proud IBEW member, and also recently elected to vice president of the Electrical Workers Minority Caucus. It has been .
 I do believe that the integrity that has been instilled in me, not only from Constructing Hope, but also being a member of the IBEW, has helped me to basically see inside of myself as far as what power I do have, what personal power I do have, but also
 has encouraged me to reach out. I went back into the prison in August and spoke to the woman there about the opportunities they have as long as they stay focused on what they really want out of life and trying to avoid the pitfalls in life, to let them know that there's opportunities out there for them to get into the workforce, to get into the trades and be self-sufficient.
 I've also contacted the alternative school that I went to. I'm going back to speak to the students there to let them know also that it doesn't matter about what you've been through. It's about what you want to make out of your life. It's about how you want to apply your own personal power to make sure that your goals get attained. I've been lucky in the, I've been lucky because I have mentors. But those are mentors that I reached out for within the IBW Constructing Hope or in the community.
 Harris, thank you so much for staying as late as you have to give us, because you've just completely outlined why this program is so important and why it needs to be available for you and for the people that you're now mentoring. So thank you so much for staying. No problem. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Keep up your leadership, please, Ms. Harris. Thank you. Melina Wisner, Michael A. Birch, Nate Stokes, Vicky Guevara.
 Oh, Iris. Sorry. Thank you. Iris, thank you. Let's see who's here. Those people I've called, come on up. Charles Potter. All right, let's take these three, and then we'll see where we are. Billy, are you on the list? Okay. Why don't you come up? Come on up. Take the fourth seat. We know what kind of day you've had. Go ahead. We know what kind of evening you have scheduled. All right. Ma'am, why don't you go first?
 Thank you for allowing me to give you my testimony. Also, I first want to really say thank you. I'm really happy to hear that there's so many organizations in this room that have my back. Okay. My name is Iris Gandaria, and I'm a fifth-term welder, steam fitter, apprentice with Local 290. Okay.
 and I really love my career and I really love my union. They pay me a really good living wage with benefits, vacation pay, and retirement.
 More importantly, when I'm done with this, I'll get to be a highly trained and skilled union hand, which I'm very proud of. Being a woman of color in the trades is complicated, and being in the trades is very competitive. Getting into a union is the first step, but staying in is even harder.
 to get the training I need to be successful. This is critical, but this is critical to my success. Most of my learning as an apprentice is done on the job with tools in my hand. And I can testify that PLAs are game changers for women and minorities to stay employed in the construction trades.
 Let's see, I want to add that without the help of organizations like Oregon Tradeswomen, which I'm a graduate of 2005, and PYB in 2002, I wouldn't be where I am today. Fast forward to 2014, I was lucky enough to land a really good job, best job, because of the Powell Butte Water Reservoir Project.
 I landed on a very unique job site. What made it so special and such a great experience, Will, was that it was really nice to see so many women on the job. Belling the crane, building scaffolding, building forms, laying in big bore pipe. It was really impressive. I can say that I had a hand in building that Kelly Butte Water Reservoir project.
 As a result, this is probably the best part for me, I had the opportunity to show my dedication of being a hard worker and my willingness to learn. I want to emphasize on how critical this one chance, this one opportunity really, really helped catapult my career. The contractor kept me on, and I was able to work with really talented people that taught me a lot about my craft, and I'm really grateful for that.
 I don't think I would have had that opportunity had it not been for this project labor agreement. Because I have to break, you know, so many perceptions and stereotypes. I don't often get to, I don't often get picked. But this time I did, and they liked me, and I liked them. That's great. Thank you so much for staying. I really appreciate it. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 I'm Nate Stokes with the Operating Engineers 701. I want to speak on the community at CBA. I was a project manager for a women-owned business at the time of the interstate renovation project.
 i saw the benefits on a subcontracting side and that and what we were held to the standards of getting the minority contractor and apprenticeships in there and and everything so i want to say that it works i witnessed it as a subcontractor for a woman-owned business and i'm speaking on behalf of the operating engineers um uh i originally um
 I urge you not to accept the report written, but instead we advocate for the CBA that was used in the pilot programs. So mine was short and sweet. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Birch. Mayor, commissioners that are left, thank you for having us today. Excuse me. I've been sitting back there for a while.
 we began this particular effort over six years ago by inviting everyone in the community to help work on a plan to expand the diversity of the construction industry and workforce in the city we all live in some of those invited accepted the opportunity to work on an inclusive plan and overcame historical divisions to do so as mentioned earlier there wasn't a lot of trust in the room when we first sat down
 Others that were invited refused and attempted to derail the effort by attempting to make the work of the CBA and us against them, union versus non-union debate, and tore at the seams of the process that we had painstakingly put together. Much to my dismay, many of those same divisive people continue that line of argument today
 In spite of the historic progress for workforce and contracting diversity we made under the CBA pilots,
 Unions are a small part of the CBA community. We were only one of the many partners who agreed to work on a high road approach to the challenges of diversifying the construction industry and moving the city forward. We were invited to the table. We sat down. We offered to help. And we think we did a pretty good job along the way. I think the city should applaud itself for the work that came out of those two pilot projects. We are, again, only one of the partners in this effort.
 An important partner to be sure, but the CBA has proven there's room for everyone under this tent, union and nonunion. You've seen the data from the two Water Bureau projects. There was no nonunion contractors run off the job, prevented or discouraged from bidding. The majority of the MWDPE contractors that were awarded contracts were nonunion. And the workforce diversity results on Kelly Buten Interstate projects are historic.
 Yet certain voices who choose to divide rather than join in an effort that will lift up everyone in our community seem to carry a disproportionate weight when it comes to swaying certain decision makers. What's even more disturbing is that they seem to have help from high places.
 Certain city officials appear to be supportive of these divisive efforts, period. As the ECPC highlighted last week, the city's own tracking data clearly illustrates the poor performance of prior diversity efforts on the city's part. The data we've all seen is sobering and graphic. If this report on the CBA is an indication, it appears the city is willing to ignore its own results.
 I'd like to point out that these aren't just numbers on a page, but they're real people, people who have gone to work like Isis and others who have gone to work and have been prevented because of, you know, politics and other barriers from going on to other projects where there are hard goals and contractors who are willing to help us meet those. Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, I'm asking for leadership that unites rather than divides those seeking career opportunities in the trades.
 I'm asking for leadership that will refuse to return the city to the status quo. I'm asking you to vote no and refuse to accept the report and recommendations. Accepting this report and its recommendations as written will mean that you have turned your collective backs on the many to serve a few.
 Accepting this report will mean that divisive tactics for political gain have trumped the facts. Do the right thing for the many who look for your leadership. Thank you. Thank you. Myers. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Willie Myers. I'm the Executive Secretary-Treasurer of the Columbia Pacific Building Trades.
 I'm not going to go into too much detail on the Community Benefits Agreement. I think it was very well explained by John Gardner and the panel that was up here at that time. Community Benefit Agreements are vehicles for delivery of standards that our city sets. Okay.
 or any local government sets. And as usual, the men and women of the Columbia Pacific Bill and Trades are proud to deliver an on-time and under-budget set of projects for you. Our concern is that when this report, if passed, goes to any time we start setting policy at the city, if this is used in any way to set that policy –
 that we still consider to allow this vehicle as a community benefits agreement to deliver on future projects because it's a proven delivery vehicle. The community benefits plan is not a proven vehicle. It is a vehicle for delivery, but it's missing the engine, the tires, and most of the wheels.
 It's not going to get you to where you need to go. Most of the mechanics are gone out of the plan itself. The Community Benefits Agreement has proven that it can deliver. Willie, can I just ask you one question? Because I appreciate that you're... We're going to be having a lot more discussion. If I could, for one moment. The single difference between the CBP and the CBA is whether you're a signatory or not.
 Given your deep commitment to getting the outcomes, why does that matter to you? It's not just the signatory nature of it. It's also the meaningful oversight, the group of professionals in the room to identify and course-correct any deficiencies in this agreement. So if we had the same people in the room without a signatory, would you participate at the same level? You're not going to get the same people in the room without a signatory. And that's because? Because they don't have a vested interest in it.
 We don't have it. Let me just just this is the this is the point I just want to leave you with. Why do you have to have a signatory to have a vested interest in something that Michael Birch just said was a community interest?
 And if we're going to talk about something that Mr. Birch very eloquently said was something that we're all committed to, why do you need a signature? I'm saying that to you as my friend and as a colleague. Absolutely. I'll weigh in on that. There are two different responsibilities. There's a social responsibility and a signatory responsibility. I think I've explained this to you once before. When there is a signatory responsibility, it's going to outweigh the social responsibility. So if we have two projects right across the street from each other, let's call Edith Green one of those projects.
 and the Portland building the other project and we have a signatory relationship on the Edith Green project but we don't have a signature relationship on the Portland building the Portland building may suffer as as as a result of that because we have a signatory responsibility to deliver on those equity numbers okay well said thank you thank you all very much let's see if we can take a couple more people before we have to close here was there a Vicky Guevara or Charles Potter
 Dave Tishner, Ron Lee, Maurice Rahming. Maurice is here. Okay. Let's take these two folks and then we'll do a check-in on where we are because, again, we're going to have to continue this hearing. I understand that. We're going to get the last word in tonight's hearing. We'll talk about next steps after that. Go ahead, Maurice. Either one. Good evening, Mayor Hales. My name is Dave Tishner, 17-year staff member for the Laborers.
 I was fortunate enough to be tasked with actually manning the labor force for the laborers on those two projects. We not only met, but we exceeded all of the goals that were asked for. We have the ability as a signatory union, we had the ability to actually clarify the hub zones. We were able to get all the local people that were needed on those projects. And what I'm opposing in this report of yours is...
 is the fact that you said, you know, we do not want to have a signatory agreement as part of the recommendations of the panel. The signatory agreement, what people don't understand, the signatory agreement was an inclusive agreement, not an exclusive agreement. It covered both union and non-union workers, and they had language in there. It was carefully set up to be inclusive to all contractors, whether they were signatory or not.
 To my knowledge, there was nobody that was pressured to sign an agreement after a project, and I have no knowledge that was or wasn't. I just want to give you a few things, my experience, and what our program for females and minorities in apprenticeship is. Currently, the laborers, and I know Mr. Sims had some statistics on apprenticeship in Oregon, we are currently 50% female minority apprentices.
 we have a graduation rate of 78%. And I know for certain that my counterparts on the open shop side cannot meet those numbers or come even close to those numbers. And so the success of these projects was based on the fact that we utilized all of these resources we had. And I think the point that we're missing is
 And I'll just close with this, is that the CBA was the cause of the success, not in spite of the success. Thank you. Maurice? Well, thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, for actually hearing me. One of the things I'd like to say, and I see, or you guys I'm sure are hearing, there's like a lot of raw emotion.
 And that's mainly because we didn't actually, when Maui and the CBA partners got together, it became more like a family. I want to leave you with this. You heard of the different people that worked on the job sites. You heard of the community groups that were able to get people in pre-apprenticeship programs and then move them on to apprenticeship programs.
 This was all intentional and built in. This isn't in the report. This is just being able to connect and create that pipeline. And so what happened there, I believe, is that contractors, you heard contractors say how great it was. You heard the general contractor saying, this is, I'm used to checking the box off.
 And everyone knows the box game. You make whatever number you want and make it work. But here we felt like we were doing a big change, a big difference. We were excited about the process. We were excited about how we were getting community. We were extremely excited. So I want to leave you with, you guys did great work by adopting the CBA. Yeah.
 The reason why you have so much raw emotion is because people see something working. They want to see it continue. And so I hope that you guys look at the CBA, heard everything that you heard today, and realize you guys have a lot of support. I said this before. I said, I don't want to be the headache. I want to be the aspirin. I believe this is the aspirin if you listen in the room. People are excited about this.
 Let it continue. That's a great last word for this hearing. I just want to say, and we'll probably all have more comments when we return to this discussion, but I want to say this much. I've learned a lot this afternoon, and I want to appreciate the wonderful testimony that we've heard this afternoon. Really illuminating. On the other side of the ledger, I would say I've been in this room making decisions for the community in one capacity or another for 14 years, and I've never seen a stranger combination of celebration and frustration. Thank you.
 that this particular discussion is involved. And I'm still trying to figure it out, but I think I learned a bit today that will help me in that, and so I want to thank you all for testifying. And I thank you too. Could you just raise your hand if you're still waiting and were hoping to give testimony? So that's...
 So those folks should talk to Carla as you leave, please, and we'll make sure you're first when we return to this on the 28th at 245. I hope you can come then. If you can't come then, I hope you'll communicate with us by e-mail or some other means. But if you can come, we'll put you first on the list for testimony at that time. Any other comments? I want to echo what the mayor said. Maurice, actually, it wasn't our intent to save you for last, but I'm glad you were the perfect –
 last voice in this and I thank you for bringing this back to a very human scale. Thank you all very much. So we return for this week and we'll return to this at 2 45 p.m. on September 28th. Thank you. Wow.