We'll be here shortly. Why don't we go ahead and get started? Good afternoon. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council on September 28th, 2017. I can't believe September is almost gone. Susan, please call the roll.
 Saltzman? Udaly? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Wheeler? Here. So let's continue the hearing from September 7th and the 14th about early implementation of the post office site. Carla, if you could please read the first ordinance title. I'm sorry, Sue. I know who you are. Okay.
 Not a problem. Item 1080, amend the Central City Plan District to increase height and floor area ratio limits on the United States Postal Service site. Yes.
 Very good. This ordinance will allow Prosper Portland to move forward with the early implementation of the redevelopment plan for the United States Postal Service site, one of the most significant redevelopment sites in Portland's central city. The proposed changes are consistent with the Central City 2035 plan and the 2015 Broadway Corridor Framework plan.
 This is a project that's anticipated to bring approximately 700 units of affordable housing to the city, a high-density mix of employment, new city attractions, including expansion of the park blocks, which is very exciting, and signature connections between the Pearl District and the Old Town, Chinatown, and between the North Park Blocks and the Broadway Bridge.
 Sue, please call up the first people who have signed up on the list. Each person who signs up has two minutes to testify.
 No one signed up. Very good. That concludes our oral testimony on the U.S. Post Office Early Implementation Ordinance. The written record for this closes at 5 p.m. today. So if you're watching on TV and you feel short-changed, you have until 5 p.m. today to submit testimony. I don't know if counsel...
 Has other questions, I could invite Rachel and Sarah to come up if commissioners have additional questions they'd like to ask on this matter. Then this item is carried over to October 4th, 2 p.m., Times Certain, Portland City Hall. Again, October 4th, 2 p.m., Times Certain, Portland City Hall. Now we will go on to make a decision on the new Chinatown-Japantown historic... Oh, we can't make...
 Fortunately, that's a time certain. Oh. No. Yeah. You're right. We have to wait until 4. Okay. We're in recess until 4 p.m. Good job, Commissioner Haley. All right. This is... We are now back from our recess. This is the continuation of the September 28th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. The year is still 2017. We had a scintillating first item. Now we're on to the second item.
 The purpose of today's session is to make a decision on the new Chinatown-Japantown historic design guidelines. Sue, please read the ordinance. Item 1081, adopt the new Chinatown-Japantown historic district design guidelines. I would like to move to adopt the new Chinatown-Japantown historic design guidelines. Do I have a second? Second. Second.
 Commissioner Fritz was too fast for you, Commissioner Fish, today. And she calls the second. Please call the roll. Udality. Aye. Fritz? It's quite something that we're adopting guidelines for a district that was created in 1989. So I'm glad we finally got it done. Well done, team. Aye. Fish? I just want to comment as I vote aye that there is some tension.
 between the views of two of our distinguished commissions that provide advisory opinions as to whether their guidelines complement or somehow supersede those guidelines.
 that are in our zoning map or the comp plan to follow. And I think it's good to have that kind of healthy debate, but with all due respect, I think the ultimate decision will rest under our zoning map and our code in this council with advisory recommendations from anybody that has something to offer. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Thank you for everybody who's worked so hard on this. Aye, the ordinance is adopted. Thank you all. For those of you who are tracking the Central City 2035 plan development, the next council meeting on this topic will be held on Wednesday, October 18th at 2 p.m. Time certain Portland City Hall. Again, that's Wednesday, October 18th at 2 p.m. Time certain. We are adjourned. That's the strangest council I've seen in my life.