Good morning. Good morning. Hardesty, Udailey, Fritz, Fish, Wheeler. Good morning, Mayor. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings, so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications, to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that's said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping our fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. First up is communications. Carla, the first individual, please. Item 886, request of Fendi Germany to address council regarding concerns for public safety alongside community action initiatives. Good morning. Okay. Good morning, everyone. My name is Fendi Germany, and I wanted to start off by saying why I'm here. I'm obviously here to speak about public safety in relation to my life and the community that I grew up in. Sexual violence. What does public safety look like in relation to sexual violence? As a victim of sexual violence, and not the only victim in my community, I see many people in my community that are victims of sexual violence. And as I began this trail of liberation for myself, in trying to investigate and trying to uncover what what liberation for sexual violence looks like, I realized that the judicial system and the system that is put in place for us to report these violences is not supporting us. In June of 2018, I attempted to report my abuser, one of the abusers who had abused me for most of my life. What it comes to find out, what I came to find out is that one, the officer who initially took my report, the officer who initially showed up when I tried to report, did not take the report. Second, when I had to file a complaint against this officer because I had to document this, what I was told to do is then follow up again on my own to call an officer. And for me, I've been doing a lot of research and for me to now see that the sexual crimes unit's website says that it's victim centered, I don't really believe that it's victim centered when we are encouraging our victims to then again reach out to officers who take the report. I believe that individuals who are trauma informed need to be showing up to individuals who are taking, who want to report these violences. What has become very interesting for me as I began this process is realizing that, as I said earlier, myself is not only a victim of sexual violence, but many of the people that are going through this system, that are going to jail, that are having the effects of homelessness, are entering into sex. prostitution, sex workers prostitution, are engaging with law enforcement agencies. And that, for me, is concerning when the oversight, I feel like the oversight is not really centered around victim. I feel like the oversight is centered around agency and what the production looks like. Over the course of... The last year when I initially began to enter this process, I left a letter in your office, Tara Wheeler, and expressed my concerns for some of the sexual violence that I felt at the time needed to be expressed or needed to be talked about. I received an email from your executive assistant, I believe, and it mentioned how you wanted to know what I wanted to speak about. In relation to my trauma and trauma in forms, I think that that email, with the memo that I had left, I thought that it had explained what I wanted to speak about. My concerns overall are sexual violence in relation to public safety. What does that look like? How are we going to help people who are victims of sexual violence? So, thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it. First of all, thank you for telling your story. Number two, thank you for having the courage to come forward. And number three, I want to help however I can. So if there's a way by way of follow-up that I can be supportive, will you please let me know? It was Aja Blair who reached out to you. And if there's a way I can personally be supportive and helpful, I want to be. Okay, well, and so should I just follow up with her again or follow up her from that? Yes, that's the easiest way. Okay, the follow-up is going to look like for me, I guess we'll talk about that. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you so much for being here today. My question is, you said the first officer who showed up did not take a report. Mm-hmm. Numerous things happened. So I have went through a process and it's become an investigative process. What originally happened is, this is private information but it's also public information because when I entered the sexual crimes investigation for the crimes that I was related to, they wanted me to sign my rights away prior to me even seeing the police report. I just want to be careful that we're not here as a hearing body. Well, I think that that can also be complicated. We have the chief of police right here. We have many different commissions right here. I think these are some of the issues that need to be discussed. So I want to respect your right to privacy, but I also want to know what happened when you called the police. So would you be kind enough to – my office is right down the hall – let's sit down and talk and because I want to hear the whole story because you know in three minutes and with trauma right tell me the whole story I want to hear the story so that I can figure out how I can be supportive of where you're trying to go okay Okay, you mentioned something but it kind of went over my head. That's okay. Thank you so much for being here. We greatly appreciate it and I do want to respect the fact that this is not an issue that we necessarily want to do in public at the moment. But let me get more info. Yes, more info public at the moment. I think that's an interesting concept to think about when you think about community policing. I just want to respect the fact that you had three minutes today, and I know you didn't say everything you want to say. And so let's create a forum where you can say what you need to say, and then we can figure out what next steps are. Okay? Thank you. Thanks for being here. Thank you for coming in. We appreciate it. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 887, a request of Cicely Johns to address council regarding danger of scooters on city sidewalks. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Good morning. Thank you for giving me this opportunity. I just want to speak about the dangers of e-scooter riders on the sidewalks. I moved to Portland seven years ago. I love it here. I moved here because I saw I could walk everywhere, and I feel very safe in my neighborhood in the Pearl. But this all changed on June 11th. I was walking home from the grocery store carrying groceries, A e-scooter rider came around a corner on the sidewalk. He knocked me to the ground. He stopped for one minute and kind of said, I don't see what the problem is, and he went on. Three good Samaritans stopped, got me up off the sidewalk, got my groceries up. I was in such a daze, I almost walked into the street, and luckily one of the ladies stopped me. Anyway, I'm here to ask for effective enforcement of what I understand to be the rule that e-scooter riders are not to be riding on the sidewalks. I'm pleading with you. I almost was hit this morning when I was out walking my dog. So that's what I have to say. And since you're here, I'd like to ask the commissioner in charge of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I live and work downtown, and I have lots of interactions with people, particularly out-of-towners who rent the scooters. And I've had many conversations with people about, please stay off the sidewalks. Please wear a helmet. It's the law, and we care deeply about your safety. I will tell you that the reaction I get is mixed. It's mixed. And often is not particularly constructive. But my goal is not to lecture or to be a scold with people. My goal is to make it clear to people that we have a law, that scooters have to be on the road, that you have to have a helmet for safety reasons. Does the commissioner in charge have some advice for how we can – and improve communication with people using them so that people understand that it's not okay to be on sidewalks and to operate them without. And I can say it's not just a Portland thing. I was in Los Angeles and there are people on the sidewalks all over the place. And so it is a challenge, but it's also part of our burden to educate people about what our law is. And does the commissioner have any advice for us? Well, advice for you and how to... Are we doing some targeted enforcement just to let people know what the law is? First of all, thank you for coming today, and I'm very sorry that that happened to you. I have also had multiple near misses with people riding scooters on sidewalks, and I take every opportunity I have to... educate them on the laws. With this second pilot, we had a first pilot, took them off the streets, brought them back. We had increased requirements for rider education, increased penalties for violating our rules, and increased enforcement. So we are seeing these incidents go down, but that's no consolation to someone who has been harmed. But I don't see any evidence that the practice has changed. And when I see an e-scooter rider, I don't anymore say you should not be on the sidewalk. I just say, please, please, I beg you, do not ride your scooter on the sidewalk. Right. And so we will continue with that. those enforcement efforts, we may need signage, we may need to increase penalties this is a second pilot so if we're not satisfied with compliance and enforcement then there's a chance that We won't have e-scooters. Well, I've talked to the police. They told me that they have no authority to enforce the rules of e-scooters. That's not true. No, no. And hopefully you got a badge number or a name because that is just absolutely not true. The police are to enforce the law. I don't doubt your veracity, but if somebody told you that, they're speaking out of turn. They're not telling you the truth. But thank you for clearly have some work to do. Yeah, clearly we have some additional work to do to make sure that if we adopt that technology that it is safe for people who are using it and those who encounter it. So thank you so much. Thank you Ms. Hardesty. I want to thank you as well and I'm glad you're not more seriously injured. I had a huge bump on my head that lasted for about a week. I'm very sorry to hear that and I want to empathize. My concern with the e-scooter program, we have this balancing act. On one hand, it's a great form of transportation. On the other hand, people just seem either, well, no, I'll just say it. They seem unwilling to. to follow the rules. Even though we've clearly stated the rules, even though the e-scooter companies have clearly stated the rules, even though the rules are actually on the e-scooters, people still seem insistent on riding on the sidewalk, going in the wrong direction, and riding without a helmet. And as Commissioner Udailey said, as the Transportation Commissioner, if we cannot address these issues, then the e-scooters are not going to be allowed to operate in this community. There's a responsibility that comes with the right to be able to use these new tools in our community. And if people cannot abide by the basic rules, safety and frankly human decency, then it ultimately isn't going to be worth it for us to continue this exercise. And other cities have made that decision. I appreciate what you're saying, Mayor. However, I'm not sure that these e-scooter riders understand the rules or read the agreement that they sign. Well, we've done polling. about the understanding of the rules, and they absolutely do. This is a decision people are making to break the rules. And frankly, we see people breaking the rules behind the wheels of their car, on bicycles, as pedestrians. Traffic laws exist for a reason. People are flagrantly violating them in all forms or modes of transportation. And I hate to think that grown adults need people following them around, telling them what to do and enforcing common sense rules, but clearly we do. We have people dying, an average of something like one person dying on our streets every week. in traffic collisions. So thank you. Thank you for coming, ma'am. Thank you, Mrs. Jones. Thank you for your time. Appreciate your being here. Thank you very much. Next individual, please, Carla. And I don't know if the next two want to come up together. Yes, no? I notice it's the same. Why don't you just call them one at a time? Thank you. 888, request of Gary Coons to address council regarding community efforts to deal with the Oregon Air National Guard's continuous overhead descent landing approach. In 889, request of Andrew Prichard to address council regarding community efforts to deal with the Oregon Air National Guard's continuous overhead descent landing approach. Welcome back, gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you. We're going to share our time. You're off to bat. All right. To these esteemed members of Portland City Council, thank you for your service as guardians of the public's ears. Please know that you have the opportunity to improve the quality of life for thousands of Portlanders, and it wouldn't even take a dime out of Portland's budget. My name is Andrew Pritchard, and I've lived in the Cully neighborhood for a dozen years. As the founder and spokesperson for NoJetsPortland.com, I have worked with my colleague Gary Kunz, who in addition to decades of volunteer service to Portland communities, currently chairs the East Columbia Neighborhood Association. With the support of over 1,000 Portlanders who've signed petitions and backing from many neighborhood associations, coalitions and elected officials, we have sought to increase awareness about the issue of overhead continuous descent approaches. Known as the OCDA for short, performed by Oregon Air National Guard fighter jets near PDX and to curtail their use. The OCDA is an ongoing public health issue, an issue of industrial noise pollution in our communities, a private property value issue, an issue of community consent and equity, and most obviously, it's a livability issue. At its worst, the OCDA is intolerable and fundamentally alters the soundscape and psychological landscape of our city. Since we addressed City Council last year, Gary Kunzidai researched and wrote a dissertation-like letter to Governor Brown, which elucidates the complexities of the issue and specifically asks the Governor to wield her authority as Commander of the Oregon Guard and take action. Copies of the letter, dated June 17 of this year, were left with your staffers, so today's presentation is working under the assumption that you're familiar with its contents and therefore will not rehash all of its details. Nonetheless, the letter to Governor Brown anticipates and addresses any potential counterarguments to our positions. The letter cites case law and rigorously documents the Guard's dismal track record of ignoring public process and community feedback, as well as the complicity of the Port of Portland. The Port of Portland, and this is crucial, is the proprietor and landlord of Ourang's base at PDX, and thus is legally obligated by FAA and NEPA protocols to prevent such detrimental effects to surrounding communities, but for whatever reason has neglected its responsibilities. without accountability. Furthermore, shifting flight patterns and noise from an industrial commercial area to a primarily noise-sensitive residential area runs contrary to the aviation regulatory framework. See the highlighted words of Appendix F for more on this. Writing the letter is part of a larger plan to build support for this cause. Multiple local organizations have written letters to the governor, which officially endorsed the conclusions of our letter dated June 17, 2019. Today, we ask that City Council join the chorus and also endorse our letter. We aim to prove to the Governor that many people, including all who sit on the Council before us, care about this issue even if many misunderstand it or assume that nothing can be done when a fighter jet soars 400 feet above your head. Gary Koontz will now speak about what happens when we let the Guard continue to compromise our peace and quality of life in the name of defending our peace and quality of life. I'm Gary Kuntz and I live in the East Columbia neighborhood where I serve as a neighborhood association chairman. In the past, I served eight or nine years on the PDX citizen noise advisory committee where I gained knowledge about airport regulations and operations. After college, I served for five years as a US Naval officer and support a strong military and enjoy air shows, but not an air show that runs close above my home. The F-15s are passing only a few hundred feet above our homes as they make multiple tight turns toward the runway. This is startling to say the least. It rattles your skull and your chest cavity. The OCDA is an industrial practice that's incompatible with residential settings. Imagine if the Oregon National Guard troops, tanks, and jeeps routinely drilled through the streets of your residential neighborhood. No one would tolerate it because it would be considered an unacceptable industrial use for an area that's zoned residential. East Columbia is a neighborhood with a wide variety of housing, including multiple trailer parks. This noise pollution causes people to lose sleep or worse and disproportionately affects marginalized communities who are no less deserving of a noise pollution-less quality of life. Like reducing speeding on Northeast Marine Drive, I have an eye toward the future. My motivation is to keep our community as a place where my children will want to live. I think you just took away 20 seconds of our speaking time. Last week's Oregonian told the story of the residents of Woodby Island near Seattle experiencing a sudden surge in naval jets landing on their island. There are many obvious parallels to Portland's situation, and though the details aren't identical, the fact remains that Orang currently reserves the right to escalate its use of the OCDA at any time and inflict comparable harm on Portlanders. Our rank could once again renege on commitments or future base commanders without institutional knowledge of community sentiments could obliviously expand its use, unless we bring it to a halt. The OCDA must be kept in check and since the Port of Portland has neglected its legal responsibilities, we're asking the help of all community leaders to pressure Governor Brown to take action. This is not theoretical. The increased use of the OCDA during the testing period of 2017 was so horrible and so intolerable that I had to get involved, not just for myself but for those who have less of a voice. Why can a Rang establish a new flight path over our homes without consent or mitigation, but it's not okay for ODOT to build a bridge over your home without consent, dialogue, or mitigation? Just because the OCDA occurs hundreds or thousands of feet above your head doesn't make it acceptable. This is our reality, and we aim to prevent it from getting worse. And keep in mind that the next generation of fighter jets, which are objectively louder, will someday replace the ones we already deal with. Ten years ago, City Council unanimously agreed to speak up on behalf of its citizens and oppose the use of the OCDA PDX. See Appendix D. And thank you, Commissioners Fish and Fritz. Nice work. The facts surrounding the conclusions of City Council's letter from June 1909 regarding safety, livability, noise, vibrations, and population density haven't changed, yet Orang has persisted in expanding the use and frequency of the OCDA. Thus, City Council's own historical record proves the point that Orang consistently ignores the feedback from the community. Let me ask you a question. Yes. How much more do you have? Half a paragraph. So if... I'm going to ask you to finish your testimony. Yes, thank you. I'm going to call upon the mayor to give you an extra minute if necessary. But what I would ask you to do is slow down a little bit so we can hear you. Because I know you're trying to race to get it in, and it's just a little easier to hear. And move the mic away from your face because the sound is very boring. We want to hear what you have to say. Thank you. Thus, City Council's own historical record proves the point that Orang consistently ignores the feedback. And thank you. City Council's own historical record proves the point that Orang consistently ignores the feedback of the community. Though Orang and the OCDA do not fall under the jurisdiction of Portland City Council, its constituents do. And that is why today we are asking council to write a letter to Governor Brown, which endorses the conclusions of June 17, 2019, and beseeches her to use the authority that she does have for the good of Portlanders for generations to come. And Commissioner Hardesty, since you weren't here last year, first of all, welcome and congratulations. Second of all, I'll let you know and all of you know and remind the rest of you that we have a standing offer to meet with you or your staffers to answer questions you might have. Thank you very much for your thoughtful testimony again. And after the last time you came here, I did some inquiries, and I did come to the conclusion that you have stated today, which is this is the purview of the governor. But I would be interested, if you have some of the other letters that other jurisdictions have written, if I could get a copy of those just so I have some basis for that. for a communication with the governor, I'd be happy to do that. Okay. Excellent. Thank you. And if you happen to have them, you can give them to Carla. Otherwise, you can just send them in my office. We don't have that on us, but what we do have is a sample letter that Portland City Council could write and that some of the other communities have written, and we have copies of that. Cool. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. I will send you letters that other jurisdictions have written. That would be helpful. I appreciate that. You're welcome. Very good. Thanks for coming in. Next individual, please, Carla. Item 890, request of injured and pissed off to address counsel regarding wanted honest attorney and American Civil Liberties Union, Just Ice. Good morning. How are you today? Good. My name is injured and pissed off. I spoke here, I believe, August 7th and spoke at the McNoma County Board meeting across the river August 8th, I'm pretty sure of. And I was surprised that this morning that I couldn't sign up for the next time till November. Even though four weeks or whatever. The subject in November will be Portland, Oregon. Made it to the turd list. And anybody that wants to sign up, they can't sign up till November. And that's because of me. And August 8th, I... had spoke at the Magnoma County Board meeting and submitted this paper about canceling my Medicare insurance and apparently Chris Barker, injured police officer, August 29th of the Portland Tribune didn't get the word at the hospital like I did that it's catch 22 when you get injured. I'm sure that Excuse me, sir. What would you like us to do? I was injured very severely. In fact, I learned that there's 27 million people in the United States that have walkers and wheelchairs currently. That's like 68 percent, 6 to 8 percent of the nation's population. Please stop the clock. I just want to know what is your ask of the city council? I've only been here... I got no justice at all. It's just ice. So let me ask you again. Just like this police officer's pissed off. If I could ask you again... Everybody seems to be getting pissed off at the Portland City Council. Do you have an ask for us? I called the police here just within two weeks ago when apparently there was a rape at the Hamilton West apartment that went on. Luckily, the police showed up. She inquired about my name, injured and pissed off, and I had to repeat it to her. Anyways. Maybe you hadn't seen this article about uninvited guests. I'll be submitting that to the deal. And Medicare insurance that I canceled, as well as the food stamps, will probably get me kicked out of the Hamilton West apartment. But I don't need medical insurance. Next time when Medicare has to pay like $150,000 plus, the doctors and hospital will know that they'll be pissed off because they don't get no money next time. I'll give up the rest of my time. Thank you. Thank you for coming in. Carla, have any items been pulled off the consent agenda? We've had no requests. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Hardesty. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item, please, 891. Partners of the Americas, Oregon, Costa Rica, Adult Cultural Exchange. Commissioner Udaly. Aye. Thank you, Mayor. This is a presentation that comes to council every year. This year's delegation will be introduced to us by Marilee Dia. And this does not look like Karen Graham. This is Luis Angel of the Oregon Partners Adult Cultural Exchange. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you very much, Chloe. Good morning. I'm Marilee Day. I live in the Cully neighborhood. I'm a very active member there and an active member in the Partners of America. The Partners were started by Kennedy about 52 years ago to improve relationships between the United States and Latin America. And so they had states and countries in Latin America get together and form a pact that to visit one another and stay in each other's homes. And we were so lucky to have Costa Rica. Costa Rica is very similar to Oregon, but they're ahead of us in many things. One of them, they have no military, and all that money goes into education. So the Costa Ricans are very intelligent. Muy inteligente. They also are trying to get to carbon neutral. And not only do they have education and free medical care, but they are now going to be carbon neutral probably faster than any of us are going to make it. And I just wanted to introduce Luis Angel. He's a professor, and he wrote something that's going to be handed in to you about what they're doing about becoming carbon neutral. I am going to interpret that after he reads his first paragraph. Very good. Thank you and welcome. Good morning, my name is Luis Ángel Valverde, I am a retired professor and I represent a small group of 11 Costa Ricans who visit this community in OREO this year. Costa Rica, a neutral carbon country. The new neutral carbon country program seeks to be a key tool with robust data, greenhouse gas inventories and a novel system to incorporate companies, organizations and municipalities in the country's efforts to bring to the stage zero greenhouse gas emissions in the medium term. Este programa comparte una visión de más largo plazo tomando como base los avances que se alcanzan en tres distintos hitos de la Constitución Nacionalmente Determinada de Costa Rica, uno al 2030, otro al 2050 y finalmente otro al 2100. Okay. So what he's saying is that Costa Rica now has a carbon neutral program that seeks to be a key tool to find out what are the greenhouse gases in Costa Rica and where are they coming from and how can they be decreased. They now have over 96 organizations who are now analyzing their greenhouse gases and they have now decreased it by 20% just by the fact of finding out what they are. These 96 organizations are corporations, are municipalities and are the use of cars. They are hoping to buy this method that they will be down, but they will be carbon neutral fairly soon. Right now their electricity is down to almost solar, wind, geothermal, and hydroelectricity. And they use small dams as opposed to large dams. They don't need any fossil fuels to be able to be on the grid for electricity. They are also moving on to taking away all plastic, so that we have a little trouble with the imported plastic products. containers. They're moving on to sacks and cardboard. They're also having electric cars, and the electric cars have very much of a, no taxes on them. You can get up the go to the bank, the state banks will give you money to help buy that car easier than going to any other method of getting money to buy it and the electricity is free to them at the municipal parks and municipal buildings at this point. So I just wanted to share with you what they're doing. They also are the most biodiverse country in the world. More of more of their land is in national parks than it is in private hands. So it's a wonderful place, and I hope that you all get to visit it. It's inspiration. I volunteer. Me too. Maybe you can become one of the partners and then see it for yourself with them as your guides. Marilee, I think you have a group question. delegation here? Yes. Can we have everyone raise their hand or stand to be recognized? We'll suspend the rules. Commissioner, just if I could note for our visiting guests, My kids are bilingual and they've been, they're products of the Spanish immersion program at Portland Public Schools. And one of the highlights of that program is a trip to Costa Rica. So they have both, I think it was in seventh or eighth grade. They, both of my kids had a chance to go to Costa Rica. and learn about that great country and its culture. So it's amazing we're thinking back to a program that Kennedy initiated so many years ago about mutual understanding and building relationships. But anyway, they have benefited greatly from that program. They're both bilingual, and their Costa Rica trip was the highlight of their program. So we're so honored to have our guests from Costa Rica. Thank you. Yes, and Hal speaks English, but he didn't think his English was good enough for you all. But I'm sure it was. I'm sure it was. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for being here. Did you want to pitch it, Commissioner? Before we moved on, I'll remove it. Mayor, your call. Should we do a picture? Oh yeah, that'd be great. Could we get a photograph up front? Yeah, I want a photo. Go now, Carly. You went all this way, you might as well get a photograph. Might as well. Item number 892, please. Yes. 892, amend the property maintenance code to implement recommendations of the quality rental housing work group and to incorporate additional requirements per state statutes along with corrections for clarification. Colleagues, today I'm requesting that the council adopt an ordinance that will amend the property maintenance code to address mold, lead based paint, and other health and safety issues impacting Portland's housing stock. This ordinance is the culmination of a project that began all the way back in 2008 when the Quality Rental Housing Work Group recommended code and program changes to help ensure Portland's housing stock, especially rental units, were safe and healthy. BDS, the Bureau of Development Services staff worked with the Housing Bureau, the City Risk Office, the Multnomah County Health Department, local licensed industrial hygienists and contractors certified in dealing with mold and lead-based paint to develop a model approach that incorporates best practices with the goal of ensuring the new requirements are reasonable and provide a path for improving housing conditions which often have a direct impact on the half of the health of our most vulnerable residents. BDS staff also worked with the Rental Services Commission and Housing Oregon's Property Management Asset Working Group that included Northwest Housing Alternatives, Cascadia Behavioral Health Care, Community Partners for Affordable Housing, Human Solutions, REACH Community Development, and Innovative Housing. I am very pleased to present these changes to our property maintenance code, which includes first of its kind regulations for addressing mold in rental units, as well as new and enhanced requirements to control lead based paint and pests. The ordinance also ensures requirements for carbon monoxide detectors are met and makes minor amendments for clarity. I'd also like to thank all of the stakeholders who provided their input and their expertise to BDS staff on this project. With that, Beth Benton with the Bureau of Development Services is going to introduce our presentation on this ordinance, and she and Nancy Thorrington are available to answer any questions after the presentation. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Beth Benton. I am the Property Compliance Division Manager for BDS. Could you please pull the mic just a little bit closer? I can actually speak up if I need to. Good, thank you. How's that? Perfect, thank you. I'm also here with Nancy Thornton, our Code and Policy Development Analyst for BDS. The original purpose for the amendments to Title 29 was to move forward the 2008 Quality Rental Housing Work Group recommendations related to property compliance work. Because these recommendations were made 10 years ago, I would like to provide a brief history and background for context, and then summarize some of the substantive amendments, and of course allow time for questions and discussion. Everything began on September 22, 2008. That was when the Quality Rental Housing Work Group presented recommendations including amendments to Title 29 to Council. Seven days later, the national housing market collapsed, followed by an economic recession. Over the next four years, from 2008 to 2013, development and construction activities plummeted and BDS began layoffs. And in 2009, we were down to only four code enforcement inspectors for the whole city. One positive note was in 2010, code staff was able to enact the enhanced rental inspections program as a targeted pilot, which was one of the recommendations from the Quality Rental Housing Workgroup. Then, from 2013 to 2018, The Portland economy and housing market began improving and BDS began hiring multiple positions to meet the demand. And in 2017, Rebecca Esau became the new director of BDS and began a total reorganization. Early in 2018, staff met with Commissioner Udaly and began reviewing the prior recommendations of the Quality Rental Housing Workgroup, as well as researching various technical aspects in order to begin drafting amendments to Title 29. By the fall of 2018, a series of meetings were underway with industry professionals, subject matter experts, and staff from the Maloma County Health Department to discuss drafting amendments related to mold, lead-based paint, and pest management from a technical and a best practices point of view. In May and June of this year, we shared our proposed Title 29 amendments with a variety of housing stakeholders, all of whom are identified here on this slide. These stakeholders were extremely helpful. They provided feedback, perspective regarding potential impacts and effectiveness, as well as offering recommendations for consideration regarding forthcoming administrative rules. In keeping with the purpose of Title 29, our amendments are designed to provide a minimum requirement with regard to potential lead-based paint hazards, mold, carbon monoxide detection, as well as pest management and sanitation. All is recommended by the Quality Rental Housing Workgroup. We intend for these proposed amendments to have a positive impact, ensuring that housing units are safe and healthy, and improving the quality of life for all Portland residents. And finally, to ensure there is clarity for code language. The most significant Title 29 amendments, which are based on the recommendations of the Quality Rental Housing Work Group, are pest management and sanitation, hazardous materials, specifically lead-based paint, interior dampness and mold, and the required inspection section, which will enable our enhanced rental inspections program. Each of these presents an opportunity to effect a positive change for everyone, especially landlords and tenants, and most importantly for those members of our community who often face real barriers to access affordable, safe, and healthy housing. So to summarize, the pest management and sanitation... There are amendments to several sections of Title 29 regarding pest and sanitation which will work together in tandem to provide further clarification for pest management and for reducing the accumulation of garbage as a harborage for pests and to provide language for additional administrative rules. The goal is to reduce and prevent health-related impacts from traditional pest treatment methods and other health-related conditions resulting from inadequate sanitation. This will also help reduce the use of and possible occupant exposure to toxic chemicals, especially in multifamily buildings. Furthermore, having a pest and sanitation-specific administrative rule, we can ensure the application and use of integrated pest management processes for rental properties. Number two, hazardous materials. This amendment will further define lead hazards and, most importantly, provide language to establish administrative rules for additional requirements related to potential lead-based paint hazards. There is a need to increase lead awareness and provide health protections for tenants and property owners of pre-1978 housing. We are planning for the forthcoming administrative rules to provide an opportunity for continued education for landlords and tenants regarding the potential hazards of lead-based paint and to provide for additional requirements to ensure everyone working on pre-1978 residential dwellings where painted surfaces will be disturbed are trained and certified as a renovator in keeping with the State of Oregon's adopted requirements under the EPA Renovation Repair and Painting Rule, also known as RRP. to ensure safe work practices are followed and to reduce possible exposure to lead paint hazards. The Quality Rental Housing Work Group recommended that we define and eliminate excessive moisture that creates conducive conditions for mold growth and to require remediation. It is well proven that mold is a symptom of an underlying moisture problem, and the key to mold control is moisture control. For many, there can be direct health effects from increased exposure to mold spores. Attempting to regulate mold activity is not an easy proposition because there are no scientifically measured standards and no determined safe levels, and this challenge has been playing out across our nation for the past 18 years. To quote the New Jersey Department of Consumer Affairs from 2015, the department will not promulgate regulations for mold remediation because there has been no universally accepted technical contamination on clearance levels." This is significant because four years later in 2019 still there are no national or scientific standards regarding mold spore levels related to specific health impacts. In fact, the state of Oregon Health Authority through their public health division of environmental health does not regulate nor test for mold. Not only will the City of Portland be one of only a few municipalities in the nation that cites mold as a violation condition in our local property maintenance code, we're also going to try something slightly different. Because we know that mold is a symptom of a moisture problem, we will not be attempting to measure quantities of mold spores for which there are no standards. We do intend, through this title amendment and administrative rules, to focus on moisture control as both a required correction and a preventative measure, and to also establish treatment criteria based on the presence of mold and specifying who can perform the work. I would also like to add that we were fortunate that staff from legal aid shared a copy of the presentation of our proposed amendments that we gave to the Rental Services Commission with Dr. George Tsongas, a retired professor emeritus of mechanical engineering with Portland State University and a nationally recognized building scientist with 40 years of experience specializing in moisture and mold issues in housing. As a result, Dr. Tsongas contacted our team and has offered his technical guidance on these amendments. He has also generously offered to work with us moving forward and to provide additional training for our inspectors. Number four, required inspection section. The amendment of the required inspection section will enable the creation of an administrative rule to provide the framework for the ERIP, or the Enhanced Rental Inspection Program, and also allow us to make additional ERIP-triggered inspections. ERIP functions this way. An inspection is performed based on a tenant complaint or referral from police or other agencies. If the identified violations found during the inspection exceeds more than two violations in either two or five categories, such as fire life safety, no utilities, electrical issues, for example, then we request to inspect additional rental units. This program has been expanded citywide. and operating with additional requested inspections as voluntary. This program is valuable. It only applies to rental units, and typically, most ERIP cases involve older multifamily units, which represent a large number of the affordable housing units here in Portland, whereby maintenance and upkeep throughout a building and individual units is critical. Finally, we recognize the value in involving a wide variety of community members and housing stakeholders in drafting regulations. Therefore, we plan to engage a variety of tenant, landlord, and community groups as we draft administrative rules. And as promised, we plan to return to present our drafts to the Rental Services Commission, Housing Oregon, and the Housing Development Centers Working Group for their input, their support, but most importantly, to ensure that all viewpoints and all concerns are considered from an equity perspective. And I'll be glad to entertain any questions. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I appreciate your presentation. You talked about mandated inspections, and then you talked about complaint-driven inspections. So what's the difference in the two, and what triggers one versus the other? Excellent question. Currently, what triggers all of our inspections, they are all complaint-generated. So everything starts from a complaint or referred complaint. The mandatory inspections... What we're referring to there is the secondary post-inspection that becomes an ERIP case, the enhanced rental. So if we receive a complaint at a rental unit and we do that inspection, if there are enough violations present based on our five categories, then that triggers additional inspections of that property. landlord's rental units. So it may be all of the remaining units in that building. It may be a percentage of units in the complex. It depends on the size of that particular property. And can a tenant file a complaint anonymously? Anyone can file a complaint. We keep the complainant information anonymous. To the extent the law allows that. I'm sorry. Well, it's anonymous to the extent the law allows that. Correct. I'm sure we'll be challenged both by the media and in court. And I'm not actually entirely confident we can keep that information confidential. Well, I mean, I asked the question because clearly I live in a community that has some poorly maintained affordable housing units. And if you're a tenant and you're living in a poorly maintained apartment complex, it's not to your advantage to turn in your landlord to tell someone how horribly bad your unit is, especially when you can't afford to move. So I do think that that's a critical issue that through the administrative rules process, we have to create a safe place that people can say this is the problem without them being negatively impacted by that. So I don't know if that means a whistleblower protection. I don't know what it means. I don't know what it looks like because I did not go to law school. You mean like a no retaliation provision? Yes, exactly. I mean, yeah, right. There has to be something in there that makes it okay for a tenant to be able to turn in a building without them ending up on the street. Commissioner Udaly, then Commissioner Fish. Thank you for the presentation. First, is the Bureau still on track to implement... rental inspections for all units, so getting away from the complaint-driven system to mandatory inspections? That has not fully been determined at this point. Today we're just bringing these amendments for these particular subjects. Okay. And I have a scenario, a real-life scenario for you that I'd like to share with you. A friend of mine rents from a landlord in North Portland who owns multiple older properties. He is aware that there is mold in his buildings, and he has his tenants sign a document when they move in, acknowledging that they know that there is mold there and taking responsibility to regulate it and also taking responsibility for any damage that's caused by the mold. Okay. Is this legal? I don't think it is. And will these amendments help us enforce on landlords like that? I believe they will. I can't speak to whether or not that's legal or not. Ultimately, based on Title 29, it's the property owner's responsibility to maintain their property at these minimum level thresholds. So if we get a complaint for mold and we identify mold, ultimately it's going to be the property owner's responsibility to correct that problem. Commissioner, you are right. My lease agreement actually says that if mold shows up somehow it's my responsibility because I failed as a tenant to make sure that moisture was cleared up in my apartment and I I asked about it, and the answer was it's just standard language in the contract. So I do think that there's a difference between what we want to do and what the current reality is that we need to take into account. So there is mold that can be caused by tenant behavior, like if you're running a humidifier, if you've got boxes stacked up against the wall. But in this instance, this is a landlord that knows that, that he has a mold problem in the building that is not related to tenant behavior. It's related to the condition of his building, and he is trying to move that responsibility off of himself and onto the tenants. Um... As far as retaliation, one of the great side effects of RELO is that landlords are less likely to retaliate. And one of the things that we heard from BDS, which was in my portfolio at the time that we passed RELO, is that they did see an increase in requests for inspections because tenants felt like they had some insurance against retaliation issues. Landlords can make your life miserable in other ways though, so that is why I think that we just need mandatory inspections and we need to get away from a complaint-driven process because the people who complain are people who feel entitled to complain and know how to navigate our system and feel some kind of security in their housing. And that certainly does not describe many of our renters, especially if they are low-income or people of color. I totally agree and we recognize that as an issue. Mayor Fish. So I was housing commissioner back in 2008, and that slide brought back a flood of memories. Quality Rental Housing Work Group came out with their recommendations. There were a lot of good ideas but no way to pay for them. Then we hit the worst recession in our lifetime and in fact, for the next three years, about the only construction that occurred in the city was affordable housing, thanks to stimulus dollars and thanks to other tools that we had. The concern that I have on any of these programs is that we have the staffing and the resources to actually do the job. Because when we announce that we're going to start doing something like inspections and we're putting this into our code, we have to have the resources to make sure that we can deliver. So in connection with this code change, how many people will be assigned to this task and what is the budget ask? The good news is there is no budget increase or ask requirement. We are fully staffed currently. We have approximately, I'm not sure how many housing inspectors, about 19 I believe, that are, will be handling all of these inspections. We also have senior housing inspections, inspectors in place also. 19 people whose job it is just to do rental inspections or who are housing inspectors who will also be doing this work? Correct. They do. Which are the two? They do housing inspections and rental inspections. They're all considered minimal property maintenance inspections. Is that enough? I believe so, yes. Okay, for now. Now, and we'll want to track that. And you say no budget ask because it's already funded within the Bureau of Development Services base budget? Correct. Okay, so let me take you to another hypothetical. Okay. An inspector gets into the apartment and is looking for things like mold and asbestos and other things that we regulate, but also determines that there are some life safety issues. How do we make sure that we're coordinating with the fire bureau and our other professionals so that we're not fixing one problem but overlooking another? And I'll give you some examples. Overloaded circuits, newspapers stacked by a fireplace, all kinds of things, clutter and other things. All of these are things that produce risks for homeowners and property and tenants, but technically don't fall within your purview. They are things that in the past we've talked about having fire bureau people do door to door. Maybe they do fall within your purview. You're nodding. So they do? Yes, they do, sir. So if someone walks into an apartment to do an inspection based on a complaint around mold and they see life safety issues, they can flag those as well? Absolutely. We do a complete full property maintenance inspection. We look. for smoke detectors, carbon monoxide detectors, damaged flooring, peeling paint, plumbing leaks. If you're looking for every violation we can find, it's just whatever the complaint is, is what gives us the opportunity to enter for that inspection. So it gets you in the door, but whatever you find there you document. Correct. And then you put the landlord and the tenant on notice once you've done that. Correct. So, I mean things like a non-functioning fire detector, alarm that that's something that has to be remedied immediately. Correct. Other kinds of things are more subtle so good to know. So you have 19 people who will be responding to complaints and you do a full service inspection so whatever you find while you're there and they're documented and have you made some projections as to how many complaints you anticipate handling in the first year? No, not exactly. This kind of falls under the purview of the complaints that we're receiving now. Okay. It's just the way we're going to handle these violations, we're going to have some extra tools in our toolbox. I see. Okay, thank you very much. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner. And I want to close the loop. So you find these fire violations, then are you in communication with the fire marshal? How do we close the loop? What happens after you write all that stuff down? We issue a formal notice of violation to the property owner. They're giving a certain amount of time to bring those repairs into correction and call for a re-inspection. If they don't, they are fined. So how does fire know that there's a more severe fire danger, say, here rather than somewhere else? Like a sprinkler system deficiency or wholesale violations of smoke detection? That would be more of a commercial setting. We would alert them at that time. Say that again. We would alert fire at the time of the inspection. A lot of the sprinkler inspections are done through our Chapter 13 program. program inspections, which is older multifamily buildings. I live in a rental apartment building and we've got sprinklers. So I think what the Commissioner is asking is what is the trigger that has the threshold you have to meet in terms of an inspection that automatically requires a referral to the Marshal so the Marshal can do his or her own follow-up if necessary. It would be the level of The violation that the inspector is viewing during that inspection, which is going to vary inspection to inspection. The trigger for the fire marshal is going to be for multifamily buildings because it's commercial and that's where they have authority. The fire marshal, I don't believe, has authority in single family dwellings. Right. Well, right, but we already know the multifamily apartment dwellings that don't have, say, a fire escape or don't have sprinkler systems in place. We actually already know that. So if you're going into one of those places due to a complaint-driven process, the question is whether or not the fire marshal is also engaged in that dialogue. And does that... Doesn't sound like they are at this point. Normally they're not because we're looking to make sure that each unit meets the building code requirements for smoke detectors. in that unit. And so we're checking to make sure that the ones that are there are operational and then also if they are missing that they are flagged to be replaced. So this sounds like as part of the administrative role writing process that we may want to engage the fire marshal and figure out a proactive way so that we can actually get more impact for the limited resources that we have because it seems like unless the fire marshal is notified then they have no impetus to actually prioritize that property as they're trying to decide where they're going to do inspections right I mean if your folks are already doing it and you're meeting a fire marshal standard they need to know that because then they can take it off of their priority list and so I just want to make sure we're not duplicating efforts and all of us ending up in the same building on different days for the same kind of inspection. Absolutely. It makes perfect sense. We are already in communication with the fire marshals so we will make sure we add this information to those conversations. And have a more formal process so that we all know who does what, when and why. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions? I just love these geeky conversations. Public testimony on this item, Carla. Yes, we have four people signed up. Very good. The first three are Diana, Maggie, and Lightning. Very good. Thank you for your presentation. Thank you very much for your feedback. It's been very helpful. To be continued. Thank you. Yes. Thank you. Very fascinating stuff. Yeah, definitely. Good morning. Morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Diana, and I'm... I heard a lot of good stuff in regards to Title 29 and amending that to make it more suitable for the citizens and people who reside here in Portland. There are a lot of good questions asked and... Some of the questions that I have is in regards to the training. Who is going to be participating in this training? Will landlords that are registered and known to be landlord owners, will they be mandated to participate in this training so they can be educated on the updates that are coming down and the requirements that they must fulfill? other questions that I have is what happens to the families and the tenants that are identified in a unsuitable, unhealthy living situation? Where are they going to go? Is this going to cause further displacement or will we be setting up provisions to take care of these families and tenants that need shelter? The last thing we're going to do is push them in on the streets However, safety is of the utmost importance and I don't feel that lack of shelter in this sense is an excuse. So I really, I think that needs to be at the forefront of everyone's minds because it does take a lot of courage to complain, especially because being a tenant and you're complaining about the property that you're living at, there are ramifications. There are ways that landlords can just bite at the tenant in a passive aggressive way. So the other thing that I was wondering is whether or not BDS would be open to establishing a complaint web portal in a way that would allow people to file complaints through a system that would be assigned a tracking member so that if it ever goes forward, there could be that... level of confidentiality maintained because it's not giving tenant information. It's giving a tracking number information instead saying these are the things that have been brought up to our attention and we want to inspect these things. And with that, it also will produce data. So when this... gets brought up again, there is something substantial that can be pulled and drawn on. Even if it's creating a hotline number and then with each hotline number there's a spreadsheet that is generated and in that spreadsheet specifically for complaints, you have a tracking number. So I think that this is a good thing but there are a lot of things to be figured out in the process. Thank you. I actually think that's an excellent idea, and I will ask staff at the end, because I think we may be on track with that, right? But your point is extremely well taken. Great idea. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Okay. Hi. Maggie Portland, Homeless Town Hall. I know somebody who could be described as a Cascadia patient in that he's neurologically different from – the rest of the population and he was put in an SRO and I don't know if the SRO is different from the shelters or the subsidized housing but he left both due to the conditions of the unit And because of the noise factor, probably thin walls and cheap housing do, you know, he could hear the neighbors. And when you're neurologically different, being in a noisy atmosphere isn't good. When you're neurologically different, being exposed to toxins is very... you know, I'm much more impactful on somebody who's disabled than somebody who's healthy and can do something. And he left and he's currently homeless and has been on the streets, I think now for the last four or five years, he just left the unit. And so, you know, we have people who are disabled who are leaving units that are awful. And they're choosing to sleep out on the streets rather than sleep in units that are so awful. Now, are these SROs and shelters subject to the same conditions? And I would like to make one recommendation regarding moisture control and heat. When you're a low-income tenant, you can't afford electricity. So just give people free electricity for the coldest six months out of the year. And that's pretty easy. All you got to do, put a solar panel up on the roof. Free electricity. Okay, so the last thing I have to say is about the noise complaint from the Columbia neighborhood. In the Salvation Army, this is totally on point. We're talking about industrial lois here. We're talking about livability. We're talking about a rental inspections program. We have a busy agenda today, but thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Connectomics. One of the concerns I have on this is on the complaint-driven issues I said I do not want that to remain confidential. I think that should be open to the public. Now, as far as on retaliation, any judge is going to look at that if you're filing your complaints and then they retaliate. That's a pretty clear-cut case normally. Now, issue number two is that if you do the inspection and you find over five items that are wrong, I don't think it should open up the whole building to be inspected. I think that should be on a case-by-case analysis per tenant. Because in my experience is that when you own a building and you have maintenance slips that people can fill out, present that to either the manager, they tend to get things done. Now, let's just say that some people don't. What you run into when you bring in the city of Portland is... the cost is going to go up tremendously. That's number one you have to look at from the owner's position and the manager's position, because now you have a kind of a third party in the middle of this telling you what you need to do, when it needs to be done, and we'll come back and reinspect it, and if you don't, we're going to hit you for fines. So what you end up doing is escalating the cost tremendously, Where as opposed to the manager, direct communication to the manager in a reasonable manner and say just assist me on this, see what you can do. And if they're trying to help you, the last thing you want to do is call BDS because all they're coming in to do is cost recovery, fines, how much money they can make, and how they can support the people they're sending out to the properties. And what normally happens past that point, it can be passed on to rent increases. It can be passed on to just keeping the unit empty. It's just too much problem anymore. So that we need to be very cautious on that. And again, I didn't see anything on fire extinguishers being mandatory in the units. I would like to see that mandatory and inspected because plain and simple, A small kitchen fire can be put out immediately if the extinguisher is close and ready to grab. But that small kitchen fire can end up burning half the building up if it's not there. And it's a very fast response to make sure it's put out immediately. And that's what needs to really be done from a safety issue in these apartments. And just again, from my position, tenants need to work with their managers in a responsible, respectful manner. There doesn't have to be confidentiality and let the manager and the landlord understand your next move, may be to go to BDS, which will increase your cost tremendously. So why don't we work together, live here peacefully, and enjoy where we're living. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, O'Frie. I would like the rest of my time back to address online fires. No, ma'am. No, thank you very much. You made good points today. Okay, here. Twenty seconds, please. Go ahead and make your point. One thing you have in a lot of these older units is you know older wiring and and space and what happens is it starts to rain and And somebody's got their appliance plugged in and on. Could be a radio, could be a refrigerator, could be an oven. I've seen all three cause electrical fires. And so they need to go in and check these electrical wiring. Good point. Yeah, good point. Thank you. And was there one other individual? Yeah, Jim Wittenberg signed up, and we've had a request from one person to speak who didn't get to sign up. All right. Come on up. Okay. Margo, you can speak. Jim, you're back. I know, and I'm on my way to a football game in Corvallis. It's the only chance we have to win one this year, I think. We might beat Stanford and get a conference win for a change. It hasn't happened for a long time. Margo, would you like to go ahead? Oh, sure. I can start. Good morning, commissioners and mayor. My name is Margo Black. I'm the director of the National Council on the Rights of the People of North Carolina. I'm the co-chair of Portland Tenants United, which is a registered lobby organization in the city of Portland. I just wanted to offer a couple comments in response to some of the other questions and things that have come up. One, the reality of retaliation has, as Commissioner Udailey pointed out, changed quite a bit under or after relocation and then even more under Senate Bill 608, which makes it much harder to terminate a tenancy. However, I guess a couple items of clarification there. One, retaliation is illegal at the state level. However, there's a but-for standard. So, you know, Lightning said it's a pretty straightforward case. It's really not, actually. The tenant has to show that the landlord's behavior... wouldn't have occurred but for the report for the inspection. And most attorneys will agree that that is a very, very hard case to make and bring forward to court. Also, in terms of the confidentiality of reporting, Often, unless a unit does make it to the enhanced inspection level, that complaint is tied to the unit, to the address. So even if the complainant information was kept confidential, the landlord knows who lives there and who called in the complaint. And that puts folks in single-family homes and plexes at even higher risk because it's much harder to see those get enhanced. I do hope that we move toward the mandatory inspection model and I would think that we should prioritize the single families and small plexes because those are the ones that are the hardest to call in on. Related to that, I want to share a story about a tenant, a Section 8 elderly black tenant in the Coney neighborhood who called Bureau of Development Services housing inspectors who were wonderful. Her landlord did retaliate very intensely and even very explicitly. He told me on the phone and even the inspectors that this is what she gets for calling the cops on him. by cops, I mean the housing inspectors who came in to see that he had an unpermitted bonus room and a couple of other violations that they required that he fix. He didn't terminate her tenancy because he couldn't. We negotiated her exit out of there with Relo in exchange for not suing him for other things. That negotiation happened as a result of him essentially bullying and harassing her after calling BDS. And like I said, he made that very explicit to me. He even said she should know she's not wanted here after calling the cops. He also told the BDS inspectors that. I think that in that case, BDS should be obligated in some way to A, inform the landlord of their obligations to not retaliate, inform the tenant of their rights to not be retaliated against. And in situations like that, there should be someone that BDS can report that to. And right now, it's no one's job. there's, you know, a landlord can basically tell an inspector all the ways they're breaking landlord-tenant law, and the inspector can't, there's nowhere to give that information. There's nothing to do with that, and I think that is a problem. We have a lot of folks in agencies representing really vulnerable people who see a lot of violations of landlord-tenant law outside of building code And can't do anything about it. Thank you. Thank you. And Jim, I am in receipt of your petition here. It's not directly related to what we're discussing, so please keep your testimony related. Thank you. The only reason I'm down here is because I'm on my way to Corvallis because there's a football game this weekend. We might be able to beat Stanford for the first time in many, many years and win a conference game. Secondly, I've turned 80 this year. I'm 80 years old and this has not been a good year. I've been in the hospital now 16 times since January with a massive heart attack. had pneumonia and almost died. One of the things that I list on each hospital form are the allergies. And the allergies are lisinopril, which is for a cough, you get a cough. But it's also for yeast and for mold. Those are the three things I have trouble with. So the last two apartments I've had in northeast Portland, one I used during a campaign I was working in. I couldn't stay there because it had mold in it. The second one had mold in it and they were selling drugs in the apartment building that was on Russell and Williams Avenue. The problem with mold is that you can't get your breath, you can't get your air into it and it's hard to prove. to most people that it's as dangerous as it is. Dr. Richard Baird, in 2004, I think that was running against you, Nick, I can't remember, but this is a mark. Those were good days. Yeah, those were the great days. But we had... We had, he helped, supported me and gave me some money, $800 or something. He's a great guy, but he worked on lead. His biggest doctor was to work on the lead in apartments because it was killing and making brain dead the little kids that were coming up. So it's very, these are very, very important issues. I wouldn't have wasted your time here. The last thing... I put out an initiative on the ballot in 1978 and I said that we should only pay a percent and a half for a thousand property tax in Oregon. And we got 209,000 signatures, which is still a record, I believe, in Oregon. And we didn't pay any signatures. We paid no money to anybody. So I'm experienced in doing this 40 years ago, 41 years ago. The reason I have this up here now is I made a mistake then. It should have been anybody over 60 shouldn't be paying property taxes. That would have included my dad, who's now dead, and my brother who's dead, and Many friends are dead also because they need that money, many of them, to take care of their houses, which they've paid for for 40, 50 years. And now they're starting to fall apart. My lady friend's house up here on... on the last thing. She contracted mold in her house and didn't have the money to take care of it. And that's right there by where Darcelle lives, if you know the area. And she has a beautiful house, but it's now mold-infested. And I'm trying to help her the best I can, but it's a very, very expensive... Anyway, thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you both. Appreciate it. Please root for Oregon State. This is the one chance they have this year, I think. To win a game? We'll take that one to the bank, Jim. Thanks for being here. I just want to make a quick acknowledgment. Virginio Morolla is here. He is the mayor of Bologna, Italy. Thank you for being here and honoring us with your presence. And we also have the Consul General of Italy, based out of San Francisco, Lorenzo Portona. Thank you, sir, for being here. We appreciate it. And I know some of us had an opportunity to meet with you yesterday, and we feel very privileged. to have you here and celebrating not only our sister city relationship, but some great events that are taking place at the art museum and other cultural issues. And we thank you again for honoring us. Mayor, I've waited over 20 years to say this, or actually 31 years. I want to thank our friends in Italy. My wife and I spent our honeymoon in Italy. And we started in Rome, went to Portofino, Florence, Venice and Milan, so we somehow missed Bologna, which was a grievous oversight. But we ate our way through Italy and had a wonderful time, and the people of Italy were so warm and generous. And this relationship that we have with Bologna is very special, as are many of our sister city relationships. But this one runs deep, so we're honored to have the mayor and the delegation with us today. Thank you. Commissioner Eudaly. Welcome, everyone. And I just want to take this opportunity to acknowledge that this is the 15th anniversary of our sister city relationship with Bologna and invite the public to the Portland Art Museum this evening at 5 o'clock for an incredible exhibit of Italian children's book illustrators. This is their gift to our city. Thank you. for this special occasion of the anniversary, and I cannot wait to see it. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Could we get staff back up just to maybe react to some of the testimony? In particular, one of the questions was asked about creating maybe an anonymous web portal. Oh, we can. There was a suggestion to maybe have an anonymous web portal with a tracking number. That struck me as a very common sense approach. Can you tell me what we already have in place and maybe what the thinking is about that? We have an online portal where folks can... submit a complaint through our web page. It creates a track it number so we can track it with a number. They do have to provide their name and phone number and contact information because we need to contact them to gain entry. But we actually encrypt that information when we start the file. So our files are public records, our inspection results are public records, but the actual complaint information, their phone number is, we don't share that at the moment. I have a hard time thinking about an exemption that would apply here and I think Margo Black also said something that a very common sense thing which is once the complaint is made, a landlord has a pretty good idea who made it. Particularly in the single family residence area. So I think, I'm not sure Our focus should be on confidentiality because I don't know that we'd win that fight. I think our focus should be on more robust anti-retaliation provisions because that's if, you know, most civil rights cases people I don't think realize are decided not so much on the affirmative case of discrimination but on the retaliation side for having complained about it because it's a much easier case. So I think that's where we might want to have staff look at ways we could beef that up. But I think we're going to go down the wrong path if we think about confidentiality. A, I don't think it's practically possible. And B, I'd be very surprised if there's an exemption that we could craft. Commission on Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thinking out loud, to me it just seems that if you have a complaint in a multifamily unit apartment complex, that you would want to inspect all the apartments in that complex, so therefore you would not, in fact, be singling out one individual property, but you would say that that would trigger that you needed to do some minimum level of inspection of all the apartments in that complex. Otherwise, why would you take one complaint and then come back next year when you get another complaint and then do the same, go through the whole process again? I totally agree with you and that's the beauty of the ERIP program. It allows us that opportunity to inspect all those units. And that's kind of the impetus behind that program. But it just triggers that? What is, what's the threshold? Because I, what I have to. It's a complaint. It's based on how many violations that we find. We have to have more than two violations in at least two of five categories. Which on most inspections is not hard to meet. We will typically find enough violations to trigger an eRip if it's a rental property. Please don't use ERIP. That just sounds like somebody's about to rip out some portal inspections program. Great. Thank you. Any further discussion on this item? Thank you for a great presentation. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Oh, do we have a new? I'm sorry. You daily. Yeah, I thought we had a different. Actually, are you called to the roll? We're voting. It's an emergency. It's an emergency. Oh, I see. That was just the first reading. It's the implement the recommendation. I guess I'm an aye. All right. Are we back on track? Sorry. I'm sorry. I know where I am now. Okay. Okay. You daily. Okay. I was excited that I might be towards the end again, but I'm still in second. I want to thank the Bureau and thank the Mayor for continuing on this work. This is one of a handful of items that my office was really hoping to advance while we had BDS. So I'm very pleased that this is happening. I want to... just highlight the connection between housing quality and health and equity in this city. We know that we have a preponderance of low-income renters who are living in unsafe substandard housing and that is impacting their health, the health of their families and their very futures and And it's completely unacceptable that landlords are allowed to continue to rent these substandard units. I have explored the possibility of preventing rent increases on substandard units. It didn't seem achievable, but I just want to go on record saying I think it's absolutely outrageous that property owners are allowed to increase rents when they are offering substandard housing. I believe that we need to have stiffer penalties for ongoing violations up to and including eminent domain, taking the properties away if they continue to endanger tenants. And finally, Diana, I believe, brought up a really great point, which is not only do There's disruption going on in the chambers. Okay, listen, everybody heard you. Now please listen to the commissioner. Sorry, commissioner. I'm not sure what the conflict of interest is. I am not a property owner or a landlord. I am someone that cares about the health and safety and basic human rights of people in the city. And finally, Diana mentioned a concern about not only do tenants have to fear retaliation, they have to fear displacement and becoming homeless. And so I believe these landlords should be 100% responsible for the cost of rehousing tenants in the event that their units are unlivable. And some of them are just absolutely not fit for human habitation. I vote aye. Oh, wait. I want to thank Carrie Lyons. Yes. who so passionately pursued my staff to see this through. She once told my director of policy that if Title 29 code change ever happened, she would be happy for the rest of her life. So, Carrie, you're welcome and I expect to see you smiling for eternity. Yes. I vote aye. Fish? Hi. Wheeler? Well, first of all, I just want to say nobody should find this in any way onerous. What we're talking about here is regulations to prevent mold, which is damaging to public health, pests, which is also damaging to public health, lead paint, and things that are common sense as far as I'm concerned. I want to thank Commissioner Udaily. I know that this is an issue that you put front and center when BDS was in your portfolio. So I want to thank you and your team. I want to thank the folks from the Housing Bureau, the City Risk Office, the Multnomah County Health Department. And they worked with us on some of the public health aspects of this ordinance, as well as the Rental Service Commission and Housing Oregon's Property Management Asset Working Group. So this is truly a community effort. This was also undertaken by many of the bureaus here in the city of Portland. It's all, I believe, for the better. And I want to thank everybody who helped. I also want to thank everybody who testified today. I thought this was a very good dialogue, and I appreciated it. And I am happy to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. 8-9-3. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the Southwest NATO Parkway I-405 to Jefferson Project. Commissioner Udaly. Mayor? I muted myself. That doesn't happen very often. Oh, wait. Hello? I believe Commissioner Fish is president of the council. No, you are. You are. It goes back to who had it last. That would be you. Congratulations. That was quite a power grab. That was quite a power grab. I wish you had it. That's all really good. That's Portland passive aggressive. Just grabbing that gavel. Well, okay. I'm just gonna go on the record saying I really feel like it shouldn't be my turn again, but I will gladly receive the gavel. I think I should have a turn at some point. We feel like the balance of powers are shifted to that end down here. You should just feel lucky that it wasn't your turn the first day you got here like it was mine. Okay. Let's get back on track, people. Sorry, sorry, let's get back on track. Item 893. This is a long-awaited project that delivers improvements for all Portlanders, regardless of how they get around. What began as a pavement maintenance project on southwest NATO between I-405 and the Hawthorne Bridge has evolved, and I hope you will share my excitement with the results. Through public engagement and coordination with other bureaus, this project leverages the opportunity presented by the reconstruction of Southwest NATO by including new crossings, safer connections, and better signals. Here to give details about those improvements is Gabe Graff, the project manager with PBOT. Welcome, Gabe. Thank you very much for having me. Thank you, Commissioner. Yeah. Thank you, Commissioners. My name is Gabe Graff, Capital Project Manager at the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'm here today to request permission to bid the Southwest NATO Fixing Our Streets project. And let's see. And you can see the limits of the project here from 405 to the south to the Hawthorne Bridge. Given this project's scale and the coordination that's been involved, I'm just here to give a brief presentation. The Commissioner touched on some of the key project elements. We will be grinding and paving NATO Parkway between 405 and Southwest Lincoln, and fully reconstructing the roadway between Southwest Harrison and Jefferson. And at the same time, we'll be installing new safe and accessible crossings, including a new signal at the mid-block crossing between Harrison and Market, and a new pedestrian signal at Southwest Jefferson, which will provide a safe crossing for folks from the new county courthouse to the waterfront. We'll also be installing a two-way bike facility along Nato Parkway where there are no cycling facilities today. And working to address traffic queuing that's impacting the Portland Streetcar and many drivers northbound on Nato Parkway by installing a new signal at the Hawthorne ramp. The estimate that we have for the project is $8.9 million. The funding is a mix of fixing our streets. This project was included in our 10-cent gas tax when we brought it to voters. Transportation system development charges, some signal maintenance funding we're leveraging, and also funding from ODOT when they transferred Harbor Drive to the city. We expect construction to begin in the spring of 2020 and run through 2021. I just wanted to touch on the... effort of a couple of other agencies to partner with us in this work. There's a lot of maybe major infrastructure investments that are happening in this stretch of the city. So particularly we've worked with Portland General Electric on their work to provide an auxiliary power line under NATO Parkway. So they – we coordinated with them. Their work is complete. They were able to install new underground power supply and do their vault work in advance of our project. So they didn't need to come back and damage the pavement afterwards. I'd also like to thank staff at the Water Bureau and Parks for coordinating with us on the Water Bureau's Willamette River Crossing project, which will tee into this section of NATO. They're starting to mobilize for that project now, and we're coordinating with their staff to minimize construction impacts to the public. Multnomah County, for their staff, for coordinating the work around the courthouse. and on the Hawthorne Bridge and then our particularly park staff who worked with us and our sub-consultant Mary Reed to design more accessible and fitting entrances for the Hawthorne Bowl to mitigate our tree impacts. Here's a couple illustrations of some of those big projects and an illustration of the work that's happening around the Hawthorne Bowl will be through this design planting Dutch elm resistant elms and a more greater diversity of species and able to create accessible entrances to the park on either side. I'd like to thank my colleague Scott Cohen who led the public engagement work on this process. We created 3D fly-throughs of the project and also videos of traffic modeling and got a lot of feedback on the effort that informed the design. I was happy to show you those videos if any of you are interested at the end. I'll show you a couple of before and afters so you can get a sense for what the project will look like. This is NATO Parkway looking north at the Midlock Crossing will be improving. This is what the project will look like once it's constructed. Here are Southwest NATO and Clay Street existing conditions and afterwards. And then here this is... Like flying cars. Were those flying cars that you had in the illustration? Yes, that's our next project. Our next pilot. We're going right past driverless vehicles to flying cars. Right on the flying cars. Yes, I see that. And this is NATO Parkway at Jefferson Street. This is looking east. So you can see that construction staging here in the corner for the county courthouse, the new central courthouse. And this is an overhead view that shows the new pedestrian crossing that will allow folks to get into the park there with the push of a button. and sort of the reconfiguration to better separate people walking around the park from people cycling or e-scootering and driving. Are we also going to turn the river more blue in real life? Yes. That's how blue it looks. Wow, all cleaned up. Yeah. It's amazing what 3D technology can do. We worked very hard on trying to figure out how we can use this project to solve multiple problems at once and one of the things that we were able to figure out is the ability to Reduce queuing on NATO south of the Hawthorne Bridge So the tool that we have for this is a new Signal at Jefferson and also at the top of the Hawthorne ramp. So if you are driving northbound on NATO and want to head east across the Hawthorne Bridge, you will as a driver see it experience a traffic signal whether there's today a stop sign. So rather than having platoons of cyclists go and sort of looking and waiting for a gap, you will be given either, there'll be a traffic signal that will control that movement. That's a huge improvement because obviously the traffic gets backed up to I-5. And it does seem one of the more dangerous intersections, trying to sort of find an opening with cyclists going east on Hawthorne. And then the other challenge, of course, is that some people insist on trying to get onto the inner lane of the bridge. which causes havoc as well. So I applaud that change. It's long overdue, and I hope it both promotes safety as well as reduces the queue time from I-5. Yes, thank you. We expect it to. I was just going to ask you what you meant by queue, but you've already moved on into our explanation, so thank you. It's a... Just a nice word for backed up traffic. That's right. That's right. Line of cars. Yeah. Okay. Very good. Any further questions? Public testimony, Carla? No one signed up for this item. Seriously? That's kind of surprising. All right. Call the roll. Hardesty. Udaly. Thank you, Gabe. I vote aye. Aye. Wheeler. I have been looking forward to this for a long time. I vote aye. Thank you very much. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is item number 894. Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Tryon Creek at Boone's Ferry Culvert replacement project number E086824 and estimated cost of $5,360,000. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, this is a really exciting item, and we have an all-star cast of people who will be testifying today. The Tryon Creek at Boone's Ferry culvert replacement project will advance the city's commitment to watershed health, water quality, and fish passage. It will also create safer connections for pedestrians crossing Boone's Ferry Road. The project will replace an undersized culvert that blocks fish passage with a bridge over Boone's Ferry Road. The new bridge will allow Triune Creek to flow naturally underneath it, improving water flows and water quality, and allowing fish to access upstream habitat. This new bridge will also allow pedestrians and wildlife to travel underneath it, completing a trail gap in the metro regional trail. This project has resulted from years long planning and collaboration between and among city bureaus, community members, and of course our partners at Metro and the state. We have a number of special invited guests that are going to join us. Mike Jordan, Director of the Bureau of Environmental Services, and Eric Brenneke, Project Manager, will kick things off. Gentlemen. Thank you, Commissioner, Mr. Mayor, members of the Council. I want to thank you for giving us some time today on your agenda. We are very excited about this project, and I think – Probably the thing that is most illustrative here is the collaboration that this project is taking and financial contributions from multiple entities. The collaboration on the scope of the project. We originally talked about simply replacing the culvert there. once we determined that fish passage was a real issue, brought multiple groups to the table, and as Commissioner Fish noted, it's been a fairly long in the making project, but the collaboration has been amazing, and you're going to hear from a number of both bureaus and other governmental agencies along that line. My job here is really just to introduce the person who knows what they're talking about, the project manager, Eric Renneke, to kind of take you through some of the details of the project. Eric? Thank you, Director Jordan. The purpose of this project is to remove an existing undersized 60-inch culvert that carries Tryon Creek under Southwest Boone's Ferry Road and to replace it with a new single-span steel girder bridge. The existing culvert restricts stream flow and is a barrier to fish access upper Tryon Creek and Arnold Creek upstream of Southwest Boone's Ferry Road. The Boone's Ferry Road culvert has been identified by the City of Portland as one of two major fish passage barriers on the main stem of Tryon Creek. The project area is within the middle reach of Tryon Creek and the Arnold Creek confluence. There is also some low-density residential use in the uplands of this watershed. A number of native fish species can currently be found in these streams. The improvements to both Tryon and Arnold Creek as a result of this project will expand upstream fish habitat and will provide significant benefits, especially for steelhead trout. This project is a culmination of years of facilities planning, design, and community involvement in stormwater management, stream restoration, and pedestrian and wildlife advocacy. Currently the culvert is undersized. poses flooding risk to Boone's Ferry Road and is also a fish passage barrier. The upstream end of this culvert as seen on the left, which includes a concrete trash rack, impedes conveyance and high flows. The picture on the right will show the December 7th, 2015 storms that led to debris clogs at the concrete trash rack, causing flooding conditions and risk of flooding to local streams. I'd like to note that the height of the water surface elevation is above 15 feet from the channel bottom and it was observed that the 1996 flood events were higher than these conditions without overtopping Boone's Ferry Road. And if I move my cursor right here, Boone's Ferry Road would be right up here. Please. By removing the existing culvert and providing a larger stream channel, all flow events will be conveyed underneath the bridge structure. The bridge will be sized to meet specific design criteria for stream flow while also accommodating pedestrian and wildlife connectivity. Here are the project goals and objectives of the project. Below is a schematic that illustrates the general scale of the bridge span, the depth, and the trail location underneath the bridge, which is located here on the left. By removing the culvert and replacing it with a new bridge, we will provide a larger stream channel, thereby improving stream flows and reducing debris clogs. Staff, BES staff, have secured all permits required for this project. Staff have also conducted extensive public outreach as well. We have partnered with Metro to secure property and easements downstream of Boone's Ferry Road and with Oregon Parks and Recreation Department for construction and maintenance coordination. There are two ordinances authorizing BES to enter into agreements with Metro and Oregon Parks and Recreation Department. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. You know when I see projects like this the first thing I think of are kids in the community who should have an opportunity to learn about urban green spaces and fish flow. I look at this and I think, this is going to be really cool. How do we connect it to Native youth? Yeah. other young people who we want to get out into green spaces and get connected and really understand, right? So maybe I'm just crazy, but is there an opportunity that we're going to engage young people in a way that is unique to this project? Before Mike gives you the direct answer, I... Are you going to give me an indirect one? Okay. I want to obfuscate a little bit. No, I want to acknowledge. That was on the question of whether you're crazy or not. You mentioned Native youth. Right. And so Michael talked a little bit about who we're engaging. But I want to do a shout-out to Laura John, our tribal liaison, because this is one of two projects that we anticipate working on in Tryon Creek over the next few years. And she has done an exceptional job doing outreach to the tribes, getting their concurrence and consent to this work. So I wanted, it's not directly responsive to your question, but there has been a unique outreach to the tribes since you mentioned Native American youth. What are the opportunities for engaging young people? The education of both BES and parks both have environmental education units where we interact with young people, elementary school kids primarily, across the entire city, literally in the tens of thousands per year. I haven't talked with our educators about it, but we certainly can – we often take kids on site to some of the projects and some of the opportunities to get, if you will, hands-on with the open spaces and natural areas in the city. So I appreciate that, but I'm really thinking, I mean, we're headed to this new climate future, and we keep saying that, you know, we're, like, preparing to get young people really engaged and involved. And when I see projects like this, and maybe this is just not an appropriate question, but when I see projects like this, I can connect climate change to the mitigation that we need to do and how we need to engage young people so they're already part of the solution, right, rather than continuing to exacerbate the problem. It's a great idea, and we'll take it under advisement and look for ways. He always says that when he wants to move on. Yeah. I appreciate that, but I just think that if we don't take these moments to really talk about the interconnectedness of this work, that we miss great opportunities. The next thing we're going to be doing on Triumph Creek is more directly relevant to your concern. At the end of the day, this is a bridge and has certain technical specifications we have to get through, and it's – P bot Metro and BES working together. But no, no, I appreciate you reminding us. And we will look for those opportunities and we will report back to you. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to add my strong interest in working with and better serving Native youth. The Oregon Native Youth Conference is happening in Portland December 7th and 8th. So maybe that would be a great opportunity. And that's all. Yeah. I'd like to see some kids get paid for some of these projects because, you know, going out and showing it to them after we've already given some consultant a bucket load of money is not as effective as actually helping them learn how to do the restoration and the climate mitigation. So thank you. Good point. Thank you. So to wrap things up. Sure. Early in our design process, we formed an advisory committee. Our advisory committee for this project is made up of working partners. These partners are agencies, community groups, and property owners. Is your list? It's on the screen. The construction estimate for this project is 5.36 million. We plan to begin construction February 2020 and end construction October 2020. What I would like to do is show a short film. Tryon Creek in southwest Portland is one of the city's healthiest streams, running from Molnar Village for seven miles through a series of parks to the Lemmon River. However, this small and aging culvert underneath Booth Ferry Road has been a long-standing obstacle to healthy water flow. From the point of view of fish, wildlife, and even pedestrians, the culvert may as well be a locked gate, preventing safe passage. Now the city is about to remove this culvert and replace it with a bridge. Instead of a barrier, the project will create connections for fish, for wildlife, and for people. Here's how the existing culvert creates challenges, and how its replacement will provide solutions. Rather than flow naturally, Triad Creek is channeled into this narrow pipe, a dark tunnel that fish such as cutthroat trout can't swim through. During heavy rainstorms, surging water from Tryon and Arlo Creeks can bind just upstream of the culvert at Boone's Ferry Road. Flooding debris piles up, and along with the road base acts like a dam, flooding the surrounding areas. Below the culvert, stormwater can flow so fast that it behaves like a hose, scouring the riverbed, and increasing erosion. By removing the culvert, the creek can flow naturally, rising and falling during storms, without as much erosion occurring. Above the water, the public can hike on trails on either side of Boone's Ferry Road. A crossing road is a safety challenge. Finally, the existing culvert and road not only blocks connections for fish and people, it also blocks wildlife from safely moving between the natural areas that surround the creek. To find a solution, Environmental Services worked with an advisory committee of community groups, nearby landowners, and several public agencies. Their expertise and input led to the current steel bridge design, habitat restoration, and connectivity in and around the creek. In addition to the new bridge, road runoff will be treated to remove pollutants before entering Triad Creek. Rocks and large logs will be installed upstream, both to protect and expose sewer line crossing, and also to provide a path for fish to move through the area, mimicking the native river environment. The Boone's Ferry culvert is one of two large obstacles to fish passage on the creek. Replacing it helps fish, including cutthroat and rainbow trout, move more freely through the area. Once the other culvert, Highway 43, is replaced, Triang Creek will be unlocked. Salmon and steelhead will once again be able to migrate from the West Hills all the way to the Pacific Ocean. For pedestrians and wildlife, a path underneath the bridge will allow both to cross bridges very safely. It also removes the most significant barrier to completing the regional Hillsdale to Lake Oswego trip. Construction is scheduled to begin soon, and when complete, we will unlock fish passage, improve water quality, and provide a safe streamside crossing for pedestrians and wildlife alike. Now that's what I call a video. Would you have to hire a helicopter to do some of those scenes? It's crazy. No, I'm kidding. I don't know. Does that conclude your presentation? Yes, and I have a slide showing the guests. Colleagues, we have a couple of invited panels, which we're going to invite up. So we're going to probably go back to the table, and then I'll invite the first panel. So we are delighted today to welcome Christine Lewis, Metro Counselor, PBOT Director Chris Warner, or his, here he is, Chris. And is Mike Stewart here? Yes, sir. We're hiding over there, Mike. And Water Bureau Director Mike Stewart. So thank you all three for being here. Councilor Lewis, you are an elected official and an honored guest, so would you kick things off? Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, for your time today and deep review of this. My name is Christine Lewis. I represent the community surrounding this culvert project and the rest of District 2 as well. I want to start with a hearty congratulations to the many partners across jurisdictions and governmental agencies and community groups who have persevered to bring this project to fruition. The roots of this project predate my time on council. So here we are today celebrating a project that is serving the greatest good for fish, wildlife, water, and for people. This project reflects the voters' support for preserving healthy watersheds, vibrant wildlife corridors, and access to nature. And as approved in the 2006 Natural Areas Bond Measure, an investment that Metro is proud to steward. This is funding through Metro's Nature and Neighborhoods Capital Grants. This grant system is designed to implement long-term capital investments in projects throughout the developed areas of our region. Our grants have inspired community groups to launch new projects and for unusual partners to work together, facilitating partnerships that may lead to jurisdictions working with community groups to seek creative solutions to challenges that otherwise don't surface. This project meets many of our goals as funders. It encourages partnership along public agencies and an actively engaged community group to create the most optimal capital opportunity. capital investment. This project also meets our Parks and Nature Department's mission of protecting fish and wildlife habitat, restoring air and water quality, and connecting people to nature close to home. We're most excited that it's another step on completing the Southwest Urban Trails Plan, which was set into place in 2000, so again, long before I got to Metro, but that work is to connect Tryon Creek to the region's other trail systems. This passage was the most major barrier to preventing a solid connection in this corridor. So I just want to reiterate some of the important pieces. BES had funding and authority to replace the undersized culvert with the bottomless culvert, but couldn't afford the meaningful and safe trail and wildlife passage, and we're excited at Metro to support that addition to the project. Currently, trail goers have to scurry up the street banks, and we saw in the video the gentleman crossing the road in some scary-looking traffic. And I think the cars were driving a little slower in that video than I've seen otherwise. So no crosswalk and a blind curve, and that's a major improvement. We commend BES staff for their willingness to explore alternatives during preliminary engineering and for taking time to apply for the grant. They persevered and will be able to construct a project that best reflects the community's value for wildlife and trail passage and their connection to nature. This cross-jurisdictional collaboration from state to region to city to community is exactly what Metro was created to inspire and implement. Congratulations to everyone at the City of Portland who brought these partnerships together. Boone's Ferry, Tyron Creek community, along with the generations of fish, land prey, and deer, all in the future will have us to thank for their safe passage in this beautiful part of the region. Councilor Lewis, thank you very much for joining us this morning. Thank you. PBOT Director Chris Warner, a great partner in this project. Welcome, Chris. Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor. Chris Warner, Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'm happy to be here to express PBOT support for this project and really thank BES and Water for their continued partnership. We work on so many things together. It's wonderful to have this opportunity to highlight this one. With this project, we're really helping to promote to help the health of Tryon Creek and the natural areas of our city. And that would be really be impressive enough, but by working together this project really does achieve more. When the bridge is done, it will have safer crossings for pedestrians and we'll have a better connection to trails for hikers. At PBOT, we're committed to doing everything we can to protect the safety of Portlanders as they get from place to place. We've also dedicated to supporting a more sustainable Portland by reducing our carbon footprint and the trails and the improvements here will really help with that. And given these commitments and given what this project does for the environment and the safety for Portlanders, we're happy to be here to let you know that we will be taking on the maintenance of this bridge, the shoulders and the sidewalks and the bike lanes in this area. So this really is clear evidence of what we can do by working together. And I just want to, again, thank BES Commissioner Fish for all the work you've done on this and happy to take any questions. Thank you very much, Chris. And we're also joined by Water Bureau Director Mike Stewart. Mike, take it away. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. We, too, have participated in this project, and it was both interesting and challenging. As with most of the streets in the city, including the one that this culvert went over the top of, there were water pipes there. In this case, there were two six-inch old cast iron mains that moved water from one side to the other. So replacing this is a kind of a double resilience plus. The pipes could have been washed out in a flood and also could have been severely damaged in an earthquake. And So what we have achieved here by working together and we really had to work very closely or will have to work very closely because we have to keep water service in place while this construction project is going on. Results in our case in putting an 8 inch what we call restraint joint ductile iron pipe that does very well in an earthquake across the bridge, hung on the bridge and I think a good thing for our community. In our case, we're investing about $200,000 in this project. Not a great deal, but I think it's added to the resilience of our neighborhood. We appreciate the opportunity, of course, to work with PBOT and BES. We do these kinds of smaller things all the time. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Colleagues, any questions? We have one more panel. So far, so good. Thank you for joining us. Appreciate it, thank you. And now I'm honored to invite the following individuals up to the dais. Iris Benson from Oregon Parks and Recreation, Hans Stoich from Southwest Trails, Catherine Daly from the Arnold Creek Neighborhood Association, and Sharon Keist from the Tryon Creek Watershed Council. And we're really delighted to have all four of you. And if I botched any names, I apologize. That's on me. Who would like to start? I can start. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to speak in support of this project today. My name is Iris Benson. I'm the park manager for Tryon Creek State Natural Area, and I am in support in this project, and my agency is also in support of the project. The Oregon Parks and Recreation Department has a long history of working collaboratively with the City of Portland, BES, and other community partners on strategic restoration and trail projects in Tryon Creek State Natural Area. We are located about 15 minutes from downtown Portland and we're the only state park located in a major metropolitan area. We have almost 15 miles of trails within the state park. It's 658 acres. There's a nature center, extensive programs for youth, guided hikes, interpretation, and restoration projects going on within the park. The Boone's Ferry project is adjacent to the park in an area of regional significance due to increased recreation trail connectivity and restoration of riparian ecosystem function. OPRD is a long-standing partner in relation to this project starting in 2005 with our participation in the planning process. In 2008, OPRD's director wrote a letter to BES in support of an underpass in the project design. The project and multiple partnerships are documented in OPRD's 2013 Tryon Creek State Natural Area Comprehensive Plan. OPRD formally recommended to BES in 2014 the selection of the bridge alternative to provide significantly higher standards for riparian quality and diversity, enhanced fish passage, greater wildlife connectivity, and safer trail passage. In 2019, OPRD continues to support the project and we are working to finalize an intergovernmental agreement in regards to the project with BES. The completion of this project will prompt OPRD to add additional recreational trail connections of regional significance. In closing, the ability to connect our communities to healthy ecosystems through trails and interpretation lends to greater environmental empathy and well-being. OPRD is in strong support of the project and to the many positive benefits it will provide to both the environment and our community and to speak a little bit to Commissioner Hardesty. To your point, our partners with Friends of Tryon Creek are reaching out to a number of indigenous communities, including partnerships with NEA and working on cultural ecology within the park, and I think that there would be some opportunities there in partnership with OPRD. So thank you. Thank you for joining us today. Go ahead. Good morning. I'm Catherine Daly. I'm the president of the Arnold Creek Neighborhood Association, and it is in that capacity that I'm before you today. The Arnold Creek Neighborhood is the... southernmost neighborhood in Portland and our eastern boundary, it lies along Southwest Boone's Ferry Road and abuts the Tryon Creek Natural Area. With no city park within Arnold Creek neighborhood, Tryon is one of the closest open spaces for our 3,000 residents in our neighborhood. We support and greatly appreciate any improvements that make the state park more accessible, including improved trail connectivity and safe crossings across Southwest Boones Ferry Road. And that little video that showed the cars coming around the corner, I have been on that road and had people pass me on blind corners traveling 50 miles an hour. It's awful. Okay, that's me. During the phases of culvert construction, Southwest Boones Ferry Road will be closed, and the proposed detour route for 12,000 vehicles per day is through our neighborhood along Southwest Stevenson Street past the Stevenson Elementary School. To address our neighborhood's concerns for pedestrian and student safety, BES and PBOT worked closely with our neighborhood association. And as a direct result of this engagement, PBOT's Stevenson Street Pedestrian Safety Project began in 2018 with an anticipated completion at the year-end 2019. We support the culvert project for its core work to restore fish passage, improve the habitat for fish and wildlife in Tryon Creek, and improve safety by eliminating the backup water at Southwest Boone's Ferry Road in Arnold. At our most recent Neighborhood Association meeting earlier this month, we held a straw poll and then passed unanimously a board motion in support of the Boone's Ferry Culvert Replacement Project. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for joining us. Sir? Hans? Mr. Lea, Commissioners, I'm Hans Stoick. I'm a volunteer with Southwest Trails. We work on trails in Southwest Portland, including Southwest Urban Trail No. 6 and the Hillsdale to Lake Oswego Trail that was mentioned just moments ago. Southwest Trails has been active on the Boone's Ferry Colvert Replacement Project Advisory Committee and in advocating for this project. particularly the steel girder bridge solution. We are delighted that walking under the bridge will be much safer than crossing over Booms Ferry Road. And once the bridge is in place next year at this time, we look forward to continue working with city and state agencies on trail connections to the bridge so that the other parts of the Hillsdale to Lake Oswego Trail can be completed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. And finally, Sharon Keese, welcome. Thank you. My name is Sharon Keese. I serve on the Triune Creek Watershed Council Board of Directors. This project will result in significant watershed health, infrastructure improvement, and community enhancement. The Triune Creek Watershed Council has been advocating for the replacement of the culvert on Southwest Boones Ferry Road for a long time. and we were active in participating in the advisory committee during the design of this project. This project improves fish and wildlife habitat and connectivity in our unique urban watershed. This project removes one of two most significant fish passage barriers on Tryon Creek, the second being at Highway 43. We look forward to a time when fish are able to move through the area freely. Triune Creek Watershed Council appreciates your yes vote to move this project forward. Thank you. Well, we're enormously grateful that all four of you took the time to be with us today, and thank you for your great partnership. and for joining us. Mayor, that concludes our presentation. Other than, I would like, this is not an emergency item and we'll take some testimony, but I would like to thank Ascenta Lawrence and my team who helped organize and script this and did such a great job. And again, Laura John is here and I want to thank Laura for... all the work she does in helping us coordinate with the tribes on our work in Tryon Creek. So with that, the presentation is concluded. Very good. Thank you Commissioner Fish. Any questions before we move to public testimony? I just want to note that working together seems to be the theme of the week and say that I love the interagency coordination. It saves us time and money and resources and saves community members the inconvenience and hassles that come with these kinds of projects and also the partnerships with Metro and all the community members. I'm really excited to see this project through. Very good thank you. Thanks to you and thanks to the other panel as well. Public testimony Carla. No one else signed up. Okay all right very good this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. Thank you everyone. It moves to second reading. And now we will move to the regular agenda. Item 904, please. Appoint Margo Black, Ian Davey, Laura Golino-DeLovato, Jessica Greenlee, Alan Hines, Hannah Hollis, Anna Holloway and Leah Sykes to the Rental Services Commission for terms to expire September 2021. Colleagues, the Rental Services Commission is the primary public forum for discussion of rental housing law and regulation and rent-our-own programs and services for the city of Portland. RSC members provide valuable perspective and expertise as we work to address the rental housing crisis in our city. The appointment and reappointments today allow the commission to continue its good work and to continue advising the housing bureau and the council on the most relevant housing topics. I want to thank all of you for either being willing to serve or being willing to continue to serve on this important commission. And I look forward to your guidance as one of the commissioners. And with that, I will turn it over to Matt. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, Matthew Schaubold with the Housing Bureau. Just really here to answer questions. We very much value our volunteers on the Rental Services Commission, the time they've committed, and their willingness to continue serving. I would like to note we'd also like to welcome Hannah Holloway from the Urban League, who will be joining the commission, replacing a commissioner who resigned midterm. Very good. I know we have a couple of commissioners here. I see Margo Black is here. Are any of the other commissioners here today? Okay. Ian and I believe I saw Leah are also here. Oh, very good. Thank you for being here, and I don't know if they wanted to say anything. I certainly want to open up the opportunity, given that you took the time to be here, if you'd like. I would have loved to, but I was told to be sorry. All right, very good. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to thank Commissioner Udalli and his body for really moving this work forward. I know that there's really hard work ahead, there's been hard work behind us, but I think the willingness of people to continue to do the hard work is really vital to us coming up with really good systems that support folks living a healthy life in our community. So just wanted to appreciate the moment in time we're in, because I suspect when it was first put together this room was filled, And not everybody thought this was the best thing that should be done. So I just want to appreciate how far we've come and how far we still have to go in this process. Very good. It's a report. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. Motion from Commissioner Fish. Second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Hardesty. Udaly. Well, I want to thank all of the appointees for their service to the city and for their work on the Rental Services Commission. I know it's hard and sometimes grueling. I know that you are taking time out of your busy lives to make the city better for everyone, but especially for renters. And Margo, I just want to say, who knew? Who knew when we first met that we would be sitting here today? I don't think I had ever stepped foot in these chambers back in 2015 when I think it all began. And here we are. And thank you. I know it's been a hard fight. But we are making progress and we're making changes, and the city is better for it. I vote aye. Fish? Yeah, I want to just add my thanks for your service and willingness to step up. And this is really important work, so we look forward to your recommendations. Wheeler? Likewise, I want to thank everybody, particularly those of you who have decided to reapply. Thank you for that. I know this is hard work, and you're at the nexus of some very complex and often controversial issues in the city. And I want to thank you for helping us as a council see the path forward. So thank you for that. I vote aye. Point. Appointments are approved. Thank you. We forgot to thank Matt. Usually we're falling over ourselves. You know what? You're right. I want to thank the Housing Bureau and Matt. Thank you for your work. This is a complex issue and it does take a lot of time and energy to administer this properly. Thank you and I want to thank my staff as well that spends a considerable amount of time on the backstop on this, Tia, who's sitting over there in particular. Thank you for your continued work and effort as well. Thank you. I vote aye. The appointments are approved. Next item, 905. Appoint Taylor Smiley-Wolf to the Portland Housing Advisory Commission for a term to expire September 25, 2021. Colleagues, the Portland Housing Advisory Commission is the... primary forum for the discussion that's related to broader housing policy strategy and resources for the City of Portland. PHAC, as it's otherwise known, The members rise above their individual interests and affiliations to take a comprehensive approach to housing policy and strategy to support the unmet housing needs of Portlanders. The appointment today fills a vacancy on the commission with an individual who is committed to addressing the pressing housing issues and needs of the residents of Portland. I want to thank Tyler for Her willingness to serve on this important Portland Housing Advisory Commission role, she comes with tremendous experience, and I look forward to your guidance, Taylor, and the hard work that I know you'll be engaged in. So thank you for stepping forward and agreeing to serve. And I'll make the same offer to you. We'd love to hear from you. Hi. For the record, my name is Taylor Smiley-Wolf. I just wanted to come up and thank you very much for your consideration. I know you're busy. Thank you. Thank you, Taylor. Any further questions? If not, I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have from Commissioner Fish a second from Commissioner Hardesty. All in favor? Sorry, wrong meeting. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Welcome. I'm looking forward to you adding value to the hard work that's already taking place. So thank you for your willingness to serve. Aye. Vote aye. Udeli. It's great to see you in these chambers. I know you've been working hard on behalf of our community members for a long time, and now we get to have you right here in Portland. So thank you, and I vote aye. Fish? I just want to acknowledge how impressive our appointee's bio is, including since serving as policy director for my good friend House Speaker Tina Kotek, as a policy analyst with former Secretary of Labor Robert Reich, and working at the Dellums Institute for Social Justice with a Masters of Public Policy from UC Berkeley. So we're very fortunate to have you. Thank you. Wheeler. Thank you, Taylor. Appreciate it. She brings a ton of experience. I'm excited about your willingness to serve. Thank you. I vote aye. Appointment's approved. Thank you. Thanks, Matt. Thank you. Next item, 906. authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Prosper Portland for fiscal year 2019-20 economic development activities for $7,609,120. Colleagues, this is the city's annual agreement with Prosper Portland that codifies decisions that were made previously as part of the 2019-20 adopted budget. It authorizes the budget director to make amendments following council decisions typically made either in the fall or the spring supplemental budget process. In addition to budget decisions, it highlights performance metrics and outcomes expected to be achieved as a result of programs funded within the agreement. Joining us today are Prosper Portland Executive Director Kimberly Branham and CED Manager Tori Campbell. Welcome, thank you for being here. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. Kimberly Branham, Executive Director of Prosper Portland. As the Mayor mentioned, I'm joined by Tori Campbell, who is our new Economic Development Director, and Tony Barnes, our Finance Manager. We appreciate the opportunity to discuss the 2019-2020 Intergovernmental Agreement for Economic Development Activities. This IGA has been updated to reflect the City General Fund budget allocation. Tony oversees the IGA with the City Budget Office and can help us answer any questions that arise. So I'm going to just briefly touch on our strategic priorities and the role of the City General Fund resources and then turn it over to Tori to discuss the programs and the anticipated outcomes. As you know, our 2020 strategic plan guides our work towards building a more equitable economy in Portland. The IGA and our general fund supported programs largely focus, can you go through? Sorry, technical difficulties. Go back. Okay, well, there's a visual. So imagine the visual that has our strategic plan. Well, Carly, do you know why it keeps popping back? The laptop? Is it showing on the laptop? No. Okay. That's okay. That's your new slide maybe something happened. So, Council is familiar with our strategic plan but the IGA focuses on our business development, technical assistance, community capacity building and workforce training efforts with the goal of increasing access to quality employment, fostering equitable wealth creation and supporting the capacity of our partners in this work. More specifically, our economic development programs include four major business lines. So this graph shows those programs from top to bottom. You have the Inclusive Business Resource Network, Workforce Development Programs, the Neighborhood Prosperity Network and Venture Portland, our Traded Sector Business Development, as well as non-tax increment finance funded community development programs. Going from left to right, you'll see the Associated Prosper Portland staffing levels and the composition of program funding, including city general funds, cannabis funds, federal community development block grant funding, and enterprise zone community contributions. The IGA covers the general fund and cannabis fund portion of these programs for a total of $7.6 million in funding. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Kimberly. Thank you, Mayor. My question has to do with the workforce development. We have in your IGA a... contract that would be for adult and youth workforce development. Yes. With the participants having incomes that are 50% below the area median. Mm-hm. How does that support or differ from what Work Systems Inc does? Great question, Commissioner. So we administer these funds actually through a partnership with work systems. So we, and Tori can talk a little bit in more detail, but we have an agreement with work systems and they... put out the request for proposals. They report to us on what is happening within each of those contracts and how many providers? There's 12 providers. 12 providers. So we make sure that we are collaborating on things like the workforce navigators which ensures that there's particular navigation workforce navigation that's happening within the neighborhood prosperity initiative network. But largely this is a program that is administered by work systems. Did you want to add anything, Tim? That's it. That's good for now. Do you add... Wish you a pleasure. Would you like me to hold my questions until you're done? I think so. Tori's going to talk a little bit and probably will answer some of the questions that I anticipate. I've got a couple more, so go ahead now. So at the moment the question was asked, Kimberly, you told us how much general fund dollars were being invested. Could you say that again? Yes. How much general fund dollars were being invested within workforce? No, no, just in terms of the economic development program. Overall, $7.6 million. $7.6 million of general fund? Of general fund and cannabis funds. Okay.
 Yes.
 Yes?
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 So I want to recognize before I turn it over to Tori that these are precious resources. These are resources that are not restricted to the 15% of the city within a tax increment finance district or to the capital development that TIF has as a requirement. So we are extremely appreciative of your allocation of these resources to Prosper Portland. And with that, I will turn it over to Tori. Thank you. Thank you, Council and Mayor. I'm just going to take a few moments to go through some of the high level elements of each of the programs. I'm going to start with the Inclusive Business Resource Network. Within the Inclusive Business Resource Network, we have 16 partners that deploy over 65 practitioners throughout the city that are providing both culturally specific and also culturally responsive small business technical support. Just last fiscal year, they were able to serve almost 1,000 clients, with 70% of those being entrepreneurs of color throughout the city. Also within that work, there's a particular highlight we want to note within our cannabis pilot program. We're now entering into our second year. The first year was... I believe there were some unique successes with respect to the businesses that were provided grants for $30,000 each. They saw a notable increase in terms of stabilization of their businesses as well as sales. One example was able to increase their sales by 143% within four months as a result of receiving these precious grant dollars as well as being able to hire their first employee. The other recipient was able to not only purchase inventory, but also to increase their sales 13% over the span of that year. So we recognize this is still a very necessary program for an industry that is in its early beginnings, and we really want to ensure that entrepreneurs of color have an opportunity to take advantage of this emerging industry and market. The next program is our neighbor. Excuse me, I'm sorry. I was going to hold my question, but which particular program? This is with New Leaf. No, no, no. I'm sorry. What particular one of your economic development programs actually supported these two businesses? Yeah. It was within our inclusive business resource network. That's the overarching program. The provider was the New Leaf Project. Thank you. Mm-hmm. The next program is our Neighborhood Prosperity Network, and it is comprised of seven community organizations with full-time staff. And they are charged to really drive community development with respects to both planning and implementation of very localized economic development opportunities within those respective communities. Also within our neighborhood prosperity network, there are some additional dollars that have gone to the Old Town Chinatown Neighborhood Association to support that ongoing work in terms of their action plan and building capacity within their organization. The next area is our workforce, which we've already touched on a little bit. But again, as I already noted, there are 12 providers that we fund through work systems to provide support and help navigation of underemployed or unemployed citizens throughout our city. Also with an attention on providing opportunities for young adults. in terms of being able to develop skills to enter into career paths. Last year, we served over 2,415 through that program, through the initiative and working with Work Systems, Inc. The next and last area within our entrepreneurship and community economic development is going to be Venture Portland. And Venture Portland really serves as a very complementary role within our neighborhood prosperity network. One of their strong and necessary and essential roles is to support the city's volunteer-run neighborhood business associations throughout the city. I'm going to transition over and talk a little bit about the other side of the shop, which is our traded sector. And before I jump into the specifics around our cluster business development, this year we are very excited to finally get to a place where we have revised our action plan for our clusters that really weaves in equity in its efforts. This is something that's a first for us and in many respects the first throughout the country. The theme or the mantra in which we are mindful of is really the goal within this action plan is to help businesses become more inclusive. And to help inclusive businesses grow in the city. The work that is happening within our cluster industry as an example is over 350 businesses are served on an annual basis. And those businesses, 80% of them are comprised of what we would call small businesses, which is going to be 50 employees or less. I think that's important to note, as small businesses truly are the engine of our city. Also some of the signature programs as well as individual supports that are provided within our four clusters, which are athletic and outdoor, technology and digital media, green cities and our advanced manufacturing. Will be programs such as our supply chain diversification, really helping businesses learn how to connect locally with one another in terms of growing their business. And working and keeping those dollars in our city as well as strengthening their foothold in their respective industries. We have a program that's a peer to peer mentoring which really helps to facilitate allowing business and business owners to learn from one another in a very supportive way to help them scale and grow. And lastly, working with and trying to diversify companies such as Tech Town and their work around diversifying the tech industry within our city. Some of the other programs that are found in our traded sector is our Portland Means Progress, a signature initiative of the mayor, really helping to call businesses into this place of active engagement to solve some of our thornier challenges and also unique opportunities. of creating opportunities for a stronger business-to-business, opportunities for entrepreneurs of color, as well as creating opportunities for companies to work on and really strengthen and make their culture within their companies healthier. So that's a focus on diversity, equity, and inclusion. And lastly, creating really important experiences for youth, whether it be through internships and other ways, to help them have a better sense of what direction they want to take in terms of their career path. The next program I'll focus on is Greater Portland, Inc., which is really an important relationship. Greater Portland, Inc., or GPI as we call it, really is the entity that helps us with recruiting businesses to the city of Portland, telling the unique story of why Portland is a great place to come and to do business and to be rooted and really have a community-minded approach in terms of how you consider that work. And last but not least is the Portland Film Office, which is currently housed in Prosper, Portland. Again, both delivering on helping just the permitting process, but also helping to nurture the really vibrant and growing and emerging community of creatives within our city that are interested in engaging the film community. The next area I will focus on is our community development. So there's several programs and initiatives that we are currently been charged to oversee and support. The first is the Hill Block, and the Hill Block has actually been renamed to the Russell and Williams Project. But when we ran through our budgeting process this past year, had presented it as the Hillblock, so I just wanted to state that change. The Hillblock has been awarded $100,000 to help with the working group and its community planning, as well as the development of its work. These resources have been matched by the Myra Moore Trust, who is also supporting their community engagement. Next, we have the Cully Tax Increment Finance District. $50,000 was given to support the Cully community on a community-driven tax increment financing district exploration. Really, this is a new model where we really want the community to help lead and drive both the prioritization of these resources and the consideration of them. So we really are, in this instance, responding to their requests, which is unique and important. The next is the Albina Vision. Dollars were provided there of $75,000 to help the Albina Vision Trust really begin to do the community engagement that they feel like is necessary in this phase of the overall vision. And the next was the $100,000 that was given to the James Beard project. And it's a one-time general fund discretionary to help the James Beard market do program design as well as to determine some of those pre-development designs for a location. It also was given in order to help refine the business model of the market and ensure that the market remains sustainable. And last but not least, I want to highlight that there is a brownfield administration. We receive funding for that, and this is a carryover. Can you hold this slide for a second? I just want to make a couple comments, if I could, because we're going to lose the slide, and I don't want to interrupt your flow. But, colleagues, I continue to be very – impressed with the albina vision, but I don't think it's going to get traction over time unless we create a new legal structure for it. And Mayor, perhaps in your second term, we can approach that. But I think a redevelopment of this kind, looking at how other cities have done similar things, I think requires a different legal structure. And I'm going to continue to press Prosper Portland in that conversation. The James Beard Public Market during my 10 years has probably had a dozen or so different homes that have been, and they used to have a champion named Ron Paul who was indefatigable. I don't know where it's going to land up. I know it's a vision that a lot of people support, but I guess they're now looking at the innovation quadrant as a possible home. there's an enormous gap in terms of their ability to fund their vision. I think at some point we have to call the question on this and what our role is. And then finally, on brownfield administration, I'm very proud that we have invested in some work there. Our comprehensive plan, assumes that we're going to focus on remediating over 800 acres of brownfields as part of our industrial land strategy. The legislature in two different sessions now has given us new tools. I will flag for you that I am learning it will be a very heavy lift to get the county to agree to use those tools. And so if we can't get concurrence on using those tax abatements, we're going to have to look for some other tools to jumpstart brownfield remediation because we have a lot. It's a big equity play. Senator Lou Frederick has been a champion here. We have the team to move forward on this. But unfortunately, we don't have the tool in place. And without the tax abatement, I'm afraid we're going to have to look for another way of creating some incentives for people to take action. essentially dead land and turn it into a public benefit. But I just want to make those comments. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you so much for that presentation. I appreciate the words of my colleague. If you'll leave that slide up. I actually hope that before we start talking about next year's budget, that we really do an assessment about whether the Hillblock project is working. I still find it absolutely, I find the outcomes not conducive to what the resources are that we're spending there. And so at some point, we just got to either say it's working or it's not. And if it's not working, please come back and tell us what we need to do. Kali Tiff District, I don't know anything about that, so I will trust that the right people are being engaged in that process. Albina Vision is three or four people's vision, and I'm very concerned that we're moving this along as if it's a real thought-out, thoughtful, community-engaged process, when in fact there's only been a few people at the table, and they have not been able to articulate to me yet what their plan is. And James Beard, you've already spoken very eloquently about that. And again, I just think that if people have these visions and they can't figure out how to pay for them, I just don't know why we get stuck with trying to help them figure out what the vision is and how to implement it. I think at some point we just have to say after a couple of years, and Hillblock is a great example, I'm done with that project because I see no outcomes. And if there are outcomes, maybe I've totally missed them. But the handful of people who've benefited, I feel when we come back and start talking budget, there's got to be some movement or I just don't see how you're going to get support for it. Thank you, Commissioner. I can speak to the Cully TIF district. So it's really an exploration. There are seven community organizations who came forward with a proposal to Prosper Portland staff, which includes two of the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative districts. So Cully Boulevard Alliance, as well as R42nd, as well as NEA and Hacienda and Verde. I'm sure that I'm forgetting other folks. I know that there's a consortium. who are proposing to have a conversation with the community about a community-centered TIF district that would focus on anti-displacement. And this is not a rhetorical conversation where Prosper's coming forward and saying, would you like to have a TIF district? But really we know that it's going to happen already. This is really a community-driven approach where the community is talking to the community about whether this is a tool that they want to see in their community. in their neighborhood. So we are playing a supportive role. Metro recently allocated $150,000 to help with this as well. So the $50,000 that you see here will help with some of Prosper Portland's staffing and administration. But I think it really is an open question as to whether this is something that comes back as a recommendation to city council. So more to come on that. Thank you. I'll speak to the Hill block. That's something I've been personally engaged in, and there is a group of maybe 30 people from the community. What we're paying for is facilitation, and I agree the process has been, well, it has in a sense been challenging. There's a lot of history obviously wrapped up in this particular block. It's more than just a development project. It's also a statement about development. the community. It is a trust building exercise in some regards and having attended a whole block meeting just a few weeks ago I can tell you I feel like there is forward momentum. I agree with you I don't think it's an endless process that we want to engage in but I do believe that there is that trust being built and I do believe that there is a vision formulating in the community and I do believe that that they are in an important way point in their development process. And I believe they agreed to meet in November and call a very specific question. And so I look forward to being able to show this council in the spring, as we do engage in the budget process, that these dollars have been well spent. So I'll vouch for it as of today and the people around that table. Okay. Thank you for your forbearance. Is that the end of your presentation? It is, yeah. I think we just have a slide that summarizes at a very high level in the IGA, there are a lot of metrics that you see that we will be reporting on, and you will see those metrics as part of the budget process. I think Tory wanted to highlight just a few. Yeah, so there was a couple of just important ones. I mean, they're all necessary, but just in the time we have, which is short. As an example, some of the things that we are aiming towards is, again, wanting to hit that 900 unique business service points, of which continuing to focus on 75 percent whom are identified as unqualified. entrepreneurs of color. We also, the goal is to create 1,000 middle-aged jobs through traded sector business development, our E-Zone program, which requires public benefit agreements that increase the likelihood of diverse hiring. And just one more, just for this interest, but again, all these metrics really are really critical to the overall goal is really wanting to have 2,000 youth and adults to receive assistance with job training and career support. With 60% of the adults advancing into employment over a year period and 65% of youth advancing in employment or post-secondary training within that same period. And we'll, again, in all of our reviews, be sharing, and these are the metrics that we are going to be guiding us. Thank you very much. That was going to be my question. I think you have some really lofty goals for this year. And it's always great to try to stretch. But I also wondered, in some cases, just how realistic it was. So for example, when you talk about inclusive business resource network. and you say that we're going to have a thousand strong and stable businesses in five years, but you have 16 partners today, but the plan is to get to 400 before the year's up, right? That, to me, seems like that's very optimistic, right? But I don't know your business as well as you do. So that's just a question that I'm putting out there. The other one is the 210 and Cannabis Fund Grants. Who gets that money and for what? Yeah, so with the first one, yes, they're definitely lofty goals. It's also because it's over five years. They're ramping up each year. The first year, the numbers weren't where we wanted. And each year successfully, we're increasingly growing in terms of our overall marks of stable businesses. But you're right, we are definitely monitoring that as aspirational. But at the same time, we're shooting for that. And in the years to come, we'll have a better sense of how close we are. And the second question around the grant dollars, New Leaf is the one that administers the grant program, and they have identified, in particular, making sure that because the cannabis dollars, as you know very well, were intended for particularly entrepreneurs of color, and even more explicitly that they be really targeted or focused on, I should say, African-American entrepreneurs within the cannabis industry. So last year, which was our pilot program, in terms of those grant dollars, they actually did go, the two businesses were, African-American business owners within the cannabis industry. And so I believe that's... It's $60,000 as compared to the amount of money that was accessible. I guess, is this intended to support African-American-owned cannabis shops or people who want to open shops that have been negatively impacted by prior cannabis policy? It is, yes. All right. So I'll be asking very specific questions when you come back next year, looking for more about who benefited from those dollars and what have been the outcomes of those dollars. Because I think what I saw last year was there was money – distributed, but the percentage that actually went out the door to those businesses was significantly smaller than the resources that you had. Correct, and I think it was 150 last year and of that a number I think a hundred thousand, 160, 100,000 went towards the support of administration of the program which was New Leaf Project. 100,000 went to support administration when it was 160,000 total. Is that what just? And to develop the program. There was a variety of things within it. So some of it did include supporting staff. Thank you. I'm good. Carla? Should we bring the camera back? Do we have any public testimony on this item? Sorry. They were done with the PowerPoint yet. Public testimony? There is or is not public testimony. Diana? Okay, very good. We have one person. Thank you for your presentation. Thank you. And colleagues, while Diana's coming up, I'm going to move items 907 and 908 to the beginning of this afternoon's schedule because we had an item canceled on the afternoon schedule. And hopefully this will help us catch up a bit. Good morning. Good afternoon. Sorry. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm a little- Can you put your name in the record? Yes. My name is Diana. I'm a little perplexed with this agenda item regarding Prosper Portland. There's a lot of questions, and I'm sitting here listening to the presentation, and although there were a lot of words thrown out, there were not enough clarification for myself, and I wonder for those who are watching online or listening at home who have never heard this before, what are they learning for the first time hearing this presentation? There seems like there's good in it. It's supposed to help prosper Portland. I mean, that's in the title itself. But there was a lot of things. And I do thank you for the clarity for the Cali TIFT direct presentation. I think that, you know, having focus with anti-displacement in communities, that's very important. That was something specific that gave me a general idea of what this is about. And that is a great thing. But there are a lot of other things that were said today that did not give enough specifics. And there were also a lot of things that presented concerns for me as a resident here in the city of Portland because there These are monies and resources that are being allocated that if there is not a trafficked flow, if there's not a proper explanation of where this money is going, it makes me wonder, well, this could be going to other resources. This could be going to helping provide the bridge that is going to be. Dana, let me just clarify something, and maybe we need to do a better job of labeling things. This was all discussed and agreed to during the public budget process. Okay. So there were extensive hearings. There were presentations. There were debates among colleagues about budget. This came out of our last budget. All we're doing today is authorizing an intergovernmental agreement which allows Prosper Portland to spend the money. Today is not the day they were called to come forward to justify the spending. Okay. Council already did that through the budget process and maybe we should, maybe this is less than clear. But it says authorize an intergovernmental agreement. Just so you know, the public process and the debate has already occurred. The questions we had off the slides are not actually directly related to the presentation today. But since we had an opportunity to put some markers down around the next budget cycle, we did. But I want you to know that that's where this was debated and discussed. So whatever confusion you have about this limited amount of general fund dollars that drive economic development, we welcome your full participation during the budget process where we decide what is the allocation and for what purpose. Okay. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I was going to jump in, but Commissioner Fish beat me to it. For me, I'm just I guess I'm just affirming that we have a vision about where we're headed. Right. And so my questions are really based on based on what we know today. what are we going to do as we come and start the process again for next year's budget, right? Because some of these projects have positives and negatives, as you've heard today. And some of us have different perspectives about who's really leading the charge, whether it's really a community-driven effort or whether it's something that government is just, like, putting resources into because a couple of people think it's a good idea. So I appreciate your questions, but just know this is really about making sure that we are, for me personally, that I have the marker down so that I can hold people accountable for what they say the outcomes are they're looking for. Thank you for the clarity. I really do appreciate that. And so I don't think I have anything left to say. Thanks for being here. Yes, thank you. Appreciate it. Carla, call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaily? Aye. Fish? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Coordinates to stop to 909, please. Authorize a lease extension with 2020 Portland owner LLC for office space at Jacobs Center, 2020 Southwest 4th Avenue. Expiring October 31, 2022 and October 31, 2024. At an average annual estimated cost of $1.3 million. Colleagues, BDS's offices, the Bureau of Development Services offices are... are generally located at the 1900 building. This is a property that is co-owned with PSU, Portland State University. Over the past decade, the Bureau of Development Services experienced unprecedented growth in both workload and staffing needs. And since the 1900 building was at full capacity, BDS sought approval from the council to execute agreements for office space at the building known as the Jacobs Center. In 2016, 2017, and 2018, the Council authorized the Bureau of Development Services to lease office space at the Jacobs Center. Today, BDS expects demands for services to continue to remain high and requires space sufficient to maintain existing staffing levels. The Bureau of Development Services wishes to continue leasing office space at the Jacobs Center. The Office of Management and Finance and the Bureau of Development Services have assessed the Bureau of Development Services space needs against availability of space already existing in city-owned facilities. There are no viable options within city-owned facilities to provide sufficient space to accommodate the needs of BDS, and therefore they are here today asking for us to approve this extension of office space. Good morning. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Pauline Goebel, Property Manager in the Office of Management and Finance, and I'm joined today by Elshad Hajiev with the Bureau of Development Services, and he is the Business Operations and Financial Services Manager, and I'm a Property Manager in the Office of Management and Finance. And so we are here today to request authorization to execute a lease amendment with 2020 Portland, Oregon LLC for the office space at the Jacobs Center. Currently, the Bureau of Development Services occupies almost 40,000 square feet at the center on three different floors under two different agreements. So the first agreement is a lease with the building owner, 2020 Portland, Oregon, or Portland owner, LLC, that expires in October 31st of 2022. And that's for a portion of the first floor and a portion of the sixth floor at the center. Okay. BDS also occupies under a sublease with Primera Blue Cross, the 10th floor at the center. So I don't mean to cut you off, but my suspicion is all of the council members are well briefed on this. Maybe it would be best just to answer any questions people have about this lease extension. Is there any public testimony on this item? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just had one question. Why are we extending the lease until 2024 when it doesn't expire until 2022? Aren't we anticipating an economic downturn, which means that you would need significantly less space than you have today? Thank you. So I believe that the answer to that question is that for we're extending the first floor. So part of the negotiations with the building owners, they didn't want all of the city lease space, which is almost 40,000 square feet, expiring at the same time. So in order for us to extend... the 10th floor space that they're at which they needed for a short term. We agreed to extend the only the first floor of the space for an additional two years and I think BDS determined that that space was the most viable to be needed for the next two years. What it houses is the Portland online permitting system POPs and has bureau training. So that is my understanding. The first floor is most valuable currently to us. It also has the really large conference room that the entire city is using. So that's why we're extending it for another two years. The first floor space, but you're also increasing the cost for the other suites. That is correct. 3% a year. That is right. 3% is a normal and customary increase every year for rental space? Yes. So that would be something that would happen no matter what? No. Okay. Any public testimony on this item? Maggie left. This is a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. 9-10. Thank you. amend the effective date of ordinance 189580 to allow Portland Housing Bureau to adopt administrative rules prior to the March 1, 2020 implementation date and make technical clarifications to 30.01.086. Could you also read 9-1-1 and 9-1-2? 9-1-1, amend the effective date of Ordinance 189581 to allow Portland Housing Bureau to adopt administrative rules. Prior to the March 1, 2020 implementation date and make technical clarifications to 30.01.087 and 912, amend Portland renter additional protections code to add an accessory dwelling unit exemption to mandatory relocation assistance. Very good. Colleagues, thank you. First of all to the Housing Bureau and to the community and industry stakeholders who assisted in identifying technical clarifications which were needed. With these changes, the Housing Bureau is prepared to begin its rulemaking process and work with community groups to create training opportunities for renters, landlords, and case managers to learn about Portland's tenant protections. Thank you all for your continued work. We have Matthew Charbold here. Good afternoon, Matthew. Good afternoon, Matthew Schauble. For the record, briefly, there are three areas of local law around landlord-tenant. owning rentals with regard to needing to register leasing regarding application and screening rules and security deposit rules and the mandatory relocation assistance when modifying or ending a tenancy. So the changes today are technical in nature primarily, so with regard to the application and screening code there are a number of clarifications in terms of terms and definitions. around what the language used to describe regulated affordable housing and regulated rents. And I think the one substantive change was a request that came from council members when this ordinance was originally discussed, which had to do with the ADU exemption, where there's an ADU exemption for a landlord living in the main home and renting out the ADU, or living in the ADU and renting out the main home. So that's the bulk from 3001086. On security deposits, again, some more language alignment with ORS 90 and the rest of local landlord-tenant law in Title 30, as well as providing clarity around using the terms fixtures, appliances, equipment, or personal property consistently through the entire code section. And then giving the Bureau rulemaking authority, while we have it in the ordinance, the best practice from the city attorney's recommendation is to actually have it in the code itself. So we've added that provision as well. and then finally for both ordinances the effective date is March 1st but that would effectively prevent the Bureau from establishing administrative rules until March 1st and so to ensure that there's clarity in the marketplace for landlords and tenants we are We are requesting a change to give the Bureau rulemaking authority immediately so we can begin our rulemaking process and that we will go through a 90-day process to make administrative rules so that the actors in the market and renters can be fully aware of what the supplemental rules will be. and then finally for mandatory relocation assistance this is a request we've had at a number of hearings that we've had with city council around local landlord tenant law it has to do with the current language in the ADU exemption would only exempt a landlord if they live in the main home and rent out the ADU but not the reverse. And so this is a modification to allow the landlord to either live in the main home and rent out the ADU or live in the ADU and rent out the main structure. So Matthew, the reason you're here today is back in March when we were having the fair hearings, we as a council directed you to go out and solicit input both from industry groups as well as community stakeholders. Can you describe that process for us, please? Sure. So we, over the summer, informally engaged with rental organizations as well as property management, industry associations, individual property managers, the Rental Services Commission, Housing Oregon, which represents the city's affordable housing providers, and other interested stakeholders. And so these are a compilation of the feedback that you received during that community outreach? That's correct. So we categorized the feedback into a few different buckets. One, the bucket where the technical changes needed to occur in the code. And then the second, where the Bureau could make the clarifications and administrative rules. And so this is the first bucket in the clarifications in code to better clarify language for either landlords or renters. And then once we get the rulemaking authority officially, we can start the rulemaking process. And some of the other feedback we have gotten for clarifications would be in our administrative rules. So one tangible example of that is, We were asked by both renter and landlord organizations to clarify some of the leasing and screening when a building is doing initial lease up. So they're not just advertising one unit, but perhaps they're advertising 50. So that is not in this, because that is a clarification we can make in administrative rule. Very good. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I just have one question, which is the definition of affordable housing. Because what I see is that it says federal, state, or local government. Affordable housing by a federal, state, or local government is exempt. I just think the clearer we are about what we mean when we say affordable housing, right? Because we know people are paying an extraordinary amount of money for rooms and people's houses. And so it would be great as we continue to move forward that we put a definition attached to it. Is it 60%, 80% of MFI? Are we talking federal poverty level? Are we talking, you know, Portland metro area? It would be really helpful if all of these policies started having a definition attached to them. We can certainly do that. We would define it as 80% and below and having a regulatory agreement with the city, the state, or the federal government, and we can make sure that language is consistent. Yeah, that's the part that I think is most responsive to your question because I read that as federal, state, local, that is social housing subject to a regulatory agreement operated or funded by government, and we've exempted that as a class. And it's not with – I mean, they each have different standards for what's affordable under what circumstances, but we have just said as a group they're not covered. But I agree that the term affordable housing is elusive and needs clarification, but I read this as exempting the government-sponsored housing. Am I right? Correct. Okay. Yeah, I did that too, but it was to my other point, which is we just have to be clear about what we're doing. We can certainly maintain that clarity across all of these regulations and programs. Absolutely. Thank you. Great. Very good. Any further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? She left. Very good. Call the roll on 910, please. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Since passing fair back in June, the Housing Bureau has been working diligently to wrap their minds around this issue. ambitious new code that we handed over to them. I'm grateful for the ways in which the Housing Bureau and the Mayor's staff have kept communication with our office open and have incorporated our feedback into these technical changes that strengthen the original intent of the code and provides needed clarity and consistency. We look forward to continuing the collaboration as the Housing Bureau works on the administrative rules and ramps up towards implementation. Thank you to Andres Oswald. Oswald, sorry, Matt Scheibel, Director Callahan, and Tia Williams for all your work on this item. I vote aye. Fish. I also want to just acknowledge for Matt Scheibel that that was a very helpful and useful PowerPoint. And I appreciate the fact that it told the story comprehensively and then went into each of the various components. I think sometimes we struggle with understanding how things fit into an overall pattern. We hear that also from people testifying. So a PowerPoint that lays the groundwork for sort of the whole big picture and then zeroes in on each of the components really walks us through things in a very effective way. So I appreciate that, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Wheeler. Thank you. Matt, thanks to everybody at the Housing Bureau for their hard work. And Tia, I see you over there. Thank you for your work on behalf of our staff. I vote aye. Please call the roll on 9-1-1. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. 9-1-2 is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. And we are adjourned until 2 p.m. Aye. Never mind. My apologies. No worries. We were canceled for two. Here we are. Good afternoon, Carla. This is the September 25th? 25th, right? Yes, September 25th, 2019 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty?
 Here.
 Udailey? Fritz?
 Fish?
 Here.
 Wheeler?
 Here. Now we'll hear the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Thank you. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and needs to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless exiting or entering. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. All right, very good. So just for the record, Item 913 has been pulled back. That's the Southwest in Motion Plan, Commissioner. You, Jaylee, have requested that be pulled back. We had two items that we did not complete this morning, 907 and 908. And, Carla, we're going to read 907 and 908, and it's my understanding 918 should be read with that as well. Would you like them read separately or together? Together, please. If you could read all three together, then 907, 908, 918, please, Carla. Okay. Okay. 907, accept bid of Stellar J Corporation for the Dam One Needle Valve Replacement Project for $1,499,000. 908, accept bid of James W Fowler Company for the South Portland Burlingame Phase One Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $2,235,000. And 918, amend ordinance to authorize a competitive solicitation contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the South Portland Burlingame Phase 1 Sewer Rehabilitation Project number E10680 in the amount of $2,235,000. Very good. Go ahead Lester. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, I'm Lester Spittler, the City's Chief Procurement Officer. The first item 907 is for the Dam 1 Needle Valve Replacement Project. The Water Bureau sought an authorizing ordinance on May 1st, 2019. That ordinance was 189478. The engineer's estimate at the time was $2 million and the level of confidence was moderate. We issued an invitation to bid on June 12th, 2019. Bids were due on July 30th and the City received four responses. Stellar J Corporation was the apparent low bidder and is the recommended awardee in the amount of $1,499,000. The city's 20% aspirational goal of certified subcontractor and supplier utilization applied to this project. Stellar J committed to the following utilization. They are going to self-perform 87.4% of the work. They have identified certified subcontractors to perform 2.19%, and they've identified non-certified subcontractors to perform 10.41%. It's important to note that Stellar J is self-performing 87% of the work, so their ability to meet our 20% aspirational goal, there's a conflict there. We did review the effort made by Stellar J to engage certified subcontractors. They reached out to approximately 62 certified subs in the areas of work that they are not going to self-perform. And the majority of the responses that they got back were subcontractors rejecting the opportunity. Either they were too busy or they couldn't perform the specialty nature of the work for this project. We did also talk to the city project manager and the project manager from Stellar J and they did confirm that this work is inherently difficult to find certified subcontractors to perform. They also made a comment about our low bid solicitation method. So when we issue a low bid solicitation, the contractors obviously have to submit the lowest bid to get the contract. So when they're trying to engage subcontractors, they are also requesting bids from those subcontractors, and they are compelled to accept the lowest. So from SolarJ's perspective, it's a difficult goal to meet knowing that we have issued a low bid solicitation and that they're compelled to accept the lowest bid from their subs as well. Commissioner Hurstie. Thank you, Mayor. Lester, was that not clear in the RFP that they responded to that we had this aspiration? No, it was clear. So, I mean, I find it kind of ironic that at the end of the day they're like, that was just too hard for us to do so we're going to do most of the work ourselves. That's not going to ever get us to the goals that we have if if that's the response, because everybody can say that's the response. So Commissioner Fritz is not here to speak to this, Mayor, if I could. Commissioner Fish. There is actually, I did a dam one project when I had the Water Bureau, and this is in-water work, highly specialized. It's very similar to the work that's going to be done under the Willamette River with the replacement pipe. Commissioner, what we learned then and what I know now is, is that working in the Bull Run watershed in water, highly regulated work because of the nature of the work. I'm going to give you a preview because you're going to have the same questions when you see some numbers on the Willamette River crossing. Because of the technology, because of the work conditions, because of the regulatory environment, because of many things, It turns out there are certain projects Water Bureau does where the contractor self-performs. Self-performing, I want to be clear here, is not because they found it inconvenient to do subcontracting. The bulk of the self-performing is that it is highly specialized in technical work that they are doing. It doesn't excuse them from trying to find other pieces that we do, like trucking and what have you. Although I will tell you there's less of that good work in the Bull Run watershed because we don't allow people up there. We heavily regulate the Bull Run watershed. And so if I was a subcontractor, that would not be a piece of work that I would be angling for. It's hard to get to. It's heavily regulated and the like. But I just want to draw a distinction between self-performing because it is highly technical work and self-performing because you're giving a shrug to the city's aspirational goals. If it were the latter, I would be very concerned. Yeah, and I would also, you know – Ditto to that comment and also self-performing the work allows your company to be more competitive with its bid because you're in direct control over that amount of labor and the work that's being performed. I just want to reiterate, if we have a goal of 20% and you come to me with one that's 2.1%, and then you say to me the reason for that is because we're going to self-perform most of the work, I would love to hear a plan about how either the company is going to diversify and actually provide training opportunities so that there's not just a couple of companies that do the work, or whether or not we just changed our mind and decided 2% is fine, and we're just going to accept that. I mean, I just don't think you can tell us you have this goal and then come and say 2% was the best we could do because we're never going to get where we want to go if we accept that. And is this a company we've done business with in the past? Yes. And have they achieved the goals in the past? I have a list of other projects that they've performed, and these have been pump station work for BES and some work out of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plan. plant and for those four projects they were low on the percentage as well. So what are we going to make of that? Let me finish my question and then you can have it. Well he said you asked him the question he gave he said low I just like to know what the percentage is. So for a project on the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant they only obtained 3% subcontractor utilization On the Alder Pump Station upgrade, they obtained about 10%. On the Airport Way Pump Station improvements project, they obtained less than five. And the Safeway Pump Station upgrade project, they obtained less than five as well. That's very concerning. What was the company that we talked about a couple weeks ago? Moore Excavation. Moore. I mean, with all due respect, Given that those are projects that don't have the same argument around specialized work in a restricted area, how do we explain the low numbers there? Again, this is not my item. I'm not speaking for the Water Bureau. I will tell you that they do do some specialized work where there's a lot of self-performing. because of the nature of the work. But how do we justify, to Commissioner Hardesty's point, a pattern of dismal numbers like that on projects which I would have thought would have had lots of opportunities? I hate to reiterate the point. I do know that pump station work, again, is highly specialized, and it's difficult to get subcontractors to perform that work. Another one of the pieces of feedback that Stellar J heard from some subcontractors at that Working on a long-duration city project is not very lucrative for them, and I'll just say with a busy market, there's lots of work to go around, and if you can pick a private job or a less risky job or a less administratively burdensome job, you're likely going to do that versus taking an opportunity to work on... A city project where you take on a lot of risk because of the work is so highly specialized. So what happens if we just reject this proposal and go back to the table and actually set some clear expectations? That's a good question. I'd have to talk to the Water Bureau to see. I know that, I don't know, this would cause a delay in their project. If it's an in-water work window, it may need to be something that waits until next year, which would affect the budget and the estimate for the job. I mean, I think the city, the city should needs to take a little bit of ownership in this situation too. We know that these opportunities are coming in advance and if we take a proactive approach and market these opportunities and engage firms that we want to work on our projects. We might have more success than just, you know, putting out our solicitation with our 20% aspirational program and just expecting contractors to magically be able to meet those numbers. May I read something from the impact statement? Then Commissioner Udaly. I'm sorry, I'll defer. Commissioner Udaly. So... Thank you, Lester. I think you do excellent work in this arena, and I know that you share, well, I assume you share our frustrations. And I can't speak for my absent colleague, but I know that Commissioner Fritz almost always has questions and concerns about low utilization rates. I asked a question last week or the week before about more. I hesitantly voted yes on a contract with very low utilization rates because I didn't understand the kind of legal liability I might have been putting the city in by rejecting a bid from the lowest responsible bidder. I now have a different understanding in that it's not just the lowest responsible bidder, but it's the lowest responsive bidder. So if we have bidders who are not responsive either to our 20% aspirational goal of MWESB or even more of a concern for me is what I'm hearing is something I heard yesterday from – out of my bureau where we accepted a lowest responsible bidder who doesn't want to comply with the requirements around our CEP and or CBA agreement. That's substantively different. Today, we have an aspiration. In this situation, we have an actual aspiration. policy. And so I really need your help and the help of the city attorneys to understand, you know, what is our obligation, what is our responsibility, and what is our power in these situations? Because obviously not everyone shares our aspirations. So may I have a proposal, Commissioner? Let me first read the impact statement. And again, I'm not, the commissioner in charge is not here. The director is not here. We're hamstrung really in getting to the bottom of something, although you've heard different variations of this from council before, so you're not surprised. Quote, the existing valves, which is on a dam, are antiquated, leak, and are difficult to open and close. The valves in their current configuration require staff to stand on top of them while physically opening and closing the valves. These valves and other installations have catastrophically failed by operating causing significant life safety risk to staff. The bureau will install three new fixed cones, blah, blah, blah. So here's my recommendation. I move that we set this over a week. that we ask the Bureau and the Commissioner in charge to report back to Council on why we should accept this and what additional steps we can take with Stellar J, but I would be loath to reject it outright without hearing from the Bureau as to whether there is a window of opportunity to do this work and the impact statement suggests that there's some life safety issues. By setting it over a week, we still get to make the decision, but we get to bring the Bureau in to help us understand that situation. So Mayor, that would be my... Commissioner Fish, could I make an alternative proposal? Could I propose that we hold the hearing on 907, 908, 918, take public testimony? Because if we're going to get it, people are going to be here right now to give that testimony. But if it's okay with Lester, we can hold off on the final vote. on the two of these reports and one of these is an emergency ordinance. Assuming that that time frame works at the Bureau, I would suggest we do everything except take the vote and then we could reopen the conversation amongst ourselves with staff present, with the commissioner in charge present. Would that be an acceptable alternative? Sure. So really what you're saying is in all three items, we set them over. We have the hearing. Yeah, but I'd like to have the hearing today. I don't want to ask people to come back. And Lester, would that time frame work for you? I know you've got one of these as an emergency ordinance. Yes, I have the project manager from BES that could speak to the Burlingham, the second CPO report, 908. Right now I'm just narrowly asking, can we accept the proposal? I mean, we'll hear the presentation, but I want to know. to know in terms of the timing if it's okay if we set it over for a week. So the question to BES is, can we hold off a week taking a vote on an emergency ordinance on the Burlingame? Does that affect your timeline? I don't think it does, but I think the outcome of the vote might be different. The aspirational goals identified by J.W. Fowler on our project are just under 21%. Well, the council has the right to take the vote if we want. But if we choose to set it over, does it create any problem? No. That's all we need to know for now. We'll hold the hearing and then decide. Okay. So we'll continue, but we won't take the vote today. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to be clear that for me, just telling me that you have an aspiration that's woefully unfulfilled, underperforming is not going to gain my support. So I don't know what has to happen with the negotiating process, so that when you come in front of city council, that you are as close to your aspirations as you can possibly be. because it looks like we have a pattern of behavior that allows primary contractors to just disregard what our goals are and that we continue to contract with them regardless of whether or not they're close to the goals. And for me, that's just not acceptable. And that means that... It's going to be the window for passing these is going to close because you're hearing from one colleague that she has a non-negotiable bar for reviewing this. So I think at a minimum, for me, Stellar J goes on the list of that other company that we're taking a look at to find out what's really going on. Mayor, Senator Lawrence just reminded me. With all due respect, the BES matter is completely distinct from this one. Now, we can hear them all together, but 908 and 9, excuse me. 7, 8 and 18. Yeah, they're completely different. They're BES items. We are above the aspirational goals, and I at least want to keep the door open for the council deciding to act on those. Okay, so just to be clear, so I understand, are you saying – Set over 907 for a week. Set on 907, but 908 and 918, you believe you're prepared to act today? Yes, and I think the council will, based on the numbers which we're going to be hearing from, I think the council may be inclined to act as well. Whereas 908 and 918 are the Bureau of Environmental Services. It's a different set of systems, but we called them together because the same staff folks in procurement are working on all of these items. Correct. Just to clarify that for people who may be confused. Commissioner Udaly. So, Lester, you didn't have a chance to respond to me, and I'm happy to take this up with you outside of... Council setting, but I do want to ask one specific question for today. There were four bids received, so clearly there are other contractors that can do this work. This contractor is not responsive to our aspirational goals. Therefore, why wouldn't we look at the next lowest bid? Wait. You may not like this answer, but they were responsive to our aspirational program. So within our admin rules for the subcontractor equity program, we define what we consider as a good faith effort. So when we assessed Stellar J's engagement of certified firms, we believed that they did make a good faith effort, and that's why their bid was found to be responsive. With an aspirational program... We can only go off of a good faith effort. And did we look at the good faith effort of the three other applicants? We start with the lowest, assess their effort, and then if they, we can find them non-responsive in that regard, and then we go to the second lowest bidder and the third lowest bidder and go from there. It just seems like some kind of recalibration of the process is in order if we're ending up with... I mean, a good faith effort is a good faith effort, but we want real action. So if we want to have a... A required program, we would need to undertake a disparity study that would give us hard goals, and then we would be able to hold contractors accountable for meeting those goals. That's a very polite way of saying under our current disparity study, it would be illegal for us to go from an aspirational goal to a fixed goal. That's correct. Okay. If we're not getting anything in our aspirations, then I would suspect that we'd have to do something different. So, you know, I mean, you gave, so there are at least five contracts with this company that never met an aspirational goal. And so there has to be a breakdown in the system that people keep getting contracts where they never, ever meet. Why do we have an aspirational goal if people don't actually have to meet it? And I'm not, you're the messenger, Lester. You know I love you. You know I know you're trying to do good work, right? But this is the bane of my existence in this building because we say one thing and then the outcomes look different. And then we say, well, there's nothing we can do because legally we can't make people do stuff. Well, yes, we can. We got a lot of money that we give to people. So we can aspire to be better and then hold people accountable for that aspiration, I believe. Yeah. But thank you. This is not personally directed at you, Lester. I know how hard you work. I know what you're trying to accomplish. But it's just unacceptable that we continue to take these really horrible outcomes and then say that's the best we can do. So, Mayor, we're going to set 907 aside over until next week and then take up 908? Correct.
 Hi.
 Welcome.
 Hi. So let me just add one thing to what Commissioner Hardesty said, because, you know, Something is definitely out of whack. Either the aspirational goals are wrong, and we need to have an honest conversation about why that's the case, or there's something wrong on the delivery end. And it may be a combination of the two. I don't know, but there is an opportunity for a reset here. Commissioner Udaly. And, I mean, I think we may need more nuance in these goals because it is true for some of this work, there are very few contractors to choose from. It's also true the market is still very competitive. And as Lester said, these projects aren't always the most lucrative. Yeah. I think there's some areas we know there's plenty of contractors, but there's others where there's not, and we may need to be able to account for that. So one other thing on this, and then I'm going to go to Commissioner Hardesty on this, and then we'll move on, but it's a great conversation. If we are repeatedly either aspiring too high, and I don't think 21% strikes me as being aspiring particularly high, to be honest with you, And we're not hitting the target repeatedly if the reasoning is what Commissioner Udaly says it is. And I believe she's probably right, just based on anecdotal information. then the right answer is really about capacity building. In these areas where we continually, repeatedly fall below our expectations in terms of women and minority contractors, then we should be using the resources we have in PROSPER or elsewhere to help build up the capacity. And I realize that's a longer-term play, but ultimately that may be where we really need to put some of the work in here. And... I think we need to answer that question. Why are either the aspirations too high, the performance too low, and what are the options that are available to this council to address it over the long term? Because I feel what Commissioner Fish said is correct, that while this seems like a really arcane issue, a dam one needle valve replacement. My concern is for other larger project areas like Superfund, we're going to run into the same issue. And if we're going to run into that issue, I'd like to know it now and be able to plan for it and make targeted investments and focus policies to address it. Commissioner Hurst, you had a final comment. Thank you, Mayor. My final statement was just, I know if you came to me and said I had a $1.5 million contract and I want to contract with you for 5,000, I wouldn't be that interested either in doing any paperwork to put it in with your application. So I mean, it's about Are we really creating opportunities? Are we just going to people that we know are already busy just so that we can check a box and say, we talked to X number of people of color, right? You said they reached out to 60 companies. I don't know what that means. Did they send an email? Did they actually have phone conversations? Did they have a meeting in their office? Because if I look at the breakdown, I wouldn't bother to do the paperwork because it's not worth it for me. If you're getting $1.5 million and you're going to give me $5,000, why would I want to do that? So that's my last statement on this. We can move forward. All right. Thank you, Lester. Appreciate it. 908, please. Good afternoon, Lester. Good afternoon. Thank you. Lester Scudley, the Chief Procurement Officer. So we have two items. We have a CPO report and an emergency ordinance. Is he describing 908 and 918 together then? Correct. Yes. Okay, thank you. 908 is the CPO report and 918 is the emergency ordinance. All right, thank you. When the Bureau of Environmental Services filed its original authorizing ordinance, It's, they used a legacy template that limited their ability to execute a contract if the bid came in over the estimate. So that's one of the reasons why we're here with an emergency ordinance is to correct that authorizing ordinance to allow for that flexibility. So that authorizing ordinance was approved on May 8th, 2019. The engineer's estimate at the time was 2,112,000 and the confidence level was high. We issued an invitation to bid on July 29th and bids were due on August 20th. We had a mandatory pre-bid conference and we had 11 contractors attend. Seven of those were primes, two of those were subcontractors, and two were suppliers. On August 20th, we received four bids. James W. Fowler is the apparent low bidder and is the recommended awardee with a bid amount of $2,235,000, which is 5.8% over the estimate. The city's 20% aspirational program applied to this solicitation and James W. Fowler has committed to self-performing approximately 69% of the work. They've identified almost 21% of the work that they will engage certified subcontractors on and... Almost 11% of the work will go to non-certified subcontractors. I have a table in the CPO report that shows each of the certified subcontractors, what their certification is, the area of work, and what their ownership is. And I also have a table in the report to council that shows the non-certified contractors and subcontractors and what they'll perform work in. So I have the project manager from BES here to answer any project related questions. But if there are no questions, we recommend that you accept this report and authorize execution of the contract. I move the report. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Are we prepared to take the vote today? Commissioner Fish, you're good with it obviously? Yep. Very good. Any opposition? Is this an emergency? It's a report. So we're just accepting the report. Call the roll. Hardesty? I appreciate the work that's gone into this report. I feel like I'm a broken record because I keep asking the same question every time we have procurement conversations. I will not be voting for any procurement packages that come through that aren't clearly making the case for why there are no communities of color or women that are available to do the work. it will no longer be acceptable to say to me that, you know, they did a good faith effort and they didn't find anybody. So I vote no. Udaly, I fish. Let's be clear. They've exceeded all the goals we set on this project. Not 21%. It exceeds our goals. So just to be clear. We're on 908. I'm not questioning your vote. I'm just saying that on this one, That's correct. We hit our mark, and so I'll vote aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report is adopted to 918. So 918, have you completed your presentation? We've completed it. Then we need to take public testimony if there is any on 918. Sorry, I don't think Maggie came back. She did not come back. Last chance. Any further discussion? Call the roll. Hardesty. No. This is an emergency. Okay. On 9-18? 9-18. If you vote no, it forces us to come back next week, wait an extra month, and we have met the guide. We have met, Lester's already reported that we met, we exceeded the aspirational goals. That's correct. There's no opposition. There's no complaint filed to the, so a no vote means that we defeat the emergency clause. For my esteemed colleagues, I will be happy to change my vote on this particular issue. piece of legislation today because, as you said, we have exceeded the goals on this. However, I won't be forced to vote for something just because you need an emergency. But today I will make an exception and I will change my vote to vote aye for this particular piece of legislation. Udaly? Aye. Fish? Thank you, my colleague. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Okay. The ordinance is adopted. We will now move to, we cannot go to the 3.30 time certain yet, so we'll move into the regular agenda, 9-1-5, please. 915 extends subrecipient contracts with metropolitan public defenders by $100,000 in recreational cannabis tax funding to support the expungement pilot program to June 30, 2020. Colleagues, nationally as many as 100 million or nearly one-third of the entire United States population have criminal records. We know that criminal background checks are used by employers, landlords, colleges, and others to make important decisions. This means anyone with a criminal record can potentially face barriers to accessing jobs, housing, educational opportunity, and other important elements. Barriers created by having a criminal record disproportionately impact people of color. In line with this reality, people of color and people in recovery are the two most impacted groups prior to the legalization of cannabis. Since expungent... expungement, which is the ceiling of criminal records, can reduce the barriers for impacted individuals and families. The city council directed the Portland Housing Bureau to develop an expungement pilot program in May of 2019. Following this directive, the Portland Housing Bureau was contracted with the Metropolitan Public Defender to run an expungement pilot program. The project is funded through the city general funds for $50,000. The City Council was able to make a special allocation for expungement services from the Cannabis Recreational Tax Resources. We're going to start by watching a video created by my staff videographer on the life-changing impact that expungement can have. And here comes Adam in person. I was going through my contact zone and that's when I had a lot of curves. I was playing half-sleep and I wanted to go to a party and the situation happened where she was supposed to be fighting someone and she had a knife. Which I think is like 15 to 20 pounds. The store gets a lot of people listening to the store. And one of them gets sent to a police station. I'm so close to my parents. I'm looking for an answer to a little bit more of my own self-esteem. My son is breaking up. I stay at the hospital. I'm going to go talk to John. He's in the hospital. I was in the room with Dr. John. I was in the room with my own serious business. I'm so close to my parents. I'm going to go talk to my son. The expansion of the system is designed to create a kind of power that can be used to control the power system, to the extent that it can be used in other ways. The internal network is a network that is built to do what it needs to do, as you would expect. The network is actually a system that is designed to run the connection between the system and the infrastructure. This is a form of a connection that is used to connect to the system. Thank you. because I needed to stay focused on what's best for myself and what to do. I'm exposed. I have a lot of time for introverted. I actually have time. I want for me to be able to move forward and achieve whatever goal they have for themselves, whatever they've trained for themselves, and be able to reenter that goal slowly. I'm very, very exposed. I feel so good. It's a momentous goal. basically it was Very good. Thank you. And I believe I'm turning this over to Uma Krishnan at this point from the Portland Housing Bureau. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. For the record, I'm Uma Krishnan, staff lead for the expungement pilot. And I have here with me Sonia Stephanie. She's the staff lead from MPD. And Andreas Oswald, if you have questions, how the pilot fits in with the larger policy goals of the PHP. So essentially we are here to answer your questions around the pilot and if you have any questions around the connections between that pilot, which is ongoing and it's, And next is to today's request, which is to request the council to authorize the additional 100,000 funding. So. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you so much. Metropolitan Public Defenders is who would be getting $100,000. I try not to use acronyms because, A, the public doesn't know what we're talking about, and, B, it makes it clearer to the public what we're attempting to do. I am curious as to the types of expungements that Metropolitan Public Defenders has done so far with the pilot project dollars. Okay. Because again, this fund comes from a marijuana tax. I guess we call it cannabis tax around here because some people get a little freaked out when you call it marijuana. But be that as it may, can you give me some information about just who has had their records expunged? And are there community members that you want to highlight, types of community members who are being helped by these resources? So I'm going to let Sonia answer your specific question, but I do want to add here that the ongoing pilot, which was just about expungement, with this additional cannabis money, because of the objectives tied to the cannabis, we have added scope that the expungement be provided in locations or agencies which specifically serve people of color and people in recovery so that the objective the funding is kept in mind. Thank you. So for the record, my name is Sonia Good-Stefani, and I'm a staff attorney in the Community Law Division, which is a division within the Metropolitan Public Defender's Office. So with the original general funds, the first $50,000, we held six clinics. The clinics were held... at Street Roots, which is an organization. I mean, you probably know they sell the newspapers downtown. We held three clinics at libraries. So we held it at the Midland Library, the Gresham Library, and the Rockwood Library. We held one clinic at Healthy Birth Initiatives, which is a county organization actually designed to provide African-American mothers and their families with supportive services during pregnancy and childbirth. when they have a newborn. And then the last clinic was at Impact Northwest out by their shelter. The general pilot didn't necessarily focus on any specific population besides folks who were in poverty. So we have a requirement that you have to be below 80% medium income level in order to participate in the expungement clinic for those. We met with about the contract... was designed so that we had to screen at least 100 people, and we screened about 175 with those six clinics. Going forward, again, as Uma said, we are focusing on site locations that will be specific for people of color and women in particular. So we have a clinic actually scheduled for two days from now on Friday at Project Nurture, which is a... center for new moms who have been experiencing addiction. As far as your question goes as to what has been expunged in particular. So we expunge everything that can be expunged under the law. So that includes the expungement statute is specific, it's most class C felonies and misdemeanors and everything marijuana related that the legislature has approved expungement. So anything marijuana-related except for there are five marijuana, cannabis-related convictions. I see you did it too. Cannabis-related convictions that are ineligible for expungement, so we can't expunge those, but otherwise we expunge everything else. We're really excited because starting in January there are some new laws that got passed by the legislature that will allow us to expunge. cannabis related convictions outside of the regular expungement statute. So as my colleague in the video said, you have to wait a certain amount of time, regardless of what your convictions or arrests were. But the new laws coming into effect will allow us to essentially pluck some of the marijuana convictions out and expunge those convictions. So I appreciate that explanation and I just will share my concern. We know that the people that were most impacted by poor cannabis law were African American. And so when we say people of color, It's a very generic term, right? But if we look at based on conviction rates of marijuana across the board, there's no surprise as who's been most impacted. So what would your strategy be to ensure that based on conviction rates that your demographics would reflect your help of the people who have been most impacted by poor cannabis public policy? I can attempt to answer your question. Our strategy is that the model, the way the pilot works, is to kind of take, for short of a better phrase, it's like taking expungement services on the road. So given how we have seen things work in the past, We are hoping to partner with culturally specific organizations, in this case the African, the agencies that provide specific services to African American population and we could hold a clinic there. So I think that's the strength of the pilot. We are planning on holding eight separate workshops. Legal workshops, and we will make sure that it perhaps makes, we can make sure that it serves African American people who have been disproportionately impacted. Thank you. Commissioner E.J.? I'm going to sound like a total nerd here. It's okay. But Commissioner Hardesty brought up a good point. I also referred to it as marijuana when I first got here, and then the term was switched to cannabis, and I didn't understand why. But I now know, and I can share with you, it's the proper term. It's the more accurate term. And the history of the word cannabis marijuana is related to the federal bureau of narcotics making it illegal in the 30s and calling it something other than cannabis or hemp which were commonly understood terms and uh may have garnered more opposition if they tried to make cannabis and hemp illegal and it was also um There was also a racist agenda, mostly towards Mexican-Americans at that time. So... I love to nerd out on words. Yes, as do I sometimes. Thank you. I appreciate that. But it is awkward and I still mix the two. I will always call it marijuana. So just for public policy purposes, I use the term cannabis. But hey. As the commissioner in charge of the Cannabis Office, I grant you that authority. We know what you're talking about. Thank you so much. I appreciate your work and I look forward to seeing the results of the additional resources that you've received. Thank you. So we're not taking a vote. Moving on. Yeah, we'll take public testimony, but I want to make sure. Are you completed with your presentation? Is there more you'd like to say? No, we are. Just thank you so much for this additional authorization. Well, we appreciate your leadership on this. Thank you. And your partnership is very important, obviously. Before they leave. I was just going to ask the gentleman if he wanted to introduce himself. I feel like we just brought you up here to look at. I'm just here to answer questions. My name is Andres Azul from the Portland Housing Bureau. I think Uma covered everything very well. In the time since the Bureau has been allocated funding from the cannabis fund, the Housing Bureau has been taking time to recalibrate the program and made some contract amendments that you can see in Exhibit A on how we'll be working with the Office of Civic Life and the Cannabis Grant Fund to make sure we're targeting the outreach and program design to reach the population these funds are intended to serve. Thank you very much. Great. Commissioner Daly. Thank you. I just want to give what would have been my closing remarks since we have the speakers here today. First, I want to thank everyone for the beautiful video and just say that I'm really pleased and supportive of seeing the cannabis tax dollars used towards expungement, which I consider to be one of the most vital services that we can provide. I also want to take a moment to thank our state legislators. leaders for the steps they took in the last session to reduce the barriers to expungement. But I'm going to go on record for the umpteenth time, I think, to say that I still don't think it's fair that the burden is on the individual. and that the state should adopt an automatic system for record clearing, but that is a conversation for another day. Today I just want to reaffirm how important it is that we provide pathways for formerly incarcerated people to reintegrate into our communities. I don't understand the punitive attitudes towards people who have paid their dues, and I hope, I feel like if... people understood that they're not just punishing that individual but punishing their families, punishing their communities, and ultimately punishing our whole society because we are doing harm to everyone when we don't support people reentering community. It's especially true in housing, which continues to be a major barrier, even when criminal record is not necessarily an indicator for successful tenancy. The health and safety of our communities depends on our commitment to this work, and I just want to thank you all and thank the mayor for supporting it. Very good. Public testimony. No one else signed up? Very good. And before we pull away, Adam is our amazing video director, videographer. Thanks Adam for your hard work on that. Thanks to all of you for the great partnership and I'll just say this, I'll say it again when we actually take final vote. That as the housing commissioner, I'll make sure that we continue to work diligently on this, that we continue to make the partnership effective. We will report back to the city council on what the progress is of the expungement pilot and also bring back plans for potential expansion assuming we like the results that we see out in the community. So thank you for that. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. Next item is 916, Bureau of Transportation. authorize a construction contract with Cascade Bridge LLC in the estimated amount of up to $1 million for the stabilization and repair of the north going street bridge under the auspices of a declaration of an emergency per ORS 279C.335 competitive bidding exceptions. Commissioner Daly. Thank you, Mayor. On Sunday, September 8th, a Union Pacific train collided with and caused significant damage to PBOT's north going street bridge. Coincidentally, I was in Vancouver, B.C. at the Railvolution Conference. I hate to think this is a bad omen. North Going Street Bridge is the only connection to and from Swan Island. The six-lane bridge is currently limited to one lane in each direction due to the extent of the damage. PBOT engineering staff is working around the clock to assess the damage and move forward with repairs. This bridge is a critical lifeline for shipping, manufacturing, jobs, and local community interests on Swan Island. We're strongly in support of... expedited action to make the necessary repairs. Oh I don't have I don't get to do this every day. Therefore I have declared an emergency exception to the competitive bidding process so repairs can occur as soon as possible. Here to provide more details and answer any questions is Cameron Glasgow, Engineering Supervisor with PBOT. Thank You Commissioner Udaile. And somebody else. My name is Steve Townsend. I'm chief engineer for transportation. We actually have been able to get a second lane open into Swan Island. And it's one lane out. But normally there are three lanes in and out. I'm just here to help Cameron out with any questions. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Cameron Glasgow, the Bureau of Transportation's engineering supervisor for bridges and structures. I'll be happy to take you through what we've been experiencing out there after the collision. That's the scene as it looked when we first arrived. This was the morning of September 7th when we got the call about a train colliding with our bridge. What we know is Bridge B, number 12. And we knew it was the old part of the bridge that was hit, which was concerning, and I'll explain that in a moment. So when we arrived, we... Due to the damage that we saw, we had to close all travel lanes on the bridge, especially during the removal of the train that was resting on the bridge. And then traffic was rerouted onto River Road at the time. And we wanted to follow up with another inspection before we opened up travel lanes on the bridge, so we mobilized... high lift inspection equipment to get to the top of the column to further evaluate the damage. We also brought on board a consultant that day to assist us with the evaluation, and they had some technology that's not available to us that we needed. At that point on Sunday, we were able to get up to do our inspection of the columns and the deck and determine it was safe to open two lanes of travel across the bridge, one inbound and one outbound. And the reason why we're able to do that, even though the bridge did sustain significant damage, it's really three bridges built at separate times. The middle structure was built in 1930, and two adjacent parallel structures were built in 1976. And... The bridges are somewhat independent, but they were tied together in 2010 by a scientific retrofit that we did, which actually I think benefited the bridge in this case to resist the impact, but does make repairs a little more challenging because the bridges do share loads from the heavy vehicles. Here's another view looking like you're standing on the ground looking down the line of the bridge and that shows the two lanes on the left side of the structure the northern most lanes that were opened up. How many more bridges could we add? I just... Just yeah, we can probably fit another two in there. Yeah, it's got quite a history. There's been a lot of modifications over time on this one and the damage columns you can see right with the red arrows and the Right column of the 1930 bridge sustained the most damage. Here's some photos that we took up on the lift. The photo on the left shows damage all the way up the column where the beams frame in, and that was due to the vertical bars actually buckling and popping the concrete out. And we even noticed damage up in the top of the deck or on the surface that the vehicles drive. And the photo on the right is near the impact zone, but that crack is showing over 3 quarters of an inch, and there's several of those. So the following week, we used ground penetrating radar from the consultant to evaluate the bridge deck. We reached out to a contractor to get them on board to know what materials they had available for us to start our designs for the repair and shoring of the bridge, and had them out on site by the 10th To take a look, we started demolishing the damaged portions of the bridge deck and repairing that in an effort to attempt to open an additional lane of traffic. And we got on this right away because there's 35,000 vehicles per day that cross this bridge and a lot of heavy freight that relies on it. We also arranged a time to... closed the railroad for foundation excavation to determine the damage in the foundation below ground. And after that, we were able to open a third travel lane. And there's some of the work we've done so far. Oh, wow. And this is the current configuration of the travel lanes that are open. Those two lanes on the north side are westbound onto the island. And they're open 24 hours. And the eastbound, the only lane off the island, is now the southernmost lane. And colleagues, I just want to underscore part of the urgency besides this being such a huge center of jobs is that UPS and FedEx are both sited on Swan Island. And we are quickly rolling into the holiday season. So this could actually be economically disastrous for jobs. for businesses across the city if we don't act really quickly. I would like this presentation to include some of the commentary that was made the other day. We didn't damage this bridge. This bridge was damaged by the railroad. And it was an oil train. We've discussed in here previously what this could have been versus what it actually was. How responsive has the railroad been? First of all, who is the railroad? The railroad is Union Pacific. And how responsive have they been? Initially, they were very responsive in allowing us to access the site to evaluate the damage. And they've connected us with their home office in Omaha in an effort to review our repair concepts. Since they agree in principle I think to where we're headed, the issue that we're running into with them is the amount of time there going to allow us to be on-site for them to stop or halt their operations so we can perform the work and we're negotiating that with them right now. And so is what why is this a negotiation? There's a life safety issue here. Photos speak for themselves. The Commissioner in charge is in agreement and What's to negotiate? We need time to be able to shore up and repair these bridges that are a vital piece of infrastructure for Swan Island, and a lot of people cross it every day. So why is it a negotiation? Because I believe we're going to be able to. Pardon me? Crush their trains and keep them from moving cars through the city. You know, they're not really doing us a favor. The part is that it's their underlying property, so they're a property owner in principle. And so I asked you a question the other day, and you may not have the answer to that question, which is what are our rights – I know as mayor I have certain rights around declaring emergencies when there is a life safety risk. They may supersede other potential existing arrangements. Do we have any leverage here? I believe the attorneys are looking into that right now. I don't have the answer. Yeah, so we got the right-of-way reports from our right-of-way group, and they've been sent over to Ken McGare and Scott Mody, who are taking a look at that. So they maintain the tracks as well. So it may be that the train was doing what the train was supposed to be doing, the engineer. And, by the way, I'm told nobody on the train was injured, which is a good thing. We're glad to hear that. but it may be that the tracks themselves failed or the substructure under the tracks failed. That is their responsibility to maintain that, is it not? So there should be no disagreement about who's going to pay for the repairs. Correct. Have they agreed to that? With this, when we've talked to them, they've said that they're going to make this their insurance claim, but with this they haven't raised any concerns about or fighting. I mean, I think it's one of those things they realize they damaged the bridge, they're going to pay to fix it. Going back to kind of the negotiation, it's one of those things of trying to come up with a reasonable solution for both of us so that we're able to get the bridge done in the right time frame to get things done. I just want to put on the record, they damaged this bridge. This is their responsibility, and it is my expectation that they will work with us and provide whatever flexibility they can to ensure that we're able to do this work quickly. Right. And if we can't get that, we will definitely be asking for assistance. And I'm putting that on the record that I will use whatever options are available to me as mayor, and I'm sure that I speak for this council when I say that. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. On the same note, I think the mayor was looking over my shoulder, reading my questions on my little notepad here, because he asked most of my questions. The only one he didn't ask that I know was next, had he not saw me trying to get in, is the question of how soon are they going to reimburse us for the cost of the repair of this bridge? So that's something we don't have an answer to. I'll tell you how it works on our fellow projects, and actually maybe we have a... Randy, you want to come up here? Yeah. Hey, Randy. Take my spot. So we're getting ready to spend a million bucks with the hope that the people who actually damaged the bridge are going to give it back? So risk management is handling the- What's your name? I'm sorry, Randy Stenquist, Liability Claims Manager of Risk Management. Thank you. So my office has been working with the railroad beginning a week after the incident. We put out a couple of communications to them via email to their local representative. about our intentions. I can share with you the statement that I provided PBOT's public information officer because citizens were asking questions not unlike what you all are asking. And the statement was, risk management will seek to recover from Union Pacific and any other responsible parties, all reasonable and necessary costs associated with the damage to the city's transportation infrastructure on September 7th, 2019, as well as other costs related to the incident and the resulting disruptions. So that has been our intention, that remains our intention. The reality of how the subrogation collection process works is that the work has to be completed. It's essentially a reimbursement that we would be seeking from them. And we are doing everything we can to process, move through the process of having a dialogue with them on the engineering front. Things seem to be going very well to move the repairs along. On the financial side, they are less communicative. That's not a surprise to any of us who have worked with the railroads over the years. But we have sent formal notification to the railroad, both to their headquarters in Omaha, as well as to the local risk management representative here in town. And everyone is aware that we are going to be seeking recovery of our damages. That would happen at the end of the process once all of the bills have been tallied up. Risk management will be putting together a demand package that we would submit formally to the railroad. And just one last question. In your experience, and it sounds like you've been doing this for a little while, is there normally a smooth process, or is this a process that will require us to use political muscle, either from our congressional delegation or others who can assure that we get reimbursed? Are you referring to specifically with a relationship with the railroad? Yes. Okay. Historically, I've been here 18 years doing this work and I've had a number of railroad claims in that time. If I had to characterize the relationship, it is challenging. And it has always been. And we recognize that going in. And I think that's just how they portray themselves. And it's a huge conglomerate. And it's very bureaucratic, not unlike the city of Portland. But we all have a process in place to... you know, seek recovery of monies that we believe are owed to us. And there's clearly a legal liability on their piece. I just want to... I'll just see Daly, then... I'm sorry, go ahead. Yeah, let me just finish. I just want to thank Commissioner Udaly because this is the very first time in my experience here that... This is a real emergency. We're talking about people's lives potentially being lost if we don't do this repair in a timely manner. And so it's, though I don't like emergencies, I am very appreciative to know that we have a mechanism in place when there's a real emergency that we can step up and actually do what needs to be done and then put pressure on at the back end. So thank you. Commissioner Daly. Because we have other train-related concerns in the city, I just wanted to explicitly say on the record, the reason we're having this... kind of back and forth and challenges with this project is that this property is outside of our jurisdiction. It is under the U.S. DOT and federal rail or it's under federal railroad transportation under U.S. DOT, correct? And there are a number of federal laws that preempt state and local ability to control what happens on that property. And it's obviously really problematic when a train cuts through a city and potentially impacts lives and jobs. So thanks for your hard work. I'm not an engineer, but those photos were terrifying to me, and I can't believe it's only going to cost a million dollars. Commissioner Fish? Yeah. Randy, has the railroad denied liability? For this incident? Yes. They have been silent on liability? They've neither accepted nor denied liability. Correct, sir. Do we have a working hypothesis as to how this happened? According to media reports, the railroad acknowledged that it was a broken rail that led to the derailment. So that sounds like negligence. It sounds like what? That sounds like common law negligence. One could make that argument. They are responsible for maintaining the tracks in a certain order, and it is foreseeable that if there's a broken track, there would be a derailment, and it could damage other property. Correct. Do we have confidence this will not happen again at the same location? No. That I can't speak to. I'll defer to Pivot and their current relationship with the railroad. Yeah, I don't think we could make a comment on that. It would be speculative at this point. Well, it could be less than speculative if the railroad makes an affirmative commitment to do an analysis to make sure that this doesn't happen again or that the equipment is not in substandard condition or whatever. So are we pursuing that? We hadn't been. I mean, it's been our assumption that the railroad is going to make every effort, not only in this case, but in every location to make sure that their tracks are, because it's in their own best interest, to make sure they have things fully well maintained. But that's not something we'd ask the railroad. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Any further questions? Is there public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up. Very good. I sort of hate to take the vote without commission. Well, we need her because it's an emergency. Do we need four? Mustafa's on it. Yes, we do. Mayor, why don't we just take up 917, and when she arrives, we can take the vote. Do you mind starting 917, Commissioner? Oh, that is fine with me. Very good, 917. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. Great presentation. Thank you. And thanks to the good work of PBOT and Procurement Legal on this. 917, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University to conduct disability engagement and equity research not to exceed $75,000. Very good. And I'll turn this over to Commissioner Udaly in a moment, but just sort of an administrative heads up at some point. I'll do a brief interruption just so we can close out the prior item with a vote. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, this ordinance will allow us to release funds for an IGA with Portland State University to conduct disability engagement and equity research. The results of this research will be used to inform Civic Life's efforts and will be shared with citywide partners. Joanne Johnson from the Disability Program Coordinator in Civic Life and Nico Serra and Leila Haileh from Real Choice Initiative are here for a brief presentation. Welcome, and please state your, well, you know. Everyone, please state your name for the record. Of course. Good afternoon, commissioners and mayor. I'm Joanne Johnson, disability program coordinator with the Office of Community and Civic Life. Thank you for your ongoing support in having us here today. I'm here, along with Nico Serra and Layla Hale from Real Choice Initiative, to ask you to authorize the intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University so we can begin work on the Disability Engagement and Equity Study. We'll share an overview of the study and why it's so important for our city and communities, as well as how we got to this point and what our next steps are. Do you need to pause? No, we'll wait until you finish your presentation. The Disability Data Project was funded in fiscal year 2017-2018 in the amount of $55,000 to collect data on Portland's diverse disability communities. Civic Life added $20,000 to the agreement through the fiscal year 18-19 spring bump from disability program funds to support a more meaningful study. The Disability Engagement and Equity Study will provide information that supports the city's efforts to understand how people access civic engagement and other city services and identify how diverse disabled Portlanders want to engage. It will also inform civic life program development and citywide equity efforts. Layla Hale and Nico Serral will share more about the study design soon. I want to take a moment to underscore the deep need for this work. Data on Portlanders with disabilities, especially as it relates to civic engagement and experiences accessing city services, is extremely limited. Moreover, the data that does exist at county, state, and federal levels is outdated or cannot be disaggregated by disability, race, gender, etc. While the 2019 Portland Community Insights Survey is a great start, we need a more specific disability-focused effort to understand how diverse disabled Portlanders do and want to engage with the city and what's getting in the way. We continue to need a more complete picture of how Portlanders with disabilities from many communities experience city engagement and city services. see in front of you, community and government partners have already worked incredibly hard to get us to this point. In the summer of 2018, staff met with data analysts and impacted community members. RFP was open in fall 2018, with the first deadline falling just before Thanksgiving. The deadline was extended to get more applicants. The RFP was closed in winter 2018, and our selection process left us with two fantastic applicants with very complementary and equally necessary skill sets. So we asked them to collaborate. In spring of 2019, a draft collaborative contract was created and went through legal review. And this summer, we sent the contract to Portland State University for review and negotiations. And now we're here, ready for your authorization to begin work. Please allow me to introduce the teams who will be working on this study. I would like to share a statement from Dr. Masami Nishishiba, and then I will hand it off to Nico Seurat and Lila Hale to introduce themselves and share more about their team. Amy Mishashiba is a professor and department chair of the Department of Public Administration, Highfield School of Government, Portland State University. She couldn't be here today, but wanted to share this with you. I'm excited to be part of this important project, working in collaboration with the Office of Community and Civic Life and the team from Real Choice Initiative. Real Choice and Portland State University collaboratively discussed the approach to this study. While there are a variety of ways to collect information about and from disability communities, we decided to focus our effort on using a standardized online questionnaire. We are aware, however, that just sending online surveys from an electronic form will not reach the broader disability community. Therefore, we will employ multiple modalities in administering this survey. Once the survey data is collected, we will organize a town hall style information sharing session. Portland State University will be providing expertise in research methods, survey software resources, and we will be engaging students and providing students opportunities to learn more about the disability communities and the research approach. I would now like to invite Nico Serra from Real Choice Initiative to present their roles and their team members. Of course. Thanks, Joanne. Hi. My name is Nico Sella. I'm a white, passing, mixed-race, queer, and transgender person with disabilities, and I use they pronouns. As Joanne stated, I'm with Real Choice Initiative. Alan Hines, our director and the project manager, couldn't be here today, and we prepared a statement for you all. Okay. Our team of organizers and service providers have deep and lasting connections in the disability community. Together we have a broad reach and can engage underrepresented populations such as people of color, queer and transgender people, people living in group settings, and those struggling to survive out on the streets. Through the connections we developed while in the field, we've learned that many disabled people are eager to have comprehensive data that will better inform the decisions of local policymakers and ultimately improve our lives. In the past, many researchers studying the disability community have turned to non-probability sampling, often in the form of focus groups and convenience samples. Focus groups often require a community presence as someone to identify, a level of health to be present and participating for an extended period of time, easily remedied excess needs, and transportation. The result is a small pool of relatively privileged people representing a diverse and expansive disability community to the exclusion of the most oppressed among us. Our team hypothesizes that the fulfillment of basic needs is a predictor of individuals' civic engagement. That is, when people with disabilities fare well in addressing social determinants of health, they have a greater capacity to engage with the policies that affect their lives. Our study is designed to gather demographic information data on six categories of basic needs, respondents' current level of civic engagement, and their recommendations to better support them to participate in the political process. We hope to survey at least 350 to 450 people, and we believe that engaging a diverse group of people with disabilities is key for this study and beyond. And I will pass it on to Layla. I'll let go of everything else that my colleagues here said. It was all very well put. Also, my name is Layla Hale for the record. I'm most passionate about this project because we know that in government, if there's no data, then there's no problem. And we know that with no data collection, we don't exist. And that is a form of very quiet bureaucratic eugenics that we want to push against. And also pushing the fact that we are the only community that anyone can become a part of at any moment. So I feel like we're also the most important that folks in power need to pay attention to when we're talking about allocating resources and creating a sustainable city that serves folks in the long term. I feel like that's all I have to say. Cool. That this work is really important, and if we're thinking of truly serving everyone who's involved in most of the systems that serve our people, we need to look at the folks who are most oppressed and who are at the forefront of that. We're basically a canary in the coal mine when it comes to evaluating how our systems are serving the greater public. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. As you can see, this process and this study are rooted in collaborations between governments and communities. This is no less true within the City of Portland and our partners in the county and community. This study was funded in response to communities and government partners' calls for this kind of data. As we've been moving through this process to begin work on the study and shared our anticipation, we've heard nothing but enthusiastic support from our colleagues in the Office of Equity and Human Rights, as well as other bureaus like the Portland Bureau of Transportation, the Portland Housing Bureau, Friends at Multnomah County, and respected community leaders within disability community organizations. There's a lot of excitement for the many ways this data can support engagement and equity efforts across the city and in our communities. Because the data from this study will be a leap forward in informing our race and disability equity efforts in the city, we want to underscore that the Office of Equity and Human Rights has long recognized the need for this kind of data. They've been deeply supportive of the project and will be consulted throughout our data collection efforts. We plan to share our results with the Office of Equity and Human Rights and all other bureaus and partners to support our collective equity work. I'd like to read a statement from Nicole Cherone, ADA Title II and Disability Equity Manager with the Office of Equity and Human Rights, who couldn't be here today but wanted to share her thoughts. Distinguished Council Members, I'm sorry I couldn't be here today, but I wanted to share my thoughts all the same. When the Coalition for Communities of Color put their report on the state of black Portland, I was in awe. It made such a statement and impact to see in such clear numbers the inequity faced by people of color living in Portland. I've known for a long time that if we were able to do such a report in regards to people with disabilities living in Portland, we would see similar numbers. Unemployment, access to housing, and living on a fixed low income would paint a dire picture. But we don't have these numbers, and we don't get much assistance from the federal government in collecting that information either. The Census Bureau only collects data on disability through the American Community Survey, ACS, beginning in 1999 with a heavy focus on social services, and the Survey of Income and Program Participation, SIPP, starting in 2014. The current data available around disability statistics is further compromised by the social stigmas associated with identifying as a person with a disability. Older Americans, for example, are 35% more likely to experience a disability over the age of 65, and they rarely identify themselves as having a disability. Without good data, we cannot draw a clear picture of the gaps and inequities people are facing. only a few reasons why Joanne's project is so important. I wanted to let you know how excited and supportive of this I am. OEHR will be available to Joanne in Civic Life to make sure this process is a success. I truly believe Joanne's work will set a model and direction other cities will hopefully follow. Nicole, ADA Title II and Disability Equity Management. Our next step is getting to work. the study, design, and data collection timeline, officially kicking off engagement with city and community partners, and formally reaching out to Portlanders so they know how to get involved. We'll be back here in May to share what we've learned and how it will inform our work going forward. And we're looking forward to it already. I'm happy to respond to any questions you might have now. Thank you for your time and kind attention. We urge you to approve this IGA so we can get to work. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you all for your compelling testimony. Let me just say we need you. We need you to conduct this survey. We need you to get this information incorporated into the city's work, and I am thrilled. And I am channeling my colleague, Commissioner Fritz, who isn't here today, but I know this is near and dear to her heart. So I just want you to know that... I'm giddy and I know she's giddy. She can't say it on the record, but I'll say it for her, that we're moving this process forward. It's taken a long, long time, but hopefully we're doing it in a very thoughtful way so that the information we get will be useful for the work that we have ahead. So thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. I want to add my thanks. And Joanne, you probably said this. Could you tell me what the next step is? Do you have a time frame for coming back to the city council with your learning? We'll be back in May. In May. Thank you. And earlier or later, do we have a date set? Mid-May. Okay, good. And... I just want to acknowledge our timeline has changed several times just because of the bureaucracies of getting all of the pieces done so that we could start working. Good. I just want to make sure I'm here because I'm really excited about this and I look forward to the results. Thank you. We need a fish for fish. And this is an emergency, so we need to go grab. Two emergencies. We need them for both, in fact. Is Mustafa? Yes. I could go grab one. No, because I know what's going to happen. Don't you dare. Right there. Don't you dare. It's hurting, Kath. We've been here before, haven't we? Indeed we have. Commissioner Fish, you're wanted in chambers. I'm sure that's him now. I don't know how he gets through that exit door. No. I was talking to you. OK, he'll be back. Any other questions for us? Well, thank you very much. Thank you. We're going to vote on this. We just have to- Yeah, we, the good news is we can stall because we need to take testimony. Carla, was there any public testimony on 917? No one signed up. Okay. Of course not. I can share some- Commissioner Udali. Reflections. Please. And appreciations. I want to thank Nicole Sharon, of course, and thank Joanne especially for advancing this item. I want to kind of expand on something that Leila said, which is that people with disabilities are the largest minority group in this country. And it is true that anyone can join at any moment. Unlike most other minority groups, despite what some people might think. some people have visible disabilities, some people have invisible disabilities, but the lack of data that we have, the lack of access, inclusion, and opportunity of people with various types of disabilities does lead to this disappearing, where people think they don't exist, therefore there's no need or demand, and it's just this vicious cycle of people not being served and not being recognized. So... I'm very, very excited about this study. It's a perfect example of a significant community in our city that is underrepresented and underserved and for a variety of reasons may be unable to engage in the very prescribed ways that we have historically and currently allowed people to engage. And the really good news is when we center disability and serve people with disabilities, it benefits everyone. So now we can take the vote. Thank you. Very good. So any further business on number 917? Seeing none, please call the roll, Carla. Hardesty. Hardesty. Great work. I look forward to you coming back in May of next year and telling us what the results are and helping us figure out a way to make sure that that work is implemented throughout the city of Portland. I vote aye. You daily. Well Obviously, I'm looking forward to working closely with Civic Life, PSU, and Real Choice Initiative on this study. I love that this is a partnership across community, academia, and government, and know that we'll end up with a better outcome because of this collaboration. This study is one important step forward to helping us get a more complete picture of who is here in our city, what their needs and priorities are, and how the city can best serve people of all abilities. This is especially important in the context of civic engagement. So thank you again to our presenters, Joanne, Nico, Leila, for being here today. I'm looking forward to our work together. I vote aye. Fish? Thank you very much. Aye. Wheeler. Great presentation. I look forward to seeing the results. Joanne, thank you for all your hard work on this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Congratulations. Thanks so much. Next item, Carla, can we go back to the vote, please, on 916? Okay. Hardesty?
 Aye.
 Udailey? Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye.
 Wheeler? I want to thank Commissioner Udailey, the Transportation Bureau, for their diligent and very quick work, particularly over a weekend, particularly given that they had to work all night. I want to thank the crews that were out there working to shore up North Going Street. down to Swan Island. I want to thank our legal staff and risk management for their diligence on this as well. And I want to thank them in particular for hearing the words of the council today about both our sense of urgency and our sense of where the responsibility ultimately lies for this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. We will next go back to our time certain item, which is 9. One, four, please. Appoint Maria Gabriel-Syphon, Megan Horst, Michael David Edenhill, Shanice Brittney Clark, and Robin Wang to the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund Committee for terms to expire September 25, 2023. Colleagues, this is an important waypoint in the Portland Clean Energy Fund process today. Collectively as a city council, we're going to announce the first five members of the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund, otherwise known as the PCEF Committee. Before we meet the first five, I want to thank all of those who supported and voted for the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Funds Initiative. There are many of the coalition members here in the council chamber today. Thank you for being here. It's good to see all of you. Happy to support green today as a small token of my appreciation. I don't typically wear green. It clashes, but today I wore a green tie in honor of you, in honor of the hard work that you did. So thank you for that. The initiative, part of the city's continuing commitment to be a climate leader nationally and globally, shows that Portlanders will come together to make our city both a greener, place as well as making sure that we also have a more diverse workforce. November 2018 showed us that Portlanders can support, lead, and vote for climate justice. We can both build our communities and address our climate without sacrificing one ideal for the other. I am proud that we take yet another step to implement this important initiative today. Sam Barrasso from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is here to help introduce our first five appointments. And thank you Sam, the PSAF team, and the Office of Community and Civic Life for working together on such an important recruitment process. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, for the record, my name is Sam Bross, and I'm incredibly fortunate to be the program manager for the Portland Clean Energy Fund. Before we get started today, I want to go ahead and bring up the first three folks that we're going to be chatting with, just to make sure that folks get familiar with these faces. But I want to go ahead and bring up Maria Sippen, Megan Horst, and Michael Eden Hill. And I'm going to pull up one more chair. Mr. Rosita. See, I'm going to call him up. Yeah. Okay. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. Commissioners. So... I and the PCF team are excited to be here today as this marks an important next step in implementation of voters' vision. Ten months since the voters passed the Portland Clean Energy Initiative, the first of its kind nationally, we're here to take this huge step. But before I do that, I want to acknowledge that in that time, we've also recruited a phenomenal startup team at the city to make this happen. And you'll see some of those folks in front of you in the months to come. But that's not why we're here today. A key part of the vision that was supported by voters last November is the PCEF Committee. The PCEF Committee is central to assuring that the Portland Clean Energy Fund is accountable to the voter's vision. And before we get into what some of that vision is, I want to talk you through some of the recruitment process because this was probably one of the most, I would say it was probably one of the best recruitment processes I certainly was involved in. So, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability worked in close collaboration with the Office of, we have a presentation I'd love to queue up. Thomas. Ah, we've got him there. I probably, I'm going to, so one thing I'll say, I've been in this role for three months. So, this is the first time in front of you all and I'm happy to be in front of you all, but I would learn, I wouldn't know next time to sit over that way. And so. We need to switch. What was that? Do you need one of these? Maybe that might be helpful. Let's do that. We'll wait. We can advance the question. And Sam, you can just slide that microphone wherever is convenient for you. Great. This is your first presentation. This is, this is. Well, congratulations. Thank you, thank you. It's an important waypoint, absolutely. Great, great. I appreciate it. Okay, so what I want to start with is just give you an overview of how we brought forth this phenomenal committee and got to this phenomenal bunch of folks in front of you all. We worked in close collaboration with the Office of Community and Civic Life, specifically Ashley Jaden, who I want to give a huge thank you to in supporting us through this process in running an incredibly successful recruitment. We recruited over a hundred applicants for the Portland Clean Energy Fund Initiative. I was happy that Mayor you, Commissioner Hardesty, and several others on the commission put a wide reach out to your networks to make sure folks applied, and that was really evident. What was also evident in the recruitment is that the panel of 100 folks we have is incredibly diverse and represents the wide swaths of the city, bringing a phenomenal representation of skill sets to the table. In order to get from that 100 hundred hundred individuals that applied to be on the committee we worked with a selection advisory committee composed of three folks both community members as well as city employees in order to help narrow that list and we used what you this diagram you have in front of you to help narrow that list and we don't need to really focus too much on it but the broad gist is that we wanted to make sure that we stuck and honored the language within the initiative which is which is the key points is Any individual that would serve on the committee has to have demonstrated commitment towards the Climate Action Plan, as well as demonstrated commitment towards empowering communities of color, low-income folks, folks with disabilities, and those historically underemployed. And then there's a range of specific skill sets that were sought after and needed to be sort of brought together within the final panel, the final committee. Now, we used this to get to a list of about a top 18 list, and we were able to work with your phenomenal staff in helping bring forward the great candidates you have in front of us today. And so I don't need to go too far into those details, but I want to speak to a little bit of what this committee is going to be charged and tasked to do over the next year. several six months as well as the next four years of their term. So the role of the grant committee, they're going to be adopting methodologies to measure, track, and report to various stakeholders the effectiveness of the program in implementing its goals. They're going to be adopting a workforce and contractor equity plan. They're going to be making recommendations to you all, the City Council, and changes to the law that are necessary to ensure its effectiveness in of the initiative in achieving its stated goals. They're going to develop grant criteria, they're going to review proposals and ensure accountability. And lastly, they're going to send these, the funding recommendations to the Portland City Council for approval. So this body is an incredibly important group of folks. This is the inaugural five, and this body will be tasked in time with bringing and nominating the next four in order to make for the full body of nine that will ultimately be doing this work. And before I introduce them, I'm going to actually jump a little bit to the process, and then I will go back and introduce them, so you guys will have a sense for what's to play out. in terms of the program implementation. We're here as with one of the initial and major important steps in terms of bringing forth our committee and this is a key step to, they're gonna function as a board designing the program, but over the next several months, we're gonna be doing a whole host of public engagement and input workshops and capacity building so we get folks ready to apply for the funds. What you'll see is in summer of 2020, we'll be going out with our first, Our first round of grant funding was roughly $7 million, and subsequent to that, you'll see additional rounds of funding coming out as the fund populates. And so with that, I want to go ahead and introduce our folks you have in front of you. So first I want to start with, to my left here, Ms. Maria Sipin. Ms. Sipin is a transportation planner and community health advocate whose work emphasizes the importance of investing in bicycle, pedestrian, and transit infrastructure and addressing displacement safety and accessibility for communities of color. She has experience working with people experiencing homelessness and LGBT youth in healthcare settings and continues to push for mobility justice and participatory budgeting through her grassroots nonprofit involvement. I'm incredibly excited to have Maria here as part of this inaugural committee. To Maria's left is Megan Horst. Megan is a doctor. I need to make sure I do that right. Dr. Horst is an assistant professor at the School of Urban Studies and Planning at Portland State. She brings substantial urban agriculture and local food systems expertise that is recognized both locally and nationally. And Ms. Horst also brings a strong equity lens and experience in the food justice work. To my right, I have Michael David Eden Hill. Mr. Hill is a journeyman electrician who, in addition to experience of wind power design and deployment, also brings experience in construction management on one of the largest solar PV systems in the U.S. Mr. Eden has a solid understanding of the informal support ecosystems that are necessary to support folks through the past of pre-apprenticeship and apprenticeship programs. So I want to start with those folks. And I think I'm trying to think about how to do this. And I'm learning about how I need to do this next time. But what I'm going to go ahead and do is pull a couple more chairs up and actually have our next two folks, Shanice as well as Robin, come up. So that's what I think we're going to do. Good afternoon. Hi, over there right beside to the right of Megan, we also have Shanice Brittany Clark. Shanice is the Director of Community Engagement at Portland Public Schools and Shanice brings a deep community engagement experience to the committee having worked directly with 75 to 100 community organizations annually that serve Portland's diverse communities. In addition, Ms. Clark is a National Delegate on the Climate Justice Alliance and is also a proud member of the Sunrise Movement supporting their four-year plan to make climate action an urgent priority in every corner. And last but not least, we have Robin Wang to the right of Shanice. Mr. Wang is a business, nonprofit, and community leader who's passionate about deploying capital and harnessing business to the benefit of the greater good. As a former owner of a sustainable lifestyle business, Mr. Wang brings a wealth of experience in both sustainability and business operations. Mr. Wang is the executive director of a local community development financial institution that supports underbanked entrepreneurs and serves on Prosper Portland's Council for Economic and Racial Equity. So this is an exciting group. If what I just read didn't excite you all, this is- Impressive, yeah. So with that, I want to turn it back over to you, Mayor, and the Council for- Commissioner Hurstie. I just want to applaud the current members of the Oversight Committee for PSAF. If all committees the city put together look like this committee, we would not be so stressed out about the equity work that we have ahead of us, right? This was intentional and that's why it looks the way it looks and I am so excited about the work that you have ahead of you and how we can support you in that work. But I just had to comment on, you know, if any committee looked like this, we'd be head and shoulders ahead of where we are today. So thank you for stepping up and being willing to do this hard work because it's going to be hard. I don't know if he told you, but it's going to be on the fly. Several phone calls. Are you sure? Very good. Well, I want to first of all say this was an embarrassment of riches when it came to the depth of experience that people had who wanted to serve. And first of all, to those of you who have been selected for this important position, this is one of the most impressive panels ever. I think we have empaneled in the time that I've been here. Just in terms of the breadth of experience, the depth of experience, the perspectives, the lived experience that people bring to the table. I believe the council will be extremely well served by this. And I also just want to reiterate this didn't come from the city of Portland. This came from the community. And so what I have pledged since the day that this was voted on by the public and it passed overwhelmingly, that my role would be to make sure that we implement this as well as we possibly can. Along with all of my colleagues here on the city council because I think it suffices to say not to put pressure on you. But the whole country really is watching. And we know for a fact that there's a number of large cities looking to this model as a potential strategy for inclusive transition, just transition to clean energy. And so it's really important that we, we make a full faith effort to do absolutely the best that we possibly can. And in order to do that, it requires top notch people being willing to step forward and serve. And you all have, you all did, you all have really long resumes. You're all very busy people. Uh, And I just feel really lucky to sit here right now in front of such an esteemed group of people. So my hat's off to you. But we also, I want to make a pledge. One moment, Commissioner Fish. On behalf of all of us. I also don't want you to feel that you are being cast adrift when things do get difficult because they will get difficult and you should rely on us. And if there's ways that we can be helpful to your efforts, I'm going to make a public pledge right here and now that we will provide whatever time, talent, energy, resource you need in order to be successful in your role. So thank you. Commissioner Fish. So I want to just add a couple of things. I've been on the council for over 10 years and so during that time. I've had a chance to nominate or appoint lots of people to oversight bodies that perform unique and essential functions of the city. What I want to call out in this process is that we did things a little differently. Even though each member of the council retained the authority to make an appointment, We agreed that we wanted to find a good mix and a balance of skills and backgrounds, geography, life experiences, other things. And so we undertook a different process where there was some screening and ranking and then a collaborative process among the council of trying to put together the first five, the group of five that then selects the next four. that is broadly representative of our community and has different and complementary skill sets. I think in some ways the way we've done this could be a model for how we select other committees because the default is each of us appointing someone and then finding out that it is either woefully under representative of the community or over representative a certain skill set or what have you. Here we've tried something different and I think it's worked. You are charged with an incredibly important role of oversight and accountability over what is going to be a substantial amount of money. I think the last number Commissioner Hardesty shared with me was something in the mid 40s to the high 50s. 37 to 42, I think it's- 37 to 42, so we're talking a lot of money, millions of dollars. And you will not only be charged with being the community's eyes and ears on oversight and accountability, but you will also be charged with making sure that decisions are made free of conflicts of interest, that the decisions are made on the merits in a transparent way with everyone given a fair shake, but not with conflicts of interest that are buried or somehow disguised. And then you'll make recommendations to the council that has the ultimate authority to make the decision. So I am very encouraged by how far we've come so far. Mr. Eden Hill, I want to thank you for being my nominee. Thank you very much. And just delighted. And I don't remember the last time echoing what my colleagues have said when I've read bios that were so impressive across the board. And I think you are going to bring a richness of your own life experience, your professional work, your community service, your values to this. And I think if this is the first five and we're then looking to you to fill out the committee with the next four, I think we're in good hands. So thank you very much for stepping up and taking on this assignment. Thank you. Thank you. Sam, I understand you have another panel, is that correct? Yes, yes. So I think at that point, I'd say thank you all, and I'll just give a big round of applause for all the phenomenal work you all have done. Sam, before you bring the next panel up, I just want to applaud the fact that you've only been here three months, and we gave you an unreasonable deadline. And you have not missed a beat. I just want you to know how much I cherish the work that you've done to get us on this path. And you have been just totally focused on making that happen. It is unusual for someone who's never worked at the city of Portland to be able to come in and galvanize people in the way that you have. So I just want you to know how much I greatly appreciate the work you've done to get us here. Thank you. You will meet the staff soon enough. That is amazing stuff. Thank you. Thank you. Well, with that, I'm going to go ahead and release you all. And we'll invite a few speakers up to speak to this. Thank you. I want to start off with inviting Paul Lumley from NAYA, Nate McCoy from National Association of Mortgage Contractors of Oregon, as well as Willie Myers from the building. We'll start with those two first. So we'll start with Paul Lumley and Nate McCoy. Good afternoon. Afternoon. It's a great pleasure to be here again and good to see you all. My name is Paul Runley. I'm a citizen of the Yakama Nation and Executive Director of the Native American Youth and and I am so pleased to be here after the great citizens of this city voted overwhelmingly to support this ballot measure last year and I'm extremely excited about the candidates you've selected so far. Those five candidates are wonderful. We look forward to their service on the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund Committee. I also want to commend you and your attention to diversity, equity and inclusion. These are very worthy goals in any context. and I think you are off to a fantastic start. It is probably not possible to reach every corner of those three goals with just five candidates, but you've done a great job so far. And the next four candidates that they select are interested in building out that continued diversity with somebody that represents the Native American community, the Latino community, and more work with the minority contracting. We are of course very keen on the implementation of how this fund gets not only started but fully implemented. And your authoritative positions as elected officials, we might continue to lean on you to make sure that we don't get distracted along the way from those who might be seeking to undermine the will of the voters or to seek unnecessary waivers from paying into this important fund. So once again, thank you so much for your dedication to not only clean energy in this community, but also to the citizens of this incredible city. There are going to be incredible benefits here, not just in Portland, but even well beyond. Thank you again. Thanks, Paul. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, you guys. Mayor, commissioners, thank you for having me. For the record, my name is Nate McCoy, Executive Director of the Oregon Chapter of the National Association of Minority Contractors. I don't have anything prescripted and provocative today other than to say that it takes a village to raise a child. In this case, it takes a village to raise a program of this magnitude. And as we've echoed today, it's taken us a while to get here, but we've gotten here, and I think the voters have spoken. And what I'm looking forward to is really getting into the details of how this program works and ensuring that this diversity, equity, inclusion is real and not just another buzzword that we've heard many times in our communities. And I think given your guys' leadership as well as all these people in the audience, this makes me feel like we are taking this serious and intentional. And I'm looking forward to the workforce diversity that this has the opportunity to afford for. these disenfranchised communities. I want to echo something that was just mentioned because it is important for us to make sure that in this last four that we ensure we have a minority contractor representative as good and qualified as the first five are. We still do lack somebody who really has knowledge in the construction arena, in particular, and I know that we will get there. But I just want to thank everybody here today, including you guys, all the hard work and trusting us as a community to kind of bring people to the table that we think can really stand this program up and make sure these funds go to the right communities. So thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Okay. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Before this panel leaves, Mayor, I just didn't want to leave Paul's statement out there unresponded to. As you know, there have been efforts to try to... make some minor changes to the Portland Clean Energy Fund initiative. And we've had a committee, a community committee with PSAF members and Portland Business Alliance trying to reach some consensus. Ultimately, and I want to be clear about this, ultimately it is the city council's responsibility to implement this measure in a way that makes sense. There are some funding mechanisms that were not anticipated when we started this. Like for example, retirement accounts. I didn't think we were going to be taxing retirement accounts. So we will be looking at some minor changes that will be coming down the pike. So I don't want people to leave today and think that No change will take place because there will be some minor changes that will be coming back to the city council that you will have an opportunity to weigh in on. But ultimately it is our responsibility as elected leaders to make sure that we are doing our due diligence to implement it in a way that it respects the vote of the voters, but also respects the integrity of the process. So didn't want you to be surprised. Well, thank you very much for your support. And I am very convinced that you will be making the correct decisions. Thank you. I just don't want those requests to undermine the intent of the Will of the People, which is to make sure this fund actually takes place and makes it to the people who need it the most. And you know me, so you know there's no chance of that happening. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you both. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thanks, Paul. Thanks, Nate. Okay. Next up, I'm going to go ahead, if I can, Mayor Wheeler. Yeah, please. Next up, I'll go ahead and call up Willie Myers from the Columbia Building Trades Council, as well as Tony DeFalco from Verde. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Do you want me to go ahead and start? Go ahead, Willie. Thank you. Thank you for allowing me to speak before you, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners Udaly, Hardesty, and Commissioner Fish. All commissioners, thank you. Thank you very much. We were excited to see the city undertake the process that you did in selecting the committee members and doing a broad recruitment and outreach process to solicit the interest that we received for folks that were going to serve on the committee from the full spectrum of Portland's diverse communities. The PSAF community coalition that campaigned successfully to bring the measure to the ballot with over 65% voter approval has also worked very hard to spread the word and promote the opportunity to serve on the grant committee. We are very thrilled with the five that were selected. We do see that there are some gaps still left. As you heard from the previous two speakers, I believe that the minority contracting community needs to have a representative that understands the pitfalls and things that minority contractors run into in the construction industry and be able to help navigate those gaps. We are excited to see what's next and how this rolls out, and I'll leave it at that. Commissioner Harstie. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Willie. So, you know, we really struggled with how to engage minority contractors on the committee, assuming that many of them will want to actually apply for funding. And so any help you can give us, because we want to be very clear that no one who's serving on the committee is going to be eligible to be applying for grants. Correct. So if there is a way to have that minority contractor voice, on the committee without limiting opportunities for those same minority contractors, we're open. We want to figure out how to make that work. So if there are ideas, please bring those forward. I believe we can thread that conflict of interest needle very carefully, and we will. Well, we want to be ‑‑ we want to squeak when we walk, so we don't want it to look like there's no conflict. We want to make sure that there's no conflict. Absolutely. Thanks, Willie. Appreciate it. Good afternoon, Tony. How are you today? Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor. Good to see you all. Great to be here. My name is Tony DeFalco, and I'm the executive director of Verde. It's always an honor and privilege to come before you and represent Verde. And I just want to start with sharing a little bit of what's going on in our communities and how important this process is for us. Communities of color, as you know, continue to be under attack from all sides. White supremacists, anti-immigrant activities, economic forces, and the climate crisis. We know that the climate crisis impacts communities of color, first and worst, often due to the lack of economic strength to withstand those impacts. Our communities are resilient in the face of these onsets. We're working to not just survive, but to thrive. We're growing our businesses, organizing our communities, and leading public policy to deliver solutions that are grounded in our communities and work for our communities, which is why I'm here today joining so many of our community members. Thank you, community members, for coming out today. to celebrate the Portland Clean Energy Fund as the only climate initiative to pass in any jurisdiction nationally in November of 2018. This continues Portland's leadership in taking strong action on climate and now in a very significant way on equity. We fully support the slate of candidates being proposed today and acknowledge the extremely hard work of all the partners at the table in working to implement the Clean Energy Fund and to get us moving forward. Labor, minority women contracting community, environmental groups, good government groups, the progressive business community, community of color serving organizations, the list goes on and on for the broad support for this measure. We'd also like to acknowledge the hard work of Michelle Krim and her team, and welcome new director Andrea Durbin, and express our enthusiasm for working closely with her in the coming months. So, I ask this council to express urgency today. Not just in appointing this slate of candidates, because that is a critical step in our process, but in accelerating the pace of the implementation of this important program. because the climate crisis is not slowing down. Our communities continue to suffer from the impacts of economic insecurity and of the climate crisis. Therefore, as you've heard, we need to bring these climate resources into low-income and people of color communities in Portland now more than ever. So I ask you to act with urgency today and accelerate the pace of how we implement this program. Adelante. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks, William. Thanks, Tony. Thank you. Okay. Is that it? I've got two more. All right. Go for it, Seth. All right. Thank you. And I'd love to call up the final two. We're going to call up, I'm going to pull their names up. I'd like to call up Pastor Edie Mondin from the NAACP, as well as Lena Westland from the Sunrise Movement. Okay. Good afternoon, welcome. Good afternoon. Hello, would you like to begin? I'd like you to begin. All right. Well, thank you, Commissioners Hardesty, Udaili, Fish, and Mayor Ted Wheeler for this opportunity to testify. My name is Lena Westland, I'm 16 years old and a junior at St. Mary's Academy. Since March, I've been an activist with Sunrise PDX, a local hub of broad grassroots youth-led climate justice movement. Our movement's mission is to mobilize youth across the country to make the Green New Deal a reality. I am joined by several of my Hub members here today and I'm delivering a single testimony for all of us. We are here to show our active support for the Portland Clean Energy Fund and for the five people being appointed to PSAF Grants Committee, including Shanice Clark, a fellow Sunrise PDX member. I joined Sunrise because it got to the point where I could no longer overlook the obvious signs of climate change I was seeing around me every day. In the past, I made up excuses, such as I'm too young or I don't have enough experience or knowledge, but it was because I was scared that there was nothing I could do to prevent our planet from a climate catastrophe. Sunrise was a breath of relief for me because I had found a movement of young people who felt exactly as I did and were committed to doing something about it. The Portland Clean Energy Fund is incredibly important and symbolic to Sunrise because it is a Green New Deal for Portland. PCEF was created and led by frontline communities and reflects a robust mechanism for achieving a just transition on a local level. In many ways, we see PCEF as a blueprint for the Green New Deal, for which we are passionately organizing. For this reason, it is vitally important to us that PSAF succeed and that it match the intent of the frontline-led organizations that came together to create it. It is our understanding that the five committee candidates being appointed today reflect the diversity, integrity, and expertise required to make PSAF a success. We thank you for conducting the thorough and broad outreach process that has led to these committee member selections. Mayor and commissioners, it is now your job to protect PSAF from billion dollar corporations who will take any opportunity to weaken this groundbreaking policy. We are entrusting you to continue following the leadership of the community coalition that championed PSAF and to defend the program from any attempt to be weakened. Thank you very much. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Good afternoon. It's good to see you, Mr. Mayor, and all the commissioners. How come everybody calls him Mr. Mayor and just calls us commissioners? Well, I guess because he's the mayor and you all are commissioners. Mr. Mayor, he's just our commissioner. That's not going to help your cause. How you doing, Ted? How you doing? Always living the dream. Good to see you. Thank you for being here. It's always good to see you as well. I wasn't prepared to speak, but I'm happy to be able to do that as the first petitioner for this initiative. I'm grateful for the architect of this initiative being a past president of the NAACP. I'm very proud of her work and I'm glad that she garnered the strength to see it through and then to find me and push me into the deep end of the pool. That's okay. Living the life that I've lived, my lived experience has been the partnership with climate injustice. And until I began my work at the NAACP, I didn't understand exactly what that meant. But as I'm becoming more familiar with its work and the critical nature of it, am very, very much in partnership with doing all that I can and giving all the energy that I can to make it happen in a better way for redlined and marginalized communities. It is imperative that we had to go through the processes that we have gone through, and I applaud your efforts. I think that they were wise. And I believe that the choices are just and I'm waiting for the hard work now to begin. I wish all the people that were represented here today had been here at the beginning, when all the work and going out into the streets and thank God for the coalition that stood there in the streets and stood in the corners and fought city hall and were thrown out of the PBA. I mean, it was a wild ride, but we got there and we're here today. I want you to know that I'm going to be carefully watching and being involved as we have created a special committee and a whole cutout in the NAACP to be involved in this work moving forward. It is my intention to be a wise watchman on the wall that our community, especially not just the people of color, but African American people, black people, who are not included often in that POC pot, are represented. So in my closing to you today, I'm proud to be a part of this initiative as the first petitioner. I'm proud of its architect being the past president of the NAACP, and I'm proud of the work that we're going to do moving forward, and I'm looking forward to your careful guidance. Thank you. Thanks, indeed. Appreciate it. Thank you. Here I move the report. A second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. If I was any giddier, I would not be able to stay in my seat. It's amazing when an idea is being percolated in the brain that actually ends up then on paper, that then ends up garnering widespread community support, then ends up becoming public policy, then ends up becoming a standard that people around the world are watching. not in wanting to duplicate in their own communities. We've done excellent work to get to this point, but I don't want anybody to be under the illusion that the hard work isn't the work that's ahead of us. because there will be forces trying to divide us. There'll be brand new people who will all of a sudden be experts in clean energy and climate mitigation. I've had lots of conversations with those brand new people myself already. But I hope that the committee and the leadership will stay focused on what the vision was of this measure, which was and is to ensure that those left out of the economic engine, those who have not benefited from the riches that are taking place in this city, are front and center, and they are benefiting. And they're not just benefiting with living wage employment opportunities, but they have the ability to build companies and organizations that will take us into the climate future we envision. And so these are lofty goals that we have set for this program, and I have every confidence that we've got the right people and the right positions at the right time to make this happen. I wholeheartedly vote aye. You daily? Oh, phew, I just finished my remarks. I was trying to, you know, give you time. Thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate that. Well, this is an exciting moment. Our community owes a deep debt of gratitude to the incredible coalition of groups and individuals that came together to make this moment possible. Since Sam is new here and doesn't know the rule against applause, and I am the current Madam President of the Council, I'm going to roll with it and wave the rules. I want everyone to give yourselves a huge round of applause. Thank you, Council President, and that is without objection from the presiding officer. Thank you. I was going to say, every once in a while you have to... Ask for forgiveness, not permission. Break the rules, ask for permission later. Later, right. While other communities struggle to identify resources to do the work necessary for a just transition to a carbon-free future, Portland will be taking the next step, funding and implementing the work. Ooh, I'm getting chills. I nominated Robin Yang to serve on the committee because he has directly relevant experience and a lifelong commitment to social and environmental justice. To accomplish the goals set out in the measure passed by over 200,000 Portlanders, making up over 65% of the people who voted in the November 2019 election, businesses owned by people of color and women will need assistance to scale up to meet the demand of clean energy services. Maybe that will help us in our procurement challenges down the line as well. Don't make us go back there. Robin is an expert at helping small businesses owned by women and people of color succeed. I'm proud to nominate him and grateful for his willingness to serve on the committee. I first heard about this campaign while I was campaigning for City Council in 2016. I was happy to lend my support and resources in the early days before the measure qualified for the ballot. I enthusiastically supported and endorsed the campaign in 2018. Some of my favorite moments were sitting with some of you in Judge Swade's chambers trying to suppress laughter and high fives as we listened to the weak arguments from the opposition and the very patient responses of the judge. We prevailed, of course. I also have a confession, my very first experience of canvassing justice. that involved actually knocking and talking on doors was in East Portland for PSUF. I didn't even do that for myself. I'm afraid I'm going to have to change that rule, but yes. And it was amazing. It was really an amazing experience. Not everyone hates people that knock, strangers that knock on their door. Important life lesson. And then finally, of course, election night was pretty fantastic between Commissioner Hardesty's win and the measure passing. I'm thrilled that we're taking this step today. I can't wait to get the first round of funding out the door next year. Thanks again to everyone who participated in making This historic milestone possible. Thank you, Sam, for your leadership. And now thank you to the charter members of the committee for your willingness to serve and help us forge unknown territory. I really want everyone to pause. Every once in a while at council we realize we're making decisions that will impact the city for decades. A hundred years from now when people forget history. that we, any of us ever existed, hopefully, hopefully we don't go down in infamy, but they will be, for better or for worse, impacted by the decisions we make today. So your efforts are going to help not only change the future of our city, the world. I vote aye. Fish? A tough act to follow. Thank you to all of the nominees for your willingness to serve. Thank you to Michael Eden Hill, my nominee for taking on this assignment. We're very excited about watching this thing unfold, creating the infrastructure for what is going to be a very challenging process, but a very dynamic one between the committee and the council. We appoint people all the time. I'm hard pressed to remember a time we've appointed such a diverse and accomplished group of people. in one council hearing. Congratulations, thank you for your willingness to serve and we look forward to serving with you. Aye. Wheeler. Well this is a very exciting day and again I want to thank the community. Many individuals who helped support this from the very beginning are here in this chamber today. I want to thank you for your hard work, your passion, your commitment to this effort. Thank you for bringing it to this point here today. I'm honored to nominate Maria Sipin to the inaugural committee. I believe that she demonstrated a very clear commitment to working with people to advance sustainable priorities for people in this community, but with a real focus on populations that have historically been left out of important decisions. And she understands that the priorities that we set around the environment, that we set around workforce development, that we set around procurement, they have to be centered on communities of color and others who have been historically excluded from the benefits of both investment and planning. She is a professional transportation planner. She's a public health professional. She's a community health advocate, and I believe she'll bring both a level of experience as well as a perspective that's critically important to the success of this committee. I can't think of anybody better for this role, and I can't think of any time when we've had five people appointed at the same time with such strength towards the purpose for which we're all organized here today. I want to make a couple of personal commitments to you here and now. Number one, I want you to know that I personally will remain highly committed to this effort to make sure that it is the most successful effort it can possibly be. That is a personal commitment. Number two, I want you to know that I'm making that commitment on behalf of every member of my administration. Up to this point, Sam Diaz has been my point on this. We will continue to make it front and center. We will continue to stay engaged with the the committee to make sure that if there are any needs from that committee in order to be successful, we will fulfill those needs. The Bureau of Planning Sustainability, of which I'm the commissioner in charge under the leadership of Andrea Durbin, is very highly motivated to make sure that this is a successful effort. So I will make that commitment on behalf of all of us. Again, thank you for your willingness to serve the five of you that are being appointed today. Sam, you did a great job for your first stint in front of city council. We've had people who've done it for 20 years who can't get the PowerPoint to work. So you've done an exceptional job. Thank you for organizing a very, very good report today. I vote aye happily. The report's accepted. Congratulations to those of you who have not been appointed. So would we like to commemorate this experience by having a picture with our newest committee members? That's a great idea. Why don't we just gather right down here in front. We'll stop for a photo and then I believe after this we have Parks and Recreation 919. We got something else? Yep, we got one more. All right. Final item for today. Yes, item 919. Authorize the Director of Portland Parks and Recreation to execute the second amendment to the grant agreement between Portland Parks and Recreation and the Portland Parks Foundation for the Barbara Walker Crossing project. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, this is a very straightforward matter. We should be able to do this in five minutes. The Barbara Walker Crossing project is an exciting public-private partnership. brings together three things Portlanders are passionate about. Parks, safe streets, and new bridges. The Barbara Walker crossing will make it easier and safer to connect popular destinations in Forest Park, Hoya Arboretum, and Washington Park, and it represents really the hallmark of our productive relationship with the Portland Parks Foundation. Here to briefly explain the second amendment, to the grant agreement is Claudia Capazano, public finance property and technology manager for parks and our friend Randy Gregg who is the executive director of the Portland Parks Foundation. Gentlemen welcome. Claudia. Good afternoon. introduce myself again for the record, Claudio Camposano, Finance Property and Technology Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. So very briefly, the amendment before you, it's the second amendment to the grant agreement. The grant agreement was the city granting resources to the Portland Parks Foundation to construct this bridge. And this amendment does several things. It memorializes an additional $100,000 that the foundation has committed to fund operations operations and maintenance for the bridge as well as work during the warranty period of the bridge. Second, it transfers ownership of the bridge to the city after substantial completion. Third, it clarifies responsibilities during that period between substantial completion and final completion during the warranty period. And finally, it officially names the bridge Barber-Walker Crossing. So that's what you have before you today. And now let Randy tell you a little bit about the project overall. I'm sure that you have heard it before, but just to give you some context. I want to keep you from happy hour. It's really nice to be here. I'm usually here asking you for something, and this time I'm giving you something. So that's a nice change of pace. This is basically a bridge connecting our beloved Wildwood Trail over that rather awful, dangerous crossing at Burnside. And when the crossing is completed next month, it will separate 80,000 yearly users of the Wildwood Trail from the 20,000 daily drivers of West Burnside. Here it is, all 178 feet of it being assembled in Supreme Steel in northeast Portland. It'll be cut into three parts and then reassembled on site beginning on October 7th. And if all goes according to plan, the installation will be completed on October 14th. When it's done, of course, it'll look like this to drivers. But to those on the trail, it'll look like something like this. And we're going to open it with a Sunday morning street party on October 27th, right in the middle of Burnside, underneath the bridge. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for making that happen. The Portland Parks Foundation made the bridge happen over the course of about four years. But with all of our efforts, we're really only the vessel for other people's generosity. And that really begins with these two characters. Ed Carpenter, who conceived of the bridge. Ed's a lifelong runner of the bridge for 40 years. He came up with a design, lobbied dozens of groups to gain political support, and through many tests of will and budget, he kept his vision for a bridge that's really an integral, beautiful expression of the trail. On the right, Charlie Swindells raised a whole lot of money for this bridge. Ultimately, over 900 individual donors who gave as little as $5 and as much as $150,000. Foundations like Murdoch and OCF kicked in as well. And then there's the firms for a total of 2.17 million individual donors and foundations, including 600 who gave $184,000 during a 33-day crowdfunding campaign. So it's really a people's bridge. I also want to call out the firms on the design and construction team, because together, and this is just what they counted, I can tell you that they put in way more than this, $385,000 in pro bono services, which is really substantial. Public funding, of course, comes from many different pots. Total is $1.5 million, most of it from SDCs. And ultimately the bridge, oops, I forgot to change the number, it's $4.085 million. And that's a 37% public, 63% privately funded bridge. So really it's Portland's first crowdfunded bridge. Just a quick word about Barbara Walker. Most of you, I think, know who she is, but she's really the mother of the trail system in the city. She began as a NIMBY housewife and transitioned to an incredible activist who really believed that the system was made from the connections, and this bridge is a beautiful expression of that. So just to remind you, the grand opening is 8.30 to noon on Sunday, October 27th. We're going to have Silots and Grand Ron Tribes participate. And we're going to have all-you-can-eat pancakes. Body Vox and the great theatrical designer Michael Curry are going to choreograph an event. It should be really, really fun. And so I hope to see you all there. Randy, thank you very much, and congratulations to the foundation for bringing this home. Yeah, you bet. That concludes our presentation, Mayor. Very good. Looks excellent. Any further discussion? Any public testimony? Carla? No one signed up. Would you like a motion? This is actually an ordinance, so we'll just call the roll. All right. Hardesty. Aye. You daily. Thanks for the presentation. Can't wait for the pancakes. Better to eat a pancake than to become a pancake. She's here all night, folks. All night. Fortunately, the rest of us aren't. Long day. Thank you both. Congratulations again. Odi. Okay. Awesome. Thank you. I'm disappointed I will not be here for the pancake breakfast. And so I'm going to say right now in front of you what I would have said there. I have chased across this road I don't know how many times to get from one side to the other. And when I had a small child, it was particularly frightening. And... I am really glad that this project not only came to fruition, but it's done so with style, and it's done so as a partnership with the community. And I think it just, architecturally, I think it's stunning. It's fantastic. So this, to me, just looks like a solid win for the community. I'm proud to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you very much for your hard work. And guess what? We are adjourned.