Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the September 30th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 Saltzman here Novick Fritz here Fish Hales here welcome everyone I think we'll have some of our colleagues joining us momentarily there they are good morning Commissioner Fish welcome to this meeting of the city council we have some citizens signed up for communications we'll take them first then we'll move into the rest of our council calendar likely starting with the proclamation at 9 45
 If you're here to speak on a regular council calendar item, you can just sign up with our clerk and let her know that you'd like to do that on a particular item. We typically allow people three minutes to testify. If you give us your name, that's all you need to do. You don't have to give us your address unless you're a registered lobbyist. Let us know that.
 We typically maintain the rules of decorum in this council chambers. We almost always manage to do that, and so we want your help with that. And that is if you agree with someone and want to indicate your support, feel free to give them a thumbs-up or a wave of the hand. And if you disagree with them, give them a polite hand gesture to the contrary. But we ask that we not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view here so we can all be heard. And with those fairly simple rules of procedure out of the way, let's call on our clerk to read Item 988. Okay.
 Request of Colleen Kellogg to address council regarding the city's plan for dealing with homelessness and stable housing. Good morning. Welcome. Yes, please. Thank you for allowing me to address the council. My name is Colleen Kellogg. I live in southwest Portland with my husband and two children. I teach second grade at Montclair Elementary, and I've brought four members of our social justice committee with me today. Good morning.
 And I will say that I signed up to do this ahead of time, so this week's news and all that's happening may have changed how I wrote this, but I'm going to move forward. I'm concerned about the apparent growing homeless population in our city. I spend a lot of time driving through the industrial east side for my children's various sports practices. Just let me interrupt you for a second. Sure. If your students and kids would like to come join you up here, that would be okay. Okay. Would you like to come sit up here too? Sure.
 They don't mind being on TV. Or maybe just stand behind her. Oh, they've got chairs for you. Okay.
 We always show special courtesy to students here. Well, thank you. That was really nice. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Okay. Sorry. Yeah, so I spend a lot of time on the industrial east side, and the tents just seem to be increasing exponentially. In our own neighborhood, we've noticed people sleeping in our parks, under access ramps to the freeway, and it pulls at our heartstrings. It's just –
 you know, sad. Last week, Mayor, you suggested that the city declare a state of emergency in regard to the homeless crisis. Before this announcement, I was curious what the city's end game was regarding safe and affordable housing for all in Portland. I recognize that homelessness is a multi-pronged problem, or we recognize, involving possible, but not exclusively mental health, as well as physical health issues, possible drug addiction, and lack of employment opportunities.
 It is hard to imagine addressing those separate issues when folks don't have access to stable housing. With the state of emergency declaration, and then I know we listened to your announcements downstairs. We didn't hear all of them. We got here about 9, 10. What specific steps does the council foresee and are there any actions citizens can take to help provide dignity, safe and stable housing for the most vulnerable in our community?
 It seems that shelter beds are only a short-term fix. Rather, radical ideas may be the only way to influence systematic change in the way our city reverses the homeless trend. I'm not sure what these ideas might be, but there must be model programs in other cities that have successfully tackled this complex issue. Thank you.
 Again, downstairs we heard there were some plans, but we'd like to know exactly what specific action items, other than shelter beds, we might expect to see, when they might take place, and how will they be sustainably funded? Thank you.
 Great questions, and actually we want to solicit your ideas and also students' ideas because when the council takes up this proposal for declaring an emergency, we're really looking for what tools do people suggest that we use. You've got a city council that's committed to working collaboratively on this issue among ourselves and with the county and with the housing authority, but we also depend on volunteers a lot, and there are churches and other groups that want to do more in terms of
 helping the homeless. So your students' ideas, your ideas over the next few weeks in particular would be very helpful. So I hope you keep them coming. Email us, call us, come back next week if you can, and come back at other council sessions because we're going to be talking about this a lot. So the summit that you referenced downstairs, is that something that if we were to email
 that could possibly be discussed or used as talking points? We're going to be meeting with other West Coast mayors here in Portland, and so we're looking for ideas from those cities and also to share ones from here. So that would be very helpful. All right. For those of us who are relying on Twitter for the feed from downstairs, could you give us a quick summary of what the proposal is? The Home for Everyone Consortium, along with a couple of our colleagues here, laid out a proposal this morning to –
 invest an additional $30 million of city and county money in the Home for Everyone plan, both providing more shelter space for this winter and more rapidly housing folks that are looking for transitional housing from shelter to long-term. So we're going to flesh that plan out. Mark Jolin is our staff person who leads this combined effort between the city and the county, so he's going to have a specific plan and proposal for us. But it's basically...
 upping our game by a $30 million increment of how much the city and the county are investing into housing and homeless services. Mayor, before we lose this group, could we ask the kids to come out and stand with us and get a picture? That's a great idea. Come on up. Why don't you come on up behind the dais? And their teacher. Oh, okay. Okay.
 I grew up in La Clara. If you want, you can go back and look at the offices and see if you've maybe rearranged things when you get in there. Well, thank you for having us. I'm sorry. Thanks for coming. Thank you for coming. Thanks you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Nice to meet you. Okay. That was great. Thank you for coming. Let's take the next communications item, which is 989, please. Request of Rachel Bell to address council regarding the Tall Trees of Portland art exhibit and companion book. Good morning. Good morning.
 So my name is Rachel Bell, and I would like to thank Mayor Hales, Commissioner Frentz, Saltzman, and Fish for letting me speak to you today on behalf of Overcut Press, the Tall Trees of Portland art book and art exhibit that will take place in the City Hall atrium starting next week. I would also like to personally thank Mayor Hales for proclaiming next Tuesday, October 6th, as the Tall Trees of Portland Day here in Portland. It's a day to celebrate the working artist and thriving creative culture in Portland.
 At this point, some of you are probably thinking, well, yes, we do have some great tall trees in Portland. You wouldn't be the first to think that's what this book is about. The tall trees represented in this page, though, are really more about the artists and craft makers who have the courage and conviction of their art to stand tall. The term tall tree is taken from a Japanese proverb that says, the tall tree catches the most wind.
 In other words, to stand out, to stand tall, you risk being knocked down, something these Portland-based artists risk every day in their work. Matt Wagner, who's the curator of the upcoming show and the author of the book, not only assembled over 30 of Portland's most vibrant working artists, he exhibits the qualities of these tall trees as he works to bring these and other artists to a broader audience around the world.
 While you may not know his name, you will certainly recognize the influence he has on art in Portland.
 Wagner is the owner of Hellion Gallery in Old Town. He's worked with Travel Portland at events in Tokyo, where he introduces Portland artists to art collectors in Asia. He's a founding board member of the Forest for the Trees Mural Festival, which just completed its third year. He's partnered with numerous brands on projects ranging from artists and residence programs at Nike to curating beer labels for Gigantic Brewing.
 And most recently, he curated a sculpture show at the Portland Art Museum featuring three local artists, A.J. Fosick, Blaine Fontana, and Peter Gronquist. In this upcoming show at City Hall, Portland residents and visitors will have an opportunity to see recent works by all of the artists featured in the book. Some of these artists, all who live and work in Portland, have shown at major galleries around the globe. Recently, artist Josh Keyes found himself invited to contribute art to Banksy's Dismal Land show,
 an art show that made headlines around the world. Jewelry designer Beth Wagner has been commissioned to make custom jewelry that has become a featured part of the storyline in several episodes of the TV show Grimm. And when you walk through the halls of Doernbecher Children's Hospital, you'll be greeted by murals created by Mariana Hoggett. The work of these Tall Trees artists surrounds you every day in Portland. As their art reaches other corners of the world, it's clear they represent the independent spirit of the city they call home, Portland.
 So in closing, I would like to invite all of you to attend the opening reception for the Tall Trees of Portland Art Show next Tuesday, October 6th at 4 p.m. in the City Hall Atrium and to view the works on display through Thursday, October 15th.
 In addition, if any of the council members would like to take a look at the Tall Trees of Portland book, it is on loan to Commissioner Saltzman's office. You can speak to Jenny in his office, and she can make it available to you. Commissioner Fish is lost. Oh, sorry. We're often confused. Rachel, I have a copy of the book.
 We're excited to host you thanks to, is it Hillian Gallery? Hillian Gallery. Hillian Gallery and Overcup Press. And next week, we have two great things that are happening that I want to just announce to the public. On October 5th, we'll be welcoming your exhibit, and we're excited to have that. October 8th, which is Thursday at 1230, we'll be celebrating Portlandia's 30th birthday. Okay.
 Wow. Put both in your calendar. Statue, not the TV show. Statue. I was going to say, I think I missed a few seasons. I'm not allowed to give it away, but I will say that the most famous singer in Oregon may be performing. I can't say any more than that. Wow.
 thank you very much i'm really glad commissioner fish and rachel that we're using that artrium atrium as an art space artrium that's maybe what we should call it because it really is intended to be community space it's not just an office building for us so thank you for livening it up with art and let's do more of that so thank you very much well thank you okay 990.
 Request of David D. Red Thunder to address counsel regarding comp plan for West Hayden Island. David, are you here? Okay, looks like you might not be. Let's take 991 then, please. Request of Evan Ross to address counsel regarding lawlessness and crime in the Old Town Chinatown neighborhood. Good morning. Good morning. My name's Evan Ross, and I'm a Northeast Portland resident. I own a bike tour and rental shop downtown in Old Town Chinatown. I have for about eight years.
 I brought a handout this morning. Hopefully you got it. It just has kind of some bullet points and some suggestions that I brought today. I'm interested in working with the city and with council to try to find some solutions. I'm also a board member of the Old Town Chinatown Community Association, and we are interested in improving the neighborhood, of course, for the benefit of everybody. Thank you for continuing to work on these issues in our community and for taking the time to listen to my concerns today.
 I was able to attend a meeting of stakeholders on these issues yesterday hosted by Mayor Hales. Thank you. I feel like there's some great momentum that has come from the reaction from the community that enough is enough and it's time for some long-term solutions. I've had a sharp increase in complaints from my employees and my customers about not feeling safe and being harassed or threatened while trying to enjoy the Tom McCall Waterfront Park along with North Park blocks. And so that is one of the reasons that I'm here to talk to you today.
 I'm heavily involved in my community through participating in the community association, and as an entrepreneur that started this business in 2008, I like to tackle challenges. But I decided to come and speak with you today after I was attacked outside my business. On June 20th, I exited my business to find that someone had broken into my car across the street and was actively trying to steal it. I had already approached the vehicle when I realized there was someone in there, and they reacted by pulling out a knife and exiting the car trying to stab me.
 I was able to defend myself with an empty five-gallon Kulligan water jug, the only thing that I had in my hand at the time, besides my phone in which I was frantically calling 911 for help. The police responded quickly, and it took four offers to subdue the individual who was fighting to escape. Later, we found that they were high on meth and heroin. You may have seen the article in the Oregonian.
 I'd like to point out that our community is dealing with two different population groups, at least two. And I believe we also talked about this yesterday and that the community is becoming more and more aware. On one hand, there are Oregon residents who have housing needs because they struggle with unemployment, low income, mental health needs, and or addiction issues. And on the other hand, we have traveling gangs of individuals who we usually might refer to as service resistant.
 It is this second group that I would like to focus on today. The problem lies with behaviors, persons choosing to commit crime instead of focusing on specific populations. It's not illegal to be homeless, and I am a homeless rights advocate, but committing crimes is what is illegal, and I think that is what we should enforce.
 And so you can see on the handout, I'm advocating for increased foot patrol in Old Town Chinatown, more consistent enforcement of existing laws regarding camping, school zone drug use, etc., reaching out to other cities such as Salt Lake City that has put together some great plans and has had really effective outcomes from their housing the homeless with long-term housing, more aggressive officer recruitment.
 and also creating an urgent plan and solution for indoor housing. Thank you. Thanks very much. We appreciate your advocacy and your volunteering in the community, and we're also really glad you're okay. That was a scary moment, so thank you. Yeah, thank you, and have a good day. Okay. $9.92, please. Request of Trina Sutton to address council regarding her backyard homeless transitional camp. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, everyone. My name is Trina Sutton. I've spoke before this council before and two of you on the panel right now. I came here to talk about a proposed transitional area called My Backyard. That's the name we chose for it. But it was, I had a really unique experience last night. I went to Gresham City Council. They finally figured out they have homeless in Gresham.
 So it was packed. We had 150 people there, standing room only. And I am not going to embellish this one little bit. It's on record. Police, everybody, presidents of neighborhood associations, faith-based community, civic organizations, you know, all of that.
 Private citizens, every single person that stood up and talked said the only viable answer right now is to put in more transitional areas. Now, these are not...
 Overnighters, these are people who would go and be in a safe place and transition into permanent housing, get back into the community. My people in the central southeast, which is off of 82nd, that is what they want. We cannot confuse, which I applaud the gentleman over here, criminality with homelessness. They're not synonymous.
 The homeless people that I represent do not want the criminals there anymore. Sometimes their lives involve criminal activity such as drug use. So what I'm saying is we need to be progressive here, and I want to really applaud Mayor Hales over this declaration of emergency for homeless.
 that is very progressive. Something else Mayor Hales did, he went out with a couple of my friends that are park rangers and visited my people over there. And I knew he was going, but I chose to not go out there. David asked me to, one of the park rangers. And I said, no, I don't want to influence. You need to go out, and I want him to see what I see every single day. I need to put...
 Many people in two areas. I have so many allies This is not a Trina Sutton project this I don't bring my board in because they work during the day I have to have something tangible. There is a piece of property on 105th and Foster
 Now, a police officer brought this to my attention. He also brought it to my attention that his brother up in Washington has shipping containers that he's willing to donate. Those are $2,000 apiece to get here. And he already renovated shipping containers for the U.S. Marshal Service.
 We can put people into these transitional camps, give them safety that are drug and alcohol free, 24-hour security, just like Right to Dream 2, and give them a real shot at succeeding in life because they're not safe out there either. I don't know if anyone here would have been aware of it. We had a predator over there who sexually assaulted a 66-year-old man.
 U.S. Marshals were looking for him, Clackamas Sheriff's Office, Portland Police. Transit cops got him, but do you know how they got him? Because homeless people provided the intel to get them. They don't want the drug dealers out there. They don't want any of these people out there. People have got to stop confusing criminals with homeless. They are not the same. Thank you. Thank you very much, Trina. Thank you for what you're doing.
 Even for things we love, we shouldn't clap, Joe, but I can't blame you much. Okay, let's move, please, to our consent calendar. We have a request to pull 994. I think that's the only consent item anyone's requested to remove, right? So let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Saltzman? Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Mayor, in terms of managing our calendar, I will be on the regular agenda pulling back 1,004 and 1,005 to my office. Okay. In case anyone's here to testify on those. All right. Thank you for letting people know. So those will be, when we get to those items, they'll be returning to Commissioner Fish's office until further notice. Excuse me.
 Okay, let's move on, please, to Item 993. I think Javier Mena is here. I hope so. 993, Proclaim September 15 to October 15, 2015, to be Hispanic Heritage Month in Portland. Javier, do you have the copy of the proclamation? I already have it. Okay, good. Well, I want to welcome everyone here to talk about this today, particularly Javier, who's
 Actually, I apologize. Catalina is going to be reading the Spanish, and I'll just be making some few remarks. Okay. Thank you. Why don't I start and read the English version, then the Spanish, and then we'll turn it over to you. Whereas the Hispanic heritage of the United States extends historically over five centuries and has been a consistent and vital influence in our country's growth and prosperity, and whereas the definition of Hispanic is tied to national origin or Spanish culture, regardless of race,
 Hispanics represent people with origins from 24 different countries, including the United States, Mexico, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brazil, Venezuela, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, and Spain.
 They reflect an array of distinct and vibrant cultures that have enriched our community in valuable ways. And whereas Hispanics continue to be the fastest growing population in Oregon and represent 12.3% of the state's population, in Portland there are over 60,974 people of Hispanic descent, making up 10% of our city's population.
 While Portland's overall population grew in 2013 by 1.2%, the rate of growth for the city's Hispanic population for the same year was 6.9%.
 And whereas Hispanics have supported Portland's economy with a myriad of contributions in the fields of commerce, science, technology, public service, health, and more, today their purchasing power in Portland is nearly $4 billion and continues to grow. Whereas Portland recognizes the many organizations, institutions, and people helping Hispanics overcome disparities, such as poor health outcomes, low educational attainment, to ensure that they remain a thriving community.
 And whereas Hispanics make up 3% of the city of Portland's governmental workforce, to attract more Hispanics to city jobs and to support them throughout their careers with the city, the Unidos Latinos Americanos, or ULA, City Employee Affinity Group has recently been established.
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim September 15th to October 15th, 2015, to be Hispanic Heritage Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month. So if you'd like to read it again, please, in Spanish. Thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. My name is Carolina Ireta Gonzalez and I work with the Bureau of Transportation and I'll be reading the proclamation in Spanish. Thank you.
 Dado que la herencia hispana en los Estados Unidos se extiende históricamente más de cinco siglos y ha sido una influencia constante y vital en el crecimiento y prosperidad de nuestro país. Dado que la definición de hispano está ligada al origen nacional o la cultura con influencia española, sin importar cuál sea la raza. Los hispanos representan más de 24 diferentes países de origen, incluyendo
 Los Estados Unidos, México, Puerto Rico, República Dominicana, Cuba, Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panamá, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brasil, Venezuela, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, and Spain.
 reflejan una variedad de culturas distintas y valiosas que han enriquecido nuestra comunidad en forma notable. Dado que los hispanos continúan siendo la población con más rápida tasa de crecimiento en Oregon y representan el 12% de la población, en Portland hay más de 60,974 personas de origen hispano que representan el 10% de la población.
 Mientras que la población general de Portland creció un 1.2% en el 2013, la tasa de crecimiento de la población hispana de la ciudad fue del 6.9% en el mismo año. Dado que los hispanos han contribuido a la economía de Portland con un sinnúmero de aportaciones en las áreas de comercio, ciencia, tecnología, servicios públicos, salud y otras.
 Al día de hoy, su poder de adquisición en Portland es casi 4 mil millones y continúa aumentando. Dado que Portland reconoce las diversas organizaciones, instituciones y personas que ayudan a los hispanos a superar desigualdades, como salud precaria y bajo rendimiento escolar, para asegurar que continúan prosperando sus comunidades.
 Dado que los hispanos representan un 3% de la fuerza laboral del ayuntamiento de la ciudad de Portland, la Asociación de Empleados Unidos Latinoamericanos, ULA, ha sido restablecida recientemente para poder atraer más hispanos a trabajar para el ayuntamiento de la ciudad.
 Por lo tanto, hoy yo, Charlie Hales, alcalde de la ciudad de Portland, Oregon, proclamo que del 15 de septiembre al 15 de octubre de 2015 sea mes de la herencia hispana en Portland. Y invito a todos los residentes a celebrar este mes. Muchas gracias, Carolina. Gracias. Javier. Gracias, señor Hales, queridos comisionados de la ciudad. Mi nombre es Javier Mena, soy del Bureau de Salud.
 Aunque he estado frente a ustedes muchas veces, aprecio esta oportunidad de hablar con ustedes sobre un tema que no es nada más que la habitación, pero algo que es igualmente importante para mí, que soy muy apasionado por, y que es la comunidad latino-hispanica de Chicago. La ciudad, bajo su liderazgo, ha enfatizado la diversidad y la equidad como un valor clave de lo que hacemos y de cómo lo hacemos. Sin embargo, debido a muchos desafíos y presiones, esta conversación a veces se agrupa.
 Como ciudad, debemos tratar de expandir constantemente las zonas para asegurar la inclusividad. Nuestras comunidades de color, especialmente aquellas con recursos limitados y acceso limitado al gobierno, incluyendo a nuestros hermanos y hermanas de Latinoamérica, Latinoamérica, Pacífico de Asia, Pacífico de Asia, y de sus hermanas, están negativamente afectadas por este enfoque. La comunidad hispana-latina, como muchas otras, es una comunidad rica y muy diversa.
 Tenemos una historia desafiante, en parte debido a la acción y la inacción del gobierno. Muchos se sienten marginalizados, algunos pierden su sentido de cultura y de pertenencia. Ahora nuestros hermanos y hermanas inmigrantes que han viajado desde tan lejos como Chile o Ecuador, como yo, o México, vienen a una ciudad que ven como un paradiso lleno de oportunidades. Aún así, no creo que esas oportunidades estén disponibles para todos. Desde 2013, la población latina de la ciudad es un poco más de 10%.
 De acuerdo con el reporte del Departamento de Equidad y Derechos Humanos, los hispanos y los latinos son sólo 5,1% de los empleados de la ciudad. Si lo alargas a la posición de liderazgo y ejecutivo, está bajando a 2,4%. Podemos hacer mejor. Debemos hacer mejor. Es de todos nosotros. Ustedes, los oficiales electos, mis colegas de este mundo, yo mismo, para maximizar el potencial de la comunidad latina. En hacer esto, no solo el Estado beneficiará como empleado,
 pero la ciudad entera de Portland será reconocida por su comunidad rica, diversa y bienvenida. Tenemos el poder de hacer esto. Gracias.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Council comments. I just want to say, in order to get the change we want in a more equitable city, we've got to have advocacy in the community and inside city government. So that's why it's so important that our managers and leaders in the bureaus, which you two represent, are being those kinds of advocates and that we have this affinity group to help make sure that we're advancing our goals in our own ranks and in our own leadership of the city. So thank you.
 I'm very happy to work with Amalia Alaconda-Mars, our great Latina leader of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, and also very much appreciate that Christina Nieves has been participating in your group. She's my executive assistant and has recently been promoted to policy advisor because she's so great at figuring stuff out.
 So I appreciate her work with you and the affinity groups that come together under the Diverse Empowered Employees of Portland within the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Thank you for all your work. Thanks very much. Thank you both. I just had one last comment. Please. I just wanted to say that we have students here from Portland State University, from Casa Latina. So we have some Latino students here. Stand up, please. Where are you in the group?
 Welcome, students. We always break the rules. Thanks, students. And just that I hope that we are able to bridge a stronger relationship, specifically with students of color from PSU, so that we can open the doors here at the City of Portland to students that are looking for jobs opportunities. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. Okay, I think it's time to move to our regular agenda. We could take the poll items. I'm sorry. I see...
 We have staff from the police bureau here on one item. We might have on more than one. So let's take 994, which was the item that was pulled from consent. We'll do that first.
 994 accept a grant in the amount of four hundred thirty seven thousand eight hundred and eighty two dollars and appropriate three hundred thousand dollars for fiscal year 2015-16 from the US Department of Justice Office of Justice programs Bureau of Justice Assistance fiscal year 15 Edward Byrne Memorial justice assistance grant program to prevent or reduce crime and violence good morning Catherine welcome good
 Good morning. This, as the ordinance said, is to accept the JAG award or the JAG grant that we applied for back in June. The JAG funds were made under disparate certification to the City of Portland, to Multnomah County, and the City of Gresham.
 Our award, the City of Portland, will receive $210,099. Multnomah County will receive $165,081, and Gresham $62,702.
 The police bureau plans to use JAG funding for the following two items. One, to hire one FTE senior administrative specialist for the police bureau detectives sex crime unit to work as a victim advocate.
 The SAS will provide trauma-informed direct services and ongoing support to victims of sexual assault in their families throughout an investigation, during the court proceedings, and continuing services beyond the conclusion of the investigation. That amount will be $100,099 to fund that.
 The second item is to contract with LifeWorks Northwest for $110,000 to coordinate treatment, temporary housing, counseling, and training opportunities for individuals involved in prostitution-related offenses. The Multnomah County will retain...
 0.36 FTE as a North Neighborhood Deputy District Attorney for 12 months and retain a 0.45 FTE Parole and Probation Officer for 12 months and hire one FTE Enforcement Sergeant for three months. Okay.
 The City of Gresham will use their allocated portion to purchase scheduling software for their police bureau personnel. That's the total award, $62,702 for Gresham. Great. Any questions? Thank you for laying that out for us in detail. That's great. Questions? We get this grant every year, it seems. So is the senior analyst that you mentioned in the police bureau, is that person already employed? Yes.
 No, that would be a hire. A new position. So is this additional money or we're using it in a different way? We're using it in a different way. And what have we been? That's what we've used in the past. So we hire the person for a temporary one-year position and decide what's the most urgent thing? Correct. Thank you. Other questions for Catherine? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 Not sure. Joe, did you want to speak on this? Yeah, I think Lightning said... He doesn't want to speak. He doesn't want to speak? Okay. All right, then. If there's no one who wants to speak on this item... Oh, you do. Sorry, Joe. Watch out. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Once again, we object to these items being slid underneath the table. No discussion. That's what consent agenda is, in case anybody doesn't understand it. Usually, it's just paying bills and normal stuff.
 But when you get it to $300,000, I think that people really should hear from staff what it is. So once again, we're saying to you, don't put these things on consent agenda. Put them on the regular business. The other thing that bothers me about this is the traditional way of handling these grants is to hire people. And that's what you're doing again, right?
 What does that have to do with the person that is on the street? What does that have to do with the person that is involved in drugs? It has nothing to do with them. You just hire people, and in a year, if the grant goes away, they get fired. Stop hiring people and use the money for what it's supposed to be used for. Thank you. Mr. Johnson. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I think that –
 In the past, we've done a much better job here in council chambers bringing forth people who've directly experienced trauma from human trafficking and nonconsensual sex work. And I agree with Mr. Walsh that the issue is so important. It would have been better if you'd used this as a regular agenda item to bring forth to this community the work that's behind the funding of this .45 FTE and this little shell game of work.
 I just want to encourage the council to engage directly for all of you to make sure that you get to events where people who –
 no longer have to ply their wares on 82nd or wherever, but also to make sure some of these human resource hours go to engaging with recidivists and repeat offenders and find out what they experienced that led them to go back to such a traumatic way of life, the reason they felt that the program wasn't what could rescue them
 from sexual exploitation. So I hope you'll make a note in how you manage this program so that recidivists and people who didn't get assisted will have a chance to get their voice heard and maybe find a way to help even more people. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else? And let's take a roll call vote, please, on the ordinance. Saltzman. Oh, I'm sorry. Come on up. Didn't see you.
 good morning good morning uh my name is robert west i'm from from the police 9-1-1 and i noticed that they're talking about having supervisors um i find that police dealing with you know street crime oftentimes it's the unit officers i think the city would be much better off having car units than someone sitting behind a desk
 and I wanted to bring that up. I also think that it should be an agenda item that people can talk about. I went out there to look at, see what there was to sign up. All I seen was the marijuana issue and another, and sergeant's towing. I feel that something like this is important due to the amount of money that it should be an agenda item that people should be able to talk about and discuss. Thank you. Thanks very much. All right.
 All right, anyone else? Then let's take the vote, please. Saltzman? Aye.
 Ricks. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. I'm really glad that we as a community are focusing on the victims of prostitution the way we do and on making sure that the purchasers of prostitution are the ones that are getting the enforcement attention. That's the right way to do this. And then when we do identify victims to have advocacy and services for them is the right kind of policing. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, let's move on to the regular agenda, 997. Extend term of street closure program in Old Town, Chinatown for a period of one year. This is a second reading vote on the presentation we had last week. Roll call. Saltzman.
 Well, I'm pleased to support extending the street closure program. As we heard last week, it seems to have garnered a lot of support in the Old Town Chinatown community. So thanks, Mayor Hales, for doing this. Hi. It's not an emergency, so we keep going.
 It's not. Right, it's not. It's a second reason. Yes. I want to thank Chad Stover, who has been shepherding this from the beginning. And it started with a lot of controversy, and now it seems to be working with a lot of buy-in. So nice job at the street level. And Charlie, I think this is very promising, and we're learning some things. So let's extend it. Hi. Hi.
 Niels. We sure are. And Chad and this community have worked very well together. Well done, Chad. And, again, look forward to both the physical changes that are coming, we hope, next weekend in 3rd Avenue and the community building that's going on in Old Town Chinatown. More to come. Aye. Okay. 9.98.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with TriMet for transit police services. Okay, I know there's a proposed amendment here, and Assistant Chief Modica is coming up to discuss this with us. Good morning. Morning, Mayor. I also have a staff member from TriMet, the Director of Safety and Security, Mr. Harry Saporta, who could join me up here as well. Oh, good. Yeah, please. Come on up, Harry.
 Okay, there were some council questions about this last week. There is a proposed amendment, so walk us through this, please. All right, good morning. And, yes, we return to the table. We had an opportunity to answer the questions presented to us by Commissioner Fritz, and we put work into...
 Making sure that there was some binding language in the ordinance about the priorities of transit policing and the law enforcement services provided to TriMet. Commissioner, did you want to...
 Ms. Fritz, do you have some questions? Do you have some issues you want to discuss? And I do think we need to act on the amendment. Right. I really appreciate meeting with both TriMet and Chief Modica. My concerns are still present. However, what we've compromised on in the ordinance today are two amendments to state that
 The main priority of the TriMet Transit Police Division is not enforcement of fare requirements, but to provide safety and security services for the TriMet system. And then number four in the findings, TriMet established the Transit Equity Advisory Committee in 2013 to provide input and guidance to the TriMet General Manager on fairness and equity considerations. The
 Transit Equity Advisory Committee is composed of representatives from communities of color, OPA. What's OPA? It's the OPAL is the OPAL. It's supposed to be OPAL then, so I meant that's OPAL.
 environmental justice, the Multnomah Youth Commission, Native American Youth and Family Association, and other community leaders. The Transit Equity Advisory Committee is committed to consider impacts regarding race, economic status, houselessness, and fare enforcement. So I move the addition of those two findings. Okay. Commissioner Fritz has moved items three and four. Is there a second? Second. Further discussion, we'll put those on the table and take testimony.
 roll call on accepting those amendments. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Thank you very much for working with me. I understand that the Portland Police also have an advisory group that we could add more folks who are experiencing houselessness to to help advise how you operate. And so I'm seeing a nod from the police commissioner that we can make that happen. I appreciate you working with me. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Ailes? I want to thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for focusing on this issue and working with the Police Bureau and TriMet. I think this amendment really captures the sense of the council and the concerns we heard from the community about what instructions we give to our public safety professionals about what the city's priorities are. And I think this captures this very well, and I suspect Assistant Chief Modica and his team will have no trouble following that policy. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you. Any concerns? Any problems? No, sir. Thank you very much. Okay, we'll take testimony. And if there's anyone who wants to speak on the amendment, come on up. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. We represent Individuals for Justice. We applaud those two amendments. Sound really good. Can we implement them? I don't know.
 It seems to me that there's a problem that we have vacancies in our police department. I heard 13, 15. We're looking for 13 to 15 officers to fill different positions in our police department. I may be wrong on that because I'm relying on my memory. But I'm also concerned of the number of police officers we're sending to TriMet.
 That doesn't make sense to me. If we need officers, why are we sending people to TriMet? I don't like the basic idea of sending officers with guns to TriMet because what are they doing? They're investigating crime. How do they do that? They look. You know, I have never been approached by a police officer for TriMet or the bus. I've been riding them now for 10 years.
 Never been approached. Why is that? Because I'm white. It's because I'm old. I don't fit the profile. That's what goes on all the time. So these amendments are really good, Commissioner, and I applaud you for that. However, you have to have goodwill. You have to have these police officers say, look, you're there to prevent crime. Someone's selling drugs, bust them. Someone looks like they can't afford to get on a bus, leave them alone. That's not your job.
 Your job is to protect us and serve us. That's what you're supposed to be doing there, Mr. Police Officer. So stop screwing around with college kids that just walk. I saw a cop walk up to a college kid that just walked out of college and check her. And she was overdue. And I don't know what the result was because my bus came. That's not his job.
 So, again, we object to you sending your police officers to TriMet because I don't trust TriMet. I don't trust them. Thank you. Morning. Morning, King Bishop Stiles, man about town. I applaud the amendments. I really appreciate the safety aspect because I, too, have experienced, not personally myself, but have watched the
 young men be harassed for either not having an ID and being under 17 or being five minutes over their ticket. So, yeah.
 I agree with Joe into the fact that, you know, there needs to be a focus on exactly what officers are to be up to, and that is to keep us safe and not to be harassed for not having an ID or being five minutes over our transfer ticket.
 Yeah, I think that is a better use of all of our time and our money. And I really appreciate the work that you all are doing. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Anyone else? Okay, so we have an amended ordinance in front of us that we can now take action on. Let's do so, please. Roll call. Solksman? Aye. Fritz? I appreciate, Mayor, the additional time to consider this and your leadership of the Police Bureau. It is all about the implementation. I was both...
 pleased and then further concerned in some of the conversations that I had regarding police enforcing things like people eating on the train and such. And I think that, as I mentioned last week, we should have a community conversation about how we fund TriMet and whether there is a place for at least those under 18 and other groups to be able to ride without paying the fare since the fare is such a small amount.
 proportion of how we fund TriMet, but that's a different discussion for a different day. I appreciate the extra time on this. Aye. Yes. Commissioner Fritz, thanks for your amendments. Aye. Aye also. You know, the Police Bureau is a chain of command organization. That's good and sometimes not so good. One of the good things about being a chain of command organization is that when this council, through me as police commissioner, gives the Bureau clear instructions and policy goals...
 they follow them and they try really hard to make those goals real. So when we said to this police bureau, we're serious about changing the way we deal with people experiencing mental illness, we're going to follow this Department of Justice settlement beyond the letter,
 They're working really hard at that, and they're making good changes. When we say equity is a priority, our chief and Al Weatheroy are focusing on equity in this bureau. And when we say, as we are here today, that the priority in our transit system is to keep people safe, not fair enforcement, they'll follow those instructions as well. And I appreciate us being clear about that. It is very important that people using the transit system be safe and feel safe.
 we have hundreds of thousands of people who get to work that way every day and i have worked in the transit industry and seen what happens when the customers of a transit agency stop thinking the system is safe and it is very difficult and expensive not to mention painful to recover from that low spot we don't want to get there so i think this is good policy that will keep a great transit system safe and accessible and a great ride for everybody thank you commissioner fritz for your amendments hi
 Okay, let's move on to 999. Authorized purchase of replacement police patrol vehicles at $2,329,151. Okay.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. My name is John Hunt. I'm the City Fleet Manager. And the item before you today is to do a replacement of vehicles that are well beyond their economic life cycle. We've looked at the age, the cost history, the reliability of the vehicles. Thank you.
 and we perform mechanical assessments on them, and the vehicles that need to be replaced really need to be replaced. We have put money aside over the life of the vehicle that resides over in the City Fleet Replacement Fund, and the funding is available. With me today is Officer Garrett Dow, and he wants to speak to the operational need of this particular style vehicle. Good morning. Good morning. I'm currently operating as the fleet coordinator for the police bureau and was involved in...
 with the selection and up fit of this vehicle and trying to determine the best vehicle for the current needs of our officers and looking at the various different types of vehicles that are available. The forward interceptor utility, in my opinion, is is the best car for our officers out there, providing best legroom headroom for the front seat passengers, the officers for also prisoners that we may transport or other citizens that we may transport and also the.
 ever increasing amount of equipment that we carry from first aid supplies to road flares to ballistic shields and spike strips and and all the various other equipment the ford crown victoria was a canceled line some years ago from ford that vehicle was a favorite among police agencies but it's no longer available
 So this Ford Interceptor utility is, again, in my opinion, the premier vehicle to replace that vehicle. Also offering all-wheel drive. And my experience in Portland with the rain, especially when we have the leaf season, the very slippery roads that the all-wheel drive provides,
 superior road handling and traction to keep our officers safer, and especially in wet handling conditions. And the added profile of the vehicle, as I've been testing it, we see better yielding of citizens as we are running an emergency response mobile with lights and sirens to calls, which should reduce collisions and provide better safety for officers and citizens alike. Thank you. Questions? I have a question. Please. Okay.
 So I have a son who's 6'5", so I certainly understand about needing legroom and headroom and such.
 However, I want to thank Maxine Bernstein at the Oregonian, whose article yesterday said that Seattle found that the new interceptors average 8.4 miles per gallon during one test period compared with 6.7 miles per gallon for the Crown Victorias. And there was an estimate that they get about 10 or 11 miles per gallon. That's awful in terms of our climate action challenges and plan. Yeah.
 So I had not realized that our current police vehicles were getting that poor of a gas mileage. And I wonder, did you factor that into your considerations? Yeah, I'd like to speak to a couple of things I think the taxpayers would like to know as well. We're buying them through a local dealer through the state price agreement. But on the fuel economy piece –
 There's actually two offerings that Ford has. One is a sedan, and the other one is the Ford Interceptor utility. It's a unibody construction, so as far as fuel economy, they're almost the same. They're within like one mile per gallon difference. Ford took that into consideration when they built them. So...
 The fuel economy won't be a lot different than, again, their sedan that they offer. But that's 10 miles per gallon. The question is, are there other choices that are more fuel efficient that we considered, and why did we reject those? I would say that the vehicle that we're purchasing is designed for police use anywhere within the city fleet that we can. In fact, through our climate action plan and the –
 the directive to have 20% of our sedan fleet be all electric vehicles. We're doing everything we can to move forward with very clean, efficient vehicles. In the case of the patrol sedan, there's an awful lot of heavy and large equipment that needs to be hauled in the vehicle, and it just demands this type of vehicle for the type of work that they're doing with it. Can I ask a question? Is the mile per gallon figure you're using –
 based on the assumption that the vehicle is being used for routine police work, which is stop and go, or is that apples-to-apples comparison as if you put a car on the highway?
 Because one thing I've learned on ride-alongs is I'm surprised they get a mile per gallon given the stop, start, you know, the way cars are used. But we measure cars based on, you know, standards. So is this the actual mile per gallon of the car based on the actual standard, or is it the standard for these cars used by a police officer?
 That's a very good question. The one mile is through Ford Motor Company's testing. In the real world, it can change based upon the stop-and-go nature of the use of the vehicle. But, again, the engines are made very well, and they've maximized fuel economy as best that can be done at this current point in time with the technology. Okay.
 Yeah, I think this is going to be an interesting ongoing challenge for us. We have some city vehicles that can easily be electric or be the most efficient vehicle around, whether it's a LEAF or a Prius or those kinds of trips of building inspectors going out to a job site.
 that kind of vehicle might suffice. If a city worker in the Portland building is going out on a field operation, that kind of vehicle would suffice. Then we've got fire trucks, backhoes, and police cars. And those are sort of workhorses that gasoline engines are still the rule in police cars and diesel engines are still the rule in trucks. But the question is when the next technology comes along, like we're trying to do with electric, can we try to –
 migrate as quickly as possible to something more efficient. I think you're hearing the council would like to do that. We wish it was now. Well, I know Commissioner Salsman's got a Highlander, and I'm pretty sure that gets better than 10 miles per gallon. Well, that's a good lead-in to my question. My Highlander is a hybrid, and I'm just wondering, does Ford make hybrid interceptor vehicles, which do get more fuel efficient, and they make more sense from the physics of it all?
 Right now, today, we're buying where there is hybrid or electric options. I think the mayor said it very well that in kind of a teasing way, you can't put, you know, five yards of hot asphalt in the back of a Prius, you know. So we're trying to kind of balance that out. But we do look at that, and if there is that option, then we're moving in that way with the hybrid option option.
 The hybrid was not available. It was not an option for the interceptor. No. And did you look at the Highlander? We're looking at vehicles that are made with a police package, and that means that the braking, its handling, because they're really rigorously tested through the Michigan State Police and L.A. County and Ford Motor Company to ensure that these vehicles will operate well in police use.
 So they're designed for police patrol. So is there a way to partner? It sounds like it's a nationwide thing. Could you as fleet manager partner with your other fleet managers and say, our councils aren't going to approve us buying vehicles that are 10 miles per gallon and get on it and get as a hybrid police vehicle?
 In fact, I am tied with a national network, and there is advisory committees that are put together, and you're exactly right, that has come up. And wherever they can increase the fuel economy. In fact, there's even technologies that are put in that reduce idle time and some different technologies that are out there today. But you raise a valid point that anything that can be done, and we do have a network where we provide this information back to the manufacturer. Thank you.
 Well, this is a good discussion, and we'll take testimony if there is some. But the direction I'm hearing, and I want to support it, is that, first of all, we have in Mr. Hunt somebody who's a national leader who's been recognized for his work in managing our fleet. So we know that you are involved in your national professional organization. So that's an opening. I'm also on the Transportation Committee of the U.S. Conference of Mayors.
 So perhaps between several of us who are involved at the national level, we can start talking to other cities about perhaps a bulk effort, if not a bulk purchase, at least bulk influence on what's being produced to try to match the values of our city and our climate action plan in the vehicles we buy.
 There are other progressive cities like Seattle and San Francisco who also are C40 cities, so I'm sure they're trying to implement their climate action plans as well. So I think what I'd like to do, my recommendation, we'll hear from the public, but my recommendation would be proceed with this batch because we've got to have vehicles to replace the ones that are wearing out. But I think there's a loud and clear direction here that we want to try to be moving in that direction of efficiency as fast as possible and maybe even kicking the door open if we have the chance.
 Mayor, would it be helpful, and Mr. Hunt, would it be helpful to have an addition to the resolution so that it's official council policy? To add another, therefore, the council directs after A, the procurement officer is authorized to enter into the contract and you're authorized to...
 deliver checks to add a C, the mayor and fleet manager are directed to advocate for the development of more fuel-efficient police vehicles. I have no problem with that. I think it's essentially in our climate action plan already, but we can put it in here if you'd like. Second. Okay. Moved and seconded. Any discussion? So roll call on accepting that amendment. Saltzman? Aye.
 Fritz I think you Really like the idea of the city's using their buying power to actually get the industry to respond So I hope wish you luck with the account of the Conference of Mayors. Aye. Yes. All right Okay. Thank you both very much. You see if there's public testimony on this item. You want to speak? Come on up? Oh
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice for the Record. One of the things during the discussion that I was thinking about is when we export automobiles to Europe, the EU will not accept them unless they get 42 miles per gallon. Forty-two. We do about 25 here.
 I think the average is about 25. So I think the commission's questions are really good. The other thing that came into my mind was that the police vehicles in Europe are very small. They're kind of tiny. It's almost like the Pope goes around and rides in all of them.
 It's interesting to me that we have these gas consulates when we're all saying we have to do something about the climate. So the discussion you had is very good. I have a suggestion. Why not say that this council will not buy vehicles that get less than? And I'm not going to give you that. I would think 20 miles per gallon. But you guys work on that.
 But that sends a really strong message that this council wants a minimum of whatever you decide. So when they do buy these police automobiles, and I know it's a restrictive industry and that's problematic. However, you can get around that. Those are details. You can work those.
 But the council needs to send a strong message. I think Commissioner Fritz is on to something here, and we should say, look, if you can send automobiles and you can check this fact, 42 miles a gallon to the EU, or they won't accept them, why in God's name are we so low? So that's our problem. Good question. Thank you.
 morning okay well i want to bring up your name back in the record okay my name is robert west i'm with from the police 911.com i want to bring up a couple issues one is i go by north precinct every day and there's always a bunch of police cars inside the parking lot after shift change and i find it funny that there's always cars in there and the city needs more cars the the other thing that i wanted to bring up is that the city
 Instead of buying for everything, we should look at what we need for what areas we have. Downtown doesn't need extremely fast police cars. You're not going to send a police car 120 miles an hour down downtown street. A Prius or a fuel economic car would be better for the downtown area.
 Also, my understanding with the police is that they tend to send officers that are needed from other areas. Like, for instance, if something happened on 162nd and Stark, they would send officers from North Precinct because that's the closest area. They wouldn't send them from downtown. Okay.
 um and so with with that i think the downtown area should definitely have fuel efficient cars priuses or something like that um that would send the community the message that yeah we want policing but we also want fuel economy and we want to be good for the environment and that's what i wanted to bring up thank you very much all right morning
 Go ahead, Lightning. Okay, thank you. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I'm absolutely at agreement to be looking at the electric cars, but also have to have a more realistic approach to it. Now, my understanding, if you do go electric in the future possibly, that you also get certain tax credits, possibly up to $7,500 per vehicle purchase. Right.
 And that makes a big difference on the overall price. As you know, on this order here, we're at about $33,000 per vehicle. Now, the only issue I do have on people saying, going to smaller cars and let's worry about 10 to 20 more miles per gallon. And again, we're still using fossil fuels currently. But where I have an issue on that is to really look at it, and I think the gentleman said it's the overall safety factor.
 If they're in a high-speed pursuit, a larger vehicle with more weight, I mean, come on, let's face it, it's going to be much more beneficial to be in a vehicle like that than some small Prius. So when you're looking at it from a safety factor and the people in the vehicle at high speeds, you don't want to be in a small vehicle, plain and simple. You want to be in a vehicle that it's built solid, sound.
 and it's going to protect you if you're in an accident that's the main thing so going to these small vehicles out on the street is great but it's a risk you're going to take out on the highways at a high speed and my opinion is safety must be number one mileage per gallon is down the list so that's my opinion thank you thank you good morning good morning again for the record my name is charles johnson and uh it's interesting that on
 This item, we're talking about $2 million worth of cars. And last week when we were paying attention to the tri-month budget, we actually itemized the VIN of a 1987 van. So there's a little bit of, as Commissioner Fritz pointed out, some disconnect on our values. But definitely some of these Crown Vics are looking a little bit ragged. And I don't have a huge problem with you approving this $2 million purchase. But I think we should...
 really look at leadership and what's happening, especially in the urban core. I'm not an expert. I can't talk about policing and response time in East Precinct and the distances that are needed to cover the time. But one thing that is a problem here is when I'm downtown, the only police I see are in their cars. And actually, we've been talking about improving community policing. Okay.
 I would rather see police in Prius's, but I would most prefer to see real actual police officers walking the streets and engaging with real citizens, not driving around in cars. So I hope that while you work this $2 million worth of Ford purchases through the budget, we can also look at giving people the policing that is really, you know,
 common actually was common in america for generations and i understand we have a kind of nice situation where we have less police per capita than some other cities our size and bigger and i hope that our portland citizens can keep our act together and maintain that but uh
 It's a valid point that we should look at the whole fleet of police cruisers and is there a role for cars that are more like European police vehicles, especially in the urban core. And hopefully some shenanigans through Uber and connections with Lightning's favorite person, Mr. Elon Musk, we can get some ZEV police patrol vehicles that make sense inside the central city area. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. Anyone else? Then we should take a vote, please, on the amended ordinance. We need Commissioner Fish back at the door. We do. It is an emergency. So let's set that over for a minute unless he's handy. Rachel? Let's see. There he is. Oh, there he is. Sorry. Not yet, but be ready. Okay. Let's take a roll call now, please. Saltzman?
 Well, I appreciate the discussion, and I hope we can strive to find more fuel-efficient vehicles, but ones that do meet the needs of our police officers and our police bureau. Hi.
 I agree. Thank you. I wish my daughter from Andorra is trying to wish her father a happy birthday. We're having a little technology glitch. Excuse whenever that call comes in. I appreciate the discussion and the direction. I will take that to the table at the U S conference of mayors because I think there may be a bulk influence and bulk purchasing opportunity there among cities. And we'll also want to,
 Mr. Johnson's comment, under my direction the Police Bureau will be using three classes of vehicles that comply with our direction more, and that is we'll be using shoes, bicycles and horses in greater number rather than vehicles wherever that's possible. And we have successfully used walking patrols and
 in the last couple of years in areas like Hawthorne, where it was hugely appreciated by the neighborhood, and they were on their feet. So I agree with that direction. We're in the police bureau. We're looking for every opportunity we have to expand that type of policing. And that's, of course, not only better for the community, but doesn't use any fossil fuel, at least for that part of the trip. So thank you for the direction. We look forward to maybe having the next fleet purchase be a little different. Hi. Hi.
 Okay, let's see marriage. It's your position that we should keep them out of patrol in order to comply with our climate action plan That's right. There's some people that deal with horses might argue with that Talk about the ponies again, no doubt. Let's take up item number 1000
 Authorize up to $20 million of interim financing for local improvement projects. This is a second reading. Roll call vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? This is a lot of money, and the description doesn't really do justice to what we're doing, but we'll try to get more information in the future. But we did have a presentation last week where Jennifer Cooperman walked us through this in great detail. Aye. Mills? Aye. Thank you. Okay.
 Okay, item number 1001, please.
 authorized contract with Sargent's Towing, Inc. for abandoned vehicle towing and storage vehicles. So Commissioner Novick isn't here, but what I have here as an introduction is the intent of this ordinance is to award a three-year abandoned vehicle towing and storage contract to Sargent's Towing, Inc. The contract provides towing, storage, and disposal of abandoned vehicles parked in the right-of-way as required by the Abandoned Auto Program and requested by the Bureau of Development Service if an abandoned auto is on private property.
 So good morning, gentlemen. Take us through this, please. Good morning, Mayor Hales, commissioners. My name is Patrick Kramer. I'm the towing coordinator, PBOT Regulatory Services. And beside me I have Donald Hunter. He's the supervisor of Parking Enforcement Division. And he's available for questions specifically regarding the abandoned auto program.
 the ordinance before you to before you today is to award the abandoned vehicle towing contract to sergeants towing this contract is used by agencies primarily abandon auto program to remove abandoned autos from city streets this increases neighborhood livability and promotes public safety after a competitive bid process through procurement services proposals were evaluated it was determined that sergeants towing had the highest score
 On August 11th, the Towing Board of Review voted to recommend to you the award of the contract to Sargent's Towing. If I could just take a brief moment to summarize some of the changes from the previous contract. The first is a reduction in the towers' response time to abandoned vehicle tows. Previously, it was 24 hours. We reduced that to two hours.
 Secondly, the successful proposer had a higher bid than the previous contract, so the city will enjoy increased revenues from that. And then there's also a streamlining of the process in which a vehicle owner who appealed the tow of their vehicle and was successful can be refunded their money for that tow. So by your approval of this contract, the city will enjoy increased revenues, streamlined process for removing abandoned vehicles from the city streets.
 And with that, I'm open to any questions you may have. Thank you. I have a couple. And typically when we take up towing in this body, it's because there's been complaints from the public about how towing and companies operate. And I know that Senator Abell Gordley, when she was in service, had a great interest in this. She had a staff person who worked on it almost full time.
 And there were concerns about performance and customer issues and the like. And I think one of the questions that we need to ask, even though we're talking about abandoned vehicles, so we're talking about essentially cars that are left on the side of the road,
 is what is Sargent Towing's record in terms of Better Business Bureau and customer service? And are we forging a partnership with one of the good guys or one of the people that people have concerns about in our community? Yes, excellent question. Thank you for that.
 How I'd respond to that is part of the request for proposals, the RFP, the companies were evaluated both on past performances of their contracts with the city as well as bully violations. Sergeants came back with no complaints. And sergeants actually, just for historical purposes, have previously had the abandoned contract, if I remember right,
 from 1995 to 2010. So they had it for quite some time and were very successful with it. And the city was very happy with their performance at that time. And so we have no reason to doubt that performance this time, too. That's very helpful, right? Past performance is an indicator of future performance. And to what extent do abandoned vehicles actually get claimed by someone?
 It's very low. Most of them do not get claimed. Most of them are just auctioned off or scrapped. Okay, so we don't have a lot of those examples of someone, a member of the public, going to try to claim a car and then having a history of how they dealt with the company in terms of customer service. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, the majority of them don't, the vehicle owners don't have any kind of interaction with the towler. It would basically be if the city...
 was happy with the performance of the towing services for the contract. You know, on Sunday Parkways, the route went through Selwood, Brooklyn and Selwood. And I remember on one of the streets we were going through, there was a totaled car on the road that had a sign on it saying free.
 So if someone was being very enterprising, I don't know they got anyone claiming it. Seeing that car, I suspect it's still there, that there were no takers unless you've already towed it away because it was abandoned. And just would you remind us, when we tow an abandoned car and no one claims it, what do we normally get for that car?
 That's part of the abandoned auto fee. And so any vehicle that's not picked up by the vehicle owner, the contractor pays the abandoned auto program actually a fee, and it's based on a bid that was part of the RFP process that they –
 that they submit to us that's the 75 of index price of the scrap metal value exactly exactly so that's and we and that price has been arrived at through a competitive process yes thank you very much i'm curious and maybe our viewers are curious what constitutes an abandoned auto uh abandoned auto vehicle uh it and the city code requires it to have three criterias either uh failure to display current registrations
 appears inoperable or disabled or appear wrecked or partially dismantled. It has to fall in one of those three categories to be considered abandoned. So simply being not current on the plates is enough? Correct. I didn't know that.
 And that concerns me because the goal of this program is to get garbage off the street, right? It's the ones like Commissioner Fish just referenced that's been sitting there and you can't give it away. The goal is not to make money.
 out of this program. And I'm concerned about the new requirement for towing companies to get out within two hours of this. Could you just walk us through what the timeline is from the moment somebody calls in a request for removal of an abandoned auto to the moment that it gets crushed? And when we get a – our department is complaint generated. And when we get the call from the citizen, this time of year, the summertime,
 If you call in the day, we may not be able to respond to get there for anywhere from five to seven days because this is our peak season, the weather get nice. When the weather get nice, we get more calls. Once someone called in and our officer get the case, they go out and see if the vehicle meet the criteria. If it falls on one of these three categories, then they place one of these green tow warnings on the vehicle.
 and which notifies the owner of the vehicle that they have 72 hours to comply. And so the officer would go back, not quite at 72 hours, because this time of year again, after we place this warning that we may not get back to a week, seven days to follow up, if the vehicle is still there, then we proceed to cite it for abandoned auto and we tow the vehicle away. After we tow the vehicle,
 We sent out a, through DMV records, we sent out a letter to the last registered owner letting them know that this vehicle was towed, and they have 15 days to recover the vehicle. After 15 days, by code, it becomes city property to dispose of. So I'm pretty troubled by the first criteria, and you're saying it's… I'm not done with my previous line of questioning. Sorry, keep going. I'm sorry. Okay.
 Does the 72 hours, that's just 72 hours? It's not business days or take any account of holidays or anything? It's 72 hours is what is in the code, is 72 hours. So if we put a tag on there on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, our officers are not out there on Saturdays and Sundays. Monday is a holiday. It's well past 72 hours before we even respond or get back to it.
 But if the property owner happened to be out of town for the holiday weekend, they could have left before the tag was put on and then be back in their car? That's a possibility, yes. Okay, so that's a concern to me. I am also concerned about the mayor's concern about expired tags because that doesn't seem necessarily to be evidence of it being abandoned.
 And then I – Jasmine Watts, with all my staff, has been working with you, and I really appreciate you answering her questions and mine. The reason cited for the new two-hour requirement rather than 24-hour requirement to get the tow truck out is to cut down on the number of times that they go out where it's gone on arrival. The car has already been removed. Okay.
 To me, that's a good thing. If the property owner has been able to get back to their vehicle and take it and do something with it, our problem is solved. It's no longer littering the public right-of-way. We are looking to... The revenue we're looking to increase goes from $50,000 to $165,000. That's really not a significant amount of revenue for PBOT. We're not looking to pave our streets using towing money. Yeah.
 and in fact the city service fee is only going to increase from 3100 to 6 000 so that again is not a significant amount of money compared with the hassle for a property owner of having to take
 get their automobile, get it out of the pound, pay the fees. I mean, if you're cited for having an out-of-commission vehicle and given 72 hours, it may be a week before payday. It may be not something that you can get at AAA or if you don't have AAA to have the money to be able to tow it yourself. That's not very long. So it seems to me that when we asked, we were told that,
 And last year, 160 cars disappeared after the 72 hours, but before the tow truck got out there. To me, that's a good thing. So my question is, why aren't we giving property owners longer? Often these vehicles have been there for months, if not years. Why don't we give a week or more longer?
 after you post the green tag, and why don't we mail notice to the property owner by looking at the VIN through the window to be sure that they know that their car is about to be towed? Many of these vehicles, when we talked about current registrations, it's not as if the registration expired a week or two. A lot of these are several months old. The majority of these vehicles have been expired for some time. Some of them even two years were expired.
 And so these are complaint generated cases that we receive from the public, neighbors, someone in the neighborhood see this vehicle as an eyesore many times and that's the reason why they call us and we go out on it. Well, so let me pursue that a little further. So we don't have a hard and fast threshold about how far beyond the registration period it has to be before we tow it, right? Correct. It is complaint based. Yes. So, I'm going to ask you a question.
 Forgive me for using a personal example, but it's on point. My wife and I own a 1987 Toyota pickup truck for which we paid $500. It is not a thing of beauty, though most of the time it's operable. Most of the time it's parked in our driveway. We don't use it very much because we use it when we're doing a remodeling project on our house to haul stuff. So it sits around a lot and grows green mold, which is what cars do when they're parked in Portland under trees.
 and the registration on that thing lapsed and it sat in my driveway for a couple of months without me remembering to get the new stickers on it but no harm was done because it was in my driveway or no harm was done to me but now that's a pretty ugly truck, if I parked it on the street I wouldn't really blame my neighbors for complaining so I'm pretty concerned that wrote, that failure to comply with a relatively minor issue of
 registration of the vehicle, if it's otherwise operable, tires are full, the windows aren't broken out, what's the neighborhood harm other than, you know, I have an ugly truck? Pardon me for coming up. Ben Wolters with the City Attorney's Office. Just as a point of
 Within the contract, the contract is the implementation of what the council has defined as an abandoned vehicle in code. So if the council chose to or is uncomfortable with what constitutes an abandoned vehicle, the council could change that by a code amendment. Right.
 Right. I understand that, but every now and then in this process we learn something, and I didn't know that that was our policy, and this council is using this moment to check out the policy. Plus the contract is saying we want you to whip them out of there faster, and that's the piece that I'm concerned about. That's a different question. What constitutes an abandoned vehicle, the council has the authority to change that definition should it choose, but it's not in front of you as a code amendment today. So we could –
 That's an important clarification. Let me give you another example. It's not directly on point, but it illustrates the equity that my two colleagues are raising. I have a friend that was doing some work in his house, and so he got one of those structures that you put in front of your house on the street, and you store your furniture in there. I forget what they're called. They're like pots. Right.
 So the vendor that leased him the pod for this project didn't give him clear notice that he had to get a city permit. So he filled it with all the stuff, and he went on vacation with his family. And he came back, and it was gone. And so the first thing he thought was, oh, my God, it's been stolen because it had – well, it turned out it had been towed because it didn't have the sticker. And so whatever part of our code says if you have a pod that isn't properly licensed –
 And he had gotten a notice, but he was on vacation. So when he – it cost him like $500 to recover the pod, which he was duty-bound to do because it was leased. So he had to pay whatever it was. But interestingly, the way the pod is towed is it is – a flatbed truck comes and puts it in an angle and slides it up. So everything in the pod was destroyed. So he lost his stuff. He had to pay $500. And –
 He would not fall within any category of someone that would be the poster child of what we're trying to get at. This is not someone who was running a business out of his pod. He didn't fail to pay, and it just was abandoned. He just didn't know our rules as well as he should, and he paid a huge price. I also am troubled by the idea that there's going to be some fairly innocuous behavior. And by the way, if you're stopped in a car with your plates not up to you, you get a ticket. They don't get you out of the car and tow your car.
 right so it's still an administrative fine and mayor i wonder this is the commissioner in charge is not here right and and yet we have to have a contract to at least enforce the other portions can we simply uh declare a moratorium on enforcement of the piece that we have concerns about and have that come back for
 further discussion because I know we have to have a company enforce the parts we don't have a concern about right it sounds like From what I see here that the current contractor contract with retriever ended on August 31st Are we on an extension of that old contract with them? Yeah, so it would expire today and may I interject one more thing? so about Commissioner Fred's you to expressed concerns about the expediting of the tow
 response by the toer. And there was an actual secondary reason for that as well. The reason for that was to cut down on an unscrupulous toer coming in and taking that car before our contracted towers got to it.
 No, this came up a couple years ago. And so that cuts down on the possibility of that happening again. And so that was actually partially in response to that as well. And again, I believe our city attorney mentioned it, but the contract is completely flexible on the abandon auto process and how long you want to give a person before the call is called into the tow truck. So-
 it's completely flexible that way. So if it would change, the contract would still not be affected by that, and the services would just be provided per their policy. Well, that's good to know because my recommendation, Commissioner Novick's staff is here. My recommendation is that we do go ahead and approve the contract because it's
 policy direction will then change how the contract is used. Well, we have to have a contractor, and they've gone through a process to select a contractor. So I don't have much of a quarrel with that, but I do have concerns, and I know you do as well, Commissioner Fritz and others here, about are we operating this as a livability program, pure and simple, and exercising both giving direction about what we do and don't do based on that being the touchstone of this program.
 as opposed to a revenue program or an enforcement program for the Motor Vehicles Division. So none of those. Mayor, I just had another idea I wanted to share with the two of you since you're leading the discussion. We could say as part of this that we direct the Bureau –
 to give 30 days notice in the event of a registration issue to give Steve's office a chance to come back to us with potential changes to the code. Since the notice you're already giving 15 days?
 That's after it's towed. 72 hours. That's after it's towed. Oh, after it's towed. I'm sorry. All right. So we could extend the front end time for that particular category until we have a package, something to consider at council. So Commissioner Novick's staff is here. Let me ask one of you to come up if you would and give us your preference based on this discussion that you've heard in the absence of the commissioner in charge.
 The commission is back tomorrow. We could set it over until tomorrow. Let's hear what you'd like to do. And actually, I would appreciate if Ben Walters would maybe come up here to back me up on the legal basis. But my understanding is that the tow contract in and of itself, to try to make an amendment pursuant to Commissioner Fish's recommendation, would not fit well within the contract itself, but instead perhaps within our abandoned auto program, which is in SETI code. Okay.
 So he's going to be back tomorrow? Correct. Why don't we set it over for action, for continuation tomorrow? And the current contract expires today. Yeah, but one day's – I mean, obviously we have to take testimony today too. One option we could do is on page 15 of the contract to delete the three response time criterion, 3.6, .3, 4, and 5.
 so that's something that we might consider is this contract amendable can we amend it yeah again my my suggestion would be we got policy issues here that this discussion is highlighted great i'm happy that that's happened um i think all of us want to bear down on those uh those issues with commissioner novick sometime very soon how long has this code been in the current code been in fact
 I believe, I'm not sure the exact time I've been in park enforcement for 23 years. It was like this when I started. So what I also would suggest to my colleagues is we take testimony, vote on the contract. We have a long history. This has not been brought to us in other forums. I went perfectly comfortable waiting a week or two for Commissioner Novick's office to come to us with any proposed code changes. I think we should do it thoughtfully. Okay.
 I think we can limp along for two weeks, and I am concerned the contract's expiring. And if we've got 20-something years of history, at no time in seven years on the council has anyone come at a public part of our meeting and complained about this process. So you've highlighted a concern we all have. I, for one, Mayor, am willing to go a couple weeks under the status quo. When the contract expired at the end of August, did you come to us to ask to extend it?
 No, the contract allows for an administrative extension, a temporary extension after the last extension. So it's a three-year contract with two consecutive one-year extensions. And then after that, you can administratively extend it out as needed. And it's a temporary thing that it's meant to be there on a temporary basis. We keep going on that basis. Well, that's what I'm thinking. We could just temporarily extend it.
 So if we do nothing, you could still extend the contract administratively for a little while. Again, just to be very clear, the contract in and of itself did not change or affect the immediate policies or the union autos. Well, it does change the response time. Can I say something? I want to say, first of all, that...
 I am supportive of this, and I think there's at least two sides to every issue, as we well know. And we're not hearing from the side of the aggrieved neighbors who, as Commissioner Fritz said herself, these cars sit there oftentimes for a year before any action is taken. And all of us concerned about our climate action plan, well, yes, one of the key ways to enforce a vehicle's compliance with clean air is to have it inspected. That's how you get your tag.
 so i think you know we're being a little too frivolous and cavalier about we shouldn't take an abandoned auto that's been sitting on a street for a year or we should be tolerant of cars that are dirty emitting dirty air just because they don't want to go through deq so i i support this contract and if you're going to embark on a major policy process or if you're even going to set over tomorrow i won't be here tomorrow i would suggest you set over the testimony on this issue until
 But I really think I do support this contract, and I support the criteria. And if the council wants to undertake a more expansive process, let's make sure we hear from all sides to this issue. Okay. Let's give us all a chance to process what we've heard. Unless there are any further questions for you, we'll see if there's any testimony on this issue, and then we'll see if we have a decision. Mr. Johnson, Charles Johnson is the only one who signed up. Okay. Come on up.
 For the record, Charles Johnson. And I have to say that I'm thrilled when you pleasantly surprise me with very robust and progressive concerns. But I actually somewhat have my sentiments aligned with Commissioner Saltzman that we've all been through neighborhoods where the neighborhood people behind closed doors have gone through a, are we going to bother this dude about his car that's been sitting there for 300 days? And...
 At the same time, I think that we do need – I think you could totally approve this contract the way it is and just get it over with. But you should return to this robust conversation of what's the best way to be Portland? If we have people who might have junky, old, crappy cars and financial concerns or mental health concerns, should we have ways to help the neighborhood people engage with those people so they can still use their transportation? Except, of course, it's an abandoned car, so they're not really using it.
 So maybe they need help liquidating that asset without a tow truck coming and having to go through the procedure. But it was a good and surprising discussion that touched on those issues. And like I said, you could feel okay, I think, about approving this contract as is today and moving on. But we should have this conversation of we know that there are –
 And we should maybe from the towing provider and from the Department of Transportation, or Bureau of Transportation, get some information on what are the statistics? Like, is it nine out of 10 cars that are dead on the side of the road that have sat there? Or are we talking about a lot of cars that are in our neighborhoods where, you know, people who, whatever their issues are, whether it's poverty or they're single people who don't know how to fix cars and, you know, just can't make that connection. But we should be able to do something better than these people...
 you know just waking up maybe offers of neighborhood involvement should get involved and these people can actually have for the ones at home people can have direct human contact with a city employee who says in 72 hours your car will be gone and we're going to use that money as a revenue source for the city's bureau of transportation maybe they'll just say okay tow it i can't handle that but i appreciate your uh
 a rather more thorough than usual review of this topic thank you thank you okay so it seems to me we have some options here we can approve the contract and ask uh commissioner charge to return to us with the policy discussion sometime soon we can set over the contract and allow with we don't have to do anything the bureau has the opportunity to administratively extend the current contract until we approve
 the contract, and or have a policy discussion. So let's go down the line here. My preference is to vote on the ordinance. We have had no objection to having the substitution. What substitution? Of one towing company for another. One towing company for another. And to the policy question, I mean, I appreciate, Dan, your view, but I hardly think it's frivolous to actually –
 asked to see some data and see how what the impact is and frankly if the data said that disproportionately this targets people of color or working class people or undocumented i think you'd want to know that but i don't know the answer so i don't think the question is frivolous i think what we've done is said is collectively we'd like there's three criteria two of them are no-brainers we we see those cars all the time the third
 seems like there's a grayer area. And I think all we've said is we'd like to get some more information and data to know whether that's the right policy. So I'm prepared to vote for the contract, and I would like the commissioner in charge to come back and walk us through how that other prong is being administered. And if there's no problem with it, then so be it. But I don't consider that a frivolous exercise. I think that's part of our oversight exercise.
 And your thoughts? As I said, let's approve the contract. Amanda, are you comfortable with that? I can only support approving the contract if we remove 3.6.3, 3.6.4, and 3.6.5 on page 15 of the 91 pages. Of the contract itself? Of the contract itself. Okay.
 Those are the ones, as far as I'm seeing, that talk about their response time. Again, in my inquiries, after the 72-hour notice, but before the tow truck got there in 2014, 160 cars disappeared. Now, again, second time today, thanks to Maxine Bernstein of The Oregonian and this time to Jasmine Wadsworth, who pulled up her article from April of 2016.
 2014, the issue that was alluded to with cars being stolen has been addressed, I'm hoping. And I'd be interested in hearing from the Bureau as to how else we are making sure that the right companies are, the right company is allowed to tow and that we're, the police are continuing their due diligence on making sure that registrations are checked and notified and titles transferred before we do the crushing. But...
 That means we don't have four votes on an emergency, Mayor. Can I make an alternate suggestion? Please. I'm looking for one. I'd be comfortable with the Bureau administratively extending the contract until such time as Commissioner Novick brings this back to council. I think he should be here.
 And I'm loathe to change a contract since it's negotiated by the parties, and if we start taking something in or adding it, we're the least qualified people to do that. So I'd rather maintain the status quo. I take Commissioner Fritz's concerns seriously, but I don't think we should amend the contract on the fly.
 let's administratively extend it and come back with a fuller discussion I agree with that because I'm unwilling to invade the language of the contract itself in the council in which case we just set it over till next week okay so we're gonna set this over for a week obviously Commissioner Novick staff has heard this discussion and we'll look forward to hearing some direction from them and from the towing board of review perhaps when the council returns to the regulatory subject and maybe they can make a presentation about options there when the contract comes back so it's continued for one week
 Okay, item 1002. Item 1002, adopt regulations for marijuana license procedures and requirements.
 Mr. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. So this is our third hearing on this issue, maybe fourth. I'm losing count. But certainly there's been plenty of public process. And it is a new program, and so it's highly unlikely that we're going to get absolutely everything right the first time that we vote on it, and we will continue to work on the program. Just to review, beginning tomorrow, medical dispensaries are allowed to sell a certain amount of recreational marijuana through the end of 2015.
 And then possibly as early as December 1st, recreational marijuana businesses could apply for a city license along with an Oregon Liquor Control Commission license that would be granted no sooner than January 4th of 2015. So the urgent issue that I would like us to vote on today is to adopt this emergency ordinance with amendments.
 so that we have some regulation of time, place, and manner starting tomorrow for how medical dispensaries can sell recreational marijuana. And to again recap, the direction from council, based on public input at the last two hearings, is that we should do whatever we can within the scope of our authority to both prevent land grabs and to prevent giving an inadvertent upper hand to out-of-state companies.
 and also to support medical marijuana patients and dispensaries. This council has been very supportive of medical marijuana every time that we've been asking about it. And so the goal of the amendments today, which staff will walk us through, is to make sure that we protect the medical dispensaries to the extent that council has directed.
 With that, I'll ask Teresa Marchetti, the program manager, to please walk us through it. Thank you so much. I firmly believe that third time's a charm. I'm Teresa Marchetti, for the record, and I'm the Livability Programs Manager. And I'm Victor Salinas, the Marijuana Policy Coordinator for the City of Portland, for the record.
 And we'll go ahead and walk you through the beginning of the proposed amendments to Chapter 14B.130. So the first amendment is to Section 14B.130.080 with the requirements, operational requirements. The second amendment is to Section 14B.130.040.D.
 And that's to the distance restrictions for dispensaries and retailers. I'll speak to the latter one that I mentioned earlier.
 since that is a less complicated one. We've heard from industry and from medical patients alike that the proposed changes to Section 14B.130.080A.2 are in response to concerns of medical marijuana patient cardholders employed at medical dispensaries within the City of Portland about their ability to medicate at work as necessary for their medical conditions pursuant to OAR practices.
 333-008-1200. So the amendment would actually change the proposed ordinance or code to allow them to medicate on-site in closed quarters, in private quarters, away from public view and away from anyone else within the medical dispensary. Okay.
 And to clarify, we're going to defer to our ongoing process to decide whether that same provision should apply to retail establishments once there are purely retail establishments authorized.
 The amendment to Section 14B.130.040D, the distance restrictions for dispensaries and retailers. So the amendment that we've crafted is intended to meet Council's direction of protecting the existing medical dispensaries that have been supporting the medical marijuana patients.
 We were asked to develop some criteria for that, and we have done so. And the criteria is related to those dispensaries that have been established in Portland with substantial financial and time investment, and also that are operating in compliance with state regulations and serving medical patients.
 And I have to say that we had some trepidation about crafting this policy in a way to make sure that we were not unfairly granting some amount of preference to one group over another. We've heard a lot of criticism that the current marijuana industry is predominantly white, male, and affluent.
 And we have really strived in our policy making to ensure that we're not systematically and unintentionally excluding groups that don't enjoy the same privileges as others.
 It is commonly felt that the current medical marijuana industry and marijuana industry has been able to take advantage of opportunities that other groups cannot because of their status and privilege. And I am very aware of how much of a challenge it is to speak about privilege in the realm of policy. I enjoy my own privilege most of the time without even knowing it.
 ONI's core value system and also explicit direction from this council has made – it has basically mandated that we actually do think about it within this policymaking. And it's been at the forefront of our minds through this entire thing. So we think that this –
 Did you say you heard public testimony to that effect? We did. We did at the town halls, at the community stakeholder work group meetings. We do believe that this criteria helps to ensure that we don't erect barriers to
 additional barriers to specific groups within Portland. We also think that it maintains, which is also within the framework of viewing this through an equity lens, it maintains and preserves the protection from saturation that City Council has been very adamant about in ensuring for the communities of Portland by establishing the 1,000-foot buffer. I don't know enough, I guess, about the industry, but
 who is privileged and who is not privileged in the industry.
 We are really talking about the fact that individuals who are well-resourced have existing supply lines, have existing – really it's about the resources that they bring to the table, that they can take advantage of a very high-risk situation entering into the medical marijuana industry and now into the medical industry. Right.
 to a greater extent than other groups can. We're talking about people of color and women in particular not having had access to opening those facilities. I guess I want to play devil's advocate. If we want to be as laissez-faire and pro-equity as possible, why don't we just not adopt any of these standards about citing and just allow the market to operate and allow people to enter the market? I mean, I'm really baffled. No, thank you. We're talking about a regulatory program where you want to hire people
 Eight people? I questioned that last time. So why don't we just let it lie and not adopt any local regulations? Because I think the equity lens needs to be applied both on the front end and the back end. So we're talking about the communities that these types of businesses are going to locate in and providing protections for them and also establishing those expectations between those communities and this industry and the newness of this industry –
 is extremely important when we're looking at it from an equity lens. I mean, we have seen time and time again across the nation that alcohol and vice-related type businesses congregate in areas of social disadvantage, and they perpetuate that. And I think that especially as we are embarking on this new realm, that we need to be mindful of that and the policies that we're proposing to you for your adoption to make sure that we're not making the same mistakes that we've made.
 And specifically this addresses position in terms of the population that lives east of Highway 205, where we see a great saturation of adult businesses from lottery to bars to liquor stores to other adult industry businesses as well. And that's where we see the greatest impact, where there is the least amount of resources and the knowledge and the ability for people to...
 present themselves here today to be able to advocate for the regulatory system that addresses livability in those neighborhoods i you know i think the fundamental flaw with with the lens you're looking at this in my personal opinion is you know marijuana is not like alcohol you know people are not going to be allowed to smoke on premises in either of these establishments or unless you're behind closed doors and all locked up it's not a you know it's not a speakeasy it's not a bar there's not going to be spillover into the neighborhoods
 And people aren't going to locate, if people are entrepreneurial, regardless of their race or gender, they're not going to locate in an area where they're not going to make some money. And so why not, as I said, they're not going to saturate an area if they're going to put each other out of business. And like I said, we're looking at marijuana like it's alcohol or pornography, and it's just not the same. And I think the voters took a very clear position on that, and I think we're just kind of,
 You know, we're regulating for the sake of regulating as opposed to the sake of there being a real problem. I'd rather be laissez-faire, and we can always come back and adopt regulations. The world is not going to end tomorrow if we don't have regulations in place.
 It's always difficult to come back and regulate. It's always difficult to run after a problem once it's already established. We've seen again and again that there are proactive regulations, reasonable regulations, that can be put in place that avoid all of those negative consequences. And even though we don't know to what extent that marijuana may align with alcohol, it's the best system that we have for comparison at this point, just because it hasn't been ethical to study it. Okay.
 to study marijuana and what the impacts are on an aggregate level just because it was illegal for so long so can I just ask us a simple question because today is full of surprises for me if Commissioner Saltzman fund has a principled objection to us adopting any regulations mayor I would propose that we just move to take the emergency clause off take testimony today and have this go to next week
 We might have to. And then if you have a principal objection to regulation, and it seems to me there's been a robust public process, we've had lots of testimony, we've been working in good faith to craft community standards.
 I appreciate that in this one area you don't believe in regulation. So let's take the emergency clause off, take testimony, and bring it back next week. Let me suggest doing it in a little different order. We have some proposed amendments, correct? Yes. So I would suggest we take action on the proposed amendments, hear testimony, and then see what the council's sense is of going forward. Hear testimony on the amendments. Yeah. Because people here speak on those. I'm just previewing that the laissez-faire approach means the entire exercise he disagrees with, and that's his point.
 right, but I think we can spend a lot of time going around and around debating that. I think we should have a full council to have the vote on it. I understand that. Are there things you need to get across to us about the amendments before we take a motion on accepting the amendments? Is there a motion that we accept the amendments? So moved. Is there a second? Second. Further discussion on accepting the amendments and then we'll ask if anyone wants to testify on the amendments. Okay, roll call please. Mr.
 Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. All right. Thank you. So now, I don't know if we have folks signed up for public testimony. Let me see if I can't help make this, at least I hope, simple and fairly brief, and that is if you think that we've got it right, no need to come up and speak. We always like affirmation, but if you think we haven't yet got it right, that's particularly what we want to hear. So if you think these amendments have solved the problems that were raised in the earlier hearing,
 or hearings, fine, give us a thumbs up or a smile. But if you still have concerns, okay, there's at least one. If you still have concerns about where we're headed with the now amended regulations that are in front of us, those are the folks that we particularly need to hear from. So would you call the roll if we have a list, if we have a list? Yes, we do, for the amendments. Is Sam Chapman still here? Sam Chapman, Donald Morse, and Megan?
 bolster she going up Amy Amy Markle's and Jeff sugar was coming up as well. Okay. Well, let's take the first three anyway, yes or four if we can bring up another chair and
 All right. Wait. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor Hales, commissioners. My name is Sam Chapman, for the record. We're going to be really brief because a handful of us have to rush down to Salem for a ceremonial bill signing for all of the marijuana bills with Governor Kate Brown. Okay. So while we're going to be brief, this is still a very important issue to us, and I think a couple of people
 A good handful of us do not believe that the proposed amendments are acceptable as is, and I think Amy will get into more specifics about exact language that we would like to see, which I will endorse, but very quickly I'll go through my regular testimony here. I'm very glad to hear that the patient issue got fixed. That was something that's been in statute.
 There should be no question about that. It's in statute. Patients that are employees can consume on-premise behind closed doors. I don't understand why there's more conversation needed. It doesn't sound like there is. Thank you. Another section I wanted to refer to was...
 was section 14B13080, which bans retail delivery. I understand that maybe there is some hesitancy because it's a new industry, we're not sure what delivery means, et cetera. I can tell you that it is something that the legislature specifically allowed
 because of the local compromise that happened last session between cities, counties, and the industry in allowing counties and cities to ban. It was something that was championed by Senator Floyd Perzonski. And the reasoning why I think the city should reconsider that is because,
 Prohibition doesn't work. That's why Measure 91 passed with such high numbers that it did, and creating or continuing to allow a black market of deliveries, which exists now. There's quite a few of them in Portland. They're around the state. It's something that if we do choose to regulate, we should regulate it. We shouldn't prohibit it and encourage the black market to continue to dominate the delivery industry as they do now.
 and lastly i'd like to just step back and talk at kind of a 10 000 foot level about the work group and how we've gotten to where we are today um initially in these first meetings it seemed like everything was very clear very straightforward that maybe there should just be one license which is what i would like to advocate for and i think others as well one marijuana retail license i mean adding dates adding additional clauses it's it seems clear
 clear to a lot of us that there's a lot of miscommunication, a lot of misunderstanding about existing law, and also trying to predict what the OLCC is going to do. We can't do that, right? So I think the proposed language, as is right now, harms potential businesses. The way that I read it, and specifically in Section D from 14B 130.040 under minimum standards, it
 That's where all of this time and date language exists. And I would just propose to remove all of it or, as Commissioner Salzman said, put a
 put a pause on this, really consider how much additional regulation we need. There's three regulating authorities in the state right now that are going to be overseeing this industry, and I really think we should look at what they are doing and what the city is proposing to do and see how much overlap there is. I'm pretty sure there's going to be a lot of overlap, and we could potentially save a decent amount of taxpayer dollars if we went that way. Since we're about to lose you –
 And I appreciate your frustration with the process, but since we're actually responding favorably to many of the suggestions you have, I don't mind frustrating you. If we make some additional tweaks here, do you want us to adopt the package? Yes.
 I don't have a problem with you with the correct tweaks adopting the package. That's correct. I wanted to know. Thank you. And I have a follow-up question. Many of the amendments are in response to your concerns and the concerns I've heard from medical dispensaries about proximity. So would you rather have an imperfect package or nothing? Okay.
 I think this is part of the core of the misunderstanding because the way that the language is written, it is not clear what the intention or the result is. And it's very confusing even in between people in the industry. People in the industry can't get on the same page on this. You would be fine with not saying that other outlets have to be 1,000 feet from existing medical dispensers? No, I think any marijuana retail outlet should have to be at least 1,000 feet from any other marijuana retail outlet, whether it be medical or recreational. Okay.
 That's what this package does. I don't think that's the case. Okay. Who would like to be next? My name is Donald Morse. I represent the Oregon Cannabis Business Council. Thank you for hearing me. With what Sam just said, we do not believe that the ordinance as written right now would accommodate a 1,000-foot package
 difference between all dispensaries. Two weeks ago I was here and there were two proposals made. One was that existing medical dispensaries be given a two-day head start to apply for a retail license. The other was that there would be a thousand foot barrier between all
 dispensaries, be they retail or medical. Mr. Mayor, you asked Teresa at that time which one would be easier to accommodate, and she chose the 1,000-foot barrier. We have not seen that materialize in the paper, in the ordinance that has been put forth. It's a pretty straightforward thing without all of these different items and
 what applies and when and on what date, et cetera. All you have to do is say, there shall be no dispensary of any type within 1,000 feet of another. That's it, period. It solves all the problems. If you don't want to do that, you can go back to the other thing of saying, we have a two-day head start.
 We are businesses that anticipate on going retail and don't want to lose that opportunity because we all know that medical dispensaries are going to cease to exist within a year or two because everybody wants one system. And market forces, et cetera, and the laws are going to accommodate the retail as winning out.
 So medical dispensaries know if we don't choose this, we're dead on the vine within a year or two. And if there are people competing against us across the street, we're going to lose. Not only that, it's going to increase market saturation at least for a year or two while we struggle to survive and the other guys across the street. So you're going to have twice as many dispensaries as you wanted.
 So I would ask that you please, you know, enact the 1,000-foot rule for all dispensaries. It's a very clear and concise way. We've invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in what we do. We've brought the industry to this point, and we do not deserve to be pushed aside. Right.
 Thank you. And I would encourage everybody to testify on the amendment. The amendment says that for medical dispensaries that were active on January 1st, there's a 1,000-foot rule. Between medical dispensaries? Between all of them. We already amended. On a previous hearing, we already amended to say that it's 1,000 feet between any. That's right.
 It may be a case of having too many lawyers looking at language that was drafted precisely and tailored. We already did exactly what you said, so that's done. And then what we're doing today is saying it needs to be a dispensary that was in operation at the beginning of the year, not some out-of-state placeholder.
 entity that's coming in that's not even operating yet who's pretending to be a medical dispenser, but is in fact going to be retail. On the point that Commissioner Fritz just made, it's a 1,000-foot requirement. The only thing I could imagine that we would be debating is have we defined –
 who is eligible, who this applies to clearly enough, that that might be your concern, that we're too restrictive in who gets the benefit of the 1,000-foot rule that's a preexisting business. I can understand people raising that because, in fact, we have chosen what you might view as an arbitrary deadline and criteria. But that's different from whether there's a 1,000-foot rule. The 1,000-foot rule could not be clearer. So let's separate those two out.
 If we could, because I think that's where you're headed. Am I correct? Yes, please.
 My name is Amy Margolis. I'm an attorney with Emerge Law Group, and I work with the Oregon Cannabis Association. I am going to talk quickly. I think that there are two options, and my feeling is, with all due respect to the statutory drafters, the legislative drafters for this piece, it is terribly drafted. And what you are seeing is us struggling with that language and an understanding of the intention. And again, that's with all due respect to the drafters of this language. I think I've probably...
 worked with them for a long time, and they're excellent attorneys. That being said, I have offered to the commission proposed alternative language that I think is
 is much simpler to achieve one of two potential goals. The first one is to limit saturation by having a 1,000-foot rule between each and every dispensary, regardless of whether they are medical or recreational. And so I have actually, with the help of many people, Mr. Sugarman, Mr. Chapman, other attorneys who could not be here today, some alternative language that simplifies this issue, that strikes additional definition for transparency.
 queue of medical dispensary and creates a holistic definition of marijuana retailer. I believe the statutory language will clarify the confusion and the confusion that everyone is existing. And then I'd like to talk about Commissioner Saltzman's alternative suggestion, which is getting rid of the 1,000-foot language altogether. The confusion is that
 The way it reads to many of us, and I understand Commissioner Fritz that that was not the intention, but the way it reads to many of us, including a number of attorneys who have looked at it, is that there will be a moment in time where an individual applying for a Portland license will be able to apply for a Portland license.
 recreational license could push out an existing medical dispensary. Now, I understand that that's not how you read it, Commissioner, but I will tell you that I struggled with the language myself, and I think offering some clarity...
 through the alternative proposed language. If I'm understanding that the intent is not to allow that to happen, here is, excuse any typos, we worked on this for a long time to try and get it right, and there needs to be internal clarification, or excuse me, internal clarification
 remedying of some of the language if you accepted this that we're proposing. So I think that's issue one. The second thing that solves it is Commissioner Saltzman's response, which is, let's just get rid of the 1,000-foot rule altogether. I take no position on that, but I do think there's a clearer, more concise way to get to the goal of this commission. I believe that Commissioner Saltzman is saying let's not do this at all. Could you clarify, sir? Mm-hmm. Yeah, I...
 I believe that we should do away with any kind of a thousand foot boundary that's going to somehow put other businesses out of business. And I guess, uh,
 I'm open enough if there's an absolute need that we have to adopt something today. But I guess philosophically, I'm just concerned about the program we're setting up, and it just seems overly regulatory, overly duplicative. That doesn't mean I haven't voted for things that are overly regulatory and overly duplicative in the past. So if there's a compelling reason to vote on this today –
 I will go along with it, but I do think your testimony is right on, and I do think philosophically my point is we should just let this market establish itself, and it will shake itself out. Thank you, Commissioner. I really appreciate that clarification. And let's all remember nobody is going to be able to apply for a retail license tomorrow. The one thing that occurred to me, Commissioner Fritz, is if we have to vote on this today,
 and we're hearing that there's some questions about whether the language could be clearer about our intent and potentially even easier to administer, potentially, what I would suggest is we lock in a room the people that care about that with our attorneys and just resolve it, and that's fine.
 And I think we have the luxury of adopting this and then having you do that. And if next week there's some clarifying language, we'll take it up as an amendment. And, Commissioners, may I respond to that? One way to do this to solve that issue and that issue is to adopt –
 this regulation, but because, as you pointed out, there is no retail license yet, there is no reason to include the portion around the retail component right now. It's much easier to create good legislation than it is to adopt unnecessary and poor legislation and then put us in a room to try and fix it. So just pull that language out that doesn't even apply right now, and then put us together to try and fix it.
 There's reasons why I think that's not the best course of action. I've already committed to having the ongoing process. We know we're not done today. There is a compelling need to get the regulations adopted to protect your industry.
 Commissioner May, I think that what this is creating is an environment of fear and concern in the industry. We work with hundreds, more than hundreds of clients in this industry, and I cannot tell you how many calls I have fielded from smart people about this particular language. So I'm hoping that even that the pieces that protect this industry, that's going to
 That's fantastic. Support it. The pieces that protect the community and the neighborhoods, support it. We support that. This particular component that sets up a potentially competitive and arbitrary application process between retailers and medical dispensaries, some point in the future, does nothing to protect the industry. When is the earliest that sometime in the future could occur?
 So our understanding, and I'm on the licensing as well as Mr. Morris, the Licensing Compliance and Regulatory Committee for the OLCC, and our understanding is that the soonest we will see open recreational dispensaries is sometime in October of 2016. Okay.
 However, I'd like to add to that that the application process begins January 4th, and the OLCC has indicated that we must have a LUX from the city in order to make application. By January. By January 4th. Have a LUX from the city?
 They are calling it a lux land use. Land use compatibility statement. That exists in this piece of regulation, and it doesn't need to be touched right now. It's a land use issue, and it's not a distinction necessarily depending on the form you all create. Okay.
 Just to reiterate what I said at the beginning, it's tomorrow that medical dispensaries are allowed to sell a certain amount of recreational marijuana through the end of 2016, and it's not until December 1st that retail marijuana businesses could apply for a city license. So we have at least two months to continue this discussion and bring amendments back to council if needed. Okay, that's an option. Jeff Sugarman today representing Groundworks Industries. I think the
 The disagreement that we're having with staff, and I think it's a good faith disagreement, and we know everybody's working hard to come to the right place, is how do you accomplish the transition of medical shops to recreational shops as they move forward? And how do we honor those existing OHA licenses as that process goes forward?
 The way the ordinance reads today, the new language, the only people who would be protected are those shops who decide to stay as medical shops who have been operating prior to January 1 of 2015 and had a city business license by June 30. But they cannot have submitted, not even submitted, a recreational application to be able to receive that protection. And that's
 The gist of what I want to talk about is why we should honor those existing licenses and help those shops who are transitioning from medical to recreational stay in the locations where they're at today. First of all, it will be a much more orderly transition, similar to what we saw in Colorado when they allowed their medical shops to close.
 come in first. These owners of medical shops that want to switch over have been through the state licensing procedure, and they have proven that they can operate compliantly. Indeed, the legislature has decided that they've done so well, they're going to be allowed to be retail shops starting tomorrow and serve recreational customers.
 They've followed the rules, they've operated in good faith in building a business, and they've done nothing wrong to have that space taken from them. Now, I really listened carefully to Ms. Marchetti's issue on equity here, and I think that that potentially could be an issue, but for one thing I learned yesterday while meeting with the staff of Commissioner Saltzman. It appears that there was a city study done to determine the number of businesses
 dispensary sites that would be possible in the city of Portland. And what I was told, and I have not seen the studies, that there are 700 potential sites for dispensaries in the city of Portland. Today there are 132 shops.
 So if there are that many locations available, there are locations for everyone who wants to come in and enter this recreational market. New people coming into this market should not be allowed to encroach on someone else's space. They need to go out and find one of those hundreds of possible locations, secure it, build out that site, and join the industry just as those who have already done that for the medical marijuana side.
 Those spaces are available. There is nothing that prevents anybody from going out and finding a location. And I can tell you that's true because the company I work for has found and secured locations, three different locations in the city of Portland in the last year. There are spaces available.
 Two years ago when the OHA first began to license dispensary, there was a significant effort to get in the door first. There were literally programs built so that people could fill in their online applications faster. There was situations where people had no intention of being a part of the industry, received licenses, sometimes by a second or two, and they showed up the next week at the dispensary's door offering to sell them that license.
 We don't need that kind of chaos here. Additionally, the timeframe that was chosen in the section which requires you have been operating prior to January 1 and have a city license by June 30, I think that's also wrong. There are many shops that opened this year. They have leased and bought spaces. They have made improvements to those properties.
 They have played by all the rules, and they have received valid OHA licenses to begin operations this year. And the way this amendment is written right now, those people would receive no protection, even if they wanted to stay a medical marijuana shop. And as we know,
 Eighty-five percent of the shops that are out there right now are going to shift over. In fact, I received an email yesterday from the Oregon Health Authority, including a survey, a SurveyMonkey tool, that is asking medical shop owners how many of them are going to switch over because they need to find that information out too. So I think there's going to be more –
 information available soon on this. Thank you for your testimony. So wrap up, Jeff. Yeah, just in summary, one license, we should protect anyone who has a valid OHA license no matter when they got it. There's plenty of opportunity for other people, new people to come into the market. There are plenty of spaces available there. I am more than willing to sit down in a room and hammer this out. I think we can get there, but I think that's the crux of the problem.
 is that those people with existing OHA licenses should be allowed to keep those spaces, whether they stay medical or whether they transition to a recreational facility. And I have heard no public testimony at the hearings from anybody saying we should not allow that protection to occur and we should require recreational to be a wide open market again.
 That's helpful. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay others that would like to speak Megan was center Jeremy plum and Justin Croy. Good morning. I
 Morning. Morning. Morning. Who would like to be first? Okay. Hi. Go ahead. Commissioner Fritz, Mayor, and other council commissioners, thank you for this opportunity to speak to you. My name is Megan Wallstatter. I am co-owner of Pure Green Dispensary located in the Hollywood neighborhood in northeast Portland. I'm here today to offer testimony regarding the city's proposed regulations.
 First, I want to say as someone who has a background and master's in urban and regional planning, I've actually worked with Commissioner Fritz at Sweeney and Hillsdale Neighborhood Association. When I was a board member, Commissioner Saltzman, I worked with you when I was in grad school for local lunches. So as somebody who values the work that you do, I want to say thank you for taking this time to make sure that this gets done right and making sure that we all understand the language that's being implemented. Thank you.
 As a business owner, I support the concept of the so-called 1,000-foot rule. I am concerned with the way that it is written right now without that clarity piece that someone could come in and apply for a recreational license through the city and then I, out of an opportunity of time...
 I could lose my business license. So if that is something that we're going to clear up with the proposals that were just addressed in the testimony before me, I support that. I think it needs to be clear. It's confusing as somebody who has a little bit of background in legislative concepts. It's very confusing to read the way it's written right now. So I encourage you to take that time to get that right.
 I am also concerned that the proposed regulations are unnecessarily complicated, and I want Portlanders to be served by a program that is successful for both the city and the licenses. I believe a single, simple license for both adult-use stores is the most fair and sensible path. Like any other business owner, I need certainty in order to thrive. I have invested hundreds of thousands of dollars into my store,
 into my employees and into our capacity to serve our customers. I am already providing 13 living wage jobs that would be above the city's proposed minimum wage policy that has yet to be adopted.
 I worked really hard to ensure the highest level of compliance with the state law, and I would love for the city to value that as much as we do. And I don't want to have to lose my opportunity to continue to be a part of the thriving business culture in Portland. Regarding some of the comments that were said earlier about equity,
 I am a minority business owner. I own a dispensary. I can sit here and rattle off a number of other dispensaries that are owned by minorities, women and other people of different races, color.
 all of it that I could sit here. I'm not going to, but there are plenty of people. The equity issue is not a concern of mine. I feel very confident in being able to get in there. I think there's a lot of people out there that have already done that. I think the focus is that the people that are emerging out of this industry have been living in a black market. We have been the
 indoor cultivation system that is a very vibrant part of this local economy. And I believe that we deserve the chance before out-of-state people and keep that local money and keep the people in Portland employed. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning.
 So, Commissioner Fritz, Mayor, and the rest of the Commission, my name is Jeremy Plum, and I'm a co-owner of Pharma. I'm a licensed dispensary owner over on Southeast 9th and Hawthorne. I'm here today to support the Council's effort to implement a fair and transparent licensing structure for Portland's retail cannabis market.
 In many ways, our dispensary pharma has served as a model for what an Oregon cannabis provider can achieve. We've been toured by the governor's office, Senator Wyden's office, the Multnomah County Health Department, and the OLCC. Our dispensary was recently voted the best in Portland by the readers of the Willamette Week. We worked tirelessly to create an inspiring, caring, and model facility we're proud to employ. Right now, 15 Portlanders also at a living wage level above the minimum wage threshold.
 Yet the most recent version of Portland's proposed licensing rules could easily put us out of business. That's because even with our achievements, we simply cannot survive without a recreational sales license. Most dispensaries are losing money serving the tiny medical market in Oregon. We will certainly go under if we continue to depend on that limited model.
 The latest draft rules from the city gave us cause for concern because they would allow a brand new applicant to obtain a city recreational license and knock us out of the running of that lifeline forever. That would be our death knell.
 We support the 1,000-foot rule to prevent oversaturation of the market, and we believe that it's in the best interest of this city and its future licensees to develop a single, simple licensing process that provides certainty for businesses like Pharma and the hundreds of other licensed and compliant dispensaries. Over the last two years, Pharma's done our very best to usher in a responsible model for retail cannabis, and at every turn, we've placed compliance over profit.
 In fact, we were told by our OHA inspector that we had fewer red marks than any other shop. Yet under the proposed rules, we face being eliminated in one moment due to the language of the city license. For pharma, our employees, and our community, we ask you to consider the unintended consequences of the current proposal and take whatever time is needed to ensure fair, workable rules for all cannabis retailers. I really appreciate your time and listening. Thank you so much for your attention to this and so much to us.
 Thanks. Good morning. Morning. My name is Justin Croy. I'm a co-owner of the Green Remedy on 124th and Powell, a licensed dispensary. And as far as I know minorities owning dispensaries, I can't speak to that, but I can say that we had nothing when we opened almost three years ago. We did our remodel with repurposed wood.
 So, you know, money being a part of this industry only goes so far. We've all kind of worked. Whether you had money or you didn't have money, we're all facing the same struggle right now. And that's potentially going out of business. And I think with the 1,000-foot rule, that's something that needs to be addressed. It sounds like you guys are trying to address it. So I'd like to take my time to address something else. And that's the hours of operations.
 You guys are proposing at 7 a.m. and 9 p.m. We currently have been running 24 hours for almost a year. We have a lot of patients that are swing shift, night shift, and a lot of retail patients are people that are looking forward to coming late at night. I think excluding after 9 p.m. is going to take not only her patients, it's going to force us to lay off employees. We currently employ 10 people. We're going to have to lay off at least two. Not to mention, I think it's a higher security risk.
 um having a having a shutdown last year someone tried to break in while we were shut down they put a hole through our wall and in our building and tried to gain entry to our safe i know this has happened to at least three or four dispensaries in town while they were closed since we've been open we have yet to have one incident a night in fact we've helped the portland city police with several cases at night being that we were there and witnessed things
 So that's what I'd like to address. I think it's going to hurt a lot of patients, and I don't really understand the reasoning for it when I think it's a higher security risk. So let's assume just for the moment that council wasn't going to allow 24-hour operations. What change would you recommend that would meet the needs of your customers? What additional change? Midnight?
 11? I would say midnight. Midnight would be a fair thing. It gives a swing shift and graveyard shift as they're either going to work or getting off a chance to come in. I will tell you that just as my personal business, we do 50% of our revenue between 9 p.m. and 1 a.m. for the whole day.
 And that's because you've got people who are coming to see you after a work day or a family day or whatever? Correct. We have a lot of swing ship people. And we have a lot of people that, like especially some of our military or veterans, that have OCD that just don't want to go out in public a lot. And they prefer to come in at night when it's less crowded, there's less people on the street. Okay. That's helpful. Thank you.
 Thank you all. Thank you. Okay. How many more do we have signed up, Carla? We have nine more signed up. My proposal is we power through and try to get this addressed by 1230, and we have a couple quick items after that. Okay. Let's take the next three, please. Are Philip Chen, Harvey Cummings, and Andrew DeWeese? Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Afternoon already? Good afternoon.
 Who would like to go first? Thank you. My name's Andrew DeWeese. I'm an attorney in the cannabis industry. I'm also a board member, vice president and secretary of the Belmont Area Business Association. I also serve on the judicial selection committee of the Multnomah County Bar Association. I'm not here in any of those capacities or representing any particular client. I'm here as a community member.
 and someone who has experienced the marijuana industry as both a friend of folks in it and someone who serves the marijuana industry. I'm very worried about these proposed amendments' effect on the people who have been in this industry and operating dispensaries lawfully since the beginning of the program.
 Earlier this morning, we had a presentation involving the art in the atrium. Tall trees take the most wind. That's particularly appropriate for these folks. They have been the tall trees since the legalization of medical cannabis in this state. They have weathered these winds. They've weathered IRS taxes.
 dire taxes, 280E, the inability to take normal business deductions. These are the people that need our protection and they need your protection. They need a well-thought-out system of ordinances that protect them and don't allow people to come in and just because they applied a couple seconds earlier are able to completely wipe out a business.
 So that's what I have to say. I hope you'll take that into account. I endorse this alternative language that Ms. Margolis gave you earlier. And again, we haven't decided what the process for getting the licenses is. I'm a rock concert of a senado. I'm in favor of having a lineup.
 You know, you can't pat overnight. Thank you. We'll figure that out. Good. Welcome. Good morning, Mayor and members of the Council. My name is Philip Chen, and I'm the owner of Puddle Town Organics, located in southeast Portland at 82nd and Powell. Puddle Town is a medical licensed dispensary that has been open since June of 2014, and we're ready to begin sales for the recreational market tomorrow.
 My wife and I have lived in Portland since 2007 and attended Portland State University. We are expecting our first child in December. Like many here today, I live in the community and have personally taken on debt and sacrificed a career in another profession to open this location. We would like the security of knowing that our business will not be lost because I could not submit an application for retail license faster than the next person who currently may not even reside in this city or state.
 I have 11 employees who work at my shop. Eight of them have been with me for over a year. Ten of them are full-time. We have hired another four employees for the coming transition into recreational sales. These are jobs that already exist. To me, it is unacceptable for them to be put at risk of losing their employment. It is not fair that the city of Portland would put me in a position where I have to gamble with other people's lives, yet that is exactly what the current draft amendments propose.
 If the city of Portland adopts a first-come, first-served policy for recreational permits, then consider the fact that those of us who will temporarily be selling recreational marijuana over the next year are here first, and that it is our medical license which allows us to sell the recreational marijuana. In this next year, our customers and neighbors will adjust to the changes that the recreational market brings. It would be unfair to make them have to adjust again. The city should absolutely promote new business, but it should also promote stability.
 The City of Portland needs to support people who are already employed, invested, and contributing, rather than opening it to a game of chance and loss. Those who do not have a medical license will not be required to take any risk other than the application fee. Meanwhile, I would risk not just my application fee, but the entirety of my medical dispensary as well. Essentially, the way the rules are written, there is everything for medical dispensaries to lose, and all for the speculative late entry interest to gain.
 As saturated with pot businesses as the city may already seem, there are still hundreds of potential locations for new interests to enter the game, but don't let them take away something that we already have. From a logical point of view, it does not make sense for the city of Portland to allow medical dispensaries to risk a loss at the hands of timing or speculation. Uh-oh.
 Please don't put us in a position where we are forced to gamble away everything against someone who is only risking the application fee. Let us keep our medical licenses should we not be able to get our recreational licenses. Let's make a rule that allows for more businesses, but that does not create the risk of loss. Please consider that there are no precedent situations the wide world over where businesses had to forfeit their current license in order just to apply for a different one, especially within the same industry. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thanks for having me here, Mayor Hales and the rest of you commissioners. I'm Harvey Cummings, for the record, and I'm the owner of Oregon Weedery over on Northwest 23rd Avenue. I'll be brief because it seems like we've touched on this pretty well, but it seems as though these regulations, the way they're written, and I've spent a lot of time in code, read them last night and this morning there, are not as good as they seem.
 For me in the industry, understanding where OLCC, OHA, and what you're proposing here, it was confusing. And I think that's what's got our industry in a little bit of fear here. Whether it's correct fear or not, we don't know due to the confusion of the language. Okay.
 So the fears that I'm seeing in here are, of course, 1,000 foot, and it sounds like you're addressing that so that we don't end up with a recreational within 1,000 feet. The other part in there that was real scary was the giving up our license on the medical side prior to having our foot in the door on the recreational side. That's scary. And then the oversaturation problem that could possibly be there. We don't know our supply and demand yet.
 So we don't know if we're saturated or not, but it looks like we have a good infrastructure to work off of for recreational. The problem with the oversaturation that I'm seeing is the businesses will struggle. And in a really regulated industry like this, we need staffing to deal with the extra regulatory efforts within our shops to be compliant. And if we
 If we're oversaturated, we're not going to have the money to pay living wages, we're going to be understaffed, and it's going to be kind of a problem for all the agencies to manage. So those are my concerns, and I would suggest personally there's simpler language that was suggested earlier that simply neither dispensary could be in 1,000, and that would eliminate a lot of these problems at this point.
 And I think I'll just leave it at that. All right. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. The next three are Alex Povich, Jeff Geiger, and Charles Johnson. Welcome. Thank you.
 good morning mayor hales and commissioners thanks again for allowing me this time to speak before you and i just want to let you know that my passion and emotions run strong when faced with what i believe is a human injustice from the government's over regulation and taxation of our industry once again my name is alex pavich i'm owner of collective awakenings dispensary in the northeast
 I feel this decision you're about to make is a serious injustice to our industry, but don't get me wrong. I do believe we need this ordinance. I do believe we need regulation for our industry. I do believe that we need an Office of Neighborhood Involvement to help oversight what we're doing. But we also need to allow this industry to come out of the closet, so to say. We need to allow some of these businesses to lead by positive example and be able to survive and prosper in the process without being restricted by heavy regulations and ridiculous fees. Thank you.
 I want to address more of the elephant in the room on this bill that you're proposing, that our industry is already riddled with hurdles, making it extremely difficult to function as a normal business. We have no ability to have bank accounts.
 We have to navigate difficult state and federal tax laws currently. And not to forget to mention, we have a serious public scrutiny of what we're trying to do. Overall, this isn't what keeps me up at night, though. It's the injustice of these exuberant and preposterous regulations and fees that are being added by the very people that are supposed to be helping us survive as a business in this city. Thank you.
 No other business in this city, or in the state for that matter, is required to pay these extraordinary fees. In fact, compared to other 21-plus style businesses, these listed fees are over 10 times higher than any other business. For example, a city liquor license is $100 from the city.
 compared to the proposed $1,225 that you're suggesting. Plus, you've added an annual renewal fee of $4,175. I mean, now we're talking 20 to 30 times higher than any other business in the city. I just don't feel this is right, and it's not fair to us as an emerging industry.
 I don't know any business that would be able to survive with an excess of $10,000 in business and licensing fees between the city and the state. I hope you're not just trying to set up an industry for failure. I do think that...
 Marijuana is not going to go away. This type of overtaxation based on fear is unknown, ultimately only leading to a proliferated black market, and it'll cause more citizens to feel like they're being pillaged by their government.
 I feel that this is an exploitation to our industry, and I further want to say that letting us coexist, from what everyone's saying here, is that it's going to be very difficult for medical dispensaries to change into this legalization. And not allowing a coexistence in sales and having a single sales license is going to make it very difficult for many of us to accomplish that.
 separation will only cause more saturation of the market and create business owners to maybe go look for a second location so that they can sell both recreationally and medically. In conclusion, I request that the current suggested fee structure in this ordinance be reduced by at least half, which will still be over five times higher than any other Portland business. I further request that you rethink coexistence and possibly be ready to match state guidelines, possibly outlining the industry in such a manner. I also...
 hope that you impose a single retail license for the city so that we can continue doing what we're doing as these changes emerge over the coming year and
 Thank you so much. Thanks a lot. Welcome. Hello, I'm Jeff Geiger with JGPolitics.com, and as a libertarian, I believe in laissez-faire. I ultimately think that ultimately this shouldn't be voted on. Primarily because I looked at it last night on the security surveillance, which would be under 14B.130.08. We're just testifying on the amendment. Just on the changes. Well, then I would suggest with everybody else, I think Dan Saltzman's right in not voting for this. I don't think...
 We should regulate this industry, primarily especially the fee schedule being $4,175 for a retail license. That is just going – if you over-regulate the industry – That's not an amendment either. That's not an amendment either. Well – We're trying to focus on the changes because we've had a lot of hearings on this. So we take your point, though, about regulation in general. Yeah. So I agree with Dan's also. Okay. Thank you. Charles, welcome. Thank you, Commissioners. I think that –
 Obviously, there are huge concerns still remaining beyond the bounds of the amendment. In the paperwork, it talks particularly about not being preferential, yet when we have the invited testimony, we look at applying the equity lens to this. And it's ironic that so much criminality and occupation of Oregon State prisons
 came from communities of color, and we're not seeing any of that here in the talk about marijuana entrepreneurship. And it is a question whether Dan Saltzman has a point that the only way for non-white minority entrepreneurs to make entry into this industry is if we throw out regulations that some people are being preferential. But if we are going to have regulation, I think another thing we need to look at is, is there anything in these amendments that talks about local ownership?
 that's already in the original ordinance so um appreciate that thank you commissioner for it's because
 Obviously, we have a bunch of successful entrepreneurs, an amazing number of female entrepreneurs here who have success, and we want to perpetuate that while at the same time letting people who have a historical connection to the illegal marijuana industry transition into success as legal entrepreneurs. So I hope you will stay in vigorous dialogue, particularly with that community. Thank you. Thank you. Any others? The last three who signed up were Lindsay Reinhart, Jessica, and David.
 Jesse Horton and Brad Zussman. Come on up. Welcome. Thank you. Again, let us know if you think we got it right on the amendments or not. Mayor Hales, commissioners, I just want to say thank you for the beginning of this, for adjusting the on-site consumption by an employee in an enclosed room. That will greatly affect my workday, so thank you.
 I also wanted to adjust the grandfathering language. I would suggest that the date be moved to October 1st as opposed to January 1st, just to encompass all of the investments that have been made in the last 10 months. Okay.
 I'd like to know when the dispensaries are supposed to apply for their licenses. I've heard dates from the ONI on October 1st, November 1st. But applying and the effective date, specifically in regard to 12 a.m. sales on October 1st, a lot of dispensaries are trying to go ahead and serve that.
 that first bud at 12 a.m. And so we would just like clarification if we're allowed to, because it's a pretty celebratory day. We've heard that it would be overlooked, but maybe not. And most of the dispensary owners that I've spoken with are not looking to agitate the city. And so they're just looking for a little clarification there. One thing I wanted to touch on was the delivery. Brzezinski...
 No? Yeah, it's a subject we can come back to, but it's not in the amendments that are in 5. Okay. On the 1,000-foot rule, I am one of those people that thinks that free enterprise should be allowed. Okay.
 If your store is ranked number one or even down to number 10, I feel that we should welcome competition. I also know dispensary owners that have buildings with side-by-side locations that would like to have the rec store next to the medical store. And I'm just wondering if Commissioner Saltzman is right on, on delaying this until after the OLCC is done putting out regulations. Because I think that it would help clarify the language that you're trying to come up with.
 Again, I'd like to specify that we're not lottery and we're not alcohol and there are land use studies available about Cannabis in the communities out of Colorado and Sacramento, California that I think that would be very valuable to this council and one license would be
 would probably simplify the language a lot because I have heard through a lot of people that OLCC is going to be allowing dual licensing. So I think just that one marijuana business, let a weed store be a weed store kind of thing, is applying here, and I think it would help simplify the language. And that's all I have to say today. Thank you very much. And we'll have staff come back and clarify their rules. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, commissioners and mayor. My name is Brad Zussman. I am the co-owner with my wife of Candidates Wellness Center on 169th and Division.
 I'm here to talk about two different items. One is the 1,000-foot rule. In my existing dispensary, I've put about $180,000 in it. In my new dispensary that I'm building across the street, I will have over $600,000 in it after I do all the city improvements for new sidewalks and doing everything there.
 My concern right now is that I was doing this in the intentions that medicinal was going to be in one building and recreational was going to be an additional building. I'm willing to take the loss of one of my dispensaries of $180,000, but the new one that I'm building right now will not be complete for about four more months. My concern right now here is that if someone came in and I left my lease in my other building and moved over to my new building,
 then they hit me and they hit me by about two seconds on the application. Does that mean that I lose $600,000 that I built out in my other location? Also, the other thing I really want to discuss about is my team members that I have. When we first started in 2014, we had three team members. In my cannabis businesses right now, I have 52 that I built up in 18 months.
 That's 52 families that would be out on the street based on some of the amendments that are out right now. And I've worked real hard with my family and my team to get to this level.
 And I feel that we owe it to my team members and the community to be able to run our businesses and let the saturation field its way out. I've learned in business here that there are successful dispensaries, and there are dispensaries that have just been hanging on for recreational.
 Those will most likely, some will succeed, some will fail. I think that's going to be based on the operator itself. I also have a restaurant that's located in the 200 Market Building that I've been there for 18 years and I have 12 employees there. My employees in my dispensary make an average of $3 to $5 more an hour than people that I've been working with me for 18 years.
 So there is definitely a better cost of living for cannabis, and I think that needs to be taken into accountability. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome.
 Hello, commissioners. Mayor Hales, thank you very much for hearing me. My name is Jesse Horton. I'm co-owner of Panacea, a licensed dispensary in Portland, Oregon. Sandy Boulevard. I'm also owner of Panacea Valley Gardens, which is a cultivation facility here in Portland, Oregon. Also, I come to you representing the organization that I co-founded called the Minority Cannabis Business Association.
 that's focused on bringing more women and minorities into the industry via economic empowerment, social justice, and patient awareness, consumer awareness causes. I just want to come to you today and kind of just impress on these amendments that I do support the intention of the amendment. However, I think maybe the language could be cleaned up, as a number of lawyers have mentioned today. I think we have a unique opportunity within this industry to start not just a new industry, but a better industry.
 This industry can do amazing things for uplift, of course, for people, but also for social justice causes, and we can't forget about that. However, it also does have to make sense from an economic standpoint. For years and years, minorities have been negatively impacted and specifically targeted as a regard to the war on drugs. This has had a great detrimental impact in minorities' ability to get into this industry.
 Of course, when we look at things like lack of capital, that's something that I think someone else mentioned. A lot of people are in the same boat. We look at things like legal issues, of course, people being excluded because of certain felonies or things like that, which I think makes a difference as well. But I think far more great an impact that the war of drugs has had or the war on drugs has had on the community has been a psychological impact in that we have a—
 lot less faith in law enforcement, a lot less faith in government to treat us equally. And I think that there's a lot of statistics, a lot of things that back that up, specifically a number of studies that shows exactly what I'm saying. And I think what you're seeing now within the cannabis industry is you're seeing minorities, people of color, and even some women. I think Oregon has done an excellent job as regards to women.
 However, you're seeing them say, hey, I'm going to sit back and wait. You know, I know that if I get into this industry, I'm most likely going to be the one who gets targeted first. I'm most likely going to be treated unfairly because we're in an industry that is so affected by legal issues. I mean, we all know federally we're all doing something that's illegal, and that plays a large impact on the effect of minorities who want and have the ability to get into it. And I think in regards to this 1,000-foot barrier issue,
 I would like to speak to the gentleman earlier that said there are 700 dispensary locations in Oregon. I think that's absolutely ridiculous. I spent a year of my time going around to locations trying to find a dispensary, dealing with these 1,000 foot barriers, finding one that was open, but it was 995 feet away from another. And that greatly impacted my ability. I had to find different ways to get into the industry. And ultimately, I was able to find partners
 who were able to accept me into their dispensary. However, I just want to specifically speak on we have to do whatever we can to open up more opportunity for minorities to get into this industry. And I think that the amendment that has been presented earlier does that. I think the grandfathering clause
 not only opens up the ability for other women and minority entrepreneurs to get into the industry and uplift the industry, but it also prevents the land grab, which I've heard a number of times and I've seen a lot of people
 I spend a lot of times in a lot of different conferences nationwide. People who want to get in Oregon, they're dying to get in Oregon, and people who have spent so much money just to be in that specific position. Not only is it hurting minorities and women, but it's also hurting Oregonians as a whole. I would also, I think, agree with Commissioner Saltzman in that.
 The 1,000-foot barrier is going to help with the saturation in a sense, but in another sense it's going to hurt with the ability to uplift the market and bring in new entrepreneurs that are going to take it to a new level, and it's also going to hurt the ability for minority and women entrepreneurs to get in and make a bigger impact. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Okay, did we get everyone who wanted to speak up here? So let's bring staff back up, please, for questions and guidance. Yes.
 There was a specific question about dispensaries who are hoping to sell at midnight tonight. Is that allowed? Right.
 So, and my guidance to medical dispensaries that have called us with that, as it is currently within our regulations, even if they were adopted today, they're not technically licensees at this point. However, those regulations have been developed, as you have heard, through a pretty robust public process that involved industry, that involved community members. Those were the established thresholds and expectations of our city.
 And so my recommendation to them has been to be true to the spirit of that process and to the integration of their industry into Portland communities. I mean, these regulations are – and –
 as of October 1st, are meant to be informative, not punitive. When we do have to use enforcement to get people into line once the system is up and running completely and we know what that system is going to look like with your direction, then we will be able to more target our enforcement. But we're hoping that at this point, the process that we've engaged in will lead the industry to behave responsibly.
 Alex, any other questions for staff? I have a question. The gentleman who testified that the seven to nine hours of operation would significantly cut into his business because of his customers' preferences, can you just remind us again how we settled on seven to nine and what your reaction is to maybe moving it from seven to midnight? What are the pluses and minuses?
 So there are some concerns with later evening hours, a couple of different ones. One is that restricting access is a well-known strategy within the social sciences to restrict access to our more vulnerable populations like youth, and the idea that they will be more likely to shoulder tap especially times of the day when there are less people on the ground looking. The other major concern is the...
 spontaneous purchases, which leads to DUI. And that's a major concern for us, especially as we don't know what exactly the interaction between alcohol and marijuana may be, and people are more likely to have consumed alcohol later into the evening. The percentage of people driving under the influence of alcohol goes up as it gets later into the day.
 And so that was designed to... And also liquor stores' hours of operation are also designed to reduce the potential for spontaneous purchases late at night when people maybe have already consumed other substances. The other portion of that...
 Two is livability of neighborhoods. We've heard a lot from Washington and Colorado that these locations are destination spots, meaning people come from all over. They park, there's trash, there's noise. So landing on the nine o'clock hour was designed to sort of give neighbors some respite from that.
 And in addition to that, we did hear at the town hall that we had at the Rosewood Neighborhood Initiative, there were a lot of concerns from parents and youth in terms of the access to youth and how that impacts families in terms of these dispensaries or potential retailers, how that would actually play in the community and what that does. And it brings undesired impacts in terms of the safety and the livability of the neighborhoods. I'm just reminded, though, that
 The same logic might apply to a bar. You can go to a bar up to 2 in the morning.
 And that might be a spontaneous act as well. So I am concerned, since equity has been framed as a major consideration, I guess we should be concerned about whether there's an equity argument that expanding the hours gives people that are working long shifts or have family considerations a chance to get their medical needs met effectively.
 because 9 to 5 doesn't work for them. I don't know how that breaks as an equity matter, but it's been framed as an issue. I'd certainly be willing to consider that in the ongoing process, that potentially when we do have two clear ways of going, that we could have different rules for medical dispensaries, just like their 24-hour pharmacies, but the bars close at a certain time. That's certainly something that we could look at at,
 For right now, we did, as Victor said, we heard a lot of concern from community members. We've heard a lot today and at previous hearings from industry representatives at the community meetings, we heard a lot more from neighbors who were wanting to be proactive about preventing some of the issues that we currently have with alcohol use in neighborhoods and with bars that are loud and noisy until 2 o'clock in the morning. So I guess if I'm going to support something today, I guess I need the amendment and the alternative language that was proposed by –
 amy margolis uh on the sighting that we just we don't draw distinction between medical and retail we just say a thousand feet so that's that's what i need walk us through the difference between the two also let's let's get ben then we'll bring ben up i thought we were already there i thought we were too no that's not what we're going to talk about
 So Ben Wolters with the city attorney's office. As I understand the proposed amendment that was submitted by industry today, and this is the first time I've had an opportunity to look at it, they are proposing to amend the definition of what would be licensed and collapse it down to a single entity entity
 covering both the licenses granted by the OHA and by the OLCC. And as drafted, because they are two, at the state level, two different regulatory schemes, we had drafted our regulations
 regulations to be consistent with and parallel to the state scheme. So this would be a departure from trying to follow the state scheme in terms of the two parallel regulatory programs. Okay.
 There may be a time when the state decides that they will collapse them down to one, and at that time we could track that and come back in and say, we're going to emulate what the state is doing. Besides which...
 They then say that you would strike the definition of medical dispensary and replace it throughout the ordinance with marijuana retailers. Again, I did not get a chance to see this before. I would have to go through the entire ordinance and think through what the implications would be in that regard.
 and then they go through the minimum standards and modify those as well. So that would be the implications. My recommendation as legal counsel to the council would be that we, for now at least, track the state system of having two types of licensees and following the state until such time as the state says we're going in a different direction.
 Well, I mean, we always take pride in Portland sort of nudging the state to do things. So, you know, paid sick leave or minimum wage. So there's a short session coming up. You know, I'm a betting person, and I bet the state is going to revisit this whole scheme of having OHA versus OLCC. And maybe we help take them there. Well, that's up to council. That's a political choice for the council to make. But for now, at least, the...
 the program that we're setting up tracks with the SAIT system that's in place and is anticipated to be in place for the foreseeable future. This fundamentally changes the whole ordinance. We can't just make this change and not look at the rest of it. Samir, I – Well, I'm perfectly happy – Can I make a suggestion? If you want to set this over and try to get it right – and I'm not saying you did it wrong, but I'm just saying –
 Respond to some of the concerns we've heard today, which I think are legitimate concerns. I'm willing to take more time on this. So I think that the primary concern that I have heard, and correct me if you've heard something different, is that existing medical dispensaries will not be able to wholesalely stake out their claim in Portland for their 1,000 foot if they choose to go recreational at some point.
 So we did prepare a few scenarios for council to take a look at what this looks like on the ground. And if you're interested in those, we can show those. Yes, I'd like you to show what we prepared. Absolutely. So I'm going to switch. So the other thing is that if what we're concerned about is – Not circular. Talking about super fun today. Super fun. If what we're concerned about is –
 the recreational versus medical, allowing opportunity within recreational while maintaining the medical. The original proposal from staff that indicated that it would be a 1,000-foot buffer between medical dispensaries and a 1,000-foot buffer between retail locations said,
 That does get at some of those concerns while still maintaining protection for a lot of the communities when it comes to saturation far better than we have been able to with liquor licensed establishments. And if that is something that city council would want to entertain given new testimony, I know that some of the same people that were testifying today –
 about the concern about not having a grace period were the ones that also testified for the 1,000-foot cross-buffer.
 But, you know, there were also the same individuals who were testifying to keep the state systems completely different in Salem as well. And the state legislature chose to follow that and maintain the medical system in its own silo at the same time that they're trying to figure out how –
 OLCC is going to regulate recreational marijuana. And I think that the fact that the state legislature kept those solely different from one another is something to consider as we're moving forward and we're thinking about what the potential benefits
 philosophies were behind that. I mean, the medical dispensaries serve the medical patients of Oregon. The recreational community is going to serve the recreational patients or recreational users of Oregon. It's a completely different population of individuals that are going to be served. And I know because it's the same substance, it gets difficult to parcel them out. But the landscape of those two businesses may look very different.
 We won't know. And also, just for your information, both in Washington and Colorado, did not see any kind of attrition on their medical marijuana dispensaries. They're all going very strong. So, Teresa, walk us through the PowerPoint, please. Mayor, you had said 1230. Yeah, I was hoping we would be done. At 1240, I'm leaving. And so just whatever you want to, however you want to handle this. Okay, so never mind on that. I can't say.
 The proposed amendment would fundamentally change the whole of the ordinance, so that's not going to work for us to adopt that today. Can I suggest there's – I've heard three options. Let me just put them on the table for discussion. One is that we adopt what's in front of us with a binding commitment that changes will come back to us in a time certain viewed by council.
 reviewed by a city attorney. I mean, a binding commitment, because as has been pointed out, we're legislating ahead of the curve. The other is to remove the language that has caused some controversy and essentially create a void and adopt an incomplete regulatory scheme. And the third is to adopt an amendment that none of us here know what its impact is, other than it may or may not be an improvement. And I have to say,
 I like the instinct to improve the language, but we're trying to bring this home. And I would hate to have another unintended consequence. And if our attorney says he's not sure what this means, then I don't know what it means. And so I'm loathe to do something. So for me, it comes down to do either take it out.
 and come back and put something in that's been cooked? Or do we adopt what we have with a binding commitment that someone's going to lock the door with everyone that has a concern, scrub the language, and come back to us in whatever? And I will follow the lead of my colleagues on that. That's my preference, but since this is an emergency ordinance, we'd need Commissioner Saltzman, I think. But I would want to have a binding commitment. It comes back within three or four weeks because that's ahead of the curve.
 with everybody who's here, particularly the lawyers that have the wordsmithing, invited to a meeting where we close the door and we work through until everyone's been heard. Dan, can you live with that?
 Can we do it without adopting something today? How about just the binding commitment? We give you three or four weeks? Then we don't have any regulations as of midnight. Yeah, I think there's a reason to act today and to maintain our city's ability to be a regulator. What kind of regulator we are, how much regulation we're going to apply, what the cost is, details like ours. Obviously, you're hearing this council still interested in,
 bearing down on those. And Dan, it may go more in the direction that you want, more liberal in its allowance for what businesses might choose to do. But for us to assert our right to regulate, I think is pretty important. And I think that's why I'd like to act today. Charlie, would you remind me of the rules of emergency? If we had a quorum of three, can three pass an emergency or do we need a fourth? Four have to pass an emergency. We have to have the fourth. And it looks like there's three of us
 We've been told we have to have something in place. And Commissioner Novick is in the air, so that's going to help. And there are three of us who would like to put it in place with a binding commitment that the final set of changes, if any, come back to us in three or four weeks. And that's the approach I would urge our colleagues. So if we were able to, Commissioner Saltzman, set a time-certain date for that, would you be willing to vote to adopt these regulations with an understanding that that's, in effect, an interim set of rules?
 And, yeah, what's the binding commitment? Who's being committed to what? We're going to schedule it. I believe the – Don't commit me. Yes. I believe the sense of the council is that you're directing staff who obviously, to the extent that you're directing us to do so, it is a binding commitment from staff –
 to respond back within a time frame, and I haven't heard a time frame identified yet. I do, unfortunately, have a couple of other council-identified priorities that are in place and that I'm missing because of this discussion. Four weeks. Four weeks would be ample amount of time. And the commitment would be – Mr. Reeser, is that okay for you?
 The commitment would be that there would be a meeting or two scheduled so that anybody that has specific language concerns can come in, meet with staff and counsel, review it with the understanding that this counsel does not want to have another hearing like this.
 and that whatever you come back to us on is the language that you can faithfully say to us has been scrubbed doesn't mean there won't be a critic or two but we won't have anyone saying i don't understand the language or haven't had a chance to test my language
 and then we'll either make the change or not. To the best of our ability, and also recognizing that there will be others who will be involved in that conversation who have the other point of view. I agree. I understand. I don't mind the difference of opinion. I don't like arguing about abstractions. It's highly unlikely we're going to be able to get to consensus given the
 the changes, but yes, we will strive to do so. I think clarity is the goal, not necessarily consensus. Can we also send council members and your staff the scenarios that we worked up for you? Yes, I'd like to go through that, but I think this is probably not the time and place. So, Dan, I would propose that we do act on this today, but your vote is your own. If we do approve it today, I'll set a time-certain date of the 28th. That's a pretty cool schedule. Well, you know, I'm less concerned about...
 whether it's four weeks or five weeks i mean the fundamental dynamic is what i'm concerned about and that the dynamic is that i mean this amendment was raised at the first hearing we had three weeks ago and i don't under you know there doesn't seem like there's been any giving on this issue i mean we heard about it at our first hearing
 actually and so you come back in four or five weeks and you don't need my vote anymore and uh you know you're going to hear disproportionately i think from people who are you know lost the battle they lost the battle about legalizing marijuana it was approved by voters you have people out there who still want to wish this away and so i feel my power is diluted it's it's pretty good today because
 I can vote no and it will govern. But you bring something back in four or five weeks, and it's going to be more just justifying your positions, I fear. And we're going to have the same testimony from people who are out there dealing with this in the real world, hoping to make a living, hoping to respond to the law that was approved by voters. Fair enough. If we took the emergency clause off, you're telling us that we wouldn't have a regulatory framework in place? No. Not tomorrow. Not tomorrow, in which case what would happen?
 Unclear. No. Unclear. I don't like unclear. I mean, first off, Commissioner, as I heard Amy Margolis describe these amendments, this is something that they were working on through last night up and through this morning. So I don't know how this could have been something that was submitted previously. I know that there were other amendments that were submitted previously,
 I don't know that these were the same. I'm not sure she submitted language, but I know she flagged this issue at our first hearing. And she flagged the issue of the 1,000 foot between the dispenser and retailer, which we addressed in the 23rd hearing, and actually council adopted that amendment. This is something that is different. And, Dan, in fairness, you don't really have the leverage because when we come back to review the amendments, we can strip it out again. So we're really talking about either –
 Either if we fail to get to four right now, we won't have any regs in place. So we have to do that clear-eyed. Or effectively what we're saying, let's do a four-week period. It's almost like there's a sunset, but the agreement will come back and
 and review the language, and you will have a full opportunity to participate in that. Before we take the emergency close off, we vote on it next week. We have a week of free-for-all, and we have the regulations in effect in 30 days. That would be the fallback that I would prefer. But, Dan, I guess let me reassure you as well. I think we've got a council here that actually doesn't have any Luddite
 leanings towards the days before this state initiative was passed. We understand this is the law. We're trying to make it work. We've got
 We've made some progress in these hearings about how do we make this work for the existing businesses. Maybe not enough progress yet, but we've made some progress about the employees being able to utilize medical marijuana on the premises. We think we've fixed that. We're getting closer to at least what I had in mind with the 1,000-foot perimeter and the ability to protect existing businesses that are already here and are local
 I don't think we're there yet, but we're getting closer. And so we're talking about practical implementation issues rather than a philosophical divide over whether marijuana should have been legalized or not. We have some conflicting fears of business owners who aren't sure that we mean it in terms of where we're coming from on these regulations. I hope you've been reassured in these discussions. Or that...
 that it will be clumsy and there will be unintended consequences that will screw up their businesses. I understand that fear. Government's not always adroit. And then we have fears in neighborhoods about how disruptive these businesses are going to be. We're going to learn as we go along, obviously, on all those fronts. I want us to assert our ability to be a local regulator and then over time tune those regulations to get to the –
 I believe, pretty high level of agreement we have about how it should work. You should legislate your fears, legislate your hopes, not your fears. You have to listen to your fears and try to deal with them, but legislate for the condition that we want. And I think there's a fairly high level of agreement, a lot of people of goodwill in this room, about what we want. Now, I asked our city attorney this earlier. I'm partially reassured by his answer, but
 We have been in situations where the city lost out on its ability to be an effective regulator because of conflict with state agencies. And so I'm trying to lean towards regulation, not because I want us to be a really tough regulator here, because I don't want to be back in the position that we've been in with the lottery and the OLCC.
 And anybody who's dealt with those issues, you have to know how vexing that's been to our neighborhoods. So I'm trying to be my my strategy here is to be a little more of a regulator for now and make sure that we tune it and get it right. I don't think that's going to be. You know.
 I'm willing to go along here, and with the commitment that we revisit this in four or five weeks. You know, I have a disadvantage. I was not here last week because it was a Jewish holiday, so I totally lost all that discussion and results. And so I'm willing to concede that I may be missing something here. But I also think that, I mean, I'm hoping this commitment to look at not only the siting issue, but, you know, I do think there were some,
 testimony about the the fees and and you know my fear is that we're doing this all on a cost of service but it's really hard to size down on a cost of service basis just just as a point of clarification it's somewhat apples to oranges to compare the proposed fee schedule here with liquor licenses because that is you know on the liquor license side a particularly vexatious
 State preemption where they have they have told us we can't charge anymore We're making some implicit assumptions about the extent to which we need to regulate this industry, which could be totally Unfounded after this thing's been unleashed for a while, but you know, we're still going to need to support a
 the positions that we're funding because that's just what we do. There will be fee-funded positions. Not indefinitely. My philosophy is if we find out we're over-regulating and we don't need that many regulators, we will have less of them. Let me support my friend Dan Saltzman on this point. I'm interested in knowing whether we should expand the hours of operation. I'm interested in knowing whether we should be an early adopter of a single unitary permit, not two.
 I accept the spirit of the Margolis Amendments. I just don't know how they essentially work within it, so I'd like to know what you like and don't like about that. And I'm open to liberalizing the 1,000-foot rule to make sure that whatever the criteria we pick doesn't exclude someone who –
 and sort of just equitably we think should be protected just because on a date certain they didn't have their license. I want to make sure, the thing that Mr. Sugarman talked about, I want to make sure that the definition doesn't,
 arbitrarily exclude someone who otherwise is a sympathetic figure in our view. And I will join with you in asking and looking at all those points, Dan. I just think we should adopt this now. We have a commitment to come back, and then hopefully the final hearing will be the final hearing. Okay. I'm just asking for a broader commitment at the relook. So, Mayor, I moved the question. Okay. So the question has been moved. After we vote, I will consult with the clerk right here and now and see if we've got a date we can name as a time-certainer.
 so let's take a vote please on the amended ordinance uh well as i said i'm going to support this today i i do want i appreciate the commitment to look at these issues but i and these is plural so it's not just the sighting it's it also is the issues around fees hours of operation other things that have been raised um get everybody in the room and then let's hopefully have a unified front uh so thanks for this discussion and testimony hi
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. I greatly appreciate that. That's significant. I'm going to, I would request, Mayor, that you don't work on the time certain for right now. I'm going to work with staff to do that. My goal actually would be to get it back to Council by the 21st of October, which would then allow us to be looking to get any ordinance adopted before December 1st. Because we are, as I said before, we are planning to come back with
 our proposal for how we're going to roll out the licensing and many other aspects. This is something we're going to work through together. And with ONI's famed public process, I became the commissioner in charge of neighborhood involvement on July 15th.
 This proposal, part of it was supposed to come back at the end of July. I decided that we would wait and bring the whole package back together after an extensive public process over the summer. I greatly appreciate Teresa Marchetti and Victor Salinas and Ben Walters, our city attorney, for your work on this. And I appreciate all of the community involvement. This is going to be an ongoing thing. It's not one and done.
 It's not even going to be ten and done, I don't think. We're going to continue to work on it. Commissioner Fish, I know you're late for an appointment. Happy birthday. Thank you for staying. Happy birthday. Aye. Happy birthday. Fish. You know, I talked to a couple of people at the last hearing who had come in all very frustrated with the process and weren't sure they were going to be heard, and were pleasantly surprised that council members engaged their concerns, raised questions, you know, did follow-up.
 And I just have to say, in my experience on this body, that happens more often than not. We are up here sincerely trying to get to the right outcome. And we sometimes get it wrong. But when people come and testify earnestly and marshal facts and make arguments, I hope more often than not people feel heard. There's a difference, by the way, to always getting what you want. I mean, I know that. I've been married for 25 years. I have kids. I don't always get what I want.
 But everyone expects to be heard respectfully, and I hope people feel heard because I've learned a lot through this process. The people coming forward and testifying have made an impact, huge impact, on how this has evolved. So credit to you for taking time to help us get it right. The only thing left for me is whatever the ONI public process, and Commissioner Fritz could write the book on that, I'm expecting...
 Ben, that there will, Ben Walters, Ben? He had another appointment. He's right here. He's still there. Just give me a second, sir. I've got to talk to my counsel. I'm expecting that there will be a meeting co-convened by Oney and our legal team, Rose Room or wherever you want to do it, where people who have language concerns can come in and run it up the flagpole.
 That's different than having a public hearing and any other kind of feedback. But I want to make sure that people, because we're getting into the really refined stuff here, and I ultimately want to be able to ask Ben Wall, our attorney, what's the difference between this language and that language? So I'm expecting there will be at least one meeting where people can come with their proposed changes and they can get some feedback from staff and legal can take a look at it so that we get that advice.
 That's separate from any other public process, and that's the basis upon which I'm going to vote aye. And I really appreciate this debate and discussion because I think it's been actually very productive, and I think we're getting to the right place. Aye. Yes. Like I said enough, I'm looking forward to that process and to getting back to this informal council session.
 Aye. Thank you very much. And now, do we want to set a date? You're saying don't. But my expectation is similar to Commissioner Fish, which is that there will be these discussions about language between staff and interested parties, and that we will return to the language of the regulations in council so that Commissioner Saltzman and the rest of us that still have concerns about issues like fees and hours will be able to address those. Thank you.
 Thank you. Has everybody got that understanding? You voted aye already. I have voted aye. So if I may say, yes, we will do that and more. All this and better we shall do. There's a lot more to be discussed on this issue, and I will try to avoid to the extent practical as I always do to have further emergency ordinances because it's better when we have more time to deliberate. Thank you. Thank you all. We recess until 2 o'clock. Thank you. One more item. Thank you.
 thank you everyone and the council will return to order for our afternoon session would you please call the roll Saltzman here Novick Fritz Fish Hales here I believe Commissioner Fish will be joining us momentarily bear with us folks I know you're here for the afternoon item but we have a couple of things left over from the morning calendar that we need to deal with and the first of them is 1,003
 amend contract with ESA vigil a grimace ink in the amount of $10,000 to complete the Riverview natural area management plan. Mr. Fritz great. Good afternoon Mayor Hales and City Council. I'm Emily Roth. I'm the senior natural resources planner for Portland Parks and Rec Shana Anderson with the Bureau of Environmental Services. I
 Riverview Natural Area is a 146-acre natural area located on the west side of the Selwood Bridge between Lewis and Clark College and Riverview Cemetery. In 2011, the city acquired the property from the cemetery, and Metro holds a conservation easement on the property. Parks and BES have been partnering to plan for the site starting in July of 2013.
 We hired ESA V. Hiller-Grimmis to provide consulting services to lead the public involvement process and develop the plan. We had our first public advisory meeting in September 2013. At this time, we have almost reached completion.
 And once completed, the Riverview Natural Area Management Plan will identify future investments on the property that will protect water quality and hydrologic functions of seven streams, enhance fish and wildlife habitat, improve forest health, and provide access compatible with the protection of natural resources. In order to do this, parks and BES are requesting $10,000 be added to the consultant contract
 The additional funds are needed to complete the public involvement process and the management plan. Parks proposes using $5,000 of the mitigation money we received from the Selwood Bridge project, and BES proposes using $5,000 from the sewer system operating fund. So no general funds will be allocated towards the completion of this project.
 parks and bes will continue to partner on this important planning process and we look forward to completing a plan so we can move forward with implementing the recommended actions okay questions okay thank you very much for all your patience waiting yes sorry you got delayed okay is there anyone here to speak on this item
 If not, then we'll take a vote, please. We have to wait for Commissioner Fish. I know that Commissioner Fish, having partnered with me in this process throughout, with the partnership between Environmental Services and Parks, is very well aware of this and also is very appreciative of your service. Having had the hearing and nobody wants to testify, we can close the public hearing and vote on it, and you don't have to stay for that. Okay, great. That's what we'll do. We'll close the public hearing. Thank you. We'll return to this item later in the calendar to take action. Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much. Okay.
 Let's read items 1004 and 1005, please. 1004, extend contract with GSI Water Solutions, Inc. for CERCLA and risk assessment technical assistance at the Portland Harbor Superfund site and add $500,000.
 10.05, extend contract with GSI Water Solutions, Inc. for source control technical assistance at the Portland Harbor Superfund site and add $300,000. And Commissioner Fish has requested, and unless there's any objection, I will grant the request to return both those items to his office. Done. Okay, now Wednesday afternoon, Council Calendar 1006.
 except the State of Housing in Portland October 2015 report. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Five months ago, the Portland Housing Bureau was before this body, and we presented the first phase of our State of Housing report in Oregon. I'm sorry, in Portland. And we are here today to present an update, which the first report drew on current market data
 to provide city council with its first real-time look at the state of Portland's housing market. In the second and final phase of the report, we continue to assess the market, but we also look inward and provide an honest self-evaluation of the progress towards the city's affordable housing goals that were established in various planning documents going back to 1980.
 And in some cases, the city is meeting and exceeding, has met and exceeded these goals. And in others, there is still much work to do. There are some good news in this report. A detailed look at the Housing Bureau's production shows more than 1,100 new units of affordable housing currently in development, including more than 170 targeted towards extremely low-income households.
 And these 1,100 units represent when they're built, and occupied represent an 8.4% increase in the city's affordable housing supply. But overall, I think as everybody realizes, the picture painted by this report calls for urgency around resource generation solutions. This morning, I announced that we will shortly be issuing a Notice of Funds Availability, or RFP, upwards of $60 million today.
 for affordable housing production, which we estimate will fund and construct about 600 more units of affordable housing. And the city and the county have made significant commitments of general fund resources, as well as setting aside our urban renewal dollars. And to reach the goals that represent the values that Portlanders have for our city, which is to achieve true income diversity in all of our neighborhoods,
 to ensure the families that work in Portland can afford to live in Portland, and to ensure that long-term residents who are living on fixed incomes will have a place, a comfortable, safe and comfortable place to live when they retire. To achieve these visions that all Portlanders share, we do need more income sources for affordable housing. And towards that end, as I mentioned, we talked about the $60 million we're releasing for investment shortly.
 We're also in the final stages of crafting an incentive zoning proposal, which will go before council early next year, which could produce upwards of $10 million a year for affordable housing. Next month, the city council will have a chance to increase the amount of urban renewal dollars that is dedicated to affordable housing. And I will be asking the council for a hefty increase in the percentage that we devote because this city needs it.
 And I'll also be asking to move forward with a linkage fee for affordable housing, which measures a linkage fee study would measure the impact that new developments create on the need for affordable housing. And we would be able, if according to the study goes well, be able to charge developers an assessment based on that impact.
 And we will reintroduce, late breaking news, the proposal to dedicate the short-term lodging rental tax to affordable housing. We will be bringing that back. I don't understand. We already allocated that in the budget. For next year? Yeah, for next year. And then finally, so we're going to bring that back again as well. And then so to take us through the report is our new director, Kurt Krieger, and relatively new. And Matthew Chabot, our equity and policy manager.
 And, yeah, I'll turn it over to you two, gentlemen. Thank you very much, Commissioner, Mayor, Hales, members of council. As mentioned, my name is Kurt Krieger.
 Housing Bureau Director. This is my 38th day on the job and it's my pleasure to come for you a second time. There's a Pearl Jam song called Wish List and there's a line in that song that says, I wish I were a messenger and all the news was good. Well, I am a messenger and unfortunately not all the news is good. So I'm here to encapsulate at least a portion of that news and we can get into more detail as you desire.
 As Commissioner Salzman has described, we've achieved many good things in the last few years. One thing that I think really deserves recognition is we have strong, ongoing central city growth. Many cities do not enjoy the level of investment in their central city as we are seeing here today. The face of Portland is changing. It's increasingly younger. It's increasingly more well-educated, and Portlanders are increasingly –
 uh, racially and ethnically diverse, but not all the news, as I mentioned, is good. And some, in fact, is deeply disturbing. The, uh, rapid rent increases and historically low vacancy rates are creating lots of economic displacement. The, um,
 Income disparities are widening significantly. And as mentioned this morning, homelessness is intractable. Statistically, not increasing, but not diminishing at the level that we would like to see. And in certain populations, especially people of color, the rate of growth is alarming, some 48% amongst African Americans and 15% amongst women.
 Neighborhood choice is also diminishing. As the city is changing, we're seeing a shift in communities of color from north-northeast to south-southeast. And...
 I don't think it's an overstatement to say that that's an economic diaspora. People are being displaced, often voluntarily as renters, and are going to the least cost place. One indicator of that, which is not in this report, is something that housing authorities measure, which is the turn-back rate of housing choice vouchers. Family waits several years, they get a voucher, they have to find a landlord to take that voucher. In 2011, the utilization rate was 91%.
 This year it's 75 percent and if it's any foretelling of the future, Santa Clara County is under 50 percent. So it's very troubling that people cannot find a place where a landlord will take a voucher. If they're on a fixed income, they have a choice of perhaps leaving the area, going to Boise, going to Spokane where the fair market rents are lower. If
 If they have a job, they really don't have a choice, and they often have to turn that voucher back. So we are concerned about neighborhood choice diminishing. Okay.
 The other thing that I would mention in the area of rental housing affordability is, and I think the Oregonian captured this reasonably well in today's edition. I think the Willamette Week also ran a story on it. And that is rents have increased on average $100 a month in the last 12 months.
 However, this data is looking in the rearview mirror. As we were preparing the study, I think it's fair to say that we noticed that the velocity of rent increases this summer was actually increasing through the months of July and the months of August. So we started to see increases in the double digits, putting Portland slightly ahead of Oakland in the year-over-year rent increase of about 15%. And as mentioned, or at least as illustrated in this graphic, you're seeing a shift.
 of available resources. Of course, people at 30% of median family income are not finding any rental affordability. Those at 60% may find affordability in certain St. John's neighborhoods and certain southeast neighborhoods. And of course, 80% of median family income households have slightly more choice in their selection. I do think it's worth mentioning home ownership. Those that own homes
 take some solace in watching their values go up. I get a little...
 email from Zillow every week, it seems like, and they let me know how much more my house is worth this week than last week. But those that don't own homes, it creates a sense of desperation. Even if they have income, even if they might have a down payment, their choice in the marketplace is increasingly scarce. So, as you can see again from the graphic, using the three-person household, people are increasingly only finding choices in the south and southeast neighborhoods.
 And while there are many qualities in those neighborhoods, they're not well connected with job opportunities. High-capacity transit is generally not available in those areas. So people are moving from opportunity-rich locations who may be transit-dependent, and they are going into opportunity-scarce neighborhoods where they themselves are encumbered by greater transportation costs. That puts a double burden on household budgets. Thank you.
 Well, some of this data was, of course, in the original State of Housing report. It's been updated. But the big news in this report is our self-review of policy targets and our accomplishments. And I must say that we have been plenty-eyed, we have been objective, and I think we've been tough on ourselves about how we've been doing with respect to policy targets. And while there's a lot of information here I'm not going to cover at all, I wanted to hit the high points first.
 And I could say that with respect to the Comprehensive Plan, the 1980 Comprehensive Plan and the Central City Plan, we're generally meeting targets as it relates to the distribution of affordable housing, the opportunities for racial equity, and accommodating a diversity of household incomes and household types. There are many measures called for in those plans, and we've achieved about half of those measures today.
 However, on the flip side, the other half of those measures we did not accomplish. The city was preempted in the legislature from enacting excise tax for affordable housing. It has been further stymied in its efforts to –
 to link growth and development to affordable housing programs and availability. The financial resources have generally fallen short, and programming outside of the urban renewal areas has fallen short. I want to highlight the central city no net loss policy because I think it really is perhaps the biggest shortcoming to report to you.
 and that is that there was a very strong aspirational goal to ensure that there was no net loss of affordable housing in the central city. And we have been tracking regulated units, market units, and the total units. And I call your attention to the middle two columns, the market unit column. And it compares what the market affordable units, that means they didn't have a regulatory agreement, they did not have any public funds, and then they were just privately owned units that happened to rent.
 at affordable rates in 2002 with where we are today in 2015. As you can see in the central east side, we've gone from 464 market affordable units to 83. In the downtown core, 1,048 to 91. Goose Hollow, one of my personal favorite neighborhoods, 785 to 83. Deloitte District, 97 to 10. And the River District, 502 to nothing at all.
 So what I would take away from this is that this goal was aspirational, but it was never capitalized. We didn't set aside the money, nor did we have the regulatory framework in place to preserve those market affordable units. We didn't buy the development rights. We didn't buy the property. We didn't preserve and protect the units. We had a hope that the owners would protect them, but, of course, they didn't have a financial motivation to do so. So they were lost financially.
 to higher and higher market rents. The total units is not altogether a bad story. I think it's worth mentioning, as I mentioned earlier, that we've produced a lot of units in the central city. We had 8,286 units. We now have 68, 61. And we are adding more as we speak. I call your attention to the River District, which I think is a particularly bright spot.
 In 2002, we had 1,987 units. We now have over 2,500 units. And depending on how your decision proceeds with respect to the U.S. Postal Service property, that river district number could be substantially greater. In fact, we could get a long way towards our goal in the river district and the central east side to increase.
 to restoring the original 2002 number. So I don't think all is lost, but for me, taking this as a message, as we come to you with new policies, we need to come to you with a capital plan to achieve your goals, that it's not enough to set policy priorities. We, as professionals, need to bring back to you capital plans which actually achieve those goals. Thank you.
 With respect to the URA targets, I'm pleased to report that the 30 percent minimum policy that was established for housing has been exceeded, and in some areas significantly exceeded. We are meeting the preservation and production targets for folks between households between 30 and 80 percent of median family income in the South Park blocks. We are meeting the preservation and production targets for folks between households between 30 and 80 percent of median family income in the South Park blocks.
 We're meeting the preservation of production targets between 30% and 80% of median family income in the downtown waterfront. We're on track. That means to say that we still have time and that we're making good progress in the North Picado urban renewal area. We...
 We have met the unit production at 60% of MFI, and we are tracking and need to provide greater effort in those additional units between 30, 50, and 80% of MFI in North McAdam. In the River District, we need additional units between 50 and 80% of MFI, but we are meeting the unit production at 30% of MFI, which is the most difficult population to serve and the most costly population to serve.
 We are not meeting, however,
 The Central East Side, the Gateway Regional Center, the Interstate Corridor, and the Oregon Convention Center targets. Each of those has a different quality. The Central East Side, as you know, is an industrial sanctuary. There's not a lot of residential property there, although we are seeing private developers move forward with projects, and we hope to link those to our multi-property tax exemption so that the private sector can help deliver affordable units on the projects that are under construction there.
 the Gateway Regional Center has not seen a lot of growth
 in its entirety, the NOFA, the Notice of Funding Availability that Commissioner Salsman mentioned, does include a gateway URA site, which we will jointly underwrite with the Portland Development Commission. So as we go forward with the Notice of Funding Availability, there will be a gateway site that is also offered for development at the same time. I don't understand that statement, because on page 13 of the report,
 it shows that Gateway is the leading area with over 8,000 new people living there. And similarly on the next page, it shows Gateway is second only to the central city in household growth by neighborhood.
 Well, I think it's the dedicated affordable units that we're short of. Correct. It's the what? The dedicated affordable units that we're short of. We're seeing growth in Gateway, but we're not seeing dedicated affordable units in Gateway to the same proportion that the policy called for. Well, I think that someone in the Gateway area would say that's a good thing, that previously they had more than their share of affordable housing. So if we're, in fact, getting more market rate housing there, that's a good thing for the vibrancy of the Gateway district as a whole. Right.
 It's a fleeting win, however. As we saw in interstate, you can go from an affordable community to quite an unaffordable community rapidly. And we're seeing this wave of economic displacement move east. And frankly, Lentz and Gateway are going to see high rent increases and economic displacement for the folks that are there now.
 Just because it's affordable today doesn't mean there's anything in place to keep it affordable in the future, and that's what the sad story is of the downtown no-net-loss policy. So we could lose those units to the market in the next three to five years quite easily. So it sounds like you're proposing to build our way out of losing affordable housing, that the only way we can keep the housing affordable is for us.
 ourselves or non-profits to own it? No, we think that there's a role for the private sector. And frankly, I'm calling developers that are under construction with projects as we speak so that as they are...
 implementing their project, they will consider setting aside a proportion of affordable units in those properties. That is under your $3 million appropriation for the multi-property tax exemption. They are only required, however, to keep those units affordable for 10 years. So it's not a long-term affordable, but it is a short-term opportunity. Have we considered requiring a certain percentage of affordable units as a
 a reward for the privilege of building in our highly desirable market? Indeed we have, and I think that was the whole basis for inclusionary zoning in the state legislature. The city attorney has worked with our office, and we were unsuccessful in the last legislative session. We will keep pressing on that. Have we delved into what preemptions are?
 are covered by exclusionary zoning, inclusionary zoning by the legislature? Are there any variations of something that we might be able to require that we'd be allowed to do? Well, generally, we're allowed to do ownership housing. There is...
 The basic preemption is on affordable rental because of the ban on rent control. It's been imputed that for us to control the market rents through an inclusionary housing policy would be a de facto rent control.
 So we need to work on that. There are many jurisdictions that make inclusionary housing work for ownership, including Boulder, Colorado. I last worked in Fairfax, Virginia, which for 25 years has been doing inclusionary housing for both ownership and rental ownership.
 there's about 2,700 units of affordable housing on the ground that were developed under their affordable 20-unit ordinance. There's another 4,500 in the pipeline, mostly in the Silver Line corridor, which is the metro rail corridor between Dulles and D.C. So are we allowed to do that here? No, not for rental. No, for ownership. Not for homeownership either. Yeah, it's not currently available for homeownership either. So we're asking for that authority, and we will continue to press for it.
 So there's nothing we can do. Can we add additional fees if there isn't affordable housing? Well, the current fee structure, I think, has to be related to actual impacts. As Commissioner Salzman mentioned, we proposed in the fall bump
 an appropriation of $130,000 to prepare a NEXUS study. That NEXUS study would evaluate the impact of employment on housing demand by sector. So we would look at residential, commercial, and industrial development to impute what kind of housing demand is created by those businesses. The NEXUS study would help us determine what the appropriate fee would be.
 This is used in Boston, San Diego, San Francisco, and Sacramento. It's not currently allowable in Oregon. Seattle is currently considering it. So we will develop that idea over the winter, and hopefully early next year we'll have a proposal for you with respect to that fee. Thank you. So...
 And the other thing I would mention is that our home ownership and home repair targets in the Lentz town center area have fallen short. We think we can improve upon that. We call it to your attention because it needs improvement. Okay.
 With respect to city programming, I'm pleased to report that we've produced 3,285 units since the Bureau was created in 2010. They fall into different income categories, some 2,112 units at 0 to 30 percent. We have units up to 40 percent of AMI numbering 643. Those up to 50 percent of AMI over 4,000. Those at 60 percent of...
 median family income at nearly $6,000, $5,907, and those up to 80 percent of median income at $471. And I might point out that some of those units occur in the same building, mixed-income buildings. They're not freestanding 80 percent of AMI projects, but they might be mixed-income projects to get us to that number.
 The regulated units in production, and we have a detailed list of our pipeline in the report, includes 1,113 affordable regulated units in production. In addition, there are some market rate units as part of larger projects, which are mixed income. This is just new units? You're not adding preserved units? That's correct. Those are new units. So, I mean, I would –
 I encourage you to think about adding the preservation units because since the Bureau was at risk of losing a ton of those and spent a lot of money to preserve them and then create a 60-year covenant, that is, in my view, de facto adding new units. It went from risk of loss to 60 years of preservation. And in some instances, ironically, that's actually a better deal than the new stuff. So I think it's worth adding. Thank you.
 And I might be stating it incorrectly. Matthew, are there some preservation units in that list? In the production pipeline currently there are two preservation units, but the rest are new construction. Yeah. And the other thing is even though the Housing Bureau wasn't officially created to 2010, it was getting a divorce in 2009, so I think we could still – There was a separation agreement. Yeah, a separation agreement. I think we could still give the Bureau credit. But I would –
 Even if you added a second line, added preservation without blending it in, I just think the risk of losing a unit and then using public investments to create a 60-year asset, I think anyone would look at that as the equivalent of a new unit. The two preservation, I recognize that Maggie Gibson is in a preservation project, Matthew, but what's the other one? Rono? That's not in yet. Yeah, that's it. Yeah.
 So we'll continue to track those separately because, you know, sometimes the most affordable housing is the housing you already have, right? And it's a matter of restructuring that financing. The report, parenthetically, also does give a great deal of credit for the 11 by 13 initiative, which was highly successful. It was a real bright spot, I think. The...
 even though we have a good production pipeline of some 1,300 total units, I would say that that production pipeline is wholly insufficient to meet the current day need. And as I look at our resources and how best to make them,
 to deploy our resources. First, I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman for moving forward with the NOFA and announcing it today. But we really need to be doubling, if not tripling, our actual production to get any sort of sense of accomplishment to meet our goals.
 That will require a slightly different way of doing business. We can't continue to operate in the same way that we've done in the past. I'm very pleased to see some larger-scale projects come forward. I toured the Abigail recently. Of course, it's completely topped out. We'll soon be announcing the 14th and Raleigh site, which is nearby the Abigail. And, of course, we allocated funds to Bridge Housing and Williams and Dame Development for River Place Block 3.
 So we need to look at ways in which we can honor and respect our legacy nonprofit partners, but also increase their production as well as our own productivity.
 In closing, you know, the state of housing in Portland was really a state of panic. As we were preparing this report, it's hard to be dispassionate about numbers when you see the real pain that people are experiencing in the form of rent increases. And I think it's important.
 threatening the quality of life here in Portland in really profound ways. For a city that really has core values of inclusion, of social equity, and economic mobility, all of those values are being challenged by the high cost of housing. So as your Bureau Director, I commit to you that we will be very rigorous and very robust in how we respond to meeting your policy goals. I'm pleased that we'll have an opportunity –
 in the 8th of October to talk about the 2035 housing element and the comprehensive plan context. And we will shortly thereafter the week following have a discussion about what we call the TIF lift or the increase of tax increment financing for housing. So the month of October will be a very active month, and I look forward to working with you. Kurt, did you have anything to add?
 Yeah, I don't believe we have any invited testimony. Can we take a – will the distinguished director take some questions? I'd be happy to. This is mostly a lightning round because I think we have people here who want to testify. Norris, Faggis & Simpson reported a 2.4% vacancy rate at the end of the second quarter in 2015. What do we estimate the vacancy rate is today? Ballpark.
 Today, ballpark, quarter three, 3.2%. One of the things, Kurt, that you're struggling with is a steady decline of federal funding. The sequestration is hurting us. The climate, at least in the Senate, sentiment is to almost defund the home program. 2010 to 2015, the home program budget was cut in half.
 you are reasonably projecting what kind of steady decline in federal funds over the next few years? Well, we think the home budget mark is significant.
 is perhaps a little bit of theater in the Senate, that in order to make the point about sequestration, we think the Senate committee recommended basically a 93 percent cut to the program to avoid spreading the cut, which could have been done over multiple programs, in order to make a point.
 That point was heard. That point has been pushed back on. So we're not actually that dire. We are predicting that we will have a glide path of federal funds slightly downwards, but we'll continue to have available funding. I was planning on coming to you at the comp plan briefing with an actual capital budget strategy that includes
 includes that number. Matthew worked on it, but I think we're looking at a slight decline of less than 3% overall. That's correct. Thank you. You mentioned Section 8. Worth noting that Section 8 is the largest housing program in the state. In 2011 or 2010, when there was the last time the success rate dropped to about 75%, one of the principal...
 issues that arose in the course of the committee work that looked at that was the way the Section A program was administered. I think there was both the perception in the marketplace as well as some administrative details. Then, home forward, did Yeoman's work to make it a more user-friendly system and also to overcome some rather unfair caricatures of the program
 So let's say that at that time one of the challenges was the way the program was administered. Now we're talking about after this Section 8 program has been approved. We're now back to 75 percent, which means we're going to get put on a federal watch list. Is this now primarily the market?
 I think it's primarily the market. I've operated housing authorities in Washington State and in the Commonwealth of Virginia, and Home Forward is a well-regarded housing authority with a good track record. And because I've been responsible for housing authorities elsewhere, I've been working with Michael on some interventions to help get things back on track. One is the fair market rents themselves are not really accurate in a rapidly inflating market. Right.
 FMRs are determined, and this is mostly for the home audience, they're determined by HUD in Washington, D.C., through their Office of Policy Development and Research. And they take data that is three years old, and they average that data to come up with a fair market rent. So as I mentioned, we felt like the velocity of rent increases was increasing just in the last quarter.
 It doesn't take that into account. So the only way to remedy that is to develop your own fair market rent. So in the fall bump, I did work with Michael Bonacore and Commissioner Saltzman to structure what's called a comprehensive economic study. We would split the cost with Home Forward on this study, and that would produce a local variant of a fair market rent, which HUD then would be able to approve.
 We think that will help a lot. That will not solve all the problems, but it goes a long way. The other thing that I would say is that some tenants are walking wounded. They may qualify for the voucher and they may have a voucher, but they may have a flawed rental history. And we are proposing some financial assistance to help bridge those gaps. For example, if you can't find a landlord,
 It'll take you if you're in arrears with your last power company. So there needs to be a way to bridge people into units through perhaps a small lending program. So we've proposed that. Our home forward is matching the city's proposed fall bump dollar for dollar. My recollection is that the work that Jill and others did made the Section 8 program here a national leader. So that's why I go back to market conditions. The program is pretty user-friendly. Why?
 Would the changes you were just describing in terms of fair market rent and the formula mean fewer vouchers? No. It would be the same number of vouchers. There's about $70 million worth of rental assistance that flows through Home Forward. Okay.
 But people pay a third of their income for rent up to a fair market rent standard, so the ceiling of the allowed fair market rent would go up, but the same number of vouchers would be available. A couple more, just to do this quickly. This year your budget is $93.4 million, something like that, but there's a big spike because of TIF. In two years you drop below $50 million.
 and the tiff cliff kicks in. So what's your red line? Well, mindful that...
 urban renewal only covers, by statute, 15 percent of the city mass. And recognizing that Commissioner Salzman had said that resource development and new resource development is our number one challenge. We need to deploy every single financial resource that we have available to us, and at the same time, build the regulatory framework that Commissioner Fritz was suggesting with respect to engaging the private sector, and then discuss with
 with the voting population what they would support in the way of a voter-approved geo-bond issue. But as far as a bright line, we can right-size the staff to support the revenue available and we will be responsible obviously on how we manage those budgets. I didn't come to Oregon from Virginia to preside over the dismantling of a national model program. I came here to expand it.
 So ultimately, I think what you're saying is that outside of the market-based approaches and potentially some legislative fixes, additional resources that you and Dan are trying to identify are still at bridge, and at some point we're going to have to have a new source somewhere. That is correct. We're going to have to go to the public on that. What percentage do you estimate of households in this city are rent-burdened?
 Matthew is closer to those numbers than I am. What's your assessment, Matthew? Matthew Hartley- We don't know for sure, but because of the structure of the data and the historical nature of some of the sources we're looking at, but probably somewhere around half. But we're currently looking at putting together an analysis that will allow us to try and estimate that, again, in a very rapidly moving market.
 And when you say about half, half the households are spending more than 30%? Thirty percent of their household income on rent. Okay. And you'll have some more data on that? Correct. And just so you know, we're also preparing the fair housing plan and the analysis to impediments to fair housing. So some of this data was going to start to show up in the fair housing plan. A question about homelessness. You used the figure 3,800.
 What's your citation for that number? That number? MR. Street count. What's your, what's included in that because it doesn't quite line up with our street count, with one of our street count data? MR. I would actually ask, I think we have our data manager here with that. MR. We can come back. MR. Can we come back to that piece? MR. If I can get a footnote on the 3800, but Kurt, you said something that
 You said something that is near and dear to my heart. In fact, I had a debate with one of my colleagues about this recently, and I want to just raise it. You said 3,800 has remained fairly static. It's intractable. And here's the challenge that I think we have talking about homelessness. Let's take the period of time on the 10-year plan that we surveyed.
 If you look at the beginning of the 10-year plan and at the end of the 10-year plan, you look at the data, it's very easy to say there's still homelessness, therefore it's an intractable problem, or if you're predisposed ideologically, you say it was a failure. But during that time, 13,000 people went from the streets to homes. And the thing that our vocabulary or our discussion never accounts for is supply.
 If in the middle of a 10-year plan you have the greatest recession in the modern era and people are being thrown out of their homes and falling into poverty and collapse the mental health system, how do we account for the fact that unlike a lot of other cities where per capita the number has gone up, New York City, record numbers, L.A., federal judge saying 50,000 unsheltered, numbers exploding.
 How do we account for the fact that our programs have created some stability while also acknowledging that any homelessness is still unacceptable? Well, I think Portland is a central city for a region of some 2 million people. And part of our burden in life is to recognize that this is a regional problem, that Clark County, Clackamas County, Washington County residents are –
 appearing in Portland, partly because of service availability, partly because perhaps the streets are more exciting places to be than those other jurisdictions.
 So, it is, and I recognize that Home for Everyone is a regional approach, but not all the regional players are at that table. I worked in Clark County for some 15 years. I worked in Seattle for some 10 years. Seattle has the same burden. Thirty-nine cities. It's the central city. It tends to serve a regional population. So, it's interesting.
 it's obligated to provide a disproportionate, largely large share of housing for people with special needs because that's where the services are. And I think ideally there would be a home for everyone that would have a slightly larger table, perhaps would conform to the Metro table, and that Metro would be a bigger contributor to the effort. Well, I agree. And we're 50% of the regional population and 70% to 75% of the services. So there's an imbalance. It might even become a federal concern someday.
 I guess the point I'm saying is that I think the mistake that sometimes happens, not by the advocacy community but by the people that judge us, is that somehow homelessness is static. Therefore, if it starts at a number and ends at a number, we can make a judgment. And it doesn't account for the huge variations in supply. And if during a period of time we're relatively static in our numbers,
 but we've had a huge influx of people that have been housed, then yes, it's intractable, but we're also actually preventing a worse calamity from happening. And we don't have a way to describe that. And I realize it's not even fashionable to say it, but I would be very demoralized if I was an advocate in the homeless movement and I'd move thousands and thousands of people to safe harbor, but people keep saying, well, you're failing because there's still homelessness.
 because you're not accounting for the fact that you don't control the supply, and you're not really accounting for the fact that you've moved thousands more than the static numbers show. And my analogy is, if you're going to be consistent, then we ought to just say, you know, that because Jane Leo is a sinner, Christianity has failed, because... Who says Jane Leo is a sinner? Because there's a poor person downtown, capitalism has failed. I mean, it's the same logic. And I wish we had a way of saying that...
 to get away from, yes, it's intractable in the sense that it's a stubborn, persistent problem, and we can't get to zero.
 But it doesn't mean that we haven't had success with our systems getting people off the street. It just may mean that we don't control all the factors that push people into homelessness. We don't send people to war. We don't collapse the economy. We didn't do those things. The final thing I just wanted to ask is, and this is a preview of what I'm going to ask you when we do the urban renewal discussion.
 When the 30 percent money came to the Housing Bureau, I think it was the Council expectation that you would do the RFPs. And I'd like an explanation when we do the urban renewal piece as to why PDC is doing RFIs. And frankly, I can't square it with the policy of the city of giving you the money and you decide, and this predates you, but having you set the parameters of how we let that
 And I'd like to have that conversation. Yeah, Patrick will be here for that conversation. So Patrick Quinton and I will both be seated at the study session. Mixed use.
 is imperative if we're going to make progress on the 2035 comprehensive plan goals. And as I read that plan, single-family neighborhoods are largely held harmless from new growth, except for perhaps ADUs that number some 3,000 in your 20-year projection, and that most of the growth is going to be in the transit corridors like Powell, Division, Arbor, Lombard.
 And those corridors are commercial corridors that can support mixed income and mixed use development. So we need some new tools to achieve that. And PDC and the housing barrel working together need to be jointly underwriting projects. I mentioned the Gateway project. It's worth mentioning that PDC had procured developers and accepted proposals and decided not to –
 complete that underwriting process without including us. So we're rebidding the site, and we're doing it together. And I think we need to be transparent and predictable in the kind of decisions that we make. And unless we do the RFP, you can't really be transparent. I love the idea of collaboration, and I love the idea of mixed use. But this council has been clear and consistent in the past that the 30% is yours to put on the street and to set the criteria.
 And I will be very chagrined if that happens again. And I know it didn't happen on your watch. Good. Well, thank you for the preview. And we'll be prepared to go into a deep dive on TIFF, I think, on the 13th.
 We don't have any invited witnesses. Any further questions? Just to answer your question on the 3800, it is the HUD homeless definition from the 2015 point in time. Just typically when we produce the data, we're talking about literally individuals on the street and in shelter. So it includes your shelter? Yeah, the 3800 would be the HUD definition. Okay.
 Thank you. And before I conclude, I guess I'd like to say one or two other minor things. One is that, you know, I've worked in this industry for a long time, and you mentioned the sort of demoralization that might come with a problem that
 seems to be intractable. I can say this, and that is that the sort of dignity and respect that you can give people through hope and opportunity is quite powerful. I think most people in this business see that, see the human spirit as, every day they see a win. People can be of, of,
 Poor in resources, but not poor in spirit. And by helping people attain at least some measure of dignity and hope, they often find success in the small wins that come day to day.
 The other thing I'd like to say is that I wouldn't be successful if I didn't have good staff working with me. Matthew, of course, you've met. He is key to the success of this report. Martha Calhoun, our public information officer, assisted, and Antoinette Pieka is our data manager and was instrumental to our success. So they've worked very hard over the summer on this, and they've sweated bullets to make sure that you had a high-quality product.
 I can say that we will come back to you on a quarterly basis with reports, and we are going to start producing case studies for every one of our funded projects that you have a –
 a growing compendium of successful examples of how affordable housing can fit into neighborhoods and how it can help serve our housing needs. So thank you very much for the opportunity to be here. And there are some of those case studies in the back of this report. There are. And Martha, being a non-houser, I think it was helpful that she was able to sort of characterize it without getting too deep into the financing weeds.
 The 11 by 13 example is in there as a typology, and we'll be doing a lot more of that visual characterization. And it's the Brano opening? The who? The last one. Oh, I don't know, but we can find out for you. Yeah, the next big announcement. It's going to look really great from the outside. And Miracles is looking good. I'm pleased that Commissioner Salzman will soon be able to make an announcement on the 14th in Raleigh, quarter block as well.
 Great. Good work. Thank you both very much. Okay, I know we have some people signed up to speak on this report, so let's take those in turn, please. We have six people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Christian Treball, Margaret Allen, and Jess Larson. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. My name is Christian Treball, and I'm a member of the Overlook Neighborhood Association Board, on whose behalf I speak today.
 First, I'd like to thank you for producing this informative report. I'd like to return to the topic of homelessness, specifically as it relates to a homeless camp that Mayor Hales has endorsed near the intersection of Greeley and Interstate Avenues in Overlook. That site is wholly inappropriate for such use, and the Overlook Neighborhood Association opposes it. The Oregon Department of Transportation was correct when it decided to evict campers from the property.
 the site sits along the river bluffs in an area with tinder dry vegetation that is vulnerable to wildfire a fire that could quickly spread all along the bluff in north portland the bluffs also are at risk of landslides both interstate and greeley avenues carry high traffic volumes encouraging people to live there in an unregulated and ad hoc manner create circumstances that put both pedestrians and motorists at risk of a tragic accident especially at night under poor illumination
 There also are significant health concerns for campers on a site that lacks access to sewage, running water, and other basic sanitation infrastructure. Safety of people who live in a homeless camp is paramount, but the problems do not end with just their well-being. This is an area that is frequented by pedestrians and bicyclists. We already have heard reports of people harassed and concerned about their safety when passing the campers. Moreover, trash and human waste are accumulating, including along the streets and trails.
 Advocates for the camp will find it difficult to contain it once it is given the stamp of approval from the city. Already it is spreading along Greeley and the Bluff. Camper vehicle has taken up position on a nearby property that is strewn with trash. How far will the city allow this to spread? Camp is near Overlook Park, a popular place for children and families to gather. Homeless camp, which almost certainly will host people with substance abuse problems, is not a compatible neighbor for a park.
 When local organizers first proposed placing a public garden on the site a few years ago, they assured the Overlook Neighborhood Association that they would not use this as a starting point to develop a homeless camp. They now break that promise with the mayor's approval and help. Despite the significant impact this camp would have on our neighborhood, families, and businesses, we only learned about the mayor's effort to convince ODOT not to evict campers through news reports. We should have learned about it from his office.
 We commend Mayor Hales for traveling to North Portland to talk to residents about his plans, but it would have been better if he had paid a visit to Overlook Neighborhood, where the camp actually is, rather than to a coffee house in Kenton several miles away. City supports neighborhood associations precisely so that they can serve as conduits for information under circumstances like these.
 The Overlook Neighborhood Association urges you to seek better suited sites to provide services to our homeless population and to support ODOT in clearing the unsafe homeless camps along Greeley Avenue as soon as possible. We invite you all to attend our next Overlook Neighborhood Association board meeting, which will take place on Tuesday, October 6th at 6.30 p.m. in the Overlook House to further discuss the issue with the neighborhood. Thank you.
 Thank you for listening. Thanks. I hope you'll get together with Julian Detweiler, who's back there by the column before you leave, because I think maybe perhaps because you were relying on news reports about a conversation that I had with some citizens at that coffee shop, you have...
 maybe inadvertently significantly mischaracterized what my office has done about the situation and the word approval is not relevant here what we did is reach out to ODOT and ask them to work with some community groups that want to try to help those folks
 before they simply tell them they can't live there. So there's a big difference between assistance and approval. So, again, it might be worthwhile for you to talk to Jillian, one, to make sure you know what we are attempting to do with ODOT, and two, to get your advice and counsel about what to do because we're not interested in playing whack-a-mole in terms of just pushing people around the city. We're looking for ways to actually help them. We understand the side effects that homeless camps
 particularly ones that have no services or sanitation cause for adjacent neighbors. So it would be probably helpful if we cut out the middle people of news media, even the ones that are doing a really good and accurate job, and if you would talk to Jillian, I think we could get to some shared understanding. I'll do that. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, council members. I wish to speak on a very slimmer topic.
 and perhaps some clarification from your position would be helpful. But allow me to introduce myself. My name is Margaret Allen. I'm a physician that I live in the Overlook neighborhood, and I work in North Portland at Legacy Emanuel. I routinely take care of homeless patients and see the complications that they have, both from their health care that they are not able to care for prior to coming in, as well as when they have to be discharged and go home to the streets where there is unacceptable level of care for them.
 I thank you for taking steps moving towards more meaningful long-term solutions for these individuals, but now I'd like to address the immediate concerns specifically of this homeless camp at the Greeley and Interstate location. As addressed by my colleague here, there's a number of safety issues that I cannot
 strongly enough reiterate. The traffic issues there in terms of incidences that can happen between the high flow of traffic, the high speed of traffic, and these pedestrians that result in patients coming to my trauma hospital unable to care for themselves prior to or after discharge is extremely unfair to these individuals.
 The completely unsanitary conditions where these individuals have no running water, no toilet facilities, no place to take care of basic sanitation such as washing their face and brushing their teeth, much less caring for a wound after they've left the hospital, is completely unacceptable. The smoking issues that occur in homeless camps and out in the public, with this very dry ground vegetation that occurs near the risk of a fire across the bluff that would spread far up north Portland is unacceptable.
 concerning to all of us that live in the neighborhood. And the trash is extremely unsightly and unclean, and quite frankly, it's an inhumane place to encourage people to live. The dignity of all of our fellow citizens who find themselves homeless for whatever reasons, they need a secure place to live. They need a roof over their heads. They need a sanitary, clean place to go. This cannot and is not acceptable to allow them to live in this part of town. And I urge all of you,
 to work with ODOT and the other community members in terms of finding an appropriate venue for these individuals to live. It is not on this piece of land that is not flat, that is not safe, that is not clean. It is not where these people belong. As a fellow human being, we need to find a better solution. Thank you. Also, please make sure we're in touch. Thank you. And I'll just add, when the mayor and I went to talk with folks, business owners and residents on the Central East Side to
 see if there's a new place that we can move the very well regulated and safe and clean right to dream to what we heard from the folks there was you should have come to us earlier we could find a better spot than the one that the mayor and I are focusing on so I absolutely having visited that site and talked with the folks who have been living there I absolutely agree it's very difficult they do track up the hill and go to the bathroom in the an overlooked Park and so we
 we had some discussion about potentially leaving the park bathroom open longer during the winter except when it's freezing but i ask you as well you know we have what we've heard we have 3 000 people living outside in portland the mayor and commissioner saltzman are definitely aware of the need and this whole report is about how are we going to not only provide places for people to live who are currently
 experiencing houselessness but also stop the rents from rising so much that even more people get there in the meantime this winter we're going to have 3,000 people living outside so I'd like you to think about is there a place in overlook that could accommodate a dozen or so folks that could be a houseless part of the neighborhood and be a group that would you could perhaps look after and help to endure the winter until this adequate shelter for them
 I don't think encouraging people from our public officials, encouraging anyone to live outside in an unsafe place is acceptable. We're not encouraging. They have to live outside. There is nowhere else. These people are Portlanders, so they have to live outside. They do not have a home. So we're not encouraging them. We're just saying where would be a safe place for them to be
 while they're waiting for housing. And I'm asking you to think about, is there a place in Overlook? Is there a place in Kearns? Is there a place in Centennial? Is there a place in every one of our 95 neighborhoods? Because I'll tell you, there are people living outside in every one of our 95 neighborhoods now.
 And so are there ways that we can embrace those folks and help provide some services to them, whether it's porta-potties or garbage cans or whatever it might be, while they are having to be houseless? How can we, the people who live inside, provide a little bit of comfort for them? Yeah.
 I appreciate the struggle. I just don't think that we should be endorsing any effort in continuing this. I don't know where this endorse-approve language came from. We have a number of unregulated homeless camps around the city. Yes. On different property ownership. Some of them take place on city property. This one happened to take place on ODOT properties. I understand it. Okay.
 the fact that it's still there doesn't mean that it's gotten some seal of approval from city government it means that it's there and the property owner in this case wants to take action on the property i understand that so we need to have a conversation as commissioner fritz just articulated so well about so where do they go if the if the public safety folks that work for me are out with an instruction that you can't sleep here
 we need to be able to end the sentence with but you can sleep there and that's the struggle that we're all i hope engaged in not just saying not here but
 Maybe that church basement or that parking lot or that piece of empty land or that underutilized building or empty building. We've got to find places for these people. Tents and camping are very few people's first choice. I agree with you 100%. So we want to work with you. So don't take our short-term...
 emergency efforts or worse are simple enforcement efforts when a property owner wants to clear their property for endorsement or contrary wise for opposition to homelessness it is there it is real it is present we have to act on it so we'd love to have your help thank you we hope that you all
 Come talk to the Neighborhood Association about it further. I will. Good. Thank you. Welcome, Jess.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. My name is Jess Larson with the Welcome Home Coalition, and I'm here largely to say thank you. Thank you for this excellent report, Commissioner Saltzman, and to your team at Portland Housing Bureau. It gives us a lot of much-needed information to continue to work with as advocates to continue to call for the action that we need in our community on affordable housing. The missing hole in our community's infrastructure for affordable housing is very clearly here.
 By our estimates at Welcome Home, we're missing 23,000 affordable homes for Portlanders. That's why we have campers camping in Overlook. That's why we have campers, people, children sleeping outside in every single neighborhood of our city. And that is the call to action we must rise to. And I'm grateful to...
 to Mayor Hales, Commissioner Saltzman, Commissioner Fish for your announcement this morning in collaboration with the county and look forward to these emergency measures you're taking in our state of housing emergency. It is a crisis. It's
 long been a crisis for our community. We need to bag these sandbags, put up plywood on our windows. We need to go to higher ground and make sure everyone is safe, absolutely. And we need your continued leadership after this storm passes because we have levees to rebuild. We have miles of un-
 missing levies or missing water infrastructure or whatever it is you want to compare it to. We're missing homes for people to live in. And that is the absolute next step we must take. And I appreciate this report being able to shine a light on that need. And we're here willing to work with you towards that goal of finding new funding, critical funding to fill this gap in our community. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all.
 Okay. Next, please. Our Lightning Watchdog PDX, Stephen J. Entwistle Sr., and Raquel Valene, I believe is the last name. Okay, Lightning, I think you're on first. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Again, on the report, it gives a great overview of the situation. I thought it was very well done. One of the concerns I have is that I'd like to also see an affordable housing bond.
 You've stated, I believe, somewhere around $150 million. I originally stated close to $100 million. I think that needs to be looked at very aggressively at this time. Now, we were talking about the $30 million going in different areas, possibly for more shelter. Again, I've stressed to Chair Kufuri numerous times, you spent close to $60 million on Wapato. There's a 160,000-square-foot building.
 sits on 18 acres of industrial land that sits empty. Multnomah County has paid $300,000 a year to keep the lights on. They're not using the property. We need to get that opened as a shelter. We've got the people out on the sidewalks. We need to make that and turn that into public good. There shouldn't be resistance to do it. We're in a state of emergency.
 And you don't have to ask for another bond. You don't have to take money from your general fund. You don't have to take money from other resources. Why? Because it's already been paid for and built in full. It's sitting there empty. There should be no reason why a building of that size with cooking facilities, showers,
 rooms, beds currently in there sits empty in a state of emergency with people out on the sidewalks and in different locations. Another issue I have too is we need to consistently look at the urban growth boundary. We need to keep a close eye on that. We need to listen close to the developers if they need more land to expand.
 put out their plans. If it's anything to do with affordable housing being built, we need to really focus on that and push for that.
 and to get more land for these developers. And the only problem I have with these developers in Portland is why can't you build your units fast enough? You're not building them fast enough. Start putting them up faster. Get these units built faster. We need more housing units out there. We know where the population is. We know how many housing units we have out there. We currently have too many people out on the sidewalks.
 These developers know what number we need to hit out there to be the solution to the problem. You need to continue to build more housing units and learn how to build them faster. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Russell. Good afternoon, City Council and Mayor. My name is Stephen Entwistle. I'm the original founder of the Oregon Healing Man Sanctuary, and that's a place where folks can go. I'm also a whistleblower for the less fortunate.
 I grew up here in Portland. I used to work security, and my wife didn't have to work. We had a rental house in southwest Portland, a house that was $180 a month, and we were able to raise our family rather securely. I did take two jobs because it was still a bit of a bite, you know, having children and car and all that, but I made it work, okay?
 Nowadays, you can't do that. Nowadays, it's impossible. My question is median income. You've got median income in your pamphlet here, the definition of terms, and you've got family median income. What is the median income? Median income is what affordable housing is based upon.
 Now, what is your median income? Is it $60,000 or $40,000? What is it? There's no dollar amount term as far as definition goes on median or family income. And also you have a definition of terms here. You got affordable housing, you got low-income housing, and you got extremely low-income housing. Let me ask you a question. Where does the homeless population fit into any of those definitions? Okay.
 It's not defined. So extremely low, it would be below that. So it would be very, just say zero income for people that don't get a check, don't have work. Maybe they're looking for work and maybe they're being disrupted by people that don't like homeless folks. But that happens all the time. That happens every day. Inclusionary zoning. There's a bill in the state that we may want to consider...
 Inclusionary zone, 3,800 homeless folks. That number can vary. I would say that's a rather conservative number based on what I see out there. And I've talked to people that, the homeless folks that are at Overlook as well. And they do have some concerns that I spoke with a couple of them on their concerns. And one of them is the visibility and the way that the road and the trails and everything go.
 And there are some safety issues there that need to be addressed that can be rather simply taken care of. But again, we need to get control of the fear and go with humanity and love towards our citizens in Portland.
 Finally, we're getting to that point. I appreciate it. The folks that are on the street appreciate it, too. So the more that we can do, the better that we're going to get and the better outcomes we'll have for everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. My name is Raquel Valera. We'll have a little closer. There you go. My name is Raquel Valera. I live in downtown Portland, and I'm acting as an alternative housing advocate
 And there's a company called Nomad Micro Homes. They build these homes up in British Columbia. They come pre-assembled, and they come set up for both on-grid and off-grid living. And you can acquire one for around $30,000. And because they come pre-assembled and pre-set for either on-grid or off-grid living, all you really need is the space. And as I understand it, Portland owns a lot of land around here.
 And if the land is not currently being used for anything else, all they have to do is adjust the zoning to have these homes put on there under the legal guidelines of zoning.
 and they could fit these micro-homes very easily. I'm not sure exactly how many of these would fit on an individual acre of land, but it would be a lot more than, say, your standard average housing. And I have the contact information for the owner of the company in Canada and a local sales rep that's out in Beaverton.
 And it's a great solution. You can acquire one of these for around $30,000. You can even do combos. You can even do combos because the single units are good for single people.
 And you can put a couple of the single units together for couples or for people with children. So you can mix it up. You can have, say, an acre or two of land and put some smaller singular units that are good for singles and a couple of individual units put together because they have combos for couples and people with children.
 And what I like is that they also can come with little porches or patios, little decks, and you can fence them in. Because what's important to someone like myself is a sense of space, a sense of privacy. Because I live in a building where...
 I live in a building that's pretty much not much more than, say, a human warehouse, a human storage facility where everyone is kept in these little rooms that don't have their own private kitchen. Most don't have their own private baths.
 and imagine if everybody had a little house with their own kitchen, their own bath, and their little piece of land that you can fence it in, and they have a sense of privacy and space. It would do a lot to improve one's privacy.
 Personal well-being, like sanity. You know, it allows you to keep your sanity and to keep a personal sense of well-being, having that personal private space, but without taking up a lot of space, like a lot of land, and for around $30,000 each. Thank you. Thank you very much. Last person to sign up is John Miller. Good afternoon, John. Good afternoon.
 Mayor Hales, Commissioners, I'm John Miller. I'm Executive Director of Oregon Opportunity Network. I just want to thank Commissioner Saltzman and the PHB team for putting together a great follow-up to last spring's State of Housing report. I think that this report continues to paint a picture that I think a lot of us know pretty well and have been frustrated by for some time. It's...
 It's good to see it all quantified out. And certainly it does illustrate areas where, either through policy or just market forces, we've definitely fallen short.
 So there's actually, you know, some good things have recently happened. Commissioner Salzman recently proposed an FAR bonus to incent private developers to build more affordable housing. We also recently have on the table an expansion of the multi-program, raising the cap to $3 million, making it non-competitive.
 Those are things that are certainly going to help with this effort. And then, of course, this morning's announcement of $30 million, very exciting news. Still interested to hear exactly the details on where all those funds are coming from and how that's going to work, but excited about the commitment.
 And as we heard, there's certainly several opportunities to act in the next month. We have a demolition tax that is going to be coming before council. We, Commissioner Saltzman just mentioned the Airbnb tax, or I can't remember if that's a tax or a fee. Okay.
 It's a tax. And, of course, we testified in support of that last year. It's nice to hear that that might be coming around next budget cycle. That's great. Obviously, we have the TIF to 50 coming up soon and certainly think that's an opportunity. Also, there are several anti-displacement measures in the current comp plan proposal that's been put forward by the PSC. Hope that council will support those as well.
 And lastly, Commissioner Saltzman recently had some proposals to help renters stay in their homes, and we also support those. But as Director Krieger pointed out, when you add all that up, it still isn't enough, unfortunately. And we really can't keep doing things as usual. Thank you.
 And we need to get creative. So I think one of the things that Oregon On does quite a bit is work at the state legislative level. Last session, we worked hard on the inclusionary zoning. It didn't pass. We suspect that in 16 or 17, there will be a couple of opportunities to really make a difference, really looking for city council's full support and deployment of the city council lobby team on those efforts as they come about.
 We're still in the formation stages on those. Also, I just want to put in a plug for Welcome Home. That is an effort to raise, you know, $50 to $100 million a year to help solve this issue. And that's really what it's going to take. So...
 Good job so far. A lot of work to do. We have a whole team of nonprofits ready to jump into action. We do need more resources to do so, and so look forward to your support. Thank you. Thank you. You're most welcome.
 Thank you. I didn't sign up, but I appreciate you having me here. I just want to say that King Bishop Stiles, responsible community member, I'm not from Portland. I've been here since November 4th, 2007, but my daughter was born here.
 The situation with the rent, I have definitely experienced that in a major way and still experiencing those rent increases with where my daughter and my stepson live.
 on the southwest side of town because in my life I've had to move all over the place. I have made sure that my children stay in a place where they are stable and they are able to build and expound on the relationships that they create. And that looms over the head of my children's mother and myself because, you know,
 they're getting pushed out because we're not able to afford the rent that's there. So I'm glad that you guys are working toward that situation and so that we can keep that in, because it's not just, you know, a black and white issue across the board dealing, you know, with gentrification and whatnot, but these are people just in general.
 that are having these issues. I would like to also talk about the houseless situation, specifically with the Crelian Interstate. I got the opportunity to take a look at that site and wasn't necessarily really happy with it at all. I understand that a lot of people go through a lot of things, but it definitely was trashed.
 And not a good way, and there are systems that are out there available. Commissioner Fritz, I'm looking forward to a meeting with you later on next month to discuss some of those options. Mayor Hales, I'm appreciative of looking into the, I think it's the armory out in Multnomah, California.
 village out there and what can be done there. I'm also connected with some nonprofits that have great ideas to make those things happen and
 get past some of the ideas of how it is that we get to come together as a community, as a whole, to work with each other. Because some of the people that are out on the streets aren't there because they're specifically drug addicts. It's just that they've went through hard times.
 And there are enough people that are out in the space that can facilitate, you know, what's needed for at the time. And like you said, Mayor Hales, it is an emergency and it's something that can't be dealt with right away. But we have to allow the grace for people to engage.
 get to where it is that they want to be and it takes us as an entire community to work that out together to understand each other and to make things happen so that we all have a better experience within this city thank you very much thank you thanks very much anyone else and if not dan unless you have anything else i'll take a motion to move to accept the report roll call
 Well, thank you for your testimony, Mr. Entwistle. I think we probably can do a better job on that median family household income, so we'll get that in our next report. And I want to thank all the staff at the Housing Bureau for their great work on this report, and this does mark the...
 Now we're back in our – this is our regular cycle. We will be coming back to you every fall with an updated report so we can start benchmarking our progress. And I appreciate the Bureau's ability to take a candid look at our successes and our failures. That's a necessary part of any good public policymaking. I especially want to, you know, thank –
 Kurt Krieger, our new director, Javier Mena, our assistant director, Matt Chibold for his outstanding work on this report, and also Martha Calhoun, our PIO, for her work to make this document look good and read so well. And last but not least, certainly Antoinette Pietka, who makes sure we have accurate data for our report, and she does a great job at that. So thank you all, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Thanks.
 Thank you, Commissioner Salsman, for leading this work, and all the Bureau staff and advocates who are teaming up on this. I appreciate having the information. As she was looking at the comprehensive plan, the current comprehensive plan, to see how it meshes with the proposed comprehensive plan. In the current comprehensive plan, we have a benchmark of keeping rental vacancy rates at 7 percent. So we are way below that, and none of our strategies have worked.
 So for one, I'm not going to be worried about putting specific targets in our new comprehensive plan, since apparently it doesn't hold us feet to the fire. Although it's indicative that back in 1980, it was felt that that was a good level of rental vacancy.
 I appreciate having this report because it does track, and as Commissioner Saltzman says, it gives us the numbers. The last report was hopeful that increasing permitting and production levels would increase the supply of units and somewhat control the quickly rising costs of rent. Despite the increase in units, the average rents in the city have now increased 8% to 9% or $100 a month.
 And I, for one, hope that when the proposal for giving notice of rent increases comes to Council, that it will be longer than three months' notice and a lot less than the percentage that's been floated so far. I'd like to see it no more than 3% requiring an extended notification period.
 The last report showed rising housing costs and income disparities, particularly negatively impacting African Americans, Native Americans, and Alaskan Natives. This report shows that the negative effects are now impacting Latino and single mother households as well even more.
 So it's really clear that we need to work as a team on this. We need to, all of us, just as I was asking the overlooked neighborhood folks, where in your neighborhood could you look after a few folks? And we should be thinking about that in every single neighborhood. There are five people on this council who need to be a part of this solution too. I am looking forward to the briefing on whatever it was that was announced this morning.
 When it was announced earlier today that the session that we're going to be considering dedicating the Airbnb money to housing, that means a cut of a million dollars in some other city service because we've already allocated that money. And indeed, the expected revenue for Airbnb taxes is pretty much what we thought it was going to be at about a million dollars. That money is already allocated to other city services. So we are going to be looking at a
 We've only got about $2 million in contingency for right now for the rest of the entire fiscal year. There are some requests in the full budget adjustment, but we've got $2 million kind of in the bank spare for the city for the rest of this year. So that's not very much. It gives me – there isn't $20 million or $30 million or however much was suggested this morning in,
 We're going to be looking at significant cuts to city services, especially when you look at the arbitration decision in parks, which is requiring us to pay parks workers at a level that they are not needing subsidized housing and food stamps. And we don't know how we're going to pay for that either.
 So there's multiple calls on the city's money. As we look at how are we going to increase revenues, which is part of the solution, we also need to be looking at how are we going to persuade the legislature or find other mechanisms to,
 that Portland is a highly desirable place to develop right now. Developers, unless they're nonprofits, are making boatloads of money on developing in Portland. And how can they be required to pay into the fabric of Portland at the same time as they are benefiting from it without passing those costs on to make housing even less affordable? So that's the challenge that I think we're facing is we can add
 A general obligation bond, that adds property taxes. That means that it's less affordable to live in Portland. Demolition tax, that's going to be passed on to the buyer. It makes housing less affordable in Portland.
 We've got to be thinking holistically about how can we make sure who pays, who benefits, and is that fair? And how do we make sure that people who were born and raised in Portland and maybe are now houseless in Portland have a place to live for the rest of their lives? I appreciate this conversation. I appreciate the work and the dedication that's going into it. And it's very clear that we have a long way to go. We're not going to be able to get there unless we do all work together. Bye. Thanks.
 I have something to say for closing, but I just want to say something in response to Commissioner Fritz. We have no idea as we sit here today what the amount of one-time and ongoing funds available to our budget discussion is. So before we start advertising significant cuts, let's wait until the year end. Let's wait until we have the forecast numbers.
 I seem to recall last year we anticipated some surplus. It got bigger and bigger and bigger, ended up at 50. We don't know whether it will be $10 million of surplus, $15 million. We don't know the number. So I think it's unfortunate to start forecasting cuts and other scenarios before we have the numbers from OMF. To the question before us, I like most of all Jess Larson's metaphor of the storm. And the reason I like the storm...
 and the natural disaster metaphor is I think this is the third time in seven years that we will have declared a state of emergency in the city of Portland. We can check on this. But in 2008, my first year, there was a severe winter storm. I believe we declared a state of emergency that allowed us to trigger the Disaster Policy Council. And the challenge in that winter,
 was we did not have a coordinated plan to take people off the street and put them in shelter. In fact, that fall, there was still a discussion where the police and the fire bureau and nonprofit and faith and all the partners weren't quite sure how to do it. In fact, it took Carmen Merlo and the Office of Emergency Management convening everybody. In the first meeting she had, she said, who's the incident commander? And someone said, what's that? So we knew we had a bigger problem.
 The extraordinary effort that summer, excuse me, that winter, resulted in lots of lives being saved. But the only way we got there was everybody jumped in. Firefighters delivered groceries to shelters. City workers repaired sewage lines that broke. Churches and synagogues opened up their buildings and served food all night. Everybody stepped up, and yet we still lost someone.
 We lost a man who died of hypothermia in a cemetery. And the gentleman we lost had been approached by caseworkers throughout the night but exercised his right to stay outside. And for all of us who were involved in that storm and in that two-week emergency, we are haunted by the fact that he died despite best efforts. But what we remember is all hands on deck. Everybody stepped up. Two years ago, we had another storm. I think it was two years ago. Time is flying. I actually...
 I got a birthday call today from my family and I said it's pretty harsh turning a certain age. And my son said, Dad, that's not how old you are. I was actually missed it. I missed it by a year. It was even worse than I thought. And it took my 11-year-old, who apparently is a little better math than I am. I missed a year. Maybe that's the denial you go through when you hit your 50s. But I was off by a year. Whatever it was, two years ago we had another storm, declared a state of emergency.
 Everybody linked arms. And, Mayor, the event that I still remember from that storm, which paralyzed the city, remember we said stay home, don't drive, was the hospital said they had a crisis because they could not admit new patients because they couldn't discharge patients. Imagine that call coming in to the command center. And so what did the city do? The city ended up doing something which gave our lawyers some heartburn because their liability issues.
 The city dispatched firefighters and police officers to pick up discharged patients and take them home. And we cooked up a little liability agreement that sort of covered it, but the lawyers didn't like it. And by taking people home, we freed up beds so they could take people in. Another emergency, everybody stepped up and did something. Not a single fatality on our streets. Amazing statistic. I think this is the third state of emergency in seven years.
 The mayor declared it, and today he put a lot of muscle behind it. And we've got all these wonderful things in the pipeline, new sources of revenue, and we've got new policy initiatives and new tools and new protections. And, frankly, it's a pretty exciting day for the advocacy community and the folks we serve that all of this has come together. But I want to close with this observation.
 because this is the third state of emergency that I've lived through. None of that's enough. The critical ingredient is everybody, as Commissioner Fritz alluded to, and I think it was really an essential point, we won't weather this storm until we all link arms and we all take ownership of the problem, not just government, not just business, not just nonprofit, not just faith, not just philanthropy, everybody.
 everybody in portland has to say this is important and to the mayor's credit the mayor has said this is the most important issue that we will take up this year that's what leadership does you frame it everybody in this city has a role and even though i i don't remember a time when i felt more encouraged by the progress we're making if we don't all come together we won't we won't solve this problem and so thank you dan for this report and your team
 and thanks for all the work that you're doing to move the ball forward. All right. Mills. Well, they say a picture is worth a thousand words. It's only rare that I would say that a spreadsheet is worth a thousand words, but this one, which actually also includes a pretty telling picture, the more red, the less hope. Red means unaffordable, green means affordable in each of these charts, and that's a pretty dire picture.
 And I want to commend you, Commissioner Saltzman, and your Bureau for putting these facts and this analysis in front of us as we try to build that partnership that Commissioner Fish described and do the work.
 You know, I greeted the Kansas City Chamber of Commerce on Sunday as they came to study Portland, something that happens weekly. And they had 150 people here, and they were agog about Portland. They just think this is the greatest place. Maybe everything's up to date in Kansas City, but they can learn a thing or two here, apparently. And this happens all the time.
 And we find out in those conversations that there are some commonalities around the country. Kansas City is struggling with homelessness. In fact, our chief financial officer, Ken Rust, went off to a conference of chief financial officers and mentioned to me in the steps of this building after he got back that there was an open-air
 open-ended session after which they've been talking about budgets and bond ratings and the things that CFOs talk about. And they had an open-ended session and said, what's going on in your city? And there are people from Pittsburgh and Philadelphia and Atlanta. And the whole room erupted with, we are in a housing crisis. Affordability is going through the roof. And our street homelessness issue is exploding. Every city in the country is dealing with this.
 And yet, I think the combination of will and tools and partners that we have here gives us the opportunity to be a national success story like we have been in land use planning and transportation.
 So my goal is that I'll be welcoming chambers of commerce that come here a few years from now. And, yeah, they're going to want to study streetcars and light rail and green roofs and bioswales like all the ones that come here now do. But I also want them to come study how we really move the needle.
 on housing availability and affordability in a red-hot real estate market and how we really moved the needle on getting houseless people inside and people with mental illness into services and the other things that we're working on.
 I think we can be that place too, and it takes capable people in leadership and doing the work in our bureaus. It takes the five of us and our partners at Multnomah County and Home Forward and great nonprofits like Proud Ground and organizations like Oregon On to do the work. But I do think we can do that, and I do think we can –
 find that combination of tools and strategies that really does make a difference. We are going to have to call on people individually and neighborhood by neighborhood and church by church and rotary by rotary, as we did here with you from Overlook today. Don't feel singled out, because you won't be, because all of our neighborhoods and all of our citizens are going to have to help. But I think we can, and I think we will make great progress
 great progress in the next year with this combination of efforts and the year after that and the year after that. So thank you all very much. Great work. Let's change the colors in the spreadsheet over time. Bravo. Aye. Thank you all very much, and we are recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m. We still have to vote on that.
 emergency sorry getting ahead of myself you need to be here for the part of this oh there was an emergency issue you were out on the road yeah we sorry we're not we're back in order barry give us a second we're going to have one more second barry so we got to take a roll call vote on something we left behind which is 1003. item 1003 a roll call saltzman hi
 Fritz. Commissioner Fish, while you are out of the room, your staff from BES and mine from Parks spoke about the Riverview contracts. I know you and I have talked about it a lot, and so I felt you'd be comfortable voting on it without. Aye. So I would follow your lead on this. Aye. Fish. Hales. Aye. Now we're adjourned. Recess until tomorrow, too. That's teamwork. Thank you. All right.