All right, good morning, everyone. Before we gavel our formal meeting into order, I'd like to bring forth a pre-gavel proclamation honoring the late Commissioner Nick Fish. Commissioner Fish, as you all know, served our community with great conviction for the Portland City Council for nearly 12 years. Thank you.
 And today would have been his 62nd birthday. Today, we honor his life and his legacy to this great city. This morning, we're joined by Commissioner Fish's spouse, Patricia Schechter. Welcome, Patricia. We welcome you to the Portland City Council and the floor is yours.
 Thank you. Good morning. Am I coming through okay, Mayor Wheeler? Wonderful. Thank you. I'm not sure if my video is working, but I'll leave it to you to guide me a little. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for the opportunity to come before you today. As Mr. Mayor pointed out, today would have been Nick Fitch's 62nd birthday.
 It's very meaningful to me to be able to share a bit of this day with you because as anyone who's lost a loved one can attest, that first year can be especially hard as the holiday and celebration calendar ticks by and we experience a bruising series of firsts without. So thank you. In this moment when our public institutions are being tested
 Nick's legacy of optimism, of commitment, and collaborative spirit in public life feel to me like a balm and an inspiration. And I hope the same is for you, too. I'm here mostly to say thank you from the bottom of my heart for the support and kindness that everyone at City Hall, the Fire Bureau, and well beyond in the city showed to me and my family after losing Nick.
 I tried to acknowledge each person who reached out with a card, a letter, flowers, donations, gifts, and many, many gestures seen and unseen in that difficult time. So I wrote a lot of thank you notes. I wrote hundreds of thank you notes. And as some of you may remember,
 And no, Nick loved thank you notes. I'm sure you each have a series of your own. It's something, it's a value we really shared between us and in our family. The idea that you really almost can't thank people enough for the ways that they hold us up every day in ways that we can see and ways that we can't see.
 So like I said, it was a joy really to write hundreds of these thank you notes. And I know I missed a few people and I know in particular that I missed Mayor Wheeler. And that one was not an accident. I know I accidentally missed some people. But I want to say that for you, Mr. Mayor, my words failed. So that is part of why I'm here today, so that you can see in my face
 how much I need to thank you. I hope you can see me because we're on Zoom. I thought we'd be in the building, but life is not allowing us. I'd now like to read the names of all NICS former staff members in order to honor this very special group of brilliant individuals whom I regard as family. They are on to new paths and new modes of service now, which is our blessing in this community.
 and I will never ever forget you. And they are Eriko Ayton Marielle Basio Aja Blair Jennifer Caliz Asena Lawrence Liam Frost Jim Blackwood George Hawker Jamie Dunphy Julia Comnes Natalie Sepp Joe Wolfenstein Todd Lofgren
 Carmen Caballero Rubio, Myla Bryson, Emily York, Amira Streeter, Mariana Garcia Medina, Betsy Quintaga, Everett Wilde, Sam Chase, Betsy Ames, may she rest in peace, Hannah Kuhn, David Winn, Paige Spence, and Daniel Ledesma. This group
 are the close-in witnesses in its devotion to the work of the city. Thank you, each and every one, for supporting him during his 11 years of joyful service in office, even while he was battling cancer. I will be ever grateful for the way each and every one of you cared for me and our children through the horror of losing him. Thank you for your time today.
 Thank you so much, Patricia, and thank you for your heartfelt words. You are a picture of class and grace, and I want you to know that when we all thought about Nick, we thought about you too and your family, Maria and Chapin, and just the strength, which you showed during Nick's very, very difficult last couple of years as he was going through his cancer treatment.
 and we've all come to love you. We really appreciate you. Colleagues, I don't want to put anybody on the spot, but if anybody wanted to say anything before I read the proclamation, this would be a good time. I'll just, I have remarks, Patricia, but I don't think I can get through them. So I'm going to keep it short. I want to thank you for this. I want to thank you for...
 all your kind words. It's been really awe-inspiring to see how you have faced this challenge and loss with bravery and open eyes and open heart. And I know that you have actually brought comfort to a lot of us in a moment when, you know, you would think we would be comforting you. Yeah.
 I just want to appreciate your generosity and your eloquent words. And we all miss him, especially right now. There's just been so many times in this last nine or 10 months when I've wondered what would Nick say? What would Nick do? I really wish he was here. So thank you. And happy birthday, Nick. Thank you.
 Thanks, Commissioner Daly. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Thank you, Patricia, for being here today. And just thank you for sharing Nick with us. It's a lot for a spouse to share.
 Just be without a person while they're serving the city of Portland. There's a lot of hours out. There's a lot of time spent away. And there was also a lot of times that Nick was able to bring you and your children into his realm here in the city. And we appreciated your willingness to do that. I do still have your thank you note along with all of his. And they'll be going to the archives in a few weeks. So thanks.
 I appreciate that. I mean...
 he did so many things so well. I've been thinking of Nick particularly as I'm working on the Parks Levy. I certainly miss Nick's fundraising ability and he didn't view making calls to ask for campaign money as a necessary chore. He just loved it. He liked having a good reason to call people who could contribute to good causes just to connect with them to find out their opinions. And I certainly believe that
 we can honor Nick today by helping to support that measure. And Nick was so committed to our city. I posted a long statement when he passed, and I also will post another one today about,
 He really put his heart and soul into the place that you and he chose to call home. And he committed to our city, to his honor, to his family, and to his colleagues on the council. He was always trying to find ways that we could work together. I'm delighted today.
 that you mentioned Carmen Rubio. I understand that within minutes of telling Nick that I wasn't running for re-election, he called his former staff member and encouraged her to run. And he must be as delighted as I am that she will be my successor. And I do use the present tense. I believe beyond a shadow of doubt that there's another realm where the core being of a person lives on forever. And so I say to you...
 I mean, in this realm, Patricia, thank you. And I say in the present tense, thank you, Nick. Your legacy does live on. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Patricia, and to your fabulous young people.
 I just want to say that I served with Nick a very short time on the city council, but I have testified in front of Nick for over a decade before his passing. I've known him as a personal friend for a long time.
 really want to appreciate you naming all the people who have had the privilege of working with Nick Fish, because what I realized when you read that list is how many of those individuals are still fabulous public servants today. And I want you to know that we really want
 Nick set a standard that all of us, I'll speak for myself, that I hope to live up to because he always asked challenging questions.
 He was always looking for the connection with people, where the commonality was. And man, do we need that more today in our public realm than ever before. And so that's a legacy that I hope to carry on with that open mind, that open spirit, and that willingness to look for common ground. What a legacy. Thank you.
 that Nick has left at City Hall, and I would say throughout the city of Portland. And as you can tell, none of us can get through this without choking up a bit, because it's actually hard to believe it's been a year. And so thank you, Patricia, to you and your family, and just know that Nick lives in our heart forever. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Dan. Commissioner Wright.
 Thank you, Mayor. Hello, Patricia. Good morning. And to your children, Chafin and Maria. I just want to say that it's really as hard those first I know what you mean. And so I just know each one gets a little easier, but the first year so raw and it's really courageous of you to be with us today and to celebrate your spouse on his 62nd birthday. Okay.
 I've had a lot of opportunities to be lifted up by Nick over the years. I'll never forget walking from PSU to what was his office at the law firm not far from City Hall. And the reason I mentioned that is because you walk like four or five blocks with Nick Fish and you would meet so many people.
 Because Nick was a person on the streets that loved people and said hi. So I just always knew it would take like three times as long to walk four blocks when you're with Commissioner Nick Fish. And you know that about him. And you shared your life with the city. And so I think the commitment of a political spouse says a lot. And your leadership of Portland State lives on. I'm so grateful that you're there.
 I'll just say that Nick's, Commissioner Fish's name is mentioned so often. And as I sit in this office today with 11 years of his good juju, I have nothing to do but be grateful and humbled by that. But I will say that over the last few couple weeks of onboarding, it's so fascinating how often his name comes up organically.
 It's so clear that he influenced every staffer that I've connected with at the city so far, and of course with people out in the community. Members of my newly appointed team have spent years working closely with Commissioner Fish.
 And they've taken special care to respectfully honor the transition of this office. I know that you had a chance to come in here and there was one closet, a supply closet. Why would you have gone through that with detail? No one wants to go through a supply closet.
 Well, just the other day, my chief of staff, Kelly Toro, she sent a photo of an old-fashioned snow globe that she found in the closet. Inside were two black and white photos of Nick and you, Patricia. And we'll make sure that we get those to you. And I want to just, I just want to end with, I don't even know the details of this, but I know Portland State University is honoring Nick Fish. And I know that we'll make sure that we keep promoting that.
 because I know nothing would make him feel more loved and supported by the legacy of helping the students and the faculty at Portland State University School of Government. Anyway, I stand on some big shoulders. We all do, but your husband, Nick Fishes, were quite mighty, and I'm so grateful that you joined us today on this special occasion of his 62nd birthday. Have a great day. Be well. Thanks. Thank you, Commissioner Ryan. Thank you.
 Thank you Commissioner Ryan. And I'd like to thank Commissioner Fish's former staff for helping write this deeply meaningful proclamation. Patricia, we have a nice framed copy of the proclamation that we'll get to you and your family with. Thank you. Thank you. Beautiful. And thanks to all who helped. So on behalf of the Portland City Council, it's my honor to read this proclamation on behalf of Commissioner Nick Fish.
 Whereas from 2008 to 2020, Nick Fish proudly served as a Portland City Commissioner. And whereas Commissioner Fish was renowned for his ability to bring together coalitions, cut through disagreements to find common ground, and to create shared wins.
 Whereas, Commissioner Fish worked tirelessly for nearly five years with the offices of U.S. Senators Ron Wyden of Oregon and Chuck Schumer of New York in the scanner news to successfully obtain the Medal of Honor posthumously for Sergeant Henry Johnson, a black American World War I hero, and was invited to the White House by President Barack Obama for the ceremony.
 And whereas Commissioner Nick Fish was a leader in environmental progress by maintaining Portland's clean water systems, promoting green spaces and corridors, and advancing the city's commitment to the Portland Harbor Superfund site.
 And whereas, under Commissioner Fish's leadership, the affordability of 11 of Portland's low-income housing buildings was preserved for the next 60 years for the people who will call them home. And whereas, Commissioner Fish understood that the arts are the soul of our city.
 and that we must act intentionally to ensure dancers, musicians, painters, filmmakers, sculptors, makers, and artists can all afford to live and work here. And whereas no Portlander was a bigger fan or sincere supporter of women's soccer, the community's vibrant arts and culture scene and locally owned restaurants
 And whereas Commissioner Fish showed the people of Portland that being a public servant is a calling, deserving, endless energy and boundless joy. And whereas Commissioner Fish inspired his staff, city employees, and the community with his unwavering love of Portland and his tireless work to make Portland a place where everyone could feel proud to live, to work, and to play.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim September 30th, 2020 to be Commissioner Nick Fish Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you so much. It's beautiful. Thank you.
 Patricia, thank you for being here. Thank you all. Great to see you. Thank you for all you're doing. I pray for you. I keep it close to each and every one of you. You're doing great. Take care. Am I signing off now?
 You're certainly welcome to unless you'd like to stick around for the next four hours. All right. I may have to do the next thing here. It's a workday too, but thank you. Have a great day. Yeah. Patricia? Yeah. You might want to hang around for the next couple of minutes because I am going to talk about Nick again in a moment in a completely different context. Happy to. So you might wish to stick around. Thank you. So thank you colleagues and thank you to all of Commissioner Fish's staff who helped us
 write this proclamation and honor our good friend and colleague, Nick Fish. There is a second issue here pre-gavel that I'd like to raise, and I think some others of you might have some comments as well. I'd like to thank everyone for the thoughtful recognition of the late Commissioner Nick Fish. Today, more than ever, I can tell you I miss his common sense, his thoughtfulness,
 and his focus on collaboration and consensus. Commissioner Fish's legacy stands in stark contrast to the vitriol coming from the national stage. Like a virus infecting our body politic, intimidation and hate are being spread by Donald Trump. Given that threat, before we begin our council session, I want to take a few minutes to reflect on last night's presidential debate
 and give my colleagues an opportunity to do the same, should they so wish. The President's behavior and comments last night are a stark reminder that our community must stand together against racism and hate. In the same way that we fight a virus, our community can and will come together to prevent, treat, and inoculate ourselves from the ugliness coming from Washington, D.C.
 Yesterday morning, city leaders met with the Western State Center for Training about the history and the tactics of white supremacy. We learned about its hallmarks and how to recognize it. Then, last night, we saw it in action when Donald Trump refused to denounce white supremacy and his not-so-veiled call for supporters to engage in intimidation at the polls and elsewhere.
 We all have the opportunity and indeed an obligation to stand against violence and hate. Our city and our nation are going through an historic transformation. People are demanding racial justice and fundamental change in virtually all of our public institutions. The challenge of creating that change is monumental. Nowhere is that challenge more monumental than with our public safety institutions.
 Those changes are made even more challenging by our president and by any engaged in acts of violence and vandalism, regardless of the political views that they hold. I want to make it clear to the president and to our community, violence and hate have no place in Portland. Those engaged in violence and hate are working in opposition to racial justice.
 They are creating the conditions that allow white supremacy and intimidation to thrive. If we stand together, we can prevent, treat, and end the virus of violence, hate, and intimidation infecting our community. Commissioner Ryan, you have your hand raised.
 Thank you, Mayor. I, of course, always forget that I have my hand raised. So I will go ahead and jump in. I don't have any planned remarks. I really appreciate that you set some time and I appreciated your words.
 I'll just say that last night, one thing I need to let you all know is I have this game perhaps I play with myself. I challenge myself every day to not say one person's name. And so I won't do that today. And it's really helped. I started this about three months ago. I highly recommend it to anyone listening. It's really been helpful, seriously. Thank you.
 I just want to acknowledge that last night as a city, while we were getting some attention on national television, I guess three shout outs, we as a city were gathering with a very engaged group, the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing.
 And so we were all in. We were focused. We were doing a term I heard yesterday, racial intimacy. We were speaking courageously. We were being vulnerable. We were being open. We were being present with the truth. And that's what we do in Portland. And I was never so proud to be a member of this body as I was last night.
 why so many people were receiving that noise pollution. We were actually engaged in real work. And I can't think of a more important time where we lean in to the local community and local politics. And we do our best to...
 to not allow the virus to inoculate us. We have so much to do as Portlanders, and I'm just grateful to be on this team at this time, uh, to move forward. And I thank you for this time in this moment. And I really, really think the voters will get it right. Um, in November, I have, I'm an optimist and I pray that we will be safe. Um, um, after the results are, are, are in, and we can move forward and avoid, um,
 what we have to be prepared for. So thank you for this moment in time. Thank you, Commissioner Ryan. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you very much for creating this space. I want to say that I think what the City Council did yesterday was pretty historic.
 A year ago, when we passed a resolution condemning white nationalists and white supremacy, we made a commitment that we were going to train all city staff in how to be able to identify how white nationalists operate and work. And we made a commitment that we would start with ourselves.
 as the city council, as the leadership in the city of Portland. And we started that process yesterday. And as far as the national debate, I was so thrilled that I was totally engaged in budget deliberations and conversations and wasn't subjected to the Saturday Night Live skit that became of the debate.
 But let me be clear. It's going to take all Portlanders to stand up to this divisive rhetoric, to this racial divide. We are stronger together if we as a community are very clear about what we will and will not tolerate.
 And I will take this moment to greatly appreciate the counter-protesters who showed up last Saturday and were very intentional about not engaging with the white nationalists that we knew came specifically to create fear and hate and violence. I want to thank them for understanding that it wasn't about the protest, it was about setting us up so that 45 would have something to talk about last night.
 And it's clear to all of us that he had nothing to talk about last night.
 But I want to challenge all of us today to be prepared for the potential for disruption after the November election. It is clear that there is a national effort to create chaos and fear around the election. We are so lucky in Oregon to have been voting by mail for over a generation.
 But that doesn't mean that we will not be the subject of hate, divisiveness, and fear after the election. So I'm challenging all of us as the leadership in the city of Portland to have a plan.
 Because the sooner we plan, the sooner we know how we will respond to make sure that all Portlanders will be safe and will not have to fear leaving their house. So thank you, Mayor, for this opportunity this morning. And thank you, Portlanders, for standing up and showing that we will not.
 We will not be intimidated. We will not live in fear and we will love our brothers and sisters regardless of what language they speak, what their sexual orientation is, what race they are, what their religious background is. We will love our neighbors because that's who we are in the city of Portland. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Udaly.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you for the opportunity to greet my radical left democratic colleagues in this beautiful anarchist jurisdiction of Portland, Oregon, as the current occupant of the White House likes to refer to us. Commissioner Ryan, I'm with you. I can't bear to say his name, and I can't bear to call him president, so I will call him the occupant of the White House.
 We did have an incredible community conversation last night, and I was anxious about missing the debate. I now deeply regret watching it. I felt absolutely sick to my stomach. What a shameful display and what an irresponsible and dangerous person. Yeah.
 the occupant of the White House is. That wasn't a dog whistle for racists, it was a bullhorn. I am just beside myself, but I will say whatever he slings and arrows he throws our way, if that's the opposite of who he is and what he represents, I'll take it. I think all future debates should come with mute buttons and perhaps isolation boxes,
 And that, and fact checkers. That's the other thing. I also think maybe it should be illegal to lie repeatedly to the American people, but you know, that's just me. I'm just gonna end my off the cuff remarks by encouraging everyone to check your sources, whether you're on the right or the left.
 You should know that you are receiving and broadcasting reliable, truthful information. There is just no room for this nonsense in our democracy. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Commissioner Fritz.
 Like others, and particularly Commissioner Ryan, and I'm glad that Patricia Schecter stayed on because you must be very happy with Nick's successor and the same manner that he approaches complex issues collaboratively, thoughtfully and kindly. And so what we're
 I'm just going to go back to what Commissioner Ryan said, focusing on the Western States training, focusing on the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing forum that we had. Those were meaningful. Those were difficult. Those were challenging.
 challenging in a way that helped us all think about what are our values, what are our principles, how do we bring people together, how do we avoid ascribing blame, how do we acknowledge the challenge, the problems that need to be solved. And so that's what we as the council engaged in yesterday and that's what we'll continue to do. It's always surprising to me how the
 they always talk about our democracy. We're such a democratic... I forget what Commissioner Eudaly said that he called us, but, you know, we're non-partisan. We work with everybody. We have, I think, 20...
 when I was running, we had 20% Republicans in our city and we tried, we tried to serve every single one of them. And we know that there are differences of opinion and that we need to work together to figure out the best way forward. It's, it's not all one side or another. So that's what we need to focus on. And the occupants of the white house continues to try to draw attention on things that divide kind of,
 rushing under the rug for things like putting children in cages and ripping nursing babies from their mother's arms at the border and other completely reprehensible policies. So we in the City of Portland, we're under Mayor Wheeler, we're managing the COVID
 pandemic way better than the national level has. Now we love, was instrumental in getting governor Brown to declare the emergency quickly and to reduce the spread of this awful disease. And that's something that we're continuing to work on. We're continuing to work on trying to help our community members and be there,
 property owners or renters, be they business owners or customers, be they employees or out of work. We're trying to help people get through this, the huge challenges and that's what we will continue to be focused on. So let's get on to be doing the public's business here in the great city of Portland.
 Indeed. Thank you, colleagues. And before we move into the formal section of the council agenda, I just also want to thank Sheriff Mike Reese for his speedy fact check last night. He was described by the president as being the sheriff of Portland. That's an impressive title.
 But he also was incorrectly shouted out as an endorser of Donald Trump. And Mike Reese made a very quick fact check and said that he has not endorsed the president, nor will he endorse the president. So I wanted to make that clear if people had not seen that correction to the record. All right. Good morning, Carla. How are you today? Oh, she's gone. Oh, no. This is sad.
 I just realized this is our first meeting without Carla. All right, Keelan, good morning. Morning, Mayor. All right, this is the morning session, the Wednesday, September 30th, 2020 session of the Portland City Council. Keelan, welcome to the big chair. We're excited to have you. You have big shoes to fill, but we know that you're already doing it. So thanks for your good work. Please call the roll. Thank you, Mayor. Hardesty? Sorry, here. Udaly? Hardesty.
 Here. Fritz. Here. Ryan. Here. Wheeler. Here. Under Portland City Code and State Law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference. And the City has made several avenues available to the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. I know Carla is absolutely doing that this morning.
 The meeting is available to the public on the city's YouTube channel, EGov, PDX, www.portlandoregon.gov, and Channel 30. The public can also provide written testimony to counsel by emailing the counsel clerk at cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov.
 The Council is taking these steps as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and to provide physical distancing. The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications.
 Thank you all for your patience, your flexibility, and your continued understanding as we manage through these challenges to conduct the city's business. We'll now hear from legal counsel on the rules of order in Decorah. Thank you, Mayor. Hi, Robert. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda at PortlandOregon.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the City Council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary.
 Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected for the remainder of the electronic meeting. Finally, please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Very good. Thank you. First up is communications, Keelan, item 769.
 Request of Sky Holmes to address council regarding activity on North Ramsey Boulevard, including shootings, people being hit by vehicles, buildings being shot, and lack of police. Good morning, Sky. Good morning. Forgive me, this is my first meeting that I've attended.
 I'd like to kind of address everything that's been happening in North Portland in regards to the street racing, the shootings, the life-threatening activities that are happening here, and the lack of police coming down here, which I understand is difficult with everything that, you know, is happening downtown.
 It's scary down here. People have been hit by vehicles. I provided written testimony a couple weeks ago with a letter that included videos and pictures. And we as businesses are doing what we can, but we're at a loss. We don't know what to do. We've found shell casings, a loaded gun on our property.
 Another neighboring business was shot at. Luckily, there was nobody on the premises when it happened. But I'd like to know where you guys stand on how to handle the situations where businesses are suffering because we have customers and clients that come in here. Does that complete your testimony? Yes.
 thank you i i appreciate it and and just a quick footnote here um i have been meeting with different business district associations chambers last friday i actually visited a number of small business owners and i'm absolutely hearing
 the concerns that are being expressed around public safety and around livability. And I am working with the Portland police borough and social service providers and those who work with homeless populations to find some solutions that will provide some relief in the immediate term. So I want you to know I'm hearing from others exactly what you're expressing. I see it myself. I understand it.
 and I intend to approach it with a sense of urgency. So I appreciate your being here today. Thank you. Next individual, please, Keelan, 770. Request of Cindy Puckett to address council regarding activity on Ramsey Boulevard, including illegal camping, street racers, and vandalism. And we heard from Cindy that she has canceled her request. All right, thank you, Keelan. The next individual, 771, please.
 Request of Dan Legree to address council regarding street racers and camps on Ramsey streets. And I'm not sure that Dan is on the line. Let's put a call out. Dan, are you on the line? There's someone who has called in. We can just check really quickly to see if that's Dan. Is that the 6032 number you're looking at?
 Yes. Okay. If you're calling in on 6032, are you Dan? If so, can you unmute? Unmute a star six on your phone. Well, let's do this. If that is Dan and he hangs out, we'll make space for him later in the agenda to be able to speak if he'd like to do that if he's available. With that, Keelan, can we please go to the consent agenda? Have any items been pulled off of the consent agenda?
 We've had no requests. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. E. Daly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Ryan. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. We'll now move on to the regular agenda. The first item is 7-7-6. This is a second reading.
 Authorize application to the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice Programs Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $408,910 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistant Grant Program FY 2020 local solicitation to assist the Portland Metropolitan Area Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Community to prevent and reduce crime and violence.
 Thank you, Keelan. This is a second reading of the non-emergency ordinance. We've already heard a presentation and taken public testimony on this item. Is there any further business to discuss? Commissioner Udaly, you have your hand raised? Nope? Okay, good. Keelan, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Ryan? Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 All right, the ordinance is adopted. Next item is item 777, an emergency ordinance.
 Authorized changes to established safety net program allowing the director of human resources and bureau directors additional authority to enter into flexible safety net temporary leave, safety net severance and reduction of hours agreements during FY20-2021 and FY2021-22. Colleagues, this is a continuation of an item we heard back
 back on September 10th. At that time, there were some questions and concerns raised by Commissioners Hardesty and Fritz and in some of the testimony to the ordinance. So I requested that this item be pulled back to my office to provide some additional time to be able to go through that information, both with your offices and with city staff. As a reminder, this ordinance authorizes additional options under the city's safety net program
 to support employees that need greater flexibility in their work schedules during the COVID-19 pandemic while still being able to maintain employee health benefits to support both the employees as well as their loved ones. We understand working parents are concerned about the
 the dual obligations of parenting young children while facilitating remote learning and continuing to perform their jobs full time. I think a number of us are certainly struggling with that juggling act. We also understand that those employees with underlying health conditions may be concerned about their own individual safety.
 The options that will be offered to bureaus under this ordinance provide the dual benefits of supporting employees, particularly those who are balancing work and significant caregiver responsibilities, managing underlying health conditions, while also helping our bureaus to save funds during a tough budgetary situation.
 Human Resources Director Kathy Bless is here to present on the ordinance and to address the questions that were raised in the first hearing. Kathy, welcome. Thank you and take it away. Thank you and good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I am Kathy Bless, Director of Human Resources. I am here today to share new and additional information on Item 777 for Council consideration.
 When I spoke with Council on September 10th, I heard feedback on a number of concerns related to the process and the tools used to determine what was offered within this ordinance. I heard the need for additional conversation, survey feedback, equitable decision-making, and more clarity on the goals related to this ordinance.
 So to clearly state the goals of the safety net program offered within this ordinance, it is to help address the real-life impacts and complexities of COVID-19 for our employees, to provide bureaus tools for cost-saving measures as they are impacted by economic shortfalls, and to work diligently to protect the diversity within the city's workforce during this very critical time. We have taken the three additional weeks,
 to develop FAQs, templates, analyze the dependent care survey data, and have conversations with stakeholder groups, including the Deep Affinity Group City Mamas and other interested stakeholders. With additional conversations and commitments to meet monthly with interested Affinity Group members to ensure good communication, I feel comfortable in moving forward in my request for you to adopt this ordinance today.
 Additionally, the Dependent Care Survey results confirmed the desire for flexibility and related support that are available within the safety net programs. There were 600 respondents to the Dependent Care Survey. 90% of those respondents indicated three areas of greatest concern, maintaining productivity and expectations and the inability to meet deadlines, balancing the need to work and provide care at the same time.
 and the inability to meet the needs of their dependents. For 92% of the respondents, they identified four top ways the city could help. Flexible work schedules without a reduction of hours, paid leave under the Families First Coronavirus Response Act, which is FFCRA, and then temporarily moving
 temporarily moving to a reduced schedule while maintaining full-time benefits, and then lastly accessing unpaid leave leaves of absence also while maintaining benefit coverage. Each of those interests are represented within this ordinance with the exception of flexible work hours without a reduction, flexible work schedules without a reduction in hours.
 This omission from the ordinance is intentional because bureaus already have the authority to offer split schedules or work hours outside of the normal Monday through Friday schedule for non-represented employees. As we fulfill any bargaining obligations with our union partners related to this ordinance, we would also include this option for represented employees where appropriate.
 The data also showed a lack of clarity and employee understanding of programs that are already available within the FFCRA protections. And we have committed to provide additional information and a town hall with employees to ensure opportunities to communicate broadly and intentionally regarding existing support options move forward.
 The other tools, Voluntary Layoff and Safety Net Severance, are for bureaus dealing with economic challenges and need to address cuts in their workforce. These tools help protect our newest and most diverse employees. Elshad Hajiev from BDS will share in just a few moments how these tools are important in addressing their budget and funding issues. We are also concerned about equity.
 Some bureaus will be constrained by needing to maintain service and staffing levels, especially bureaus with first responders or those bureaus who may not be able to absorb the costs associated with offering some of these programs. Commissioner Hardesty, you had shared your concern during September 10th.
 session and I want to ensure that there is an understanding that these tools are not an entitlement, nor will every or any of these tools make sense both operationally and financially for first responders and other bureaus who provide critical services to our community. First responder bureaus will not be additionally burdened to offer these tools.
 BHR will work with Bureau leadership and equity managers to ensure bureaus are using a consistent process to make decisions about what tools will be offered, and then how decisions are prioritized. BHR will advocate to address process and employee concerns and do ongoing analysis to watch for discrepancies and or bias. We know employees are feeling frustrated and anxious about the pandemic.
 child education, personal finances, worksite safety, and how to manage and support additional caregiver needs for elderly parents. As I said on September 10th and is worth repeating today, it is important to acknowledge and honor the role of caregivers amongst our city employees and thank them. Caregivers help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are thinking all the time about it because they're protecting their children, parents, families, and friends.
 They also run a greater risk of caregiver fatigue, and we should be concerned about them, their well-being, and the amount of support they are giving to others at their own expense. We are committed to continuing the conversation and discussion of options for these employees with intersectional identities moving forward, and those conversations include opportunities to expand donation programs as Commissioner Fritz identified as an interest to evaluate.
 So before I turn it over to Elshad, I do want to propose an amendment to the ordinance. It is within Section 1, Item 6, and it is simply the last few words. I would like to propose we remove and recall rights after nine months.
 So item six should read, to help avoid mandatory layoffs, the existing safety net program would see additional benefits by adding a safety net layoff program option for employees with Bureau approval to voluntarily lay off and receive healthcare benefits for three months.
 That would be the end of item number six. So we will move. Kathy, can I ask you a question? Because I'm looking at my notes and there's more language. After that, it says receive health care benefits for three months. Oh, I see the strike just didn't turn out. My printer is running out of ink. Okay. And yeah, it's to strike and recall rights after nine months. Got it. Okay. So moved. Okay.
 Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Before we go on, Commissioner Hardesty, did you have a question? Yes, Mayor, I did. Thank you. Thank you, Kathy, for your thoughtful consideration of the concerns that were raised when we last spoke about this issue.
 I guess for me, my most obvious question is, so what's the plan for first responder bureaus who also have caregiving responsibilities and still are required to show up? And are you looking at what you're going to offer to those bureaus who are not included in this ordinance?
 Yeah, so we are continuing conversations with City Mamas who we want, we will be continuing conversations with City Mamas to get some additional ideas. The donation programs, opportunities under protected leave. One of the things that was incredibly illuminating within the dependent care survey was the real lack of knowledge about what is available under the FFCRA protected leaves at this point.
 Nearly 48% of the 600 respondents had not taken any of the FFCRA leave, and 32% of that 600 didn't have any knowledge of what FFCRA is.
 And so we do have a commitment moving forward to ensure that we're really doing some due diligence in our own communication. That clearly is an area where we greatly need to improve. We will then also through continued conversations with HRBPs and the leadership groups with each of those bureaus.
 seek a further understanding of how we can help and support those individuals who are first responders. HRCP? HRBP, business partner. Okay, yeah. Acronyms. I know, I'm sorry.
 And so is there so I guess my question would be I am still concerned about how this can equitably be implemented across the city. What are the checks and balances I you said they're going to work with the equity managers. But what does that mean is there going to be report back to the city council on a quarterly basis so that we can make corrections, if necessary. What is your plan to make sure that
 that our goals are actually met early enough for us to change course if need be. Absolutely, and that's a really great suggestion about frequent communication back to council offices. I think we can do that on an ad hoc basis and would be happy to do that moving forward.
 The checks and balances are outlined as part of the FAQ so that there's full transparency in how decisions would be made. The Bureau would need to make decisions about operational needs and then how their work could be distributed and maybe timelines moved out a bit to ensure that they could accommodate employees.
 bureaus are encouraged to also understand what the interest is from their employees. So some type of survey, which we have a template developed that will push out to bureaus so they could use that as they assess the needs within their own bureau.
 Based on that needs assessment, then there is a list of priorities on how individuals would be considered, giving priority certainly to those who have children at home, who are learning through Zoom, and then certainly those with underlying health conditions.
 For the supportive kind of reduction of hours and flexible scheduling, that's how the priorities would be applied. Certainly for the safety net severance program, it would be a bit different because those are typically offered through Bureau management to individuals throughout their Bureau based upon how close they might be to retirement or their interest in doing so. Okay.
 I'm Kathy. I'm going to recommend that it's not ad hoc, that it is a quarterly report back to the city council who's taking advantage. What's the whether or not we are achieving our racial equity goals in this manner? Ad hoc doesn't work for me. I'm making a direct ask for a quarterly update on where we are and who's been able to take advantage of that opportunity. Absolutely. Okay. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Daly has her hand raised.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, Kathy. Good morning. I want to appreciate the work of the City Mamas Advocacy Group.
 We know that even under normal circumstances that mothers perform undervalued and unpaid work in the home. And in this moment, mothers are most likely to be the ones bearing the burden of having children at home, supporting them in their distance learning, etc.,
 my sympathy really goes out to these families. I know how challenging it is, and as the parent of an adult son with a disability, this is my lived experience as well. I have a full-time job of care providing on top of my family.
 official job of city commissioner. So I understand that you met with them. It was a little late in the process and I'm wondering how or if their concerns were incorporated and what that conversation is going to look like moving forward.
 Absolutely, and thank you, Commissioner. We have Courtney Duke available this morning as well. I think she will offer some comments after Elshad. Hajeev has an opportunity to also provide some comments from BDS. Would that work? Sure, and then I guess I didn't realize that we were interrupting. Sorry.
 A longer presentation. So I will just state my second question now and whoever is the most appropriate can answer it. So I've had employees at my bureaus take leave or even have to resign because of their family responsibilities during COVID.
 So I'm wondering if there are any kind of retroactive aspects of this ordinance that some employees would be able to benefit from now who have already taken a hit. So that could be an amendment that you would offer to the program. Typically, the ordinance is effective because it's an emergency ordinance. It would be effective upon passing.
 Okay, I'd like to just put that on the table to discuss with my colleagues. I'm not prepared to offer an amendment at this moment. I'd like to hear how everyone else feels about it. Thanks. Thanks, Commissioner. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Marion. Thank you, Cathy. Similarly, if this question is going to be answered, I'm happy to wait until the end of the presentation. I remember when we did the furloughs that there was great attention paid to how
 to people's ability to take a hit on their salary or wages and that people who were getting the lowest wages in the city didn't have to take any furlough. Those with the middle took one week and those at the upper two.
 So this, I appreciate all the work that's been done on the safety net and it certainly will work for, be very helpful to those who can afford to lower their hours. So I'm interested to know what we might be able to do for people who just can't afford to lower their hours.
 So yeah, that's my question is to make sure that the people who maybe don't have two incomes at home or for other reasons just can't afford to lower their hours. Would you like me to address that now?
 Sure, if it's not going to be covered later, that'd be great. Thank you. Oh, sure. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. One of the options, of course, does allow split schedules without reducing someone's hours. And so, therefore, it would not impact someone's pay. I know that that
 in and of itself can be very problematic because we are worried about the fatigue and wellbeing of the employee. And so, as I know your interest is and other interests within council, what kind of donation opportunities are available
 We are still continuing to look at the tax consequences to the donator so that we can clearly communicate what those are as individuals contemplate and we set up a donation type program.
 we have asked city attorney's office and got some preliminary information with regard to the taxability of the donation itself and so just ensuring as we come back to council to talk further about what might
 be helpful to employees in those situations and our lower earners, how we can be helpful and that there's full transparency for anybody that's donating. So I hope that helps in your concern, but it definitely is a continuing conversation.
 Thank you. Commissioner Udeli, did you have another? Very good. Any further comments before I ask for public testimony? Or Kathy, did you have more presentation? Yeah, I've got two folks. So I'll turn it over to Elshad right now. Thank you.
 Mayor, Mayor, just very, very briefly, I had a housekeeping issue on the amendment. I wanted to just clarify if that's okay. The amendment that was proposed by Commissioners Hardesty and Fritz. Correct. And as I understand it, the proposed amendment is to strike the words and recall rights after nine months from finding number six.
 And that same language is in Directive B. And so I believe to carry out the intent of the amendment, that same language should be stricken from Directive B. Kathy, does that square with you? Yes, it does. Thank you, Robert, for catching that. Sure. Robert, you're a very good attorney. Glad you're on our side. So moved, Mayor.
 All right, we'll just assume that that's part of the amendment. Unless Robert, you said, I mean, that's just a consistency effort so we don't need to have another amendment on the table. Correct. If there's no objection, the amendment will be made to both finding six and directive B. All right, cool. Thank you. All right, anything else? You had, Alshad was going to speak. Hi Alshad, how are you this morning?
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. Elshad Hajieb, Deputy Director for Bureau of Development Services. I'm here today representing BDS and to lend our support to the cost savings measures and flexible options for employees outlined in the safety net ordinance presented by Cassie Blass. I'm going to start a little bit with a background on BDS and why this particular ordinance and options outlined are important to us and why they're important right now.
 BDS is 98% supported by fee revenues. We only receive approximately 2% of our funding from the general fund. We serve construction industry, homeowners and community with all kinds of construction projects. And as you know, the economy was heavily damaged by the global pandemic and construction activity in Portland area too.
 Unfortunately, when we contacted our economists, the outlook is pretty grim for construction activity in Portland area. They're expecting that it's not going to recover for at least two to three years from now. And even when it comes back, the recovery will be very slow, which reflected in our revenues and the projects that are coming in to our Bureau.
 In the recent months, we've been heavily relying on our reserves to fund our operations. 70% of our expenditures are personnel expenditures. So we are actually in a very high probability of having some layoffs at the beginning of the next year. At that time, we reached out. Actually, we put some proactive measures in place in the Bureau from the beginning of the pandemic in March. We stopped.
 All non-essential expenditures, we put the hiring fees in place, we're monitoring all of our workload parameters, revenues, expenditures, everything else. We reached out to BHR, to Cassie Bless to explore with her what are the alternative options that we can put in place to avoid layoffs.
 Many of you remember that back in 2008-2009, Bureau of Development Services faced layoffs when we had to let go of almost half of our workforce. Since then, we put so much effort into building up that workforce, and especially the last five to six years,
 we made very conscious effort to bring women and people of color into classifications that are traditionally held by white males. So right now those efforts are in jeopardy because if we start layoffs, which again, a very high probability of that it could happen,
 the people who were hired last, in the last five to six years, will be the first to leave the Bureau. And these are the people who represent that diversity that we are trying to achieve in our Bureau.
 So these options that are presented by Cassie Bless will allow Bureau to mitigate the impact of potential layoffs. Specifically two options, the voluntary layoffs and the targeted severance will help us greatly. We expect that we will be able to avoid 10 to 20 potential layoffs by using just those two options.
 The interest from employees and the options outlined in that ordinance is very high. We already held one session to talk about the financial situation in the Bureau and the potential options that are coming up. The interest is very high.
 The other thing is the timing. Unfortunately, as we speak, every single day, it's money, basically. It's the money that the Bureau has to use from our reserves, basically.
 The sooner we adopt this ordinance, the sooner we make these options available to our employees, the better the impact of this ordinance on reducing those potential layouts that we may have in our bureau.
 Thank you for the opportunity to address you and I want to thank Cassie Bless and her staff for helping us navigate and coming up with these options that may help us avoid the layoffs. Thank you. Thank you. Kathy, you said there was... Yeah, there's one more. I'll turn it over to Courtney Duke as a representative of City Mamas. Hi, Courtney. Thank you, Commissioners and Mayor. This is Courtney Duke.
 I'm a senior planner at the Bureau of Transportation, as well as working at the Emergency Center, again, starting on Monday. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz and Kathy Bless for asking me to be here today. And also thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for your shout out today.
 as it relates to working parents. I would like to say thank you also to Kathy and her team. We did meet yesterday and there were over 50 people on the call in the midst of work and working with our children and helping with school, both dads and moms, as well as the women's empowerment team.
 Kathy and her team worked with us over the last couple weeks. The FAQ that her team put together addresses a lot of the questions and concerns that we had, especially in terms of implementation.
 Kathy and her team committed to meeting with additional affinity groups and stakeholders. I think we talked about monthly, but we'll figure out the exact timing. And that was a really great thing to hear. We also gave some suggestions that I believe she's taking in terms of possibly having a town hall, similar to what
 budget office, I'm sorry, Tom Reinhart's office is doing as it relates to entering into the buildings so that everybody can get the information. The main, one of the main things that we talked about yesterday was just the amount of information out there and how people are getting it in so many different ways, but maybe we need to still keep giving it in different ways. So some people are better at hearing something, some people are better at getting an email. So if there are some places where everything is located in the same spot,
 Also some additional education and, uh,
 information for managers and bureau directors. We also heard at the meeting that a lot of folks, as Kathy mentioned, don't even know that there are some of these existing tools available. I think what Kathy really made clear to us was that this is one of many tools and one of many things that the city and BHR are doing for employees rather than just one. I think that was a concern that employees had.
 and it sounded like Kathy and her team were putting together some information about those suite of options. Again, a lot of those have been out there for a while,
 But it's just there's a lot going on and it's difficult to always know what's going to work best for you and your family and also for managers and their employees to be able to balance the workload, supporting caregivers. And I also wanted to mention quickly that we also had a number of people on the call that are caregivers to elder parents and disabled adults. Okay.
 that Commissioner Udailey also mentioned. So we are also making sure that any of these suite of options also work for all caregivers, not just parents. And it sounds like that's exactly what Kathy and team are trying to do. And so that's another reason we would like to expand the conversation with our affinity groups and other folks to make sure that we're covering everyone who's a caregiver and an employee, not just a parent. Just double checking my quick notes.
 And Kathy and team sent out the FAQ to the leadership for us to review and give comments on. So we appreciated that connection as well. So we've been submitting comments.
 Those are due tomorrow, I think. And so we, again, we just appreciate the time they've spent working with us. And I appreciate the time here. I'm available for any questions today. And we'll continue to be working with all of our affinity groups and Kathy, as I have the ability to move this forward and help with implementation. Thank you, Courtney. Commissioner Fritz, that's her hand raised.
 Thank you very much, Courtney. Thank you for your leadership in many different ways. So are you comfortable with us moving forward with this ordinance today and with the plan for engagement of employees moving forward? Yes, I am. And I believe that the group did felt that as well yesterday. That's great. It certainly was worth taking the time and I appreciate the responsiveness of the HR department. Thank you. And thank you for giving us all the extra time.
 Very good. Thanks. So with that, colleagues, unless you have any other questions, we'll see if there's any public testimony on this item. No one has signed up. Nobody has signed up. All right, good. It was a very thorough presentation. Commissioner Udaly, you were considering some sort of an amendment or is that on the table or no? Well, I mean, I'm interested in a little deliberation with my colleagues without knowing what the financial impact would be to make this retroactive. I'm not sure.
 comfortable offering an amendment unless there's support on council. I'll speak up. I'm happy with the ordinance as proposed. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 Mayor, if I may, Commissioner, I really think that we just need to continue to monitor it to see if it's doing what we've intended. So I think the first quarterly report back will be a great time to add changes, especially because we'll see what's happened in practice.
 I appreciate the hard work that's gone into being very thoughtful and listening. But I continue to be concerned when policies cover one part of our workforce, and then we say we're going to figure out the other part of the workforce at a later time. And so that continues to concern me. So I think having a commitment that we're going to have quarterly opportunities to change this as necessary, I think.
 gives me comfort that supporting this today doesn't mean this is the last time we will be able to actually make substantial changes. Sounds good. I'm totally fine with this. All right, then with that, we'll take a vote on the Fritz slash Hardesty amendment first that was requested by the Bureau. Commissioner, yeah. Keelan, please call the roll on the amendment. Hardesty.
 You, Neely? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Ryan? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted to the main motion is amended. Please call the roll. Hardesty?
 Thank you, Kathy, for taking the time to reach out to people that are going to be impacted by this change and attempting to adapt this proposal to what you heard. I'm happy to hear that this is just one piece of the supports that we're going to put in place.
 But again, I want to make sure that we don't give opportunities for one segment of our workforce and not to others. And so you and I will need to talk before your quarterly check in to find out how my first responder bureaus, who also have the same issues and concerns, are able to take advantage of this opportunity. And so I vote aye today, but look forward to the next conversation. Thank you, Daly.
 Did you say my name? Yeah, sorry, you did. Yes, okay. So I want to appreciate the work that BHR has done to offer flexibility to city employees who are balancing new challenges while also continuing to provide services that keep our city running.
 This is a positive step forward and a necessary one in order to be a responsible and considerate employer. I support further action to offer flexibility to employees dealing with unprecedented difficulties during these multiple crises. I also want to give a shout out to City Mamas for their advocacy and just acknowledge the uniquely challenging situation that a lot of
 that parents and in particular mothers find themselves in in this moment? I vote aye.
 excuse me uh yeah thank you very much kathy bless for taking the time to get this right thank you mayor wheeler for once again very carefully and thoughtfully helping guide through the response to the covid pandemic um this is hopefully going to be a model that maybe private employers could continue could consider um enacting in their companies perhaps some of them already have um thank you to city mamas and particularly courtley duke and to the um
 caregivers on my staff who are really doing amazing work with all of the challenges. I was stunned to read the article about the number of hours of instruction at Portland Public Schools this week and I'm glad that that's starting to get resolved. And we've never been, at least I've never been in a pandemic before, we've never experienced something like this. So it's
 It's been forever since March, and it's also been very quick that we've been able to do so many good things and that we're continuing to focus on the things that matter most to the people who are affected. So thanks to everybody for this. Bye. Ryan? Yes. I think I was a half hour literally into the job when we had this first conversation. And I really appreciate how it's evolved over the last few weeks. It shows that...
 It's not always kicking in the can. Sometimes it's buying time so we can be thoughtful. And as Commissioner Fritz said, we've never been here before. And so we have to have creative, adaptable moments like this. I think there's some shared sacrifice that I heard on this one, which is important during the pandemic and the economic uncertainty and a lot of shared responsibility. I appreciate the dialogue with Commissioner Hardesty that you had with her at the
 Kathy Bless, about making sure as we're implementing it that we have a lot of communication. This is again, we've never been here before, so you're going to find out a lot as you implement this policy. And let's face it, it's great that with Elshad's presentation that it will be helpful budget item at this moment as we try to stretch our public resources as far as possible during this pandemic.
 So anyway, I'm really impressed with the progress of this and it's always great to hear parents coming together to do what's best during these uncertain times because virtual learning is clearly challenging. I'm glad that we're going to have data about the equity lens when it comes to this and who's using it and what proportion of our
 of our employees are able to tap into this as well. And so in your quarterly updates, I'll just ask that we make sure we have all the data broken down by race. I'm sure you're ready to do that. I just wanted to make that public. Anyway, I'm a big eye. Thank you. I want to thank Kathy Bless and her team within BHR, Heidi Brown, of course, Chief Deputy City Attorney and our union partners, the City Mamas,
 Bureau equity managers and other employees who provided really critical feedback and did a good job of expressing concerns regarding equity and some other considerations as we figure out how to best support our city employees. This ordinance, as several commissioners have indicated, is a starting point.
 The Bureau of Human Resources is going to continue to seek feedback from employees and bureaus to look for other ways the City can support its working parents during these challenging times.
 We expect BHR will return to Council with additional ideas based on continued feedback from employees and bureaus. And I was pleased, Director Bless, that you already committed to do that. So I'm very happy to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thanks for your great work. The next item on the regular agenda, 7.7 resolution.
 Approve and terminate limited tax exemptions for properties under the Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program. The Portland Housing Bureau, of course, administers the city's tax exemption programs. The Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program
 often known as HALTI, provides a 10-year property tax exemption for low to moderate income homebuyers, making homeownership more obtainable for families in Portland. Homebuilders apply for the tax exemption prior to starting construction on their new homes. The Housing Bureau approves builder applications through filing resolution with the council several times each year. 10 properties are being approved annually
 for the program through this particular resolution. When a developer sells a home over the price limit to a buyer who does not income qualify as a cash sale or doesn't complete construction within the two year timeframe from council approval, the exemption is then removed. Additionally, if a home isn't owner occupied during the exemption period, the exemption is also removed under those circumstances.
 Before an exemption is terminated, owners have an opportunity to appeal decisions made by the city. And with this resolution, 28 property tax exemptions are being removed. And with that, we'll hear from Dori Van Bockel from the Portland Housing Bureau. She is the PHB Development and Senates Program Manager. And we know you well.
 Hello, Doris. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Yeah, just to add to that, you know, PHB confirms homebuyer eligibility with each sale of the property, and owner occupancy is part of the compliance from initial sale through the 10-year tax exemption period. So we're ensuring compliance with both city code and state statute during that time frame.
 So we run regular audits and work in partnership with Multnomah County to confirm property ownership with those guidelines. Homebuyers are notified of non-compliance and if there's not a remedy exemptions are removed. In this particular resolution many of the properties are
 ones that were developed by Habitat for Humanity. PHB worked with the city's Office of Government Relations to take action with the state legislature last spring. And this would have permitted PHB to allow more time for developers to build housing approved for the tax exemption on a case-by-case basis. In this case, Habitat for Humanity had a few reasons as to, you know, based on their business model, how that it might take a little longer for construction.
 So this could have allowed them to maintain the exemption for the homeowners that so desperately need it. Unfortunately, even though the bill we brought forward, including that provision had passed through the state Senate, the session was derailed by the Republican walkout and canceled before the House was able to vote on it too. So PHB and other
 Office of Government Relations are working on bringing back this change within the next session in order to have to avoid having to terminate exemptions on otherwise eligible properties and to ensure the program is available to homebuyers in the future. So just wanted to make that particular note about this action. Okay.
 The Holty program works in tandem with several other incentive programs to help support homeownership for first-time homebuyers across the city. I'm happy to answer any questions. Commissioner Daly. Thanks, Mayor. Well, one of many frustrations about the last legislative session and so disappointing, if that
 Bill were to pass. Is there any way to reinstate the exemption for people who are losing it today? Unfortunately, no, it's not allowed by statute to do so. All right. Thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. All right. This is a anything else before I move this along?
 This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second. I'm sorry, it's a resolution. I have to call the roll on this. Sorry. Hardesty. Udaly. Thank you, Dory. Aye. Fritz. Good work as usual. Aye. Ryan. Aye. Whaler. Aye. The resolution is adopted. And callings for the next 12, I'll take care of it in a minute, 779, please, Keeler.
 Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for codes on North Interstate located at 5460 North Interstate Avenue. Colleagues, by tradition, we do not put emergency clauses on these items. So the Housing Bureau has requested that I make a motion to remove the emergency clause. I'm moving it. Second. We have a second. Second.
 Any further discussion on that question, call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Ryan. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. It's amended. It's now a non-emergency item. And with that, colleagues, it's been brought to my... We did that. We did that. Good. Dori, you're on it. Hey, I do have a short presentation.
 It also includes the next item, but I can... Kaelin, can you read item 780, please?
 Amend approved application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program under the Inclusionary Housing Program for Markham Hill Apartments, Building 2, located at 3178 Southwest 12th Avenue to increase the number of affordable units. Calling. I move to remove the emergency clause from item 780. Can I get a second? Second. Second.
 uh commissioner hardesty just beat you out there commissioning daily it's not a competition i think it's fun keelan could you please uh could you please call the role on the amendment hardesty okay i'm just quicker on the button you daily quicker than me aye fritz aye ryan what button uh
 I'm in the same boat, Dan. The amendment is adopted. And just before we get into the presentation on item 780, I want to note a minor correction to the impact statement. It uses the number 44 in reference to units. The number should have been 42, not 44. It's a Scribner's error. Robert, can you confirm it does not require an amendment?
 Yes, I can confirm that. Okay, very good. Dori, you're up. All right. Let me put this presentation forward. All right. We are here to discuss. My name is Dori VanBakkel, as introduced by the mayor. And good morning again. Also, Matthew Schabold is present as well as the policy and planning manager with the Housing Bureau.
 Just to go through a couple of things about the Inclusionary Housing Program. So again, starting in February of 2017, any building adding 20 or more units is required to contribute to the city's affordable housing inventory through the Inclusionary Housing Program. Developers must choose from several options in order to fulfill inclusionary housing requirements, providing affordable units in an otherwise market rate building.
 sending units to another building, or paying into the inclusionary housing fund. The Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption, or MULTI, program is one of the financial incentives provided to inclusionary housing buildings, making units affordable rather than paying the fee in lieu. Each MULTI application comes before City Council for approval as required by state statute.
 And again, the two buildings we're discussing today are the Markham Hill Apartments Building 2, which is an amendment due to a change, as well as the Coase project on North Interstate. So Markham Hill Apartments Building 2 has come before Council before through Ordinance 189645.
 There were, there's still five stories in this building, but the unit mix has changed significantly from being a 24 unit building to a 46 unit building. This was passed originally in August of last year and authorized a 10 year property tax exemption with two bedroom to one bedroom 14 two bedroom and eight three bedroom units and
 And now it has changed to having 14 studios and 32 one-bedroom units. So they've removed the larger bedroom sizes within the building. As such, the requirement for affordable units was redistributed, requiring us to make this factual change to the multi-ordinates requirement.
 So this project with 46 units will have 8%, which equals out to just four units, one studio and three one bedroom unit affordable to households earning no more than 60% MFI for 99 years and as one of the options available to them through the multi program or inclusionary housing program as such.
 So to break down a little bit as far as how the tax benefit applies to the project as well as then we'll look at rents for the home or the renters. Prior the the per year taxes were a little different just based on the number of units increasing the per unit value decreases under this new application. And there's a
 Just an idea of the rent discount on average between market and studio rents is over $500 a month, the way that this building is distributed. So if there's any questions on that particular project, I can address them before moving on, or we can address certainly any questions about the program or as presented for both projects later. Mayor, if I may.
 Yeah, sorry, Commissioner Daly, I was struggling to get to my button. Yeah. Okay. Dory, could you go back one more slide to the tax? I find this page very challenging to understand. What I'm interested in is whether we're getting a good value for this tax abatement. So it would be comparing, and I realize, you know, because taxes and rent fluctuate, there's
 No way to know for sure, but just based on today's tax rates and market rate rent, if we extrapolate out, who's getting more benefit? The developer for the tax abatements or the city for the reduced rents? So in this particular case, if we would compare then,
 The second table, since that's the current application. Okay. On a per unit basis each year over the full 99 year period, you know, dumping all of this into an Excel sheet and calculating it out. There would be a $90 per year benefit to the building owner on this one. And sorry, my cat. Okay.
 And then compared to a monthly rent discount, the difference between rents on a monthly basis is $581 on average. Could you go back again to the tax? Yeah. So I find that, okay, I see. The per year for 10 years, okay, it's starting to, it's just the information is organized in kind of an odd way.
 There we go. Okay. All right. So they get $90 per year per unit. Yes. And it's a $500 a month reduction. Of rent on average. Okay. I like the sound of that.
 I mean, obviously it's very different for each building. Yeah. A lot of different factors. All right. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Dori. My question is, so we went from having family size units to once again studios in one bedroom.
 Is in a multi program are we the goal is to, of course, provide housing that people can afford to live in and some of these very expensive buildings, but are we doing any analysis internally about
 What were the units that we don't need? I mean, the units that we don't have, what we know is we desperately need three bedroom units. Is there a way in this multi program to prioritize what we see as a gapping hole and housing resources for low income people? And if so, how would you do that?
 So being that inclusionary housing is required on any new building with over 20 units, it's very much so a market-driven program.
 So we don't have any direct influence on which units are actually being built by developers. Certainly there are some incentives, such as the reconfiguration option within inclusionary housing that allows the developer to provide a few less units by reconfiguring into larger unit sizes, basing the requirement on bedrooms, total bedrooms.
 which we have seen folks participate in, but otherwise what the market is building is what units we're able to get from this program. And so again, will you have analysis of what we've created with this program? Because I think there needs to be a legislative change
 And so with data about how many three bedrooms have we created through this program, how many two bedrooms? Because most of the multi programs you bring to us are studios and one bedrooms, right? And we have a lot of single people that need those. I'm not saying we don't. But I'm also saying, again, the biggest need is the two bedroom, three bedroom units.
 And this program is not actually helping us create enough two and three bedroom units. So again, you know, it may not be something you can do based on how the program was written, but I would be very interested in your analysis about what changes need to be made in the next legislative session so that we're actually not being driven by what developers want to build, but by what we need here in the city of Portland.
 Well, and certainly there are, we have created a larger number of family size units with this program through the reconfiguration than we anticipated initially, certainly. And there are other zoning code changes the city has made, such as the three bedroom bonus created through the deeper housing affordability of portion of the better housing by design program.
 that should provide some incentive to developers to produce more affordable, in particular, three-bedroom units. Of course, it's still going to be up to developers as to whether or not they can make that pencil out and produce those projects.
 Thank you for that, Dorian. Let me just reiterate that I think it's really important for us to have really clear data about what we've achieved with this program so that we as a council will have the ability to deliberate about what legislative changes we might find necessary to achieve our goals.
 I don't know if this program at the beginning actually set any goals around studio one bedrooms, two bedrooms and three bedrooms. And you're shaking your head no. So since we didn't, I think again coming out of this pandemic, it's really important that we be intentional. And then my last question is, can we reject these applications?
 If we were to reject these applications, the result would be that potentially no affordable units would be provided because as the program is written on
 We're obligated to provide available incentives to the project that is complying with inclusionary housing, or the developer does not need to provide the affordable units at all if we're not able to produce the financial incentives through the exemption. Okay.
 I would, this is not the time for this conversation, but I would love to have a deeper conversation about if this isn't the program, then we need another program that we're incentivizing nonprofit housing developers to actually develop the kind of units we need. Right. So the market can do what the market wants to do, but we should not be incentivizing studio in one bedroom solely. Right. I just,
 And yes, for 90 years, but you know, I'm not going to be around 90 years from now. So I'm not quite sure what affordability will look like 90 years from now. So thank you very much. I'm always fascinated by this program.
 And you always provide really good information. So thank you. Thank you. And, you know, we do have a monthly total of the production of the inclusionary housing program that we share through the Portland Housing Advisory Commission and I'll be sure to have staff forward that over to your office so that you can look at that as well.
 Thank you. I know I'm not going to speak for Commissioner Ryan, but I know he has a heartfelt interest in this as well. And so if you would send it to both of us, I think we would both be greatly appreciative. Thank you. Absolutely. You're welcome. Commissioner Ryan.
 Yeah, thank you. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. I actually put my hand up right as you were speaking and you did answer, you asked a lot of questions that I would have asked. However, Dori, thank you for that presentation. And it's great to have a little cat, upstage cat moment that helps during this pandemic. I think I want my question, though, is still around how they come, how this market driven decisions made.
 So this is in Southwest Portland. And is it the market? How's the market defined? What's the footprint of the market? So do we have a Southwest market, an outer East Portland market? And some of my context on this is I, the last 10 years, I spent most of my time in East Portland and I've always been well aware of the amount of large families, many new arrivals that are in one bedroom apartments. And it's,
 It's something we should all be thinking about during this pandemic, what it's like for those parents to do virtual learning with their children with six kids, sometimes in a one bedroom, two bedroom apartment. That's where I come from on this is I'm perplexed why it went from the two and three bedroom again to the studio in one bedroom. And I wanted to know if the market footprint is defined by quadrant. Is it defined by the whole city of Portland? Do you have an answer to that question? Sure.
 Short answer is no, I don't. You know, it's really, obviously there's many components of putting together a project and,
 We're not involved in the financial structure, the development projects, as far as looking at it from a permitting standpoint where we are with this level of involvement with the Inclusionary Housing Program. I appreciate that, Dorit. Could you look into that and get back to my office? That'd be really helpful.
 of what the market is defined as. And clearly I would love it if we saw more family-friendly housing that is affordable. And so it's hard to be passionate about this project when it comes to that. Thanks. Absolutely. You're welcome. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor. I'll just say quickly, I don't know how prescriptive we can get with this policy, but I do agree that when we see a building that has
 And I'm not necessarily referring to this building in particular, but when we see a building that is mostly, you know, one, two and three bedrooms, but the affordable units are studios, that doesn't feel really in the spirit of inclusionary housing. And I'm wondering if down the line we could tie the percentages further to the types of units that are available.
 represented overall. I hope that made sense. For instance, if it's 50% two-bedroom apartments, then we want half of those affordable units to actually be two-bedroom apartments. We have all sorts of market mismatches in our housing industry. One is obviously cost. The market is not building units in general that are affordable to average Portland renters.
 location and proximity to jobs as well as size. So I think this is like, it's an interesting and worthwhile conversation. I understand we can't do anything about it today, but I think it's worth exploring. Thanks. I do want to just clarify, Commissioner Udeli, too, that
 the building itself has changed. And so the unit requirements changed because the building changed and the building is no longer going to have the larger size units. And so that's why the affordable units changed as well. Yeah, please just take my comments as broader comments about the program, not specific to this development. Thanks, thank you. Very good. Any further questions? Commissioner Ryan, I would say you have your hand raised again.
 No, that's just me forgetting to take my hand down. No worries. Very good. Then at this point, I will ask, do we have any public testimony key line on 779 or 780? No one signed up for either item. Okay, very good. Please call the roll on...
 I'm sorry, no, we've removed the clause. So let me just do this. I just want to briefly mention that the status of the Inclusionary Housing Program, if anybody's interested in that, is actually on the Housing Bureau's website. I think the second clarification I'd make just based on the good conversation we just had is that IH is one of several strategies that we're using through the Housing Bureau to fill the need for very low and low-income housing.
 um and as dory pointed out during her presentation the ih program gives options for developers to choose from i have however directed both the housing the ih program based on the data provided so at some point my expectation is we'll bring some revisions back to the city council that can
 can address some of the issues that have been raised by my colleagues. Item 779 is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. Mayor, Mayor, I'm sorry, I'm confused. Why haven't we heard about 5460 North Interstate? Doria, was there more you wanted to specifically cover on that item? There is additional information in my presentation to- Oh, I'm sorry, I- Yeah, yeah, I need to hear about that. I have issues with that project.
 We all have issues with that project. All right, I can resume. So the second item is for the COS on North Interstate at 5460 North Interstate Avenue. So this is a new application and under this option of inclusionary housing, the developer selected
 to restrict 15% of the units since it's within the outside of the central city. And those will be affordable at no more than 80% of median family income for 99 years. And so that amounts to 23 of the total 154 units that would have that restricted affordability.
 So in this case, 23 of the units will be restricted and 131 will remain at market rate rents over that 99-year period, regardless of how the market changes from now and then.
 The way that, and I'm sure this is what everyone wants to talk about, the way that the, and we'll look at the additional information on the rents. The plan for this development specifically for COS, and they've had a couple of other projects already developed within the IH program, as well as previously in the standalone multi-program around Portland.
 And they're somewhat unique to some of the other projects that we see in that there are some smaller units, particularly at the studio level units that are developed intentionally to be below market. And at some times in some neighborhoods in some markets,
 The rents for at 80% median family income level are close, if not less than what the market is. They're sometimes often the same. And so in this case, there was an attempt to come to market.
 below that level for all of their units, even though that's below market. So, so that I can explain what that issue is. First of all, looking at the tax benefit, again, similarly to the last project that we reviewed over a 99 year period, it would be about $100 per unit that would benefit the project. And so, you know, over
 you know, per year, that's about 23, $24,000 per, per the, for the building. And so then when we're looking at the actual market rents in the neighborhood for not just this building, but market rents across the board in that area of interstate, they're actually slightly below what the maximum rents would be for at the 80, 80% level.
 Even though this project has indicated that they won't be actually setting the rents at that maximum level Because they obviously the markets not there we do see it still see a difference for the larger units where they would be on average the whole building would still have a $281 per month savings beyond a
 on average per unit beyond the $100 a month exemption value over that 99 year period. So when we look at the total difference in rents, even just at the affordable level, it comes out to just shy of $52,000 a year. So if I go back
 The rent differential for the total building from market to affordable is, you know, that difference of $23,735 with just shy of $52,000 of a total building potential rent difference or discount. So I'm happy to find other ways to kind of talk through this or kind of discuss what the obligation is versus what the project is doing there.
 as I do assume there are additional questions. Commissioner Hardesty, then Commissioner Udaly. Mayor, Udaly was first. Thank you, Commissioner, and thank you, Mayor. So this is an interesting situation where, just to be clear, the rent-restricted units could cost more than the rest of
 of the units. There's, you know, Dori, you've shared that they don't intend to set those rents higher, but the reality is we're not getting cost savings from those particular units. So one thing that would help mitigate my concerns, and I once again didn't catch that information
 When we look at how the tax abatement versus the rent discount shakes out over time, is the city still receiving more benefit in the rent discount than they're giving in the tax abatement? That's my first question.
 So on average, on those particular units, not necessarily the way that it's... Overall. If we extrapolate out over that 99-year period, the rent discount value of $281 per month compared to... Oops. Compared... And that's per month of...
 Yeah. You know, compared to the $104 per year per unit. Okay. There's obviously a big difference still. So the refrain that I hear most often from developers about our inclusionary zoning policies is that they don't pencil out. So I would encourage those people to talk to this developer because it certainly seems to be penciling out for them. I also want to just talk about
 market rate, the term market rate rent, which some people treat as if it's as immutable as the temperature outside. It is a construct and it is unaffordable to the majority of renters in the city. So I want to commend this developer for building units that are more affordable. And really
 challenging the widely held belief that it's too expensive to develop affordable housing in Portland. And yeah, I think I'll leave it at that. And I'm interested in what my colleagues are thinking. Thank you, Commissioner Udeli. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Dori. I guess for me, my concern is are we setting a precedent
 by allowing a developer who may or may not manage the building after it's built to use inclusionary zoning and in fact have the market rate units be lower cost than the so-called affordable units.
 This is the very first time I've seen this play out since I've been on the City Council. And I am very concerned that we are setting a precedent, because to say that at some point those studios will be affordable is kind of a ludicrous argument to support this proposal.
 And so could you talk about why you are recommending we approve this, knowing that the studios start off? And knowing that developers don't traditionally manage buildings after they develop them. How do we know that whoever owns the building and starts the process of filling it up,
 won't within a year actually raise the rates and or even as they're developed, I mean, as they're starting to fill the building up, raise the rates so that the affordable unit continues to be costing more than the rest of the units, I mean, than the other ones comparable size would cost. Okay.
 again, I've never seen this before, where we started off paying more for a unit that we're pretending is affordable. And would you, just for the public record, tell us what 80% of median family income, what is the income you need in order to qualify for this quote-unquote affordable unit? Yes, I'll get back to you on that real quickly. But yes, so you have a number of points there, Commissioner Hardesty, thank you. And I think, you know,
 Most clear is the point that yes, this is the first time I've seen this play out exactly on a particular project as well And this is a somewhat unique development approach for sure That said we we do Monitor compliance on the buildings throughout the 99 year period so we will know what happens with the rents in the future however
 I don't expect, frankly, that they would have different rents for the affordable units and the market rate units where the affordable units would be more expensive. There would be no reason for them, frankly, to do that. And then ultimately, they want to serve tenants that can afford to live there. And it wouldn't...
 Certainly, they have that option. They also, the program itself requires us to provide or make units affordable to
 at the 80% level. And so that is the base program requirement. And then the other options that are provided were things that the city decided to pursue with the goal that more units would be at the 60% level. And in fact, the inclusion rates are lower and to make that a more attractive option.
 And so, you know, staff actually did address this with the developer to just inquire as to, you know, make sure that they understood they were choosing an option that maybe, you know, they could provide and have less units restricted over the 99-year period. And for whatever financial reasons, the number that they have moving forward,
 to get their financing on the building was, you know, marketing all of the units at around 63% of median family income. And so they clearly made that choice intentionally to still have the 80% MFI level as far as the maximum requirement that they could have those set at. And
 since I've been talking, I don't know, Matt, have you had a chance to maybe look up the exact MFI level for the 80% units? I just don't have it at the tip of my fingertips. Yeah, sure. So for the record, Matthew Schaubold with the Portland Housing Bureau, for an 80% of the median income is around $50,000 to $55,000 per year, depending on your household size for the
 for a family or a household that will live in the studio apartments. And just to kind of add on a couple of comments, you know, this is a, you know, this is a tricky one in front of City Council today, so we appreciate the discussion.
 The Housing Bureau's inclusionary housing program doesn't regulate what a developer can build in terms of types of bedrooms or the size of the bedrooms. It simply requires that a portion of those become regulated affordable housing. I would be very surprised if...
 The market rate units were leasing at a particular rate. If the developer tried to also lease the affordable at a higher rate, I don't think they would find that to be successful. But we did want to present the information around what the market rate rents look like compared to what the 80 percent regulated rents, what the cap was on those.
 From the Bureau's perspective, we have looked at this, and we think that because of the one bedroom units, the non-studio units, the ones and the twos, we do think that the net impact is of value to the city in terms of the rent discount, even with the relative parity for the studios. But we wanted to have an honest conversation with City Council.
 And if the council decides not to proceed with the incentives that are required in the code, that is an option. And it would simply release the developer from any inclusionary housing obligation on the building.
 Yeah, this is the first I've seen this as well. And we should discuss it and work through it together. I'd like to jump in here. And I've been enjoying the conversation and listening. I think the question here is affordability relative to the other units in the building or affordability based on the overall market in Portland and
 The program was designed with overall affordability relative to the cost of housing in Portland. That was the design of this program. It doesn't speak to individual, the interior of specific buildings. Is that accurate, Matt? That is correct. You know, if you look at the, this just happens to be the development model of this developer, but if you look at the rents for both the market rate and the inclusionary,
 housing compared to some of the more expensive neighborhoods in the city or compared to the city overall or compared to the neighborhood that they're building in. These are comparatively more affordable rents, both at the market rate level and, of course, at the regulated level. So they just happen to have that business model. So one more quick comment, then I'll get to Commissioner Ryan. He's been waiting patiently.
 So the risk we take here, if we don't do this, we have no other hook in terms of affordability. This is our tool that is available here on this project. And the question is, if we remove this tool, remove the IH requirement, would the building owner for certain
 reduce the cost of these inclusionary housing units relative to the other units in the building? That's basically the question, right? The risk that we would be taking. Well, there would be no inclusionary units in the building. Correct. Yeah. So no, there's no guarantee. I'm just trying to figure out under what circumstance would the council decide not to do this? Okay.
 And the only example I can think of is if we believe that based on the remainder of the units in the building, the building owner would choose to voluntarily lower the price of these units to be in alignment with the other costs, the other units in the building. But the inclusionary housing program does not anticipate this question. It is about a broader market dynamic.
 and the affordability is relative to the broader market. It's not relative to the other units in the building.
 I mean, conceivably, this building owner could say, we're going to lease everything at the market rate for $1 a month. They can do that. And so, therefore, the inclusionary housing units would still look more expensive by comparison. But relative to the market, the inclusionary housing units might still be affordable. And that is what we are assuming here. Is that not correct? That's correct. Okay.
 Mayor, if I may. If I may. That's not the issue for me. The issue is if we approve this, we are setting a precedent that a developer can come in and say, we're going to add inclusionary units, but we're going to charge more for them.
 And if we approve this today, we are setting a standard that I have not seen in this entire program since I've been here. And so for me, that's the bigger question. It does relate to this unit and there are issues with what's being proposed, especially in the two-bedroom units.
 Because I got to tell you, if one bedroom can be 580, but a two-bedroom will be 548 square feet, I have a problem with that. Because again, once again, we're unequal in how this is going to play out for low-income people.
 And so for me, the biggest concern is around if we approve this today, we're saying it's okay for a developer to charge more for the affordability credit. And I don't know that that's the road we want to go down. I'll turn this over to Commissioner Ryan and then perhaps Matt or Dory would like to respond to that. Commissioner Ryan, thank you for your patience. Oh, absolutely. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Yeah, this is a real head scratcher. I actually assumed there was a typo when I was looking at this. And it really, I've been listening and it's clear as mud at the moment on what I've been taking in as a new person.
 And so I will stop at that. I do have two questions. One is, when was the market rate established? We are in unprecedented times, the word of the year. And did the developer make this decision pre-COVID currently? When was the decision made on what the market rate was?
 Thank you, Commissioner. I'll give a couple comments on that. The market rate rents in your council documents are rates we pulled for what the market rate rents are relatively close to today. Trying to reflect, okay, what are the regulated affordable rents today and what are the market rate rents today?
 The developer in all likelihood is looking at what they think that they can charge for market rate rents in about two years, about a year or two.
 once the building's actually constructed and leased up. And so those are estimates that they need to provide to the institutions that are financing their development. And they have to provide their own evidence to reassure the investors and the lenders that they could reasonably reach those rents and reasonably lease up their buildings.
 So it is tough to do that, do the projection because, you know, we are looking at today's regulated rents and we are providing counsel with today's market rate rents as a comparison. But in reality, what the rents will actually be, will be decided on the market rate units will be decided by what the market looks like in two years and what's being charged for studios and one bedrooms and two bread, two bedrooms and all of that.
 the entirety of the market as well as the market in that neighborhood. So that is tough. Thank you, that was helpful and fasten your seat belts on what that could look like in two years at this time. And if you're looking at trends in our the big city of the South San Francisco, there's some pretty good data that's showing that there's a real drop in monthly rates in their apartments because of the pandemic and adjustments people are making. And then for the record, I just am disappointed and I don't know what our
 How we push back on this. So just for the record, I, it's disappointing when you look at the percentage of units that are affordable and the two bedroom category. I know there's one it's 11% but if you added to It'd be, you know, 22% where the others are at 18 and 19%. So once again, the larger unit for family friendly affordable housing is the one that gets shortchanged
 So just would like us to continue to try to push for larger units for families. And that's a great location for families in terms of access to schools and parks. Make sure you do it. Thank you, Mayor. Well, this is the policy we have to work with today. This is an unexpected kind of wrinkle, I guess, that we could potentially be
 getting affordable units that cost more than the other units in the development. However, because we are still receiving more benefit in rent discount than we are giving in tax abatement, I will support it. I do want to, I wasn't sure, you know, where we were coming up with a market rate, uh,
 right market rate rents one of the shortcomings is this of this program is that market rate varies throughout the city depending on the neighborhood and I think what's going on here is that this development is in an area with lower market rate rents than perhaps what you know we're
 than average. And this is also a concern in East Portland as we see an increase in production of housing in East Portland. And we pursue these ongoing conversations about displacement. If our inclusionary housing policy is generating affordable units that are above market rate in
 I will support this, but we need to
 we need to dig in and figure out how to solve for some of these challenges. The other thing I want to say, it's relevant to the last item, but also to this one, is if we are seeing an overproduction in studios and one bedrooms, and we can't compel developers to offer larger units as their rent-restricted units, then
 Dori Bradyin, You know, one of the solutions is we we address our investments accordingly with the with the dollars that we have to build affordable housing and we invest more in those two and three bedroom units. Thank you. Dori Bradyin, Sure right Dori Bradyin, Sorry, I'm really bad at lowering my hand on here. Dori Bradyin, No worries. Dori. Did you have something else you wanted to add earlier.
 Yeah, I did just want to comment somewhat in response to Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. And, you know, just in general for all of the comments to note that, you know, certainly even without inclusionary housing, this development is because the tax exemption is front loaded over the first 10 years. You know, the numbers that we're looking at are extrapolating out the value over 99%
 So the 99 years, but the value up front, because the exemptions provided over the first 10 years and then ends, actually is a large benefit to developers to kickstart the operations of the project right after construction and starting operations. And so...
 Really, again, since we don't know for sure, but one could imagine that all of the rents in the building, not just the studio rents, would increase without the tax exemption. So if we did decide to not provide it and not have the building be subject to inclusionary housing, it would result in more affordable units across the board, not just for the studios, but for the one-bedroom and two-bedroom units as well as they hit the market.
 Very good. Commissioner Harstie. Thank you, Mayor. Just one more question. I know that we are beating this one to death, but I think it's important that this is actually on the public record. I have expressed concerns before about the square footage of affordable units versus market rate units. And let me just say, I'm pretty appalled that the one bedroom unit for affordability
 is actually going to be smaller than a potential studio for market rate units. When you look at the one, two-bedroom unit,
 I just don't know how you get a two bedroom in a 545 square feet. And I am very concerned that we are creating an inequitable housing choices for people who are low income. And let me just say, a individual making, so for the two bedroom unit,
 a two person household, 52,100 a year. That is in no way low income. I mean, and in fact, many of the people who need the family units,
 will not achieve that income to live there. And so I know that, again, you have nothing to do with, you can't tell the developer what to build, but we must be able to set equity when we are developing housing for low-income individuals. And I use it low-income in quotes because it's 80%, and I still think, you know, of course, that's...
 That's another conversation. But the square footage continues to be inequitable when it comes to the lower income units as compared to the market rate. And I just don't know how you can put a two-bedroom into 548 square feet.
 Yeah, thank you, Commissioner, for the kind of questions and comments. And, you know, I would agree. And we can certainly look at as far as the inclusionary units, you know, I know Dory before has gone over that they have to only be, they can't be smaller than in a particular range. And we can look at tightening that up.
 And I also think you just bring up good questions about our city's housing policy generally, regardless of the inclusionary housing program, around what's being built in terms of the number of bedrooms in units and the size of those units. And it's certainly something we'll convey to our partners at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability as they increasingly look at those questions of,
 and how are we building inclusive both in terms of price but also bedrooms and size for all communities in Portland. All right thank you very much for that. And I guess the last question that I don't think either of you tried to answer which is are we setting a precedent that we're going to start seeing more of these applications where the affordable units start off costing more than the market rate units? Thank you Commissioner. I don't I'm certainly something we'll keep our eye on. I don't
 anticipate this. You know, we've talked about this internally a lot and it just happens to be this particular neighborhood and this particular developer's business model. But given the size of the studio apartments that in general in the marketplace. I don't know that this is something that can be broadly adopted across the market because I don't know that developers would get financing for all of those projects across the market.
 But we'll definitely track it and keep our eye on it. If it becomes an issue, we'll come back to council for a briefing and provide options on how to proceed. Thank you. Thank you so much. I really appreciate both of you, Matthew and Dory, for your very clear and intentional answers. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you. Good conversation. My question for Dory and Matthew is, what changes do we need to be prioritizing at the state legislature? Because certainly this program, we all agree, our hands were tied right from the beginning. And so maybe not now, but I would encourage you as we start formulating the legislative agenda priorities for next year to consider.
 take all of the good questions that you've heard over the course of this year and last and come up with a list of things that we would like to see change. Certainly. Thank you, Commissioner. And we have already started to discuss some ideas with our partners that are planning sustainability, particularly around the limitation to not require affordability below 80% of the median income.
 All right, very good. And Robert had asked me to ask again if there's anybody you'd like to testify on either item 7, 7-9, or 7-8-0. We had one person sign up, but they're no longer on the call. All right, very good. Any further discussion, colleagues, before we move?
 These to second reading. I see none. Therefore, item 779 is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Item 780 is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It, too, moves to second reading. Next item, 781. Authorize new construction financing in an amount not to exceed $16,754,923.00.
 for the 115th Street Housing Limited Partnership or a Central City Concern Affiliate. Colleagues, the 115th and Division Street Housing Development is the first Portland housing bond project that weaves PHB's capital funds with much-needed support service dollars from the Joint Office of Homeless Services to provide housing for our most vulnerable residents.
 We thank the development team of Central City Concern, one of the city's key nonprofits that house many chronic homeless and related Northwest as project manager and bringing forward this project during these uncertain times when permanent supportive housing is needed more than ever before.
 The Division Street project will meet the critical needs of southeast Portland and leverage its location near the newly opened Blackburn Center. Blackburn Center that provides wraparound services. Today we have Shannon Callahan, Director of Portland Housing Bureau here with us.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau, and I will be joined this morning by Mary Rains O'Meara of Central City Concern and Stephanie Condor of Related Northwest. And we are here to ask for your approval of the financing of the Division Street Apartments. Could we put the PowerPoint up, please, or do I need to do that? Yeah, we can pull it up for you in just a moment. Oh, thank you very much. Thank you.
 So the Division Street Apartments is one of 12 bond projects that will help us meet and exceed our bond goals for deeply affordable units, permanent supportive housing, and family-sized units. It's one of three bond projects slated for East Portland. Again, thanks, Keelan.
 If you wouldn't mind, perfect. Thank you very much. As you can see on this slide here with the red circle, this is where Division III departments will be located. Next slide, please. It is one of the 12 bond projects that have been identified and it will be the third project to open to welcome new Portlanders to affordable housing. Next slide, please.
 The development itself is located, as the Mayor said, at SE 115th and Division, and will be a true community asset in the Powellhurst-Gilbert neighborhood. Besides Central City Concern and related Northwest, ERCO and the Boys and Girls Club will provide on-site services for the families and residents of the new development and new community. Next slide, please.
 The Division Street project will be a beautiful new 138 four-story building. Seven of the units will be paired with intensive support services with people who were formerly homeless, for whom wraparound services will be helpful to their long-term success.
 Each and every Portland Housing Brown project will contain supportive housing units. And as the mayor indicated, this is through a partnership between the Housing Bureau and the Joint Office, and we are very grateful to them for providing the funding for the supportive housing.
 The project will also be part of our city's commitment to providing affordable housing along the Powell Division transit corridor. Construction is expected to begin next month, which is just in a matter of days, and be complete in May of 2022. Next slide, please.
 In addition to focused units for those exiting homelessness, the building will also be focused on providing housing for families in East Portland. 70 of the units are multifamily sized, so two and three bedrooms.
 In fact, 23 of the units will be three bedrooms. Of the 138 units, 46 are gonna be serving those with extremely low incomes or households with median family incomes of less than 30%, which for an individual would mean that it is a person who makes approximately $19,000 a year or less. Next slide.
 The Division Street Apartments is taking full advantage of the constitutional amendment that state voters passed, allowing us to leverage funds with bond funding for affordable housing. As you can see by this slide, the project will receive just over $16 million in bond funding, but we'll be leveraging an additional $27 million of other funding to make this 138-unit project possible.
 And with that, I would like to introduce Mary Raines O'Meara of Central City Concern, who will be followed by Stephanie Condor of Related Northwest. Thank you, Shannon. I think we're going to flip the order on you and I'll let Steph go ahead and present first in order.
 Great, thank you. Good morning all, almost good afternoon. I wanted to first thank Shannon and just introduce myself. I'm Steph Condor with Related Northwest and Related Northwest actually opened their doors two years ago and we have been able to swiftly bring about five affordable housing projects into development for the Portland metro area. We're really proud about this.
 This success is largely attributed to the great partnerships with folks like Central City Concern and Portland Housing Bureau. The 115th and Division Apartments, it really marks our second collaboration with Central City Concern and Portland Housing Bureau, a project that will be co-owned with Central City Concern.
 We're very excited to be able to offer to our residents ECC's comprehensive suite of services as well. I think folks may not know that Boys and Girls Club is going to be co-located at the site for an afterschool program for the youth of the residential community at no cost to those families, which is a huge, you know, I think.
 issue for families, low-income families and all families, especially now. And this is a first of its kind in this area actually to co-locate this Boys and Girls Club within affordable housing and we're really excited to shepherd that through. As well, IHRCO will be providing
 further outreach services for our communities of color and immigrant and refugee families, which are a large population out in the southeast corridor. And that's all I wanted to say and just thank you all so much for your support on this project. We're really excited to be the first to close on this funding and we are very excited to get underway for construction. So Mary Rain, if you'd like to
 Mary Wain O'Mara, The Community Development Director for Central City Concerns, To talk about Central City Concerns role would be great. Mary Wain O'Mara, Absolutely. Thank you, Steph. Thank you, Shannon, and I am updating my notes to say good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners as we strike the noon hour here. Mary Wain O'Mara, And my name is Mary Wain O'Mara and I'm the Director of Real Estate Development at Central City Concerned. So we are very pleased to partner with Related Northwest
 on this important project. As you've heard, it will bring stable, affordable housing for 138 households in outer southeast Portland. Our agency will be the lead services provider at the building, providing support and resources for all households, but including intensive case management for those residents of the seven permanent supportive housing units.
 We are also very excited to partner with the Boys and Girls Club. This is a new partnership for CCC and we all know that consistent engagement for school-aged children is an essential need for all families.
 So we look forward to this project's successful construction and eventual opening. And we also welcome this building as our neighbor to the Cedar Commons Permanent Supportive Housing Project that just broke ground in June, and it's just across the street from this building. So on behalf of CCC, thank you for your support for this project and for all affordable housing to serve Portland's residents in need. Thank you.
 So with that, Mayor, that concludes our presentation. And we would be happy to answer any questions that you or council may have. Good. One's popped up. Commissioner Harvasti. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Shannon and CCC staff.
 for this fabulous partnership. Let me just say, you listened through the last conversation we had about affordable housing and what's affordable and what isn't. And let me tell you, this project is one that I am enthusiastically supporting. It covers so many areas of desperate need in our community. And I wanna applaud the Boys and Girls Club
 for actually being co-located in this unit once it opens, because I visited a project in Atlanta that actually revitalized a very low-income complex. And what I know is that when those services are embedded...
 it actually creates community because it allows other community members to engage with the people who live on this property. And I just can't say enough good things about the work that Central City Concern continues to do in our community and how grateful we are that we have such a strong partner that's absolutely committed to equity and ensuring that all people have an opportunity to live a very prosperous life.
 You know, this is as different as night and day from the one we just talked about. And this is one that I hope will be a national model for how you create a beautiful living environment for folks who are limited on resources. All of us want to live in a beautiful place and we wanna be able to be proud of our home. And so 2022 is not as far away as we're thinking,
 But I look forward to getting progress reports and helping you to remove barriers if any happen to show up. Thank you very much, Mary Rain. And thank you very much, Shannon, and all the folks who worked behind the scenes to put this proposal together. So believe it or not, Mayor, I actually didn't have a question at all. It was a very thorough presentation. I just had to take a moment to applaud your great work. Thank you.
 Appreciate it. Thank you. Any other questions at this point? Any public testimony, Keela? We had one person sign up, but they're not on the call any longer. All right. Sorry to hear that. Without them, please call the roll. Hardesty. I'm already giving my closing statement, so I'll just say aye vote aye. Udaly. Well, what a fantastic project with such great community partners. Very happy to support. Aye. Fritz.
 So thank you for all your work. Hi. Ryan. Yes, thank you. Timing is everything based on what we experienced just before this. Boy, this looks so good. I think I would have noticed that anyway. But I really want to acknowledge the partnerships and that this is also in the David Douglas School District, I believe, in East Portland. And it's like I alluded to earlier, that's a part of town that really needs support.
 family-friendly housing that's affordable, especially for new arrivals. And so to hear that you're partnering with ERCO as well as Boys and Girls Club, that's really exciting. And just to acknowledge Aaron Hubert's leadership of Boys and Girls Club as we transition to the new CEO there, Terry Johnson. So they'll join Mr. Lee at ERCO, and that's a great partnership. I vote aye. Wheeler. Rock solid. Looks great.
 I vote aye. Ordinance is adopted. Next item, 782, second reading. This benefited properties for street, sidewalk, stormwater, water main, and sanitary sewer improvements in the Southwest 45th Avenue and California Street Local Improvement District. Second reading. Any further questions or comments or business on this item? Seeing none, Keelan, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Aye.
 You, Daly. I just want to thank PBOT staff and St. Luke's for their patience with us as we did our due diligence on this item. We are now in full alignment with the property owners, and all the concerns have been resolved. I vote aye. Prince. Aye. Ryan. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Ordinance is adopted. Next item, 793, emergency ordinance. I'm sorry, 783.
 Amend contract with Innovize Inc. for hydraulic network analysis software in the amount of $756,473. Commissioner Udailey. I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz. I apologize. Commissioner Fritz. You scared me, Mayor. I did. Wait, did you give me his bureau and not tell me? Sorry. Sorry, Commissioner Fritz.
 That's okay. So we did have the hearing on this last week. I understand that Commissioner Hardesty has some urgent business to attend to and will be leading the hearing for the vote. Is that correct, Commissioner Hardesty?
 Thank you for that, Commissioner Fritz. I will say that your people did a stellar job of actually answering my questions. And I'm going to have an ask before they do their next RFP process that they go through the Technology Oversight Committee and have them review their plans before they sign the new RFP. I am happy today to support this effort. Thank you.
 Thank you. I appreciate that. You're welcome. Then we're ready for the vote. Thank you, Mayor. Very good. And there's no further public testimony on this item. Is that correct, Keelan? That's all right. I think you had to leave last week, so that was why we didn't vote on it last week. We weren't sure how many votes we'd have. Works for me. Call the roll. Hardesty.
 Again, I just want to put on the record that I look forward to the Technology Oversight Committee reviewing the new RFPs around this project. And I'm very grateful to the staff for answering my questions and I'm sure was nauseating detail for them. Thank you very much. Aye vote aye. Ms. You, Daley. Ms. Aye. Ms. Prince.
 Well, thank you to the staff who, by negotiating this deal, are saving the ratepayers $200,000. I, for one, am just really happy to have a software program that does exactly what we want it to do, and I really appreciate the service of the company. Hi. Ryan. Hi. Wheeler. Hi. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks, everybody, for your great work on that. And the next item is 784. Okay.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Bulch Creek Trash Rack Retrofit Project Number E10583 for an estimated cost of $3 million. Very good. This is also a second reading. Any further business on this item? Please call the roll.
 Hardesty. I feel so knowledgeable now because I now know what a trash rack is because who knew prior to last week. I'm happy to vote on.
 I guess that was also a very informative item for me because I still remember the first time I visited Forest Park as a student at MLC. And ever since then, I've wondered what exactly that thing was, although I knew it was for filtering something, and what it was called. And it's called a trash rack. That is the technical term. I vote aye. Fritz? Aye.
 So we started this meeting honoring Commissioner Fish and this is part of his legacy. In the olden days, BES would put things on the agenda with very little explanation and certainly not with the great visual presentation and Commissioner Fish understood that in order for people to understand what we're doing and why and indeed that people might want to know what is that thing and what is it called to do these presentations and so I appreciate that.
 that I now can just introduce them rather than having to put in the amount of effort that Nick and his team did to establish the process. So thank you very much, team. Well done. Bye. Ryan. Vote aye. Wheeler.
 Yeah, I remember that presentation last year that we got on the trash rack. I found it very informative. And I remember at the time a number of us were pretty impressed with it. So thank you Commissioner Fritz for your comments and reminding us of that and reminding us of Commissioner Fish's commitment to making sure we all understood what a trash rack actually was. That was a good council moment and a great memory.
 I'm happy to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks everybody for your good work on that. Colleagues, we now have a four-fifths agenda item, 784-1.
 Adopt emergency temporary moratorium on evictions for residential tenants throughout the city of Portland. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you for coming together to file on emergency temporary moratorium on evictions for residential tenants in the city of Portland. The city's moratorium follows the lead of Governor Kate Brown's extension and Multnomah County Commission's extension of this moratorium.
 protection. This brings us into alignment. The pandemic has underscored the importance of housing as a vital ingredient for a safe, stable and healthy city. The ordinance also clarifies when rent is due for people who are unable to pay rent from October 1st, 2020 to January 8th, 2020. Because of the city council's action, households
 which are struggling, whether they've lost their jobs or lost some of their salary or experienced setbacks during the pandemic, will have some more time to pay the rent. To be clear, they will still owe the rent, but this gives them an extension on that time to be able to pay the rent.
 The city will continue to prioritize policy changes, investments, and advocacy efforts to help boost our local businesses, bring equitable and sustainable stimulus packages forward, and connect households with funding that's made available.
 I also want to note that while this action is focused on evictions for residential tenants, my office in Prosper, Portland will be reconvening with local businesses and leaders to identify a way to mitigate foreclosures of our local businesses. For people interested in being part of these conversations, please contact my staff lead, that's CONTRAN, for more information.
 I want to thank the Portland Housing Bureau, especially Director Shannon Callahan, Molly Rogers, Leslie Goodloe, and Matt Schaubel for working with community advocates, renters, housing providers, and property managers in helping us to shape our overall COVID-19 relief measures. I
 I also want to recognize the governor's action to extend the foreclosure moratorium before extending the eviction moratorium. I want to thank you, Governor Brown and Multnomah County and our city staff, especially Elizabeth Edwards, Stacey Cowan, and Dan Eisenbeiss, who helped us coordinate our approach to making sure Portlanders are able to weather the pandemic in a safe, dry, and stable set of housing conditions.
 Finally, I urge Congress and the President to pass a comprehensive stimulus package that brings the necessary recovery dollars for an equitable COVID-19 response. This obviously is not a problem unique to Portland, and this is not a solution that benefits only a few.
 The health and the safety of our city depends on COVID-19 relief that makes sure that everyone can remain in their homes. The Portland Housing Bureau is here to answer any questions that people have. I think, Matt, you're playing first fiddle on this one. Welcome back. Thank you. I was really just here to answer any questions that come. Questions anybody has about this item? Not seeing any. Keelan, do we have any public testimony on the fourth or fifth agenda item? No one signed up.
 Please call the roll. Hardesty.
 Let me just say I'm very grateful for us being able to pass this today. However, I want to be really clear. At the end of this, people will still not be able to pay their rent. And we need federal support. We need state support. And we need to do a full court press to make sure that we are getting the resources necessary to keep as many people housed as possible. And so I'm very happy to vote aye.
 You, Daley. I'm also grateful that we're taking action to provide renters peace of mind and stability as this crisis continues. That said, the county's extension came days before the state moratorium was set to expire. Had the governor not extended the moratorium Monday, it would have expired today. We cannot keep cutting it so close to the wire, not when renters' housing stability is at stake.
 So moving forward, I really want to work closely with Council and encourage us to take more timely action before this moratorium expires in January.
 While it is out of our hands, I'm disappointed to see the governor's recent extension did not include a six month repayment window, which is crucial to keep renters housed after the emergency. Many renters will struggle even to catch up with them six months, but certainly not giving any kind of grace period is going to lead to a lot of people losing their housing.
 There has also been no action to extend the commercial eviction moratorium, which I wholeheartedly support. This crisis requires us to all work together, work together.
 We have to fight for residential and commercial tenants as well as property owners. As Commissioner Hardesty mentioned, we need our state and federal partners to intervene to prevent a complete disaster when these moratoriums are finally lifted and people will face arrears of thousands and thousands of dollars. We need relief for landlords and lenders.
 We do not have the city resources to cover this all ourselves, and we can't afford to see tens of thousands of people displaced or a doubling, an estimated doubling of our homeless population if we do nothing.
 I appreciate the steps we've taken at the city and county level and I'll continue to support and promote needed protections throughout the pandemic. Absolutely has to be a legislative priority for us in the new year or the rest of this year too. I vote aye. I didn't hear my name. Oh, I'm sorry. Fritz? Fritz?
 I was like, you know what, it's by turn. I'm sure I can just go ahead and talk. I don't actually have to get called upon before weighing in. Anyway, thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for bringing this really quickly and for your acknowledgement that, yes, renters are going to need ongoing help. You also have acknowledged that the
 Property owners are going, some of them are in desperate straits and not all the banks have allowed foreclosure protections. Many of them have said that as soon as the pandemic's over, all of the past year's
 mortgage payments are then due rather than adding those additional payments on at the end of the mortgage, which seems absolutely ridiculous and cruel. So we do need to make sure that housing is provided both by assisting renters and by assisting property owners and recognizing also that the property owners have maintenance needs and urgent things that need to be taken care of, that they're not.
 some of them getting any income during the pandemic. So we do appreciate those who are able to pay or to arrange payment options with their providers. I think that that, we found in the Water Bureau that many people want to get onto a payment plan even if they're not able to pay the entire bill. And so we are all in this together and if we can just
 be thinking about each other's needs and seeing how we can all get through it, that will be the best way forward. Thank you, Marwila. Bye. Ryan.
 Yes, thank you. I'm in alignment with my colleagues on this and with the county. It makes sense that we have this letter we get to play at this time. I will give voice to the Ma Pa housing providers. I've heard from several Couple of them, their whole income is based on their duplex. And when one person hasn't been able to pay for six months.
 they're suffering too. And they're not the landlord stereotype that sometimes we hear about. It'd be interesting to see the number of those type of providers we have in Portland. I think it's a high percentage than we might realize. And I do look forward to working with my colleagues to come up with some creative solutions during this time of shared sacrifice.
 So we can keep the Scrappy River City full of those types of housing providers. And they often provide housing for those that really need affordable housing. That's the true affordable housing in our city. So I just want to make sure that we give attention to that group. And I look forward to working on some policy that can be helpful to them. And I vote aye. We all are. All right. Thanks, everybody, for your hard work. The four-fifths ordinance is adopted.
 And Keelan, that completes our agenda for this morning. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct. Very good. We'll see you at two. We are adjourned. Now I should probably change it, but I'll live with it for a couple of minutes. I don't want to delay us. It looks good. I just wanted to say I'm impressed. I haven't figured that out yet on Zoom. Oh, it's not hard. It's not hard, but it's kind of weird because half your head disappears and your eyes disappear, all that kind of weirdness, but it kind of looks good. All right.
 People get tired of just staring at me after a while. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, September 30th, 2020 session of the Portland City Council. Good afternoon, Keelan. If you could please call the roll for us. Good afternoon. Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Ryan? Here. Wheeler? Here.
 Here. Under Portland City Code and State Law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by video and teleconference, and the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. The meeting is available to the public on the City's YouTube channel, eGovPDX, www.portlandoregon.gov slash video, and of course, Channel 30. The public can also provide written testimony.
 to the council by emailing the council clerk at cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov. The Portland City Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and we are encouraging the physical distancing in the best interest and the welfare of the public. We ask everybody for their patience and their understanding as we manage through this difficult COVID situation. And I'll now ask
 our legal counsel to please read us the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda
 at portlandoregon.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist and if you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude.
 Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all City Council, that all Council meetings are recorded. Thank you very much.
 The next, we have two items in front of us today. The first is a resolution, item number 785, time starting 2 p.m. Declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct water main improvements in the Southwest Quail Post Road local improvement district. Thank you, Commissioner Fretz.
 Thank you Mayor. Today we are conducting a resolution of intent hearing for the possible formation of a local improvement district otherwise known as an LID for Southwest Quail Post Road and I'm initiating this LID because I believe it's the best option to support both the homeowners and the water system. The LID proposal would enable the private system to be replaced with a new public system for which the Water Bureau would assume maintenance responsibility after the LID is formed.
 I'm pleased that the Water Bureau, led by engineering supervisor Dave Abanuck and LID administrator Andrew Abbey, have presented a solution that can support Quail Park and
 and allow the water system to be improved before it reaches the end of its useful life. This is really unusual, the way we're doing this, for multiple reasons. One, the council is conducting a hearing to decide whether to initiate the...
 possible formation. As in most of them, it comes from the homeowners. This was started by the homeowners asking the Water Bureau to help find a solution for their privately owned and aging system. And yet, it's a different process, which Andrew Abbey will explain to us. Another reason it's a bit different is it's mostly focused, well it is focused on the water.
 piping and system. Most of the local improvement districts that we deal with are about some street improvements with any stormwater and utility improvements secondary to the main purpose but this is a different one because street improvements are not
 the purpose of this LID. I actually could just remember one other similar situation over the 12 years I've been on the council in the Delta Wood LID which is over by Martin Luther King Boulevard in North Portland on the peninsula. It's
 It's that that was a low income manufactured home park where we did something somewhat similar. And I think that's going to be discussed. So, yeah, this is an interesting one. Colleagues, especially interesting. Not that LIDs are not always interesting because I think they are. And so now I'm turning it over to Water Bureau Director Gabriel Solman to introduce our presenters.
 Thank you so much, Commissioner Fritz. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Gabriel Selmer. I'm the Director of the Water Bureau. And as Commissioner Fritz introduced today, we are taking the first steps for a possible LID for Southwest Quail Post Road, the Quail Post Road.
 post-road LID. This resolution is the first of three council items if the resolution is approved. An ordinance to form the LID would be considered in November and a final assessment ordinance would be brought to council after the construction work is complete. The resolution would bring the Quail Park homeowner water system into compliance with the relevant safe drinking water standards. We
 We've been in conversations with the stakeholders since June of last year, and as the Commissioner mentioned, this is a slightly different process than we usually do for street LIDs. This LID is being council-initiated at the discretion of Commissioner Fritz, so rather than an opt-in vote, there will be an opt-out vote if council did approve this resolution.
 And we appreciate the collaboration and thoughtful input from property owners, and we welcome their testimony today as to whether they support or do not support the LID proposal.
 All property owners have received multiple mailings on this project, a presentation, and months to ask questions. I'm really proud of the outreach work that our staff and that Andrew has done to make this opportunity available. And as you'll hear through the presentation, we believe that this is a win-win, and we request your vote to initiate LID formation. And now I'll turn it over to Dave and Andrew to walk you through the process.
 Right. So my name is Dave Ebennuch. I'm an engineering supervisor at the Water Bureau. I'll go ahead and share my screen, if that's okay. So hopefully everyone can see that. So I'll talk about some of the improvements that are being proposed as part of the local improvement district and some of the risks that the LID will address and then I'll pass it over to Andrew Abbey from PBOT to talk about the LID administration.
 This is a map that shows the project area in southwest Portland. It's next to Huber Street and Lancaster Road. So Quail Park was, which is the area that's outlined in shaded in pink on the slide, was established in the 1970s. It currently receives its water from the Water Bureau on Southwest Ridge Drive through a six-inch service line. The service line heads east to Quail Post Road, which is the main north-south road in the middle of this subdivision.
 and water is distributed through a network of privately owned pipes in private streets to each of the Quail Park properties. So assuming that the LID is approved, it's proposed the Water Bureau would take over responsibility for water system maintenance at the time of the LID approval. At that time, the Water Bureau would also initiate a series of short-term phase one work tasks. So I'll just briefly describe what these tasks are. So one is setting up individual water accounts for each customer,
 installing new billing meters for each customer, constructing a new connection to the Portland water system at Southwest Huber Street, and that can be seen at the green dot at the bottom of the slide, and then also abandoning the six-inch service line, which is shown by the red line extending from Ridge Drive. So those would be the short-term improvements if the LID is approved. And this map
 indicates the extent of the phase two improvements. So phase two improvements would be completed before the year 2039. And the reason for waiting to replace the system for that long is that it's estimated that the infrastructure has an average of about 20 years of remaining life on the system. So we wouldn't want to replace the infrastructure while it still has life remaining.
 So the long-term improvements include a new connection to the Portland water system at Southwest Lancaster Road, includes replacement of all the existing water system components, and after construction, it would include a one-time utility trench restoration and a full-width street overlay.
 After year 2039, when the Phase 2 improvements are completed, the Water Bureau would continue to maintain the Quail Park water system and operate it as part of the larger Water Bureau system. So I'll talk about some of the risks that the LID would address. So one is that the existing service line to Quail Park does not have a backflow device, which is required under Oregon administrative rules.
 The backflow device protects the public water system, but it's not needed if Portland owns and operates what is now the private Quail Park system. Another risk is that the existing service line is difficult to access for maintenance as it passes beneath a creek. The creek crossing results in an increased environmental consequence if the service line were to fail by allowing chlorinated water to flow into the Tryon Creek watershed.
 Another risk is that there's only one water supply to Quail Park, the six-inch service line from Ridge Drive. When the LID is complete, there will be two supplies to the area, and that will allow customers to remain in service during system maintenance when a portion of the system needs to be shut down. Another risk is that the entire Quail Park water system is approaching the end of its useful life. So as time goes on, failures and repairs are expected to become more numerous over time.
 It's our understanding that the Quail Park Homeowners Association does not have sufficient reserves at this time to replace significant portions of the water system if an unexpected failure were to occur.
 So this slide that's shown right now shows several aspects of a particular risk for a portion of the Quail Park system. So this picture was taken in 2019 when a portion of the piping of the system was exposed. And it shows the location where the service line, which is the line that's coming from the left of the screen, connects to the pipeline in Quail Post Road, which is oriented up and down.
 So the photo shows piping that is buried in native-filled dirt and clay rather than clean gravel. This native fill increases the rate of metal corrosion. Rust can be seen on the bolts of the T-fitting. So if you can see my cursor at these bolts, that's showing the evidence of the corroding metal. And corrosion is one of the factors that can lead to pipeline failure. And there's also a crack on the T coming in from the left showing metal fatigue.
 So this is in the photo, it's the black line on the top half of the fitting, midway between the bolts in the pipeline and quail post road. So right here, you can see a crack in that fitting. The crack was not actively leaking in 2019, but until it's replaced, there's a risk that the crack could continue to grow and the T could break apart. And so this T is proposed to be replaced as part of the six inch service line abandonment that was mentioned earlier.
 So before we get to the specifics of how the LID is administered, I just wanted to briefly recap the proposed water and street improvements. There will be two connections to the Portland water system, one at Lancaster Road and one at Huber Street. Approximately 5,000 feet of pipeline will be constructed, ranging in size between four and eight inches in diameter. New water service lines and meters will be installed. A minimum of three new fire hydrants will be constructed, and the existing service line will be abandoned, including the cracked T shown on the previous slide.
 The new water system will be built to City of Portland standards at the time of construction. And I also want to note the street improvements that are proposed. So the Water Bureau will participate in repairing the trenching and providing a full width paving overlay after construction.
 But I want to be clear that the LID does not include Water Bureau participation in street subgrade repair or stormwater management. The streets will continue to be privately maintained, and a separate street LID and right-of-way dedication would be required for PBOT to take over maintenance. So now I'll pass it over to Andrew Abbey from PBOT to talk about the LID administration.
 Thank you, Dave, Andrew, Abbey Local Improvement District Administrator. It's a pleasure to be here before Council this afternoon. As Commissioner Fritz noted, this is a council-initiated LID. You saw the slide there with the cracks in the current water system, and we just felt that it was very important to call this question early in terms of whether we will form an LID to convert this privately maintained system into a publicly maintained system.
 So just to kind of give you an overview of where we go from here, if Council approves the resolution today, then we would come back to Council in November, early November, with an LID formation ordinance.
 Just to let you know, there's a high volume of LIDs going in the city right now. At the start of this morning's agenda, we had 15 local improvement districts citywide. That dropped off to 14 at the end of the morning agenda. If you approve a Broadway corridor LID next month and approve this LID in November, we'll be up to a record 16 local improvement districts around the city of Portland.
 So when we bring this LID back in November, assuming that you approve the resolution today, council will have the prerogative to form the local improvement district if fewer than 60% of the property owners formally object to the LID. And I really want to emphasize that Dave and I recently
 reached out to the property owners and held a meeting in July to talk about the different options for the private water system, including but not limited to a local improvement district. So that property owner meeting was held in July and then as Commissioner Frisk noted, following that meeting, Commissioner Frisk made the decision to initiate the formation of a Cell ID and call the question of whether it becomes a public system.
 So I think the key thing for Council to understand is even though this LID has two phases of construction, with the first phase occurring in early 2021 and then the second phase occurring in 2039, the Portland Water Bureau will assume maintenance responsibility for Quail Park upon LID formation, which would occur on November 12th of this year.
 So for the next 19 years, the property owners and the HOA would no longer have to worry about their water system and would have until 2039 to actually pay the assessment.
 Assuming that council approved this LID in November, then after the first of the year, the Portland Water Bureau would start design of the project. And as Dave noted, the first phase of construction would occur in the first half of 2021. The final assessment hearing does not occur until all of the work, both phases of construction, is complete. So council would not see this LID come back for final assessment.
 until 2039. Even in 2039, the property owners would have the ability to either pay in full or finance for up to 20 years. So a property owner could actually not start paying on the sell ID until 2039 and finish paying for it in 2059. What's really important to note is these costs are capped and guaranteed with one exception that I'll mention in a moment.
 So what the property owners are getting in addition to the Water Bureau taking over the system in November, is they're also getting cost certainty and financial planning that simply could not be accomplished with Homeowners Association. So when we bring the ordinance back in November, assuming that council approved the resolution today,
 It's extremely unlikely that we would assess this LID before 2039, but there will be a provision in the LID formation ordinance that comes back to you that says that there would be a prorated LID cost applied if the LID were assessed early. So if you look at the overall cost of this project, the cost per property owner is approximately $64,000.
 and about 70% of that would be paid by the property owners, approximately 45,000 per property, with the Water Bureau picking up the difference of $19,000.
 I do want to note that the cost cap and guarantee does not apply to the cost of acquiring property rights. So we have assumed that the homeowners association will donate the necessary property rights to build the project. And we specifically wanted to avoid a moral hazard situation, whether it be an economic incentive for the HOA not to
 dedicate the or provide the necessary easements and then incur additional cost to water bureau rate payers and we can go to the next and Yeah, one question Commissioner Hardesty has your hand raised. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Andrew. Could you go back one slide, please.
 And so I want to be clear that I heard you correctly. So property owners don't start paying for this until 2039? That is correct. That is correct, Commissioner Hardesty. And when does the work start? The work starts early next year, and then the second phase of work starts until 2039. Okay.
 The second phase starts in 2039? Correct, yeah. I'm trying to figure out how old I'll be then. I would be really, really, really old. And so I'm just curious. This seems to be a, it seems bizarre, let me just say, that it is so far out that no one in the city will have remembered this conversation we're having today.
 And so, but we're going to make the investment in part one. And what comes out of investment in part one? And how do we cover the cost of that? So, Commissioner, all the costs are fully covered. And all of the terms of this LID will be spelled out in the LID formation ordinance. So one of the things I shared with the property owners is that
 Obviously, there will be a certain number of property sales between now and 2039. And so what all the current and future owners of this LID will have is they will have an LID formation ordinance that spells out the terms of this local improvement district. And then, Commissioner, I think what I would really point out is what we're trying to do here is suspend LIDs.
 the property owner's money wisely and the rate payers dollars wisely. So to the extent that we have some extra life to squeeze out of the system, listing system, that's why we're putting it off for 19 years. So what we didn't want to come here with you today is to say, we want to do everything all at once. And oh, by the way, whatever water bill rate you've established for the next fiscal year, you're going to have to bump that up because we're going to do
 we're going to do everything, you know, right away. We're just going to take care of the really important stuff early next year and then defer the other items until later on.
 Thank you. That is extremely helpful. And you said that we have the resources to do part one. And is that based on the Water Bureau's current reserves? You have the resources to do the whole thing, but you're just not collecting it back from the property owners for 19 years? Yeah. So nothing gets collected from the property owners until everything is done. But because 70% of the LID is paid for by the property owners,
 In effect, we're drawing against a interim line of credit, LID line of credit, to have the water bill reimbursed as that first phase of the cost of the first phase of construction are incurred. So it sounds like we're taking a, it sounds like the city is investing in the promise that in 20 years, we'll start being reimbursed for the investments we've already made.
 And then we will make some additional investments. Yeah, we make the initial investments early next year, and then we make the bulk of the investments in dollar terms in 2039. Thank you very much. That's been very helpful. I was confusing myself, but I wanted to make sure that I was actually hearing what I was hearing. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Your question is really good. And I think what you've really gotten to is the heart of the complex issue is.
 that we were grappling with. I worked with a former Water Bureau Director, Mike Storr, and then with Director Solmer, and of course, Dave Evanuk all the way through. And we had looked at a variety of different timing options and financing options. And I won't bore you with some of the things that sort of wound up on the cutting room floor, but this is what we came up with. What we were really trying to do is to provide cost predictability and stability.
 to the property owners and I think even more importantly we wanted to make it so as soon as the gavel drops in November, people don't have to worry about whether water is going to come out of their tap in the morning. Any one of a number of different scenarios you can kind of envision. It's hard enough doing a homeowners association, for example, to maintain private streets.
 but to really worry about your tap working in the morning and all that is frankly not something I'd want to have to wrestle with, let alone go to monthly meetings to talk about keeping our water flowing. All right. So that last slide provided you an overview of the LID, and this final slide I just wanted to show you is from the DeltaWit LID that Commissioner Fritz mentioned in her introductory remarks.
 I think one of the important things to understand is when you have a homeowners association that divvies up the water bill, there are a couple of things that kind of work against the property owners. Number one is there's no opportunity for a low income discount because you have one meter serving a homeowners association as opposed to individual property owners. There's also not an incentive to save water. So if you think about this particular LID,
 There's one or two new services in there, but if you just, for simplicity's sake, assume that there are 96 water services.
 If you just let your tap run and you waste water, then in effect, you're paying 196 of the bill and your neighbors pay 95, 96 of the bill. So you waste water or use more water or you water your lawn every single day as opposed to get a sensor to only water your lawn when it's dry out. I think you get the gist of what I'm trying to say. There really isn't an incentive to save water. Now, having said that,
 We have not seen remarkable patterns of usage here as we did in Deltawood. And I think what that really speaks to is, A, most property owners are conscientious, and B, they're not currently experiencing a leak problem. But one of the issues that we had in Deltawood is, you know, they didn't have a leak problem until they did have a leak problem. And then once that system started leaking a lot of water,
 It was quite the back and forth between the HOA and the Water Bureau to try to issue credits. The Water Bureau didn't really want to issue credits until there was a plan in place to deal with the leaks. So really the picture I'm trying to paint for council here is we're just trying to get ahead of the curve here.
 and just get this all figured out before there's a leak and before there's a problem. Just to show you the example of DeltaWood, and I really want to emphasize these are apples and oranges comparison, so take this with a grain of salt, but I'm just trying to illustrate a financial picture for you. When we did the DeltaWood LID, when we formed it, we assumed the cost would be $19,000 per property owner. They clocked in at about $16,000 per property owner, so there's a little bit of a savings there. The
 from about $152 a month to $120 a month. And then here's what was really interesting. The average monthly bill to the property owners after they were billed by the HOA was $141 a month. With stopping all the water leaks, that went down to $60 a month. And then for those who qualified for a low-income discount,
 it actually went down even further to the point where with a low income discount, the savings on the HOA dues and the savings on the wasted water, basically, and the low income discount basically paid for the LIDs.
 I'm not suggesting that will necessarily happen here to the extent that we may not have a lot of low-income property owners. But the way I would encourage council to think about it is, while we don't have any control over what the HOA chooses to charge for their dues, really the way I'd think about this is...
 The property owners will be redirecting their funds from paying the HOA to pay for water and then budget reserves for water system improvements. And instead, they'll pay the city as part of a one-time cost. And they can actually start saving for that now over the next 19 years and take whatever level of HOA savings that they may have and plow that into the...
 future assessment of the LID. Even if they don't do that, then we get to 2039, they will have the ability to finance completely in full.
 for up to 20 years. So that concludes my presentation. I really appreciate the opportunity to have the partnership with not one, but two Water Bureau directors and Dave Evanek and Commissioner Fritz and myself, Director Solmer and Dave are all available to answer any questions that my council might have before we turn it over to testimony. Thank you.
 Thank you, Andrew. Good job as always. Commissioner Hardish, do you have your hand raised? Yes, I do have one more question. I just didn't want to interrupt again. One question is that the water bill says except for one instance, except for acquiring property rights, the water bill would cover any
 cost that, any cost overruns or anything was over the cost that was in the resolution. And so, you know, when I see that, that just makes me just shake in my boots. What is the potential for it to end up costing a water barrel significantly more than you originally estimated? Yeah.
 I'm going to let Dave answer that question. Do you know that a contingency factor was built in? Yeah, we built a contingency factor of, I believe it was 38%, and then another inflation factor of, I think it was 45% into the total. And so-
 That means that that's already built in. So if you go over that, you're still going to pick up the cost? If we go over the contingency or over the inflation, then the proposal is that the Water Bureau would pick up any cost overruns that went over that. And what is the potential for that to happen? Yeah.
 You know, I guess, you know, anything could happen in 18 years. You know, some of our cost estimates come in low, some come in high. There's a range of, you know, plus or minus on the amount. I couldn't say exactly without going back to other specific projects and look at how those cost estimates have performed to say what the exact potential is. But there is a potential that it could be higher than what's shown. And Commissioner, I might just add, I think what you're really getting to is that there's a risk here.
 And when we put this LID together, the question is, who do we want to settle with the risk? Do we want to settle the property owners with the risk, or do we want to settle the water bureau with the risk? And there's no right or wrong answer, right? But even building in the contingency, we're looking at about $45,000 per property owner. You know, my sense of it is that it's hard enough for the residential property owner to budget for that amount of money, even if it is 19 years out in the future.
 Just think it would have been a really hard sell if we said, oh, it's going to be $45,000. And by the way, if it goes over, it goes over. So I guess the way I like to think of this, Commissioner, is we're really incentivizing the water bill. We're really incentivizing them to save money. And, you know, they have the flexibility, for example, if I'm just
 Throwing this out, I'm not, I don't work for the water bureau, I'm not a water bureau engineer, but let's just say we started seeing some crazy construction inflation. They could just look at this and say, hey, you know, we have another x number of years of life on the pipe, but whoa, these construction costs are really skyrocketing. We'll just go ahead and move up this second phase of construction and do it earlier and try to get ahead of the curve. The beauty of having the LIV formed is that it's all locked in place.
 And the Water Bureau has a lot of flexibility in terms of when it does that second phase of construction. Most likely it wouldn't be because of inflationary concerns. It would just be because it just took a nosedive. You know, the system just took a nosedive. And while we can't wait until 2039, we need to do it 2034. This way the council approval will be in place. And that decision can just be made administratively by the Water Bureau.
 So I am very grateful and appreciate the very thoughtful answers. I guess I have a question for legal counsel. I'm under the impression that we can't tie financial obligations to a
 later city council, right? So in 19 years or 18 years, the chances of any of us still being on the city council and being functional is pretty slim. And so I, I guess that may be a legal question because I understand that bureaus like infrastructure bureaus have to plan for the long term, but I get nervous when we, when we, uh,
 what I see as a blank check, that something may happen, say 10 years from now, that causes us to rethink this brilliant new idea. And I'm just not, I'm concerned when we tie the hands of previous councils to be able to
 react responsibly if something radically changes. And, you know, and before this year, all of us would be saying, well, what could happen, right? But we don't say that anymore. So I guess that's my big concern. And Mayor, I don't know if...
 I don't, and maybe even Commissioner Fritz has some insight for me. That is, that causes me concern when you have such a significant contingency built in, and then you also add language that says it will cover any other overruns that happen. You know, that makes me nervous. Thank you. Commissioner, I want to let Naomi respond if she wants to. I guess what I would point out to Council of the Interpreters,
 In fact, every LID that's ever formed basically encumbers a future council. So, you know, the deal points of an LID are put together at LID formation. So every LID you form encumbers future councils. I think what I'm hearing you say is what's unusual here is that 19-year duration.
 I hope you're all living a long, healthy life. Will you all be here in 19 years? No, I don't know. So again, just trying to, you know, get a life out of an existing system as possible. I guess, I don't know, Naomi, do you want to address the legal question there? Director Solmer, do you want to chime in here as well?
 Sorry, this is Naomi. I would like a little bit, I actually can try to make a quick call. I don't typically advise the Water Bureau or others who do this. I had the same thought initially as Andrew that this is something that encumbering a future council with all of the LIDs, but I can actually try to kind of get some confirmation from that. I can jump on a phone call right now and see if I can get someone else who has a little more experience with this. Commissioner Udaily. Okay.
 It's actually me, Mayor. Yeah, I didn't raise my hand. I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. You know, that's what we do and that's why this is a contract to do it. There's a lot of things that we do that is a contract that then gets paid over time.
 was mentioned it is different because it's 19 years away. I will note that I think Commissioner Saltzman sits for 20 years so it's possible that you might all be carrying on but certainly Gabriel might. And it's important you know we don't want to
 do it right away when there's 19 years of life left in the pipes. That doesn't make any sense. On the other hand, we want to be ready because all of these properties are going to need water if something does happen. And so that's why this was brought to our attention by some of the residents. And former director Mike Stewart worked really hard on it. I think this is an elegant solution that is reasonable. And the other point I wanted to make is that the water system's already there. So it's not like some of the...
 street construction we do where it's new construction. We have no idea what kind of subsoil we're going to get, what kind of rocks, whatever. This is a developed subdivision with a water system. We know where it is and we've done some scoping and maybe Dave can talk about this. You know, the photographs that you saw, we have a pretty good idea of how
 how long the system is going to last and where, and we know absolutely where it is.
 So thank you, commissioner. Uh, but again, I think my, I, they've sold me on the creativity of this idea about why this idea is a good one. What I'm not sold on is us picking up costs, uh, especially with such a significant, um, uh, reserve already built in, um, and without any kind of limits on what that would be. Uh, I, that's my concern. Um, I understand, uh,
 And so it's fine for us to do the LIDs as we traditionally do and incumbent other councils, but I don't think it's incumbent for us to have basically a blank check for something that we don't know what we don't know. And so I am very concerned that if we agree to this in the way it's written now,
 that, you know, something could happen. I'm not saying something would, and Director Solner, I think you are, I think you're the bee's knees, so there's no question about your due diligence, but I'm just definitely concerned about that language. That language gets the city of Portland in trouble so often. And if we don't have a clear understanding what the parameters are, 19 years from now, there could be a big fight, and we'd lose.
 Commissioner Hardish, maybe I can help Naomi out here. Maybe this is more of a communication issue than a legal issue. If it met with the pleasure of the council, what I'd be happy to do is write something into the formation ordinance that maybe talks about informing the council and just making this up every five years or something like that. We could certainly provide a report to council, provide current construction trends, cost trends, or whatever other information we have.
 council is interested in. LID code does not require a hearing if there's no major cost increase to the property, but that certainly doesn't mean that we couldn't, we meaning the LID administrator in the Water Bureau, couldn't periodically inform the council of, you know, what the status is of the project, what our current, you know, cost assumptions are, that type of thing. I really have to stress this though, I
 The really important thing here is that what we're not doing, and I know you're not suggesting that we not approve ID, but what we're really trying to avoid here is doing nothing and walking away and then waiting for it to just be a crisis. Right. And then one day the water system falls apart and there's a huge pressure on the Water Bureau to just stop and call for free. So I would just submit to you that whatever risk there may be in going through all of the contingency and going over the water,
 total budgeted cost to the project. I think it's a lower risk for the Water Bureau and Water Bureau rate payers to have this dialed in now than it is to sit back and wait for something really bad to happen. I was famously quoted on the Deltawood LID that those people were sitting on a time bomb. I had people come up to me after we got that LID done and said, you know,
 I'm really glad we got this LID done. There's just a sword hanging over me, and I'm so relieved that I don't have to worry about it anymore. So I just kind of wanted to share that perspective with you. Yes. And I agree with you totally. Dialing in a regular update, we could do that in the formation ordinance. I think, Andrew, that is an ideal solution to my nervousness. So I thank you. I thank you all. It was a great presentation, and who knew I'd be so excited about talking about an LID? Yeah.
 Thank you all. So Andrew, does that conclude the presentation? It does. If council has no further questions, I think we can turn it over to property owner testimony. Thank you, Mayor. All right, good. Do you have invited testimony or should we just go right to public? No, I think we're just running with the signup list. Thank you. All right. Keelan, how many folks do we have signed up for public testimony?
 Looks like we have four people on the line to testify. Very good. Three minutes each name for the record. Keelan, we'll call your name in order. John Gibbon. Thank you, mayor. My name is John Gibbon. I'm a property owner in Quail park and,
 Commissioner Fritz knows me and maybe some of the rest of you remember me. I'm actively involved in Markham Neighborhood Matters as their land use and transportation chair. Before, I want to thank you for taking the time to recognize Commissioner Fish's birthday this morning.
 I had the pleasure of working with the commissioner for five years while I was serving on PERB. I submitted written testimony that gave you a lot of details about the Quail Park project. I will tell you that I took the lessons I learned on PERB and almost immediately began to work on Quail Park's problems as I got back here.
 after serving on perb. And I would like to speak to commissioner Hardesty's concern. As I understood the language that drew your concern was that there was a contingency that was not covered in the ordinance, which related to property acquisition. And I can assure you that all the
 There will be no additional property costs because all the property that is involved in this building of these lines is property that's either in city right-of-way, so there's no cost involved, and that would be Southwest Lancaster Place and Southwest Huber Street, or in Quail Park's common property,
 quail park quail post road which is the entire property uh serves the entire property so um the uh quail park documents i'm also on the board of directors i'm also a retired attorney quail park documents clearly envision the uh
 property being dedicated to the city in the event the city chooses to take over our common property. And in fact, the commission should know that the sewer system inside Quail Park that serves other areas of the Markham neighborhood is actually a public sewer system that already runs through our common property. So there's a
 pattern of having cooperated with city-owned utilities. We need to move to a city utility. As somebody that was on PERB, my written testimony shows I would not. This is the Water Bureau's solution. I wasn't going to ask for this. This is a great, elegant solution. But it's not one that I felt like I could ask the city to do.
 I knew about Delta Wood because I was an attorney and I advised people who lived in Delta Wood, which was a condominium about to put this- That's three minutes. Thank you. I can answer any questions. Thank you. Next, we have Sean Cox. Hello, Sean Cox here. I'm a...
 homeowner here in Quail Park and I really wanted to express my gratitude for the thoughtful approach that the Water Bureau, Andrew and the team have taken to try to address this critical risk that we have as neighbors. The T connection that we saw in the presentation is in my backyard. Our, the neighborhood, the homeowners association has done some investigation and
 through our partners here in the neighborhood, looking at the improvements that need to be made and kind of centered around a concern that perhaps working with the city would have an inflated cost or would have some other limitations that maybe if we worked independently, we wouldn't have. And we found universally that the approach that the LAD team has proposed is a little bit more
 as economical as any other. And it also, at this moment in time, while we're having this meeting virtually, because we're in the middle of a pandemic,
 realizing that there's a risk that's as great as the one that we are facing, and getting a solution that we can plan for over the next 20 years versus have to try to burden the current residents with 100% of a replacement now provides a great deal of peace of mind.
 And I just wanted to express my strong support for the LID progressing and also appreciation for the process that the Water Bureau and Andrew have gone through. They've been very proactive in answering all questions, very responsive to the concerns of the community.
 And I think that has set up a precedent that the partnership that we could roll forward out of this LID is one that can help us establish a strong future for the water system here in Quail Park. And with that, I will close. Sorry, next we have Russell Montgomery. Good afternoon. My name is Russell Montgomery. I'm a Quail Park resident and a licensed civil engineer who has worked on land development and transportation projects for over 17 years.
 Like most of my neighbors here, when we had that July 16th video conference, we were all pretty shocked at that $45,000 price tag that each of us individually would be on the hook for in 2039 if the LID resolution is adopted. That's more than twice what I had to put down as a down payment on my house. So I was a little startled at that, and my initial take was that that cost estimate had to be reduced.
 you know, really out of whack. But I'd started generating my own cost estimate based on recent projects I have here in the area and I also gathered some data from other colleagues at other local engineering firms and found that in the terms of current dollars, the Water Bureau's estimate was in line with what it would take for the homeowners association to undertake the water improvement works privately.
 So given this information and the fact that under the LID the Portland Water Bureau would assume system maintenance responsibilities and costs moving forward, I am in support of the LID resolution. It will ensure safe and ongoing water supply to our neighborhood and prevent any future need for special assessments to the homeowners in the event of any future water system issues.
 I doesn't sound like this is going to be popular, but if there's any way to increase, you know, from capital improvement dollars, the Water Bureau or the city share in this to reduce our $45,000 each, that would be great. We are rate payers. We have been as an HOA for nearly 50 years. So it's not like we're
 we're on well water and asking to switch over to the city water. We've been paying our rates and it would be great if we could find a way to shift a little bit more of those CIP dollars into this project. That's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we have Richard Lane. Hey, Richard.
 Good afternoon. This is Richard Lane. I am also one of the 96 homeowners directly impacted by the proposal. A lot of my comments actually had to do with process and procedure. I don't know that I agree with,
 But there's been a full vetting of this with the property owners. I know that there was the Zoom call that Mr. Montgomery just referred to and sort of the sticker shock that was presented. But I have been impressed with all of the discussion here today. And despite what I...
 I have an objection to characterizing a long and extensive dialogue with the homeowners. I'm prepared to actually see this thing move forward based upon my understanding this afternoon. I'd echo Mr. Montgomery's comment about sticker shock and costs. You know, people bought into Quail Post's...
 sort of with clean hands, not knowing a lot about what was going on here. And if there are deficiency, it was built without anybody's knowledge. And this is a proposal that gives people a little planning opportunity, but it's still a significant hit on the homeowners being affected. So I thank you for the opportunity to comment. Thank you, Keelan. Does that complete our public testimony?
 Yes, for 785. Yes. All right, good. Is there any further questions for my colleagues before we call the roll on the resolution? This is Naomi Sheville from the City Attorney's Office. I just wanted to know if you wanted, I did get a little bit of additional clarification. If you'd like, I don't know how helpful it will be, but Commissioner Hardesty, I wanted to offer it up. So I think...
 You kind of your explanation of generally that one council can't bind another council on policy is correct. I think what we will be looking at here is essentially, though, in terms of contract rights, you know, if the city enters into a contract, even if the contract has an unknown contingency amount
 you know, then we could have a contractual obligation. And under the contracts clause of the Oregon Constitution, you know, the city can be bound to those amounts, even if they are varying. And so in terms of kind of the legal ability to do that, I think that is correct. And I guess an analogy to think of is, you know, the state with their purse litigation and the states bound by, bound,
 by those contractual obligations, even though the amount is unknown and could vary. I hope that's helpful. Thank you. It was. All right, good. This is a resolution. Keelan, please call the roll. Hardesty.
 I want to thank Director Solmer for that very thorough presentation. It's amazing the things you get interested in when you are a member of the City Council. And I also want to thank Andrew for helping to put my mind at ease as we move forward with this. And I will say having periodic updates would be very helpful.
 for me personally, and I suspect for whatever council exists in like 10 years and 19 years, it would be helpful as well. And also, I want to acknowledge what I heard from a couple of the homeowners, the sticker shock.
 and because we can't see them, I'm assuming that they were across the age spectrum that I could hear from their voices. And so I do think...
 keeping us informed and how it's impacting the property owners would also be very helpful as we move forward. Um, and let me just say, I appreciate the creativity, um, and the thinking longterm, cause you know, we need to do that much more often. Um, and, um, I really appreciated the problem solving that we did here collectively today because, uh, I, I know that you put a lot of work into it and I certainly, uh,
 had no intentions of slowing down the process. But I also heard that maybe we ought to do another Zoom meeting with neighbors just to make sure that,
 everybody who couldn't make that call will have an opportunity to hear the same information that the first call had. So again, thank you for really excellent work. Thank you commissioner Fritz for helping us resolve my, my little sticky point. And I appreciate legal counsel's advice as well, that we will definitely, I will definitely take into account as we get the updates. And so I'm happy to vote aye. You daily. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Thank you very much to everybody who participated and who has participated over many years with this gnarly problem. Commissioner Hardesty, the matter will be coming back to us in November after the meeting.
 property owners have an opt out vote in advance of the formative ordinance. So even without this, the Bureau is committed to continuing the outreach, particularly with the pandemic. It's always very difficult to reach. It's even more difficult to reach folks. And our team will continue.
 continue to strive to do so. Thank you, Andrew Abbey and your partnership with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. And thank you, Walsh's Bureau staff, Dave Evanuk, Gabriel Tholmer, and Michael Sturr, who is now happily in retirement when he's not fighting fires around his ranch, and who put a lot of time and effort into this challenge. So thanks to everybody. Oh, and thank you also to Astrid Drogoy on my staff. Hi. Ryan. Yes, Alvaro.
 Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted. Thanks everybody for your hard work on this. Appreciate it, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Andrew, to the whole team. Well done. Next item is item 786, time certain.
 Transmit report to the City of Portland on Portland Police Bureau officer-involved shootings and in-custody deaths by the Office of Independent Review. Colleagues, before I turn this over to Madam Auditor Paul Caballero, I'd like to just set the scene here. This is the seventh report that's been delivered by OIR since 2012.
 My desire is that we will ultimately not need their services at some point, but sadly, I suspect this is not the last report the council will or should receive. Today marks the second anniversary of the death of Patrick Kimmons, who was shot to death by Portland police in downtown Portland. The shooting of Mr. Kimmons is reviewed by the OIRO group in this most recent report. The loss of any life.
 at the hands of police is tragic and it represents multiple systemic failures. I'd like to reserve a moment of silence for Mr. Kimmons, who is only 27 at the time of his death, and for the other lives lost and impacted as a result of police shootings. Thank you.
 None of us could have predicted the events that have unfolded since this report was initially released in April. A global pandemic and a national movement for racial justice at a scale not seen in our nation for at least the last 50 years.
 As leaders, we're accountable to the people we serve. We're listening to the voices in this community calling for police reform and accountability. The centering of Black and brown lives continues to be a priority for this administration and for this city council. Any use of force by a police officer deserves review. When it results in the loss of life, it's devastating, and it deserves the highest level of review.
 The use of deadly force is the most critical decision a police officer can make, and that's why we've consistently sought outside experts like OIR to examine the police bureau's performance and hold the bureau and us, city leadership, accountable for these changing decisions.
 In this report, OIOA makes several recommendations to improve the Bureau's performance. They also recognize the Bureau's ongoing cooperation with the review process and its willingness to adopt most of the recommendations delivered over the years, including those in the report that we're considering today.
 Officers are entrusted to make decisions under incredibly challenging and complex circumstances. We demand that our officers consider their years of training and their knowledge of PPP policies, as well as their instincts, and that they thoughtfully apply them in their interactions with the public, often under circumstances that are unpredictable and potentially dangerous.
 Officers engage in those interactions with training, expertise, and a fire room. Our expectations as a community around officer conduct should absolutely be high because so much is ultimately at stake. And that's why reviews like the one presented today are so critical.
 OIR provides a valuable function for the city. As a third-party reviewer of officer-involved shootings in Portland for the last several years, their reviews enable us to assess whether the Police Bureau's current policies and training are reflected in practice, and the practice reflects the needs of our communities.
 As leaders, we need to ensure that the correct policies and training are in place so that if an officer makes the decision to use deadly force, he or she does so with the proper foundation in place.
 Though there continue to be areas for improvement within the Police Bureau, it's important to emphasize, as the OIR group does, the good work the Bureau has done and continues to do to improve its training, systems, processes, and accountability to the public we serve. Last year, with the presentation of the sixth report, I asked a full update be presented to the City Council at the time of the next report.
 The police chief and members of his team are here to provide that update and to answer any questions. I want to thank Chief Lavelle for representing the Bureau here today, and I'd like to thank the OIR group for their critical eye in conducting this work and for their partnership on these issues. Auditor Mary-Hole Caballero is here today to introduce representatives from the OIR group who will discuss the report and answer any questions the Council may have. Madam Auditor, welcome and thank you for being here.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero, for the record. Few things have more consequential effects on our community than when Portland police officers fire their weapons and kill or injure someone. The effects ripple through families, streets, and neighborhoods. Police shootings create immediate anguish, alter lives, and may lead to pain and grief that lingers years after such a profound incident occurs.
 The government gives police officers the authority to use force and provides them with the training and equipment to do so, including a variety of firearms. It is the city's responsibility to limit officer-involved shootings for the good of the community and the well-being of the officers.
 To that end, City Council authorized the auditor in 2001 to contract with experts to review closed investigations of officer-involved shootings and deaths in police custody with the goal of reducing the possibility of future incidents. Independent Police Review, a division of my office, manages the contract for the closed case reviews and facilitates communication among the experts, the Police Bureau, City Council, and the public.
 City code requires the experts to issue reports to identify policy issues that need further action and make recommendations for improvement. The first such report was published in 2003.
 Today I am here to introduce the team from OIR Group to present their most recent report to Council, which is the seventh the group has completed for the City of Portland. It includes the assessments of seven Hofstra-involved shootings that occurred between May of 2017 and November of 2018, and a series of recommendations that call for further action.
 Michael Giannacco is a founding principal of OIR Group and a nationally recognized expert on law enforcement reform and accountability systems. Prior to starting OIR Group, Michael was the chief of the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Central District of California. He also was a civil rights attorney with the Justice Department in Washington, D.C. for 10 years.
 Robert Miller is a founding member of OIR Group and previously served in a number of roles dedicated to law enforcement accountability, including the Los Angeles County Office of Independent Review and the Los Angeles County Office of Inspector General.
 Julie Ruhland has been a principal with OIR Group since 2006 and has deep experience advising law enforcement agencies about officer-involved shootings, investigations, policy development, and oversight systems. Julie also worked as an attorney in the Los Angeles County Office of Independent Review. And now I'm going to turn this over to Mr. Giannacco for the presentation.
 Thank you Madam Auditor for the introductory remarks. Thank you Mayor for framing the issue and reminding us why these types of reviews are so important with the eye towards trying our best to learn from these incidents, to ensure that there's accountability from these incidents, and to better prepare agencies
 so that there is less likelihood of deadly force being used in future situations and future challenges. That's the goal of our review, and I think that should be the goal of any kind of independent assessment of these cases.
 As the mayor indicated, this report was prepared prior to the new, renewed attention to policing in general as a result of the tragic Floyd death and other incidents that have occurred since. The national narrative has certainly increased attention to police conduct and in particular police use of force, appropriately so in my view.
 And you can imagine that the three of us as practitioners in oversight
 We essentially had our phone blow up on a daily basis as other jurisdictions tried to grapple with the increased and appropriate demands on accountability, increased and appropriate demands on outside review, outside involvement in police activity. And we have been very busy. That being said, we have a longer relationship with the city of Portland.
 and appreciate the opportunity to, over the past seven years, to come back and report our findings of our internal review process publicly to your communities, as well as you all as representatives of those communities. And so for that opportunity, we are grateful.
 The pandemic has obviously changed ways in which dialogue occurs these days, and we are sad that we are not able to make this presentation in person, but we are enthused that we are able to make a presentation under unique circumstances and hopefully for not much longer.
 The report is lengthy. The intent of our initial remarks are not to go over every jot and tittle and finding and recommendation of our report. There's not time for that in the report in many ways speaks for itself. But what we thought we would do in a few minutes at least is to talk about some
 some high-level findings that we think are maybe the most important for purposes of discussion. And then obviously during this session, the three of us are available to respond to any questions any commissioner might have regarding anything in our report. And so that is how we intend to proceed with the leave of counsel. The report,
 has 28 recommendations and a number of findings. I would suggest that perhaps some of the more prescient and important findings have to do with new topics revisited, I'm sorry, with old topics revisited and with new ones presented. Today's challenges are not yesterday's, although sometimes there are recurring themes.
 The first point and finding that we want to ensure we talk about has to do with an issue that we have been dealing with the Bureau for years, almost since our first assignment in 2012. And that has to do with the question of when an involved officer is
 provide, when an involved officer is to provide a statement of his or her state of mind, that is the explanation for why they chose to use deadly force under the situation presented to the officer.
 When we first got started, it was sometimes a matter of days and sometimes even a matter of weeks or months before that officer was required to provide a statement about what he saw, what she saw, and what caused them to feel the need to use deadly force.
 I have to say that over the years, as a result of involvement by elected officials, involvement by police leadership, that has improved substantially. And now it's the case that within two days, and not outside two days, within two days, the Bureau does obtain an account of what occurred from the involved officer. Thank you.
 While two days is certainly a significant improvement over two months, in our view, it still is not good enough and is not consistent with best police practices, best investigative practices. As we indicate in our report, we believe that the appropriate
 A measure of when an officer involved in a shooting should provide information about what occurred and an explanation and an accounting of what occurred should happen before the officer is excused from duty and sent home.
 Otherwise, if that protocol is not adopted, you're going to have situations in which officers will not provide statements until information about the event is out there in the atmosphere, out there in the public arena, that may and sometimes will contaminate or impact the officer's account of what transpired.
 We know that there was information in two of the seven shooting cases that was publicly released by the city prior to the involved officer being interviewed. And therefore, there can be no guarantee that that information didn't color impact either intentionally or subconsciously the account of the officer. There's no way of guaranteeing that. The only way of guaranteeing a pure statement that just has the officer's impressions is...
 and state of mind is to interview the officer before the officer goes home. Obviously, there would be extenuating circumstances in some cases, such as when an officer is injured. But I think the presumption should be that an officer is interviewed contemporaneously and before the shift ends.
 The second protocol that- Michael, before you move off of that one, Commissioner Hardesty wanted to pose a question or a comment at this point. Yes. Sorry, Commissioner. I didn't see your hand up. Thank you. That's okay, Michael. It is really good to see your team once again, if it is in those little boxes that we're looking at now.
 And first, let me just thank you all. The work that you do is really valuable and it is really useful to the transformation that the city of Portland is going through. I wanted to stop you on this question that has come up over and over again. And I'm actually a little surprised that we still are waiting 48 hours before we interview an officer who's been involved in a shooting.
 When you first started actually doing these reviews, there was a union issue. It was part of the contract that prohibited that from happening.
 during the last contract talks, that went away. So I'm puzzled by the fact that we continue to wait 48 hours before there's a response. And my assumption was that they were required to give a statement on site at the time of the incident before the end of their shift. And so there seems to be a disconnect between what we, as the elected officials who are
 actually uh have to operate within the contractual agreements that we have and what the practice is in Portland Police Bureau and I guess so my question to you you've been doing this is the seventh report right and I suspect that in the past there was a reason why that didn't happen um is there a reason now you're given by the bureau that that doesn't happen yes commissioner um and we um
 This was reinforced in a meeting we had earlier today with the chief. But certainly the chief can speak for himself. But the report, the response from the Bureau is that they believe that it is important to wait a little while so that the investigators can collect information about the incident and be better prepared to interview the officer.
 before that interview takes place. As we've explained to the chief, that comes at a cost though. That comes at a cost whereby exposure to outside information, whether advertent or inadvertent, will certainly contaminate the pure statement of the officer. And the other point that I think should be made
 is that you can interview the officer before the officer goes home in sort of a what happened and why did you do what you did, and there's always the opportunity to re-interview the officer as the investigators collect more information. So it can be a two-stage process, which I think would eliminate the stated concerns of the Bureau. I agree. Thank you. Thank you.
 The second protocol that I wanted to speak of, and then I'll turn some of the discussion over to my colleagues, has to do with another protocol that more and more agencies recognize is an important piece.
 As agencies have become more transparent and as agencies have done a better job of providing information about the incident sooner rather than later, providing any video evidence of the incident sooner rather than later, as that is being done, there also has been a recognition that special attention needs to be paid with regard to providing information to
 those directly impacted by the event. And what I'm talking about in a case in which somebody has died, family members of the decedent, and finding a way to provide that information as fastly, as quickly, as effectively, and as importantly as possible.
 In addition, as the mayor indicates, these kinds of incidents have ripple effects not only on the individuals particularly and directly involved, but the communities from which these individuals live, whether that's a neighborhood or whether that's a racial component or an ethnic component.
 it, or other. There are just connectivity in which this information needs to be presented to them as special victims, if you will, of the event.
 And so what we have suggested is that the Bureau do formally what other agencies have done, which is to rethink about how are we going to best impart this information to those directly impacted by the event and to those communities directly impacted by the event and what we have seen effectively work
 in other jurisdictions is two things. One is to have private meetings with family members before there's release of any other information so that they have,
 they're not seeing it for the first time in YouTube or on the Bureau's website about what has transpired, that they get advance information. And then within days have a community meeting in which not the facts, because the facts necessarily are still being developed, but at least the sentiment and the understanding of how this has impacted and even
 a statement about, you know, how every life is important and sort of an understanding and a recognition for the loss of a loved one under any conditions and how difficult that can be. That kind of sentiment, that kind of community meeting, in my view, goes a very long way to start the healing process that will never entirely heal over those scars, but will certainly be an important piece
 to any messaging and to any kind of bureau and more importantly citywide response to the event. So we recommend that and I believe the bureau is is receptive to that type of recommendation. Julie, I'm going to turn over you to talk about a couple more recommendations. We'll go around the lap and then we'll present for additional questions.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I want to first just echo Mike's sentiment about how sad we are that we're not there to present this report in person and to visit your city. We've always enjoyed that interaction and so we'll do it this way, but hopefully not for too much longer. We'll accept the rain check on that, Julie. We'd love to have you back. Thank you, Mayor.
 There are two fundamental questions that an organization needs to answer following a critical incident like an officer-involved shooting. The first is, were there any violations of policy? And the second is, what could we do better next time?
 Too often police agencies are defensive about the second question. And, you know, asking what could the officers have done differently or better is seen as a sort of unfair second guessing of officers who were responding to the stressful situation. One of the things that I've enjoyed most about our work in Portland is that your police bureau is not among those agencies.
 that have that sort of knee-jerk defensive response to critique. On the contrary, we have frequently complimented the Bureau for its thoroughness in its review processes and its willingness to learn from these events. But our job, though, is to point out the times when it has fallen short and to make recommendations for improvements.
 And in this report, we identify a number of places where we felt that the Bureau's analysis did not fully address all the possible alternative decision making and possible alternative scenarios. And we suggest some modifications that could address those concerns. For example,
 Officers decided not to wait for additional backup or additional responding officers before engaging with Mr. Peoples. Whether or not that was the correct decision, an analysis of the various factors that went into the decision is the type of analysis and the type of thing that should automatically and routinely be included in any analysis of a shooting incident.
 Likewise, questions about planning, positioning, availability of cover in the incident involving Ms. Brown are issues that should always be fully addressed but weren't here.
 And there are other examples of these kinds of alternative decision-making, alternative scenarios that might have worked out or that should have been addressed that we felt the Bureau's review process did not fully explore in the shootings that we reviewed, including those involving Mr. Ellefritz and Mr. Brockner.
 questions about communication among officers, use of canine, use of the canines, and communication with with the subjects. We think that these are the types of questions that the Bureau would more reliably address in all of these incidents if the Police Review Board was directed to make explicit findings regarding
 post-shooting, I mean pre-shooting tactical decision-making. It used to be that there would, that the that the police review board would always look at the policy question, that first question, were there any violations of policy? They in recent years started looking at that, but also recognizing that there were sometimes concerns about what happened after the shooting and
 started making explicit findings about post-shooting procedures. You know, how quickly was medical care provided? How was the scene handled? Whether, you know, officers were appropriately separated and these kinds of things. And we have found that to be
 incredibly helpful in correcting some of the issues and concerns that we had in some of the early shootings that we reviewed in the early part of our time with Portland. And we think that adding a sort of pre-shooting tactical decision-making component to the list of express findings that the police review board needs to address and explicitly say yay or nay on
 That that would more reliably address some of these issues that we identified in our report. It's a recommendation that we made in each of our last two reports from 2018 and 2019 we didn't. It's not in the list of recommendations here because these cases had all been
 that was adjudicated prior to that 2019 report. But we understand that this is still not a thing that the Police Review Board has implemented, and so we wanted to reiterate it here and address it again. I'm going to turn it over to Rob now, unless anyone's got questions on this, or we can come back to it. Thank you, Julie.
 One thing that is critical to any effective review protocol is getting the facts of the incident. And there have been some challenges in getting facts with regard to others who may have important information that have declined to cooperate in the investigations. So I'm going to turn it over to Rob to explain what those challenges have been. Rob? You're muted, Rob. You're muted, Rob.
 I have a strong desire to self-mute clearly. Thanks a lot, Commissioners Hardesty, Fritz, Udailey and Ryan. Welcome to this process, Commissioner Ryan. This is obviously something we've been doing cyclically for about nine years now. And thank you, Mr. Mayor. I guess I didn't say that out loud yet.
 It's a pleasure to be here, even in this electronic format. We look forward to a somewhat more vivid experience as well in the not too distant future. What Mike was referring to is sort of
 condensed into three recommendations we make in the body of our discussion of the Barry incident. Mr. Barry died in the course of being taken into custody, and he died very shortly thereafter in the hospital. He was taken into custody by sort of a three-part process, or there were three agencies involved. First, Portland State University Police,
 And safety officers, they called for assistance. Portland Police Bureau officers came and continued the struggle with him very briefly. And then shortly thereafter, he was restrained and medical personnel, emergency medical teams from both the fire department and AMR,
 arrived. Now, those details are only relevant to my point that I'll emphasize right now, because they describe a fairly typical interaction of more than one police agency or city agency, or even contracted personnel, such as the AMR, emergency medical team,
 These kinds of interactions happen all the time, but there is a circumstance that is emphasized by this case, but not unique to this case, that really hamstrings effective internal affairs investigation following a incident that results in death like this one, and that is that the other agency personnel both
 PSU officers and safety personnel, as well as fire department personnel, and even the county contractor AMR, ambulance services, didn't cooperate with the request by internal affairs to interview them. They had not only been at the scene, but
 The PSU people had information that Portland Police couldn't have because they didn't get there until the middle of the incident, Portland Police. And then the fire personnel had further information, fire and AMR, because they're medically trained, for one thing, and they went off in an ambulance with Mr. Barry.
 This is not a technicality. It's really an unacceptable circumstance that cuts an internal affairs investigation off at the knees. We have praised, and I think justifiably, internal affairs thoroughness, and they're striving to do that.
 really get at the full spectrum of circumstances before, during, and after an incident that are relevant. Some of those, that expansion of purview has come at our urging over the years, and we're very gratified to see that, but when they run into a brick wall like this, that is just really not acceptable.
 Robert W. In with regard to Mary Doria Russell, Chair, Comprehensive Careers and He's back. Commissioner hardest. Robert W. Thank you, Robert. I wanted to assure you that I will be talking to the fire chief about why they didn't respond and the fact that you said that this is not an anomaly that this is kind of normal.
 I will make sure that we have a protocol in place by the time you present your next report on how fire will be responsive to those requests. That should be a very easy fix. And if they call the commissioner in charge, they may have gotten some support in that. I certainly agree with you, Commissioner Hardesty. It's almost a uniquely fixable problem. And...
 it's a great opportunity for city leaders because they can get the ball rolling. It's not really solely in the hands of police personnel. So I'm very gratified to hear that. One thing that I would note is that the investigators
 persisted, at least with FIRE and AMR, to the extent that they engaged in a rather innovative use of your IPR's relatively new subpoena authority. And they asked IPR to issue subpoenas to those personnel, and that was ignored as well.
 So, Robert, I noticed that the police say they have no authority to... What is the process when you issue a subpoena? What is supposed to happen? Well, in... If the person doesn't show up, I should say, right? What's the remedy for enforcement in...
 You know, it always all depends on the nature of the subpoena and what your relationship to the court is at that point. In Oregon, there are all kinds of subpoenas. The usual, you know, most people think of a criminal subpoena, but there are also administrative discovery subpoenas. And there's, you know, in different situations, there are different remedies. But suffice it to say that while this is not a criminal subpoena,
 it still carries consequences if you don't comply. And those can be fines, essentially, or court being held in contempt by court. You would require, that would require some action to intervene on behalf of the court. The point for us is,
 The police bureau and internal affairs should never be in a position where they have to really try to enforce a subpoena. A subpoena itself means that your relationship with brother and sister agencies or contractors has broken down.
 severely. Yeah, and I don't know what the answer is for AMR. It is a private contractor contracted by Multnomah County. Right. But again, nothing stops us from picking up the phone, calling Multnomah County saying, what's up with this, right? So... No, it really doesn't, I don't think. I mean, there are mutual aid agreements between
 the police bureau and nearby agencies, Gresham for instance, and they're used to cooperating. And they do. It's really just a matter of, I think, getting people in the habit and making sure everybody's on the same page as to the importance of this to the same public that everybody serves. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Rob. The last piece that I wanted to talk about and then open up for discussion, commissioners, has to do with an observation we made after reviewing the grand jury transcripts in a couple of cases that were presented over this term. We've had issues with some of the grand jury presentations in the past.
 But the one issue that presented itself in this series of events had to do with
 prosecutors calling training, calling Bureau officers from the training division to opine about the appropriateness of the use of force before a grand jury, whereas the officers who were called had no particular familiarity with the incident. They had no firsthand information about the facts that had been collected.
 And at the time of the grand jury presentation, the Bureau hadn't even considered whether or not the actions of the officer was in policy or out of policy. So what you end up having is a dynamic where grand jurors are being presented an opinion from a training officer, which I assume a grand jury would be.
 seriously impacted by and I think that the testimony of the officer would carry great weight with regard to the grand jury who don't know about police practices.
 Yet the officer is testifying, again, has no firsthand information about the facts. The facts haven't even been completely developed. There hasn't been an internal determination by the Bureau itself about whether the action was within or outside of policy. Yet the training officer is...
 is being asked the question of the DA, was it okay, was it within your policy for the officer to use deadly force under this situation that I just told you, which is a very brief narration of the facts as I know them to be. And I just don't think that is a very effective, good process. And I do think that it can only lead to continued distrust by the community in the process.
 Grant juries are intended to be a fair process and an important process. I appreciate the fact that the transcripts have been released for some number of years now.
 But review those transcripts suggests that there seems to be a thumb on the scale of the involved officers at least this part of it suggests that there is and we suggest and the Bureau I think agrees that They instruct their personnel not to answer the question when posed by the prosecutor about whether the particular shooting was in or out of policy and
 We just hope that that process stops. The other thing... Can I ask a question before you move off of that point? Yes, Mayor. And that's a really interesting point. I appreciate you raising it. What is the consequence of the police bureau telling the prosecutor, no, we will not comply with your request? Doesn't that look a little defensive to you?
 I think that no. And I can say this because I have been in that same situation, Mayor. So there have been attempts to designate me as an expert in a particular shooting that I reviewed.
 And I have been able to tell the prosecutor, even before I get sworn, that I don't feel that I am equipped at this point, since I don't have any firsthand information, to opine on that issue. And therefore, you are putting me at a disadvantage to opine. And if you force me to testify, that's going to have to be my answer. Why would the prosecutor ask a trainee to be an expert on anything?
 It's not a trainee and maybe I wasn't clear. It's somebody from the training bureau. Oh, I see. Okay. So somebody who can speak to what the training practices are, but don't know anything about the case. That's your objection? Exactly. Okay. So you're not questioning their knowledge of policing. You're just saying they weren't there. They're not witnesses. They're not directly involved in the case. And therefore, they can't speak to the case itself. Okay.
 That's right. What if they were asked instead a different question or agreed under a different set of circumstances? What if they agreed, but only to the extent that they're providing general knowledge about training as opposed to being experts on the case? Yes, I think that that is a...
 A valid exercise. By that I mean, I would have no problem bringing in somebody from the training group to talk about what the current expectations are, what the current policies are, what the current protocols are, and what the current training is. That's not a problem. It's that second, the ultimate question, which is now that you've explained that, what do you think about what the officer did in this case?
 and again, the witness has no knowledge about that. So let me ask one more question and then I'll move on or let my colleague, I see Commissioner Hardesty has her hand raised. Is there any opposing voice
 I think I know the answer to this question, but I sort of want to get it on the record. Is there an opposing voice or a cross-examination or somebody in that grand jury setting who would say, look, I respect you as a training officer, you know, your stuff inside out and about training, but you weren't there, were you? Or you don't have direct firsthand experience or knowledge about what happened. Is there, there's nobody who plays that role in a grand jury process, is there? No.
 There is nobody structurally to play that role. Grand jurors sometimes may ask a question that the DA doesn't like, but the grand jury does not provide sufficient. They don't know enough either to really perform that role. I can appreciate that. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you. And thank you again, Robert, Julia, and Michael. I always learn so much from your reports. And I also missed the opportunity to have you in the city council chambers while we're having this conversation. I appreciate the ones that you highlighted. And as you said, there's really a lot in this report. Thank you.
 What I want to focus on is a couple that Chief Resch, I thought did a really good job of being, of answering the questions that were raised in the recommendations. And so I want to applaud her work at being kind of transparent on what she thought was a good idea and what she didn't think was a good idea at the time.
 But there were a couple of areas where the Chief and OIR group disagreed that I wanted to talk about. And I also wanted to highlight that in Recommendation 21,
 We taught the bureau's answer was that we're in the process of developing a body worn camera program. We are no longer and and have any interest in body worn camera programs. And so I would like you to speak to and I know what you were speaking to you were speaking to the video that was around Portland State University and outside video that.
 that and the PSU officers body cams as well. And so I know what you were speaking to and so if you could
 Because I don't think that the chief's response, the former chief's response was actually to the question of the day, right? Which is, how do you get the body cam footage from Portland State University or any other either private security or a private business when you're conducting an investigation?
 Yes and yes. So the whole question of acquisition is something that Rob spoke to and some of the challenges there. But then, and I understand, you know, that
 The Bureau does not outfit its officers with body worn camera footage. That being said, I think with the increased presence of cell phone video, with the increased presence of surveillance video for businesses, that more and more of these events are going to undoubtedly be captured on video.
 So whether there are body cameras or not, in our view, there ought to be a protocol to instruct the Bureau, you know, before you afford an officer an opportunity to review any video, get a statement from him or her for the same reason that we don't want the delay in obtaining information. And so get that statement
 I don't, we don't have any problem with after an initial statement is obtained, allowing the officer to see the video and then seeing whether that refreshes their recollection. But we want that pure statement first.
 Yeah, and I totally agree with that. And I think we have to make sure that there's no more wiggle room around that initial statement right after the incident, or at least at a minimum before the end of the shift. We've been talking about that for a lot of years. And I'm actually honestly surprised that your report reflects that.
 that even though the rule is no longer in the contract, the practice continues to be the same. And so it is my commitment to make sure that we as a council fix that before you do the next review. I just wanted to add to that, Commissioner Hardesty. Pardon the interruption. Don't worry. The...
 The, I think there's, so the rule used to be, you had to wait at least 48 hours. And now the practice is that.
 you take the statement within 48 hours. So it doesn't go beyond 48 hours, but generally it's somewhere in the 24 to 48 hour window that they're doing the statement. So it's better, but it's... Yeah, but best practice is right before the end of the shift, right? Right, and this recommendation 21 actually can
 came up in the context of the shooting of Mr. Ellefritz because there was a bystander. There were a number of cell phone videos that were immediately uploaded to YouTube. Officers went home. Every one of the shooters reported in his administrative interview, which happened within that 48 hours or close, very close to that, that he had seen
 that footage prior to giving a statement. And so that was sort of the, that it's not to beat the proverbial dead horse about the importance of getting a quick statement, but this that that case really did highlight one of the challenges if you let officers leave, you know, relieve them of duty before their shift, relieve them from their shift before they get that statement.
 I agree. I will say with your recommendation number 22, I don't think professional service standards division is higher up enough in the city's food chain to actually accomplish what it is that needs to happen.
 This needs to be a conversation with leadership at PSU, which means it should be leadership at the City of Portland, at a minimum, including the police chief. But certainly, I would not expect to get a  they're going to return their call right away if the professional standards division would call the president of Portland State University. Okay.
 And so I think we have an obligation to make sure we take that off their shoulders so that we get the result that we're looking for. And then the last thing before I turn it over to my colleagues, because I could talk all day, but I have one last question that I want to put on the record. I got way too many papers, I can tell you that.
 Thank you for that report because that's exactly what it did with me. So I want to talk about the meeting with the private meeting with the family members. I will just say I can certainly understand the police bureau's reluctance to actually have that meeting as well as the community meeting, right? Because what I know is the history has been after an officer involved shooting
 The police bureau puts out a statement almost immediately. And the statement is focused on either the criminal history of the person who was just shot or
 And so we start off in a very adversarial role, acknowledging that somebody's lost their life anyway, right? And so I think unless that internal protocol is changed so that we are not actually putting out statements that regurgitate someone's history, because I don't believe their history has anything to do with their death. And so I think there needs to be new protocol developed that says...
 The only information should be the very basics because no investigation has been done. And I think family members would be more open to having a conversation when they're not seeing their loved ones vilified on the media prior to a full investigation having taken place.
 I see Michael shaking his head up and down. I'm just chomping at the bit here, Commissioner, because I couldn't agree more with your point. The other point is that
 these community meetings need to be carefully crafted. And I would suggest that this should not just be a bureau lift, that other city entities should be involved and participate and facilitate those kinds of meetings. I'm not sure the bureau could effectively do it on its own. I think it would take a city-wide effort to come up with some good progressive constructs. But it can be done. And in my view, it should be done.
 And so I'm going to put the OIR group on the spot. My office has reached out because I actually wanted to kind of have a briefing before we got here today and we weren't able to make that happen. But they'll be reaching out again because I would love your help as we in Portland start rethinking, or yeah, as we start reimagining what community safety looks like in Portland.
 It is vital that we have, we're able to tap into the expertise that you bring to us on an annual basis. And because you have done more deep dive into the Portland Police Bureau bureaucracy, and I say that kindly, than just about anybody else.
 it will be vital for you to help us as we continue on this journey to rethink community safety and rethink the role of policing in our community, because you're being called to respond all over the country now, because a whole lot of other communities are having the same conversations. It's important that I tap into your expertise. So hopefully you will be
 be able to respond to my requests for some one-on-one time as we continue this journey. Thank you, Commissioner. And of course, we'll take any call. You know how to find us. And we look forward to a more intimate conversation.
 Thank you very much. I appreciate all of you. And again, excellent work. Lots of good information. And I look forward to seeing the police chief's response as well. Thank you. Yeah. And if I can just put in a personal note on meeting with families, I've set sort of a personal standard for myself as the mayor and the police commissioner. And the standard I've put into place is I will meet with the families if they would like to meet with me.
 I have found, honestly, some families do not want that interaction. It's re-traumatizing for them. So I would just say, I'm not sure I like the idea of a mandate, but maybe a mandated offer to the family or some sort of a specific way of engaging to the family. Yeah.
 Some families have not wanted to meet early and then later on after they've dealt with their hurt and their grief, they have wanted a meeting. Sometimes they want a meeting that isn't just with them. They want a meeting with them and some other folks. So I just want to be a little bit cautious about a one-size-fits-all approach to what is a very personal and traumatizing situation. And I'm not sure we should put the needs or interests of our bureaucracy first.
 ahead of the needs or the interests of the family. So I'm certainly open to that discussion and what those protocols might look like. And I'm sure there's other examples from around the nation we could draw from. I know we're on our own Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing had considered referring something to the city council for consideration. I think they missed by a vote or two. So I know this is a hot issue and it's something people want to engage in. But
 I just wanted to give you that personal note that I know that I and police chiefs have met, and others, frankly, in the city infrastructure have met with families in the past. And all of us here know Antoinette Edwards. When she was the director of the Office of Violence, she regularly met with families. She served as a really important building block and
 bridge between the Portland Police Bureau, the City Council, and the community. And I know that Nike Green has continued to fill that role. So I would want it to be a broader conversation than just the one we're having here.
 And Mayor, I just would add to that. I remember Kendra James' mom, it took her a decade to be able to talk about Kendra James and what happened to her. And I totally agree with you. I think we have to, the family has the lead. They have to let us know what they want as compared to us just having a protocol that we just show up on their doorstep and say, oh, can we talk?
 I absolutely agree with you. I think that one is one that has to be, it has to be based on what the family needs, not what the city needs. Yeah, good. Exactly right. Thank you. If I could too, this is Chief LaBelle.
 I we're all in agreement on the family piece. I think that that is just fundamentally the right thing to do if the situation warrants it. I know that had come up with PSET previously. I know when she was here, she did meet with some family, along with the mayor. And I think it's really the timeframe and the
 the mechanics on how it happens should be up to the family as well. But I think, you know, as an organization, as a city leaders, we should make ourselves available to the family to help with their healing and understanding of the situation. Does nobody else have questions? I could go on all day. Well, since nobody's jumped in, I do have one more question. I think that, um,
 you pointed out that there are some people who excel at doing the reporting after incidents and really actually, uh, participates in analyzing what could have happened differently. What, what, um, you know, were there other options available to the officers, whether it was a waiting backup, whether it was calling suit or, uh, the, um, um, the mental health, uh, uh, team, um, and, um,
 But I realized that there were, you said that there were two commanders that basically just kind of did the bare minimal. And I'm curious whether that is a pattern with the same commander or if that's a pattern that is being shared across the bureau leadership.
 You know, we have, we've noticed a very wide variety of talent and interest with regard to that particular report. And there are, this is a very multifaceted process that PPP employs, which is for the most part a positive, but sometimes there are bottlenecks and sometimes there's a little phoning it in. Yeah.
 And, you know, we've become over the years sort of critics of this particular literary product.
 And I was gratified to see that the chief's response to that, our comment and recommendation about the commander's memo in particular, was that, you know, it would be made clear that that's an expectation that the commander addresses personally.
 you know, the full and appropriate array of factors that she or he should in their analysis. Training is also an important component, and I think my colleagues would agree that training's analyses are often very good and have gotten a little better over the years, and when they're not, when they're perfunctory or cookie cutter, we notice.
 It stands out, right? It does. And that's the sign of a healthy, at least that aspect, is a healthy part of the internal analysis because they wouldn't stand out if everybody's phoning it in. And we've certainly seen patterns like that in other police agencies.
 So one of the things in your report kind of horrified me, the use of the behavioral health unit to actually interrogate a patient in a hospital bed. I'm happy to see that the Bureau has said that they should modify its protocol, but
 Where was that ever in a protocol that you would be using someone who has been trained in mental health for interrogation of a subject in a hospital, especially around a crime when they're not actually the detective? And why was that? Because I understand that the person refused to talk to the police. And so we're saying in the behavioral health unit, a way to get around his request for a lawyer.
 And is that why they were not indicted? It was not good in lots of ways, Commissioner. But you're absolutely right. Mr. Peebles had invoked and Miranda applied. He was in custody. He was being treated in a hospital. He had serious injuries from the shooting. He wasn't really in a good position to communicate effectively. And this behavioral health unit team comes in and starts questioning him.
 The other problem is we don't even know really what they talked about because again, contrary to investigative protocols,
 The unit didn't tape record that conversation. So the good thing is that apparently it wasn't used in the prosecution of Peoples, of Mr. Peoples. But the bad thing is it even happened. And so we are also gratified that the Bureau recognizes this is inappropriate for BHO to do that. The other real problem is the optics of it all.
 BHU was created to build bridges with those who are in mental health crises throughout the city. And if there's anything that would certainly damage that bridge building would be to use BHU in this capacity. Yeah, thank you very much. That one just kind of appalled me. That one stood out with flags all over it. Thank you very much.
 Oh, and let me ask another question. I mean, I know that part of the investigative process is to collect video evidence. I mean, the police certainly do that when they're prosecuting crime. So I'm surprised that they would not be actually doing the same thing when they're investigating an officer.
 shooting by a police officer, right? I mean, just a regular protocol. I've watched enough law in order to know that, you know, that they collect all the data that's available. And I've certainly seen that in action as we, as people have been arrested for criminal behavior. And so I guess I'm just surprised that that wouldn't be just a part of what a investigation would entail.
 And the fact that we have to write it in as standard operating procedures, maybe that's a better question for the chief. But I was just really curious. That's not normal in other policing agencies, is it? To not collect that data, whether it's biological data from a hospital or video data that's available from outside cameras. Okay.
 That may be a question for the Chief Commissioner Hardesty. We did note a couple things on the video evidence. We do think that generally the Bureau does a very good job on that. In fact, they've upped their game and they have somebody with a level of expertise. One of the things that is correct is whether it's the more recent Ring videos that everyone now wants to buy.
 More often in businesses, there are videos that are, you know, of ancient vintage from the 80s and 90s. And if you just send a patrol officer to try and download that information, you could run the risk of losing that information or not being able to extract it. So they have an individual on staff who Rob and I had a chance to meet who has a level of expertise, which is good.
 There was an issue with regard to an individual who was shot and not killed, in which the medical information that is always valuable to review an Austin Vol shooting was not recovered. And the initial response from the Bureau was the DA said they didn't need it. But in our view, it shouldn't be the DA that decides whether they need it because the the
 The criminal piece is only a very small piece of the whole review process. So in our view, it should be the Bureau that's making that decision and collecting that information.
 So Michael, I should tell you that as of January 1st, 2021, there will be a ban on facial recognition technology in the city of Portland. And so that ring thing will be a thing of the past and whatever other schemes people have, that is going to be private as well as public ban. And so I
 Yes, we are unique. We continue to be unique, but just wanted you to know that that will be as of January 1st, 2021. Got it. This is Chief Lavelle again. As a general rule, we do try to collect all video when at all possible. We have a few specialized folks in our Forensics Evidence Division that do that type of work, and we do have the person that Michael mentioned who specializes in video collection, and we try to utilize for that purpose.
 Wonderful. Thank you very much. Again, I am just very grateful for the detailed work that you continue to do, and I look forward to our next conversation. Thank you, Commissioner.
 I just want to take a quick minute, if I could, just to thank Michael, Julie, and Robert from OIR for the hard work putting this report together. This report really does help us look at these OISs and put a different set of eyes on them. We do incorporate a lot of the recommendations that come out of them, and it makes our processes better.
 There's a lot of people that put a lot of hard work into this with OIR, our professional standards team, our training division, our policy team, and also our investigative branch, too. So I just wanted to say thank you. We look forward to continued collaboration, and we want to use your skills and experience to help us be better. Thank you, Chief. Commissioner Fritz.
 So to that point, I just need, I'm confused now because the legal board and voters testimony says that this is the last OAR report and that no new RFP process is in place to continue their role or select a new one. Could somebody clarify that, please? I can do that, Mayor.
 The contract that OIR currently has ends at the end of this year, and we are not going to launch a new process until after the election on November 3rd. But you will be engaging somebody after that? And why wait until after the election?
 Because there is a lot of uncertainty about how we're going to go forward if the ballot measure passes, and it makes it very difficult to attract people to take jobs in IPR or to sign up for contracts when we can't answer questions about what the future will hold. So after the election, we'll have a lot more certainty about
 what that information could be and should be, and we'll be prepared to make some decisions after that. That is of concern to me. We know that should the ballot measure pass, the system is not going to be operational right away. So what happens over the next year? We will hopefully have some information to share with people
 about what the next steps are. I don't know what the next steps are. So I couldn't answer them today. But I think that we have done some planning and some considering some options and we're just going to wait till after the election so that we can intelligently answer questions about from potential bidders.
 Because they may say, how long is this going to be in your office? You know, we're entering into a contract with you. Is this going to hold over? You know, there's a lot of things that we don't know. So I think we'll know more after that. Well, this is one case where...
 I think continuing the contract or extending it for another year with OIR would be appropriate. They've been performing the function since 2012 review of James Chastakulis. And I think it's really helpful to have ongoing input from the same company doing the analysis. So I encourage you to consider at least a one-year extension.
 We're considering a number of options and we will do whatever is legal under procurement law. And for the OIR group, there is a ballot measure that will create a true community oversight board, if you are confused about the conversation that's happening now, that will be fabulous and wonderful and community controlled. And so we're
 But what we know is that it'll be at least two years before that board is seated. And there's a lot of work to do between election day and when that board takes their seats. And so we look forward to working with you to continue to improve why we are improving our systems of oversight and accountability. So, again, thank you so much.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. I also want to thank the OIR team. I want to thank the auditor for bringing this forward. As I said up front, I think the independent insights and recommendations are incredibly valuable for the entire community. I also want to give a heads up. The OIR group will be hosting a virtual community forum to answer questions about the report.
 On November 6th, that'll be in an IPAC meeting. More information will be forthcoming that there's another opportunity for the public to participate.
 And just on a final note, I will say I think we can all looking under are definitely the most challenging our city has ever faced. The nightly violence and divisive rhetoric infecting our city and our entire nation tests even the strongest and most resolute amongst us. Our city and our nation are going through a very historic transition period. People are demanding racial justice and fundamental change.
 And the challenge of creating that change, I think we all agree it's monumental and this council is all in. Nowhere is that challenge more monumental than in the public safety institutions that we have been discussing today. The challenge of creating that change is going to be in front of us for some time to come. And nowhere is that change more important when it comes to public safety. This is truly a matter of life or death.
 The discussion today and the recommendations provided by OIR help move our work forward, and I will be the first to acknowledge we have a lot more work to do. We need new and better responses to people suffering mental health crisis. I was glad that we spent time on that today. We need to reduce the number of interactions with police that end in violence.
 and at the same time, we're making progress. The police bureau is working hard to implement recommendations from OIR and from across our community. And despite the distance we still need to travel, I believe Portland remains out front or near the front of cities across the United States when it comes to public safety reform. I know my colleagues and I remain committed to doing more and doing it as quickly as possible.
 Achieving change is going to take time and it's going to take fundamentally different tactics. And yes, it will also take resources. It will take patience and the Portland Police Bureau has a critical role to play. And so we're going to keep pushing for the Portland Police Bureau to live up to that critical role. This work is fundamental. The need to respond to our community's changing needs is essential. And I want to thank everybody for your contributions today.
 Is there any other business on this item? Commissioner Ryan, you have your hand up. Yes, thank you. It's great to be in this conversation. I am definitely feeling extremely new at this moment. But thank you, Michael, Robert, and Julie. That was a really, it was a great report to listen to. I love audits. And so I really just have an audit process question. I know when I've been involved in a leadership position with an audit, and there's something on there that says,
 I agree, but then the current practice hasn't been implemented. And then if that happens over time, that becomes a growing concern. So when I haven't done my homework and I can't, I don't know what the previous reports had. And I would love to know like how many of these statements, recommendations made were repetitive from the past. And then you always want to see when they move from agree to current practice, right?
 or disagree to agree to current practice. Am I even saying anything that makes any sense, first of all? Then are there past reports that I can look at that would show me that pattern? I was picking up on some of that when I was listening to the dialogue, but again, I haven't done my homework. Commissioner Ryan, it's an important piece of any auditing, the longitudinal tracking of recommendations and the degree to which they're implemented.
 And I have to say that
 that sometimes it takes a while and sometimes we have to up the game with regard to our recommendations before they actually impact what's going on with regard to practice. So for example, a few years ago, we recommended that sergeants behave as sergeants, and we recommended some training to first level supervisors to ensure that they don't
 take over the tactical role, but instead supervise officers to do that. The training didn't seem to be having an impact in the behavior of sergeants. So then we upped it to setting out a policy that advised sergeants to that effect and that sergeants would be held accountable if they didn't. And that just got...
 enacted by the Bureau. So sometimes, and the problem is sometimes we're looking at cases that they couldn't have adopted the recommendations because the cases have already happened. So sometimes that time lag takes a while, but we are watching it. And we are also to the degree we will continue thinking of other ways to better report that back. That may be a role for, for example, the Citizen Review Commission.
 to the degree they continue to be part of the process, are supposed to report back on recommendations to change policy. And maybe we can work with them to ensure that that happens. That was helpful to listen to. And I appreciate it. I think it was you, Julie, that mentioned there are two ways to look at this.
 where we're a violation of policy. And then the second one was, I think, where can we do better next time? And I really appreciated listening to what you explained is that the culture here is not as defensive, perhaps, as some of your clients, if you will.
 And I really get used to me saying this, I believe practice eats policy for lunch any day. So that number two was more interesting to me than actually number one. And so anyway, thank you for the presentation. I promise to dig in and try to find those longitudinal connections. And I look forward to Madam Auditor helping me perhaps with that as well. So thanks. Thank you, Commissioner Ryan. Anybody else for the good of the order? Sure.
 Great, thank you. This is a report. Commissioner Daly. I suppose I could just save these for closing remarks, but I didn't, I wanted to participate a little bit so people knew that I was here. I just want to thank you for the report. This is always a really challenging and difficult report to look at, especially for those of us who have lost
 friends, family, and community members in police shootings. So I have just been listening and absorbing all the information today and will say that I'm very hopeful for Portland Street response and anxious to see it launched because we clearly are still not adequately serving individuals experiencing mental health crises. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Very good. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. To accept the report? Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, second from Commissioner Udaly. Please call the roll, Cleland. Hardesty? Again, thank you all very much for your very detailed work. It is always a pleasure to have this kind of in-depth conversation about policy and how we make it better.
 One thing I know you've been recommending for ever since you started doing this is a change in the police review board. Unfortunately, that's one of those things that's on the list that, you know, won't change in our lifetime unless we change how we do oversight of policing. And we are on path to do that.
 I want to, again, thank you for your time. Thank you for your expertise. And thank you for your kindness. You have built really strong relationships with community-based organizations who don't trust government, don't trust the police, and don't normally trust certified smart people. But you've worked hard to make sure that you've been open to community concerns and dialogue. And I'm grateful for that work. And I look forward to us continuing the work.
 to make Portland a safer, more just city. I vote aye. You, Daly? Well, I want to thank OAR for the report. I think sometimes Portlanders resent outsiders. In this instance, I feel like the distance you have
 brings a level of objectivity to this work that we might not get if this work was being done directly in the community. And I just find your perspective really helpful. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for the conversation today. I didn't really need to ask any questions.
 Because you asked all of them, which is fantastic. I want to thank the auditor for her ongoing work to promote accountability and just say I'm thankful to have colleagues and be on a council that's so willing to tackle these really challenging and urgent issues. So happy to vote aye. Friends. Thank you.
 Thank you very much for your report. I've been present for every one that you've given and this is my last one, so I want to say for over the years that you've done a fantastic job and as was noted, you've done it in a way that engages the community, that is kind and which is very objective and helpful. So I for one hope that there is a way to continue the contract so that we can get your expertise
 And it's good to know that you have been talking with community as well. I'm always disappointed when something like this doesn't have public comment due to the way that it's brought to council. So we did get some emailed comments, and I'm sure we'll get more after the folks have watched this. And again, thank you to the diligent folks in the community who are continuing to strive with us to improve the outcomes. Bye. Bye.
 Yes, I concur with all my colleagues and I appreciated this presentation. And I do hope that I'll see all of you again and make sure when you come here, you spend a lot of money. Anyway, I vote aye. Wheeler. Thank you again, everybody, for your support on this, the great work of ORR. Thank you, Madam Auditor, for bringing this forward, you and your team. I always appreciate these reports and today was no exception. Thanks and we'll see you again soon, we hope.
 Keelan, can you confirm that is our agenda for this afternoon? Yes. All right. Thank you, everybody. This was a good day for the Portland City Council. We are adjourned. Thanks, everybody. Good to see you all. Thanks. Bye-bye.