Good morning. Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, October 9th meeting of the Portland City Council. I'm the current council president. Mayor Wheeler is in Copenhagen representing the city at the climate conference for Mayors, and I appreciate that. Good morning, Carla. Would you please call the roll? Good morning, yes. Udailey? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Wheeler? Here. And City Attorney, please read the rules of engagement. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the City's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do so with a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do so with the thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you're filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. And welcome. I understand we have students from Oregon Episcopal School here this morning. I've heard that Oregon Episcopal School students are some of the smartest in Portland. Is that right? Yes. Thank you for visiting. I hope you enjoy the proceedings. Would you please read the first item? Item 946, request of Dorothy Holland to address council regarding Portland Grey Panthers. Does the group want to come up together or just one at a time? So could you read all the similar items, please? 947, request of Sally F. Fronsman Cecil to address council regarding Portland Grey Panthers. 948, request of Carol L. Long to address council regarding Portland Grey Panthers. And 949, request of Edith J. Gillis to address council regarding Portland Grey Panthers. And 950, request of Lou Church to address council regarding Portland Grey Panthers. Okay. Thank you. Whoever would like to start, you have three minutes, and I appreciate you being here. Okay. Thank you. Sally Fronsman-Tiesel, Portland Gray Panthers. Portland Great Panthers calls on the Portland City Council to take a stand against the ongoing $2 billion expansion of PDX and air traffic to and from Portland. Failing to take a stand against such expansion lends the lie to any stated intentions on serious pursuit of a paradigm shift extensive enough to address climate emergency and consequences. We are at a historical moment in which we must dramatically scale back, if not eliminate air travel as a driver of climate change. We must seriously be looking at transition away from air travel and toward alternative forms of transportation. We need to be dismantling airports, not expanding them. We cannot keep on with business as usual. Failing to actually make the changes we must make is the kind of irresponsibility that is leading us from climate emergency to climate catastrophe. I stand with Greta and her peers in their frustration with those who will not act and act quickly. It's time to make the shifts necessary for our survival and the future for our children and our children's children. I take this personally. How dare you fail to at least raise your voices and act at least that much on behalf of me, my children, grandchildren, and great grandchild. Portland Gray Panthers is asking that you take an official stance as a city council in opposition to the expansion of PDX and air travel via Portland. We have the position, you have the position and responsibility to speak and act for everyone in present and future generations, not only for Portland, but for the world. Thank you. Hello, my name is Edith Gillis. I'm a member of the multi-generational, integrated, intersectional issued Portland Gray Panthers and a member of Extension Rebellion. I'm going to talk quickly, but I have everything in writing so you can get it later. I was specifically asked by 350, Sunrise, and XRPDX to be the coordinator of medics and to and to organize and supply the medic tent and emergency transport for those civic heroes who would be endangered in an emergency room or hospital. I coordinated 29 medics for the rally, march, and festival medic tent. We had MDs, emergency room physicians and nurses, naturopaths, medical assistants, nurse practitioners, RNs, EMTs, wilderness first responders, lifeguards, including one in a kayak, life... Medics, street medics, herbalists, and mental health professionals taking shifts or on duty the entire time. This included a former cop, EMT, urban and forest firefighter who volunteers daily for over 60 years to help people who are houseless, including preparing meals. He delivers to our houseless neighbors living near OMSI. We have four high school search and rescue volunteer first aiders. We had the loaned use of a new 2600 AED, which is an automatic extractor. or no, defibrillator to shock a still heart into hopefully rebeating, that I or one of the search and rescue youth carried. I carried four combat-used tourniquets. I could administer one-handed in two seconds for anyone severely bleeding from fascist truck ramming, since police consistently do not protect us from violent fascist terrorists and police conduct prevented. paramedics from getting to patients in time if needed for an emergency. In addition to our medics, there were at least six Portland Action Medics who, like I, have the nation's gold standard of street medic 20 hour plus training from Portland's own Rose Hip Medical Collective and some have the world gold standard national outdoor leadership wilderness first responders 80 hour training as I do. Some of these RNC and PAM medics are naturopaths, RNs, EMT and one midwife. PAM Street medics also provided security and were ready to immediately care for pedestrians hit or run over by fascists. As the fascists bragged online, they do, and the Portland Police did not, block Southwest Jefferson or Southwest 4th and Southwest Medicine to prevent. Since my medics were dedicated to the climate strike, other PAM Street medics also went to ICE, where Portland Police were using pepper balls and pepper spray against nonviolent pedestrians, fulfilling our civic duty to protect and serve the people of Portland and to uphold our constitutional rights and duties. Our presence was intended to calm and comfort people, preventing trampling and to reduce police violence. We assisted people who fell and gave help to prevent others from falling on the muddy slopes. We passed out band-aids, including for fixing an electrical soundboard, water, electrolytes, food and wipes. We were ready to do river rescues and to assist people with heart failure, low blood sugar or diabetic shock, anaphylactic shock, bullet wounds or life-threatening injuries from head and brain injuries and loss of limbs from police, Another fascist hitting them with vehicles or pipes or batons and third-degree burns from police illegally using weapons they've used before. September 20th, I and at least five others treated for injuries caused by police using illegal chemical weapons against unarmed law-abiding citizens with pepper spray canisters held within one or two inches of the eyes, sprayed directly and purposely into the eyes of nonviolent, helpless, law-abiding citizens. Thank you. One of my patients is worried for kids. Thank you very much. Your time is up. And if you could send us the rest, that would be great. Thank you. Excuse me, Madam President. I have a question. May I? The ICE protest that you spoke of, what was the date of that protest? This was all September 20th. We had to split up our medics to take care of Portlanders who were harmed by Portland police in two locations. I'm sorry, was that September 20th of this year? Yes. Thank you. During the climate strike. The same day as the climate strike. I look forward to getting your written testimony. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Mr. Church? Good morning. I'm Lou with Portland Grey Panthers. First of all, I want to thank Sally and Edie as Panthers stalwarts today speaking for social justice. On the national level, now that we finally have arrived at impeachment of Donald Trump and is getting a crypto-fascist munchkins, it may be useful, given three-minute warning, to see if there's a common thread between white supremacy, the proposed diversity equity code changes put forth by the Civic Life Office, the need for sensible gun laws, the current Portland State Roger Stone, Phillip Arula, Proud Boys controversy, and whether housing and houselessness in our city permeate or color some of these social justice issues. Nationally, panthers absolutely do support impeachment. The fourth impeachment in US history is badly needed. Panthers also support sensible gun laws to ban assault weapons and ban high capacity magazines. We support the Walmart boycott to end gun violence. Panthers support housing the houseless in our city and we support diversity and equity code changes. by Commissioner Udallian-Sucre. There appears to be an unspoken connection between our housing emergency and code change pushback by landlords, condo owners, and other affluent forces. I recently spoke with Walt Weiler, current D&A president, Downtown Neighborhood Association. Walt, while basically physically handling everybody except grabbing a person's crotch, was forthright in stating that as D&A president, he is also a millionaire and a proud condo Walt Weiler added that he bought his Wilsonville company with 40 workers, sold it with 150 workers, and pocketed a handsome profit. Bully for Walt Weiler. And he also opposes the code changes. Local print media has focused a good deal of animus against Commissioner Udali and suggested a titanic level of discord on city council. On houselessness in particular, we see a division between the excellent leadership of County Chair Deborah Kofori, together with housing nonprofits like REACH, versus the Let's Do Something Now business sector via Homer Williams, Tim Boyle, and Jordan Schnitzer. Deborah Kofori, like Joanne Hardesty and many others, is right to insist Wapato jail is no solution. The question may be asked, democracy for who? Is a status in need of simply Donald Trump's banana republic propped up by the National Rifle Association? Is Portland, Oregon simply a haven for condo crazy millionaires like Walt Weiler? If we take 18 months more to write a code that values affluent white folks on equal footing, is that really a democracy of, by, and for the people as Abraham Lincoln insisted? Gray Panthers believe we need to take back our communities and our country from those who are unduly focused. on profit, graft and greed. Perhaps Elizabeth Warren has said it best going forward. We need a plan for that country, a country of equity and inclusion. Thank you. Are your other two speakers not here? Dorothy wasn't able to come and Carol had a family emergency in Goose Bay. So there's three of us. Thank you, Amanda. Thank you for being here. That's all that. We don't have a consent agenda today, partly because there isn't one and partly because we need four people to pass on a consent agenda. So we will move straight into the time certain. Would you please read it? Commissioner? I mean, Madam President? Yes. Looks like we're a couple minutes early for the time certain. May I suggest we just take up the second reading first? That's a very good idea. Would you please read the second reading item? Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Item 952, amend the future street name of Southwest Northgate Court to South Elysium Place and amend the future street name of a portion of Southwest Buddington Street to South Elysium Avenue. Thank you. We already had a hearing on this matter. We are still two minutes ahead of time, so make very long speeches as you vote on this, please. Would you please call the vote? Yes. Fish? Yes. Well, some people ask us what is a second reading? Keep going. It means we took this up last week and now we're voting on it this week. And I don't remember any controversy surrounding this, so I'm pleased to vote aye. Hardesty. Let me just say this will be another Portland Street name I can't pronounce, but There was no controversy around this particular issue. It is wonderful when community come together with government and all agree on something that comes in front of us. And so it is with pleasure that I vote aye. Fritz? May I just thank my esteemed colleagues here. The reason that I asked them to make speeches on this where normally we just say aye, aye, aye, is because by rule we cannot start the... next item until 945. And so I'm continuing to check my phone, and I think we are very much close to there. So with that, I vote aye. The item is adopted. Thank you. And please read the time-certain item. And Madam President, let me tell you, it is 945. Thank you so much. This is what council working together looks like. Item 951, proclaim October 14, 2019, Indigenous Peoples' Day. I know that Commissioner Fish joins me in feeling immense satisfaction that we are proclaiming Indigenous Peoples' Day, having done away with the previous reprehensible name of the national holiday in Portland. And so it's my great pleasure to welcome everybody here, to accept the welcome from the elders who are with us as we are on their lands, and to invite Elizabeth Edwards, the Director of the Office of Government Relations, to open and introduce the invited speakers. Is that outside? Is that inside? What is going on? It's outside construction. It's outside construction. It's outside construction. Thank you. I was so focused I didn't really hear it. I vaguely heard it. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. pull this close. I always have an issue with that. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Elizabeth Edwards, and it's my great honor as the Director of the Office of Government Relations to be here today with this esteemed panel celebrating Indigenous Peoples Day in advance of October 14th. This year, and I'll keep my remarks short because it's really about what our panelists have to say, but this year I want to note that the proclamation is centered on the role that global Indigenous populations play in climate action. While indigenous peoples are oftentimes in frontline communities and the first to face the direct consequences of climate change, whether it's rising sea levels or impact on access to once abundant food sources, Indigenous peoples are also key components, key activists in climate mitigation and adaptation. And today we've brought forward this distinguished panel to share some testimony about their efforts about not only raising visibility. of indigenous people, but also to discuss the value of respecting indigenous rights and the role that indigenous people play in the fight against global climate change. So with me today, I'm joined by Mr. Felix Chuma. Mr. Chuma is from Ecuador. He's Quechua Inca and Kenyari. He's a member of the National Confederation of Indigenous Nations of Cunyari. And while in Ecuador, he was part of the Natural Resources for Conservation. While in Portland, he is a member of VOS, Workers' Rights, an education project. He's an advocate for indigenous rights and the founder of the 500 Years of Indigenous Resistance. Directly to my left is Whisper Horseman Little Owl. She is an enrolled member of the White Clay People for Fort Belknap, Montana. She resides in Multnomah County. and is a junior at Gresham High School. She's an ambassador for the Warrior Movement, plays volleyball at NAYA, and is a jingle dress dancer. And in her abundant spare time is an activist and community organizer for indigenous and environmental rights, including climate change and missing and murdered indigenous women and girls awareness movement. And was removed to Oregon in June and has gotten immediately engaged in her new environment and community. And last but certainly not least is Macaruso Portisano, or Mac. On the end, he is the Multicultural Center Coordinator at PCC Sylvania and a Council of Elder member of the Pacific Climate Warrior Global Team. He serves as one of two members who represents the Pacific diaspora. Mac is a native of Portland by way of St. John's in North Portland and is a second generation American Samoan. Away from PCC, Mac is the chair of the Samoan Pacific Development Corporation, a 501c3 organization for Samoans in Oregon. So with that, I am going to turn things over to Mr. Chuma. And I believe we have a translator as well for his comments. Okay. Gracias. Buenos días a todos. Proclamación Día de los Pueblos Indígenas. Mi nombre es Félix Chuma Pinguil, un hijo de la resistencia de 500 años, originario de la Confederación Kichwa, Cañar e Inca Ecuador, mundo andino indígena. Con el profundo respeto y permiso de nuestros mayores y todos, de la gran nación aviayala, América, norte, centro, sur, y de los consejos de gobiernos indígenas, Honorable Alcalde, disculpe que no puedo pronunciar, comisionados, autoridades, funcionarios, pueblo en general de la ciudad de Portland, con sus respectivos permisos profundos de gratitud, voy a compartir unas cuantas palabras en alusión a la proclamación de los pueblos indígenas y restaurando el cambio del día de la conquista de Colón por resistencia de nuestra gente y nuestros aliados. Las naciones indígenas hace 526 años caminamos firmes en defender a su madre tierra, territorio, Pachamama, sus recursos naturales, equilibrio ecológico en la biodiversidad. Sin ella no podemos hablar de las costumbres, valores culturales, de música, arte, educación, salud, vivienda y otros proyectos. En el aire no se podrá construir. Los modelos geopolíticos, geoeconómicos, gubernamentales de turno han aplicado una visión unitaria, individual, de mercado, competencia, de producción entre seres humanos, dejando brechas grandes, diferencias de desigualdad, discriminación, corrupción abismal. los grandes ideólogos economistas planificadores de modelos como capitalismo, neoliberalismo, socialismo, comunismo, cristianismo, y nos han quedado mudos sin respuesta y solución a los conflictos. brechas diferencias sociales las naciones indígenas son los guardianes protectores y defensores de la riqueza diversidad natural renovables y no renovables que producen alimentos a otras funciones para las grandes ciudades del mundo las naciones indígenas constantemente vivimos la invasión, neocolonialismo de empresas transnacionales petroleras, mineras hidroeléctricas, saqueo, contaminación de sus tierras como pesticidas, fungicidas agrotóxicos secando los ríos, lagos, envenenando contaminando con mercurio, plomo provocando corrupción, enfermedad muerte de cáncer deformación de otras enfermedades sobrenaturales, persecución, represión y muerte a líderes indígenas, consecuencia migración, con todo esto causando desastres en cambio climático. nuestro planeta de las naciones indígenas nuestro planeta de nuestras naciones indígenas resistimos resistimos y no sobrevivimos como yo los masacres, atropellos, robos, violaciones, muerte 90 millones de seres humanos del norte al sur todos los restos que no hay manera de tener un conteo exacto es el exterminio y genocidio de la humanidad más grande de la historia y de la segunda guerra mundial Gracias a la lucha profunda de nuestros hermanos y hermanas, padres, madres, abuelos, abuelos, que defendieron con su vida la práctica y la ceremonia sagrada de los pueblos indígenas, fuimos masacrados, persiguidos por la Iglesia, gobernantes, la muerte de miles de indígenas. Esto es el costo de hoy en marcha. Somos una cultura que tiene para aportar y proteger la tierra y la especie humana. la OIT, el Convenio 169, la ONU, la OEA y la Declaración Internacional de los Derechos de los Pueblos Indígenas. La declaración reconoce el estatus distintivo e importante de los pueblos indígenas, sus experiencias, su historia común y su espiritual universal, que sustenta su texto. La declaración es una afirmación de derechos humanos internacionales, aceptadas y también expresadas aspiraciones nuevas y no vinculantes. Hoy la declaratoria es un instrumento internacional más completo sobre los derechos de los pueblos indígenas. Establece un marco universal de estándares mínimos para la supervivencia y la dignidad y el bienestar de los pueblos indígenas del mundo. elaboraron los estándares de los derechos humanos existentes y las libertades fundamentales que se aplican a la situación específica de los pueblos indígenas. Señor Alcalde, a todos los concejales de la ciudad de Portland, el Estado de Oregon, en reconocimiento a esta bella ciudad, reconocida como la ciudad santuario, le pido que aunque el Gobierno Nacional de los Estados Unidos Actualmente reconoce la Declaratoria Internacional del Derecho de los Pueblos Indígenas. Estoy ante usted hoy peticionándole que el gobierno local que... que desde esta apertura de la proclamación del Día Indígena, la importancia a presionar a nivel nacional y caminar en la resistencia de todos los pueblos indígenas del mundo con la Declaratoria Internacional de Derecho de Trabajar para acuerdos con los cambios climáticos. Por último, los invito a una conferencia ceremonial para nuestras comunidades de 500 años de resistencia de las naciones indígenas. Se realizará el día 12 de octubre a las 4 de la tarde a las 8 de la noche en esta misma jurisdicción de la ciudad de Portland. Artur, del primer piso, gracias por la oportunidad de servir a mi comunidad y gracias por su tiempo y atención. Gracias. Mi nombre es Félix Chuma Pingil y soy hija de 500 años de resistencia indígena. Soy originalmente de Canaria, Kichwa, Ecuador, de la confederación del mundo indígena andino, con el mayor respeto y permiso de mi y nuestros antepasados y de toda la gran nación de Abiala, América del Norte, Centro, Sur y todos los consulados de gobierno. Señor Mayor Ted Wheeler, comisionados y oficiales de la Ciudad de Portland, con respeto y permiso profundo, compartiré algunas palabras en alusión a la proclamación de restaurar el cambio a través del Día de los Pueblos Indígenas de la conquista de la colonización por la resistencia de nuestros pueblos y aliados. Hace 526 años, las naciones indígenas caminaron con fuerza en defender el territorio de Madre Tierra, Pachamama y sus recursos naturales, y el equilibrio ecológico en la biodiversidad. Sin ello, no podemos hablar de costumbre, cultura, valores, música, arte, educación, salud, alquiler o otros proyectos. Los modelos geopolíticos y geoeconómicos han aplicado una visión unida del mercado para la producción y la competencia entre los seres humanos, dejando grandes brechas de la igualdad y la discriminación, y abismos de la corrupción. La gran ideología económica de los planeadores de modelos como el capitalismo, el neoliberalismo, el socialismo, el comunismo, se ha mutado sin respuestas ni soluciones a los conflictos y los gapos de diferencias sociales. Las naciones indígenas son los guardiánes protegidos y defenderios de la biodiversidad renovable y no renovable, la riqueza que produce el alimento y muchas otras funciones para las grandes ciudades del mundo. Las naciones indígenas viven constantemente la invasión neocolonial de la transición, Transicional oil mining, hydroelectric companies looting contamination of lands with pesticides, zero toxic fungicides, drying up our rivers, lagoons poisoned contamination with mercury, lead causing corruption, death, cancer, deformities and other diseases. The natural repression and death of indigenous leaders is a consequence of migration with all this causing disastrous climate changes for our planet. Indigenous nations resist and some survive as I have. Algunos han sobrevivido a masacres, abusos, robos, rapes, muertes. 90 millones de seres humanos de norte a sur y todo lo que queda, que no hay manera de tener un exacto número, es la exterminación y el genocidio de la mayor humanidad en la historia en la Segunda Guerra Mundial. Gracias a la profunda lucha de nuestros hermanos y hermanas, madres y padres, abuelos y abuelas que defendieron con sus vidas la práctica de las ceremonias sagradas, Los indígenas fueron masacrados, perseguidos y los regidores de la muerte de miles de personas indígenas. Este es el costo que todavía está pasando hoy. Somos una cultura que tiene que contribuir y proteger la Tierra y las especies humanas. The Declaration recognizes the distinctive and important status of Indigenous people, the Declaration of International Right of Indigenous People. I apologize. This common historical experience and universal spirit that underpins their text, the Declaration is an affirmation of the accepted international human rights and also expresses new and non-binding aspirations. Today, the Declaration is the most comprehensive international instrument on the rights of Indigenous people. It establishes a universal framework of minimum standards for survival, dignity, and well-being of the world's Indigenous people and develops the existing human rights standards and fundamental freedoms that apply to the specific situation of Indigenous people. Your Honorable Mayor Ted Wheeler and Commissioners of the City of Portland, in recognition to the City, of this city as recognized to be a sanctuary city, I ask that although the current national government of the United States does not recognize international declarations of our rights, I am before you today petitioning the local government and international declaratory rights of indigenous peoples to be recognized in the city of Portland throughout the state of Oregon. It is recognized internationally and it is important to press and put pressure walking through the resistance with all the indigenous people of the world in international declaration of rights and to continue to work harder for agreements for global and local climate change. Finally, I would like to invite you to a conference and ceremony for 500-year Indigenous Nations Resistance Community. This event will be held Saturday, October 12th from 4 to 8 here at Portland City Hall at the atrium on the first floor. Thank you for the opportunity to serve my community and thank you for your time and attention. Thank you both. And now I'd like to introduce Whisper Horseman Little Owl. Can you move the mic just a little closer? Yeah, just like that. Okay. Okay. Laura John, the tribal relations director at the City of Portland, asked me to speak about the importance of Indigenous Peoples Day, which is on October 14th. Indigenous Peoples Day is a day that celebrates and honors Indigenous peoples and commemorates our history and culture. I was a high school student at Gresham High School, a very diverse high school. I have had the opportunity to meet and get to know students of different ethnic backgrounds. I noticed that no one mentions Native people. I asked around, are you Native or do you know anyone Native? Those questions led to the fact that no one knows about reservations or that Native people still existed. When I told my friends I was Native American, I got asked questions like, do you still live in tipis? Or they would say, I have never met a real Native American before. And some people were even surprised that each, to learn that each tribal nation had their own language. It's crazy to think that so many of my peers have a common misconception about Native people, but yet they live so close to reservations and a vibrant local, urban Native community. Because of the built colonial system at play, our tribal histories are not being taught in completion. Therefore, the ignorance continues, and my peers continue to grow up and not and if not corrected will believe that we're not here. This happens millions of times over and over again throughout this city and our nation. You know Christopher Columbus brought with him a gold making profit of taking from the land to create commerce. 500 plus years today, the same pillaging continues to drive our planet further into climate crisis and lead us into ecological collapse. Examples include Standing Rock and the Dakota Access Pipeline, KXL Pipeline happening right now that's threatening my tribal secret sites, Navajo Nation and the urban mining. Uranium mining and coal plants equals cancer and diseases amongst the Navajo Nation. California dams and how they destroy salmon runs to the point where they don't exist in rivers. And here locally, our air, rivers, ecosystems are threatened on the daily. Indigenous people have known about climate change for generations. Climate change is just another symptom of colonization. We are fishermen, hunters, gatherers, gardeners. We are the children of Mother Earth and we carry this connection throughout the generations even now in a modernized community. This increases the increase of fossil fuel usage in transportation, manufacturing, and even communications is not only has a huge impact on indigenous people but for everyone in the world. Indigenous people rely on Mother Earth for everything. Actually everyone needs clean air and water to live. We all need to protect everyone's sacred lands for our existence and for the generations to come. So instead of honoring colonialism, I'm happy that Indigenous People Day is being celebrated. To call forth reconciliation and honor our people in a good way. We are being responsible when we acknowledge how colonization continues to impact indigenous people, especially when it comes to climate change. This is one way for non-natives to not only notice us, but to notice what's happened on the land they're standing on right now and how they can help end climate capitalism and invest in real solutions like keeping the oil in the ground and investing in green energy. I was happy to actually meet the mayor of Portland, Ted Wheeler, in person when my friends and I marched during the international global climate strike and after we were invited to City Hall to meet with Laura, John, and others. We asked Laura if we could meet the mayor. She asked him, and he graciously accepted our ask and came and met with us and took pictures. That really meant a lot to me. Thank you for acknowledging my people and all indigenous people today. It feels good to be seen and heard. Thank you as well for acknowledging our Mother Earth that we all share and should live in peace. My people once said that Creator created life. He gave men two gifts, water and woman, and promised life would be, promised life would prevail on Mother Earth given these two significant related gifts. Water is honored and as a sacred gift because it would provide life to all life creations. Likewise, all need women have a higher honor and purity that meant because we are able to nourish and give life a hope. Thank you. Commissioner Hottestein? Thank you, Madam President. I just want to say I just couldn't imagine being a high school kid in city council chambers reading a statement. I just want you to know how proud I am of you and that I'm saving a seat for you. So when you get out of school... you should come and take this seat. Okay? Thank you. Thank you. I also wanted to comment. I'm glad that the legislature passed a law that from now on, public school students will be taught indigenous history and to honor the native people. So I'm glad that you'll be the last class to graduate without having had that essential information. Thank you for educating in the meantime. Last but not least is Mac Portorosano. Thank you. Talofa lava and greetings from the Pacific to our indigenous stewards, ancestors and protectors of these lands. You are not alone. Our ocean, our Vasa connects us in ways only our stories can understand. Your resiliency is an inspiration to our collective movements in the Pacific and we will continue to fight for your peace and justice. Distinguished commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to share these words from the Pacific. A Samoan proverb says, E pala le ma'a, ale pala le upu. Rocks will rot, words will not. And in the spirit of Samoa and the ocean family, I trust that my words shared today will stay with you. In the Marshall Islands, there is a proverb that says, Many drops of water together make up the ocean. Many grains of sand make an island. A recognition that it will take collective efforts to accomplish a great feat. On September 20th, Many drops, millions of drops of water created an ocean for climate justice. Our indigenous people's stories took center stage. Though our community or indigenous community numbers were not the largest, I'm reminded of the words of Epeliha Ofa, who reminds us that we should not be defined by the smallness of our islands, but by the greatness of our oceans. Today, another ocean is needed to create a future for my people. If we do not take swift action now, our islands will continue to sink underwater. Young children in Kiribati are building sea walls to keep seawater from flooding their homes and crops. The Marshall Islands is forced now to look at adaptation practices to build ground levels higher, which would cover grave sites, historical markers, their history. Fiji and the Mariana Islands face constant tropical storms that grow stronger every year, and the desecration of our ocean life is killing the natural food resource for our people. As you develop climate plans, we ask that you strongly take into consideration the following. Divestment from fossil fuels, and supporters of fossil fuel industries, an investment to clean 100% renewable energy, to keep climate polluters out of climate talks, and to take into consideration indigenous perspectives as a means for climate navigation. In the Samoan language, the word for ocean is vasa. Broken down, vasa literally means sacred space. When people gather and ideas collaborate, we create ocean. And for some of us who have been in the deep sea, ocean can be a very scary place without a vessel and proper navigation. As council members, you have a responsibility of creating vessels for our journey in ocean. And when we are in sacred space, I hope you will look at indigenous peoples for navigation. Our Pacific people are not idle in the ocean. We are navigating the vessel to solutions. The country of Tokelau It's the first country to be powered by 100% renewable energy. My island of Ta'u is also powered by 100% solar energy. Our youth are mobilizing and engaging in climate negotiations all over the world. Fiji was the president for the Conference of Parties two years ago. And, Council, I'm here to say that our people are not drowning. We are fighting. As we look into our proclamation and recognition of our people, I ask that you not look at it as a day, but a right for our people to survive and to prosper, and a recognition to see our people and our narratives as solutions for our many climate problems. I wish you well in the upcoming task ahead, and thank you in advance for being a drop in our ocean. Thank you. Thank you. Council, this concludes our presentation. Just a few comments before remarks and a proclamation. This is the fourth year that the city has celebrated Indigenous Peoples Day. Last year and in prior years, we had really focused very locally. This year, you can tell that there is a global focus with fantastic representatives as part of our Portland metro area community, but with ties all around the world because we're truly in a moment of global crisis. And we have a lot to learn from indigenous peoples and to celebrate indigenous peoples. would also be remiss if I did not share regrets from Laura John, our tribal relations director, who is currently up in the Spokane area for the Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians conference. Otherwise, she would be here today, but I'm proud to be here in her stead with tribal relations being a key component of the Office of Government Relations work. So with that, I'll conclude my remarks and thank the council for their time. Elizabeth, just a protocol question. I think we have it. Pardon me? I was just recognizing you. Thank you. I believe we have at least one elected official in the room. Could you identify that person? Representative Thomas Sanchez from North Portland is currently with us today. Could she stand so we can recognize her? Thank you for being here, Representative. Commissioner Fisch, do you have additional comments? Do you want us to do the proclamation first and then comments or comments? Comments first. Well, let me begin by thanking our outstanding panelists. I understand the young woman from Gresham High School is a junior. Yeah. I have a sophomore at home in high school. And I want to echo what my colleague said about your poise and the presence that you have brought to this proceeding. And I get to see a lot of kids from high school and not many of them have your level of maturity, confidence, and presence. And so congratulations to you and your family. Thank you. And we know that you'll be a tremendous advocate. And Commissioner Hardesty has offered to give up her seat on the council for you. So I think that was very gracious. That was surprising. We got some time. It was a little surprising to me, but certainly very gracious. So thank you to the panel. I want to acknowledge Laura John, who is not with us. Commissioner Fritz and I, over the years, fought for that position. There was some controversy over whether we would have a tribal liaison. There was some controversy about how we would pay for it. Laura has done an absolutely outstanding job helping us connect, not only to the recognized tribes, but to urban Indians. And... I'll just give you one example because much of her work goes unheralded. It's behind-the-scenes work. But the city is embarking on some salmon sanctuary work to protect salmon in Tryon Creek. It turns out there are lots of overlapping interests among tribes and urban Indians. Laura took the leadership role in reaching out to folks and gauging their level of comfort with our project, getting feedback, and ultimately developed a consensus among all the tribes in support of the work we're doing to restore habitat and protect salmon. It's really been the missing piece, one of the missing pieces in our city's outreach, and we have to remember that. that the recognized tribes are sovereign governments. And this is not just a gesture on our part. They are a legally recognized part of our government. And we have not had, until recently, high-level contacts on a regular basis where we've been able to engage our partners regularly. talk about long term plans, show the respect that this body needs to show to indigenous people. So I want to thank Laura. I also want to thank all the people that are here today who took time to join us. This is an unusual council meeting in that this is the event. This is it. Once we're finished with this, we'll take a break and it'll be the shortest council meeting on record. Each of you took time to come here. and to support this panel and to make a statement. And I want to thank you. I look forward to hearing the proclamation, but the commitment you have for me in the work that I have the honor of doing, both through the Parks Bureau and through the Bureau of Environmental Services, is that we will continue to consult very closely with our Native American partners and allies and friends so that we get it right. Thank you all very much. And, again, I look forward to hearing the proclamation. Thank you. Commissioner Hotteste. Thank you, Madam President. I want to also appreciate that we are here at this time in this moment. In 2015, the first resolution was passed and every time I am honored to be part of a Native American event, I am reminded of the seven generation approach that the Native community honors. And so even though we are new with this resolution and building these relationships, I understand that what we're building for is seven generations from now. what we're building for is to ensure that everyone has a deep understanding of not only Native cultural history but quite frankly all the history that's not white in America because most of us are taught white history but we're not taught the other parts of history and how they are vital to the vibrancy of America and so I am so pleased to be here today. What a great day to have all these little ones upstairs. By a show of hands, how many people have learned something today by being in this chamber? Panel, you should be proud. Just about every hand up there is up. I applaud your work, and we have a lot more to do, but we're having an impact because this generation, they just learned something. Thank you for being here. Thank you, each of you, for taking time to be here and for your wisdom and your kindness. I was born and raised in England. My people have been part of the problem for centuries, and I'm sorry. I'm sorry for the impact that the European invaders had on your peoples throughout the world, and therefore it's my responsibility to help fix it. And one of the things, the many things that I have learned from indigenous people here in Portland is the value of doing things right and taking the time to do things right. Cynthia Castro, one of my senior policy advisors, is working with Tribal Director Laura John to identify an appropriate land acknowledgement statement. And you'll hear in the proclamation that we have a reference to peoples who were here before us, but it doesn't identify the particular tribes and bands that were part of the culture here over... many millennia, because we're taking the time to engage native tribes in the research to make sure that we don't rush headlong into something that is in fact again not right. We want to do it really carefully. So I want to acknowledge that and just tell you that I'm blessed to by treaty be here, and my seat's open next year by the way, and to be here honouring the legacy that your peoples have given us and to help now move forward together. Thank you Representative Tona Sanchez for your work in the legislature, your groundbreaking work and your partnership. And indeed to the public school teachers and the private school teachers who are going to, from henceforth, be teaching indigenous history as specified by indigenous peoples. And so that's, we're making some progress. So colleagues, what I'd like to do, I'm going to read the proclamation and then I'd like to take the photograph. We have lots of indigenous people here today. If you'd like to come up and be part of the photograph, that would be great. And then I'll adjourn after that to make sure that the cameras for the folks at home capture everything. Okay. Whereas the city of Portland recognized that the indigenous people of the lands that would later become known as the Americas have occupied these lands since time immemorial. And whereas the city recognizes the fact that Portland is built on the homelands and villages and traditional use areas of many tribes and bands in this region, without whom the building of the city would not be possible. And whereas Indigenous Peoples Day was first proposed in 1977 by a delegation of Native Nations to the United Nations-sponsored International Conference on Discrimination against Indigenous Populations in Americas. and whereas the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, known as the Declaration, recognizes that indigenous peoples have the right to maintain and strengthen their distinct political, legal, economic, social, and cultural institutions, while retaining their right to participate fully, if they so choose, in the political, economic, social, and cultural life of the state. and whereas Article 29 of the Declaration recognizes that indigenous peoples have the right to the conservation and protection of the environment and the productive capacity of their lands or territories and resources. And whereas indigenous peoples are carriers of ancestral knowledge and wisdom about biodiversity conservation and are experts in protecting and managing 80% of the world's biodiversity. And whereas on October 7th 2015 Portland City Council passed a resolution resolving that the City of Portland shall recognize Indigenous Peoples Day on the second Monday of October. And whereas the 2019 Indigenous Peoples' Day shall be used to reflect upon the value of looking to Indigenous Peoples to help inform the City's climate action strategies and declarations. Now therefore, I, Portland Commissioner Amanda Fritz, Council President, on behalf of Ted Wheeler, the Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim October 14th, 2019 to be Indigenous Peoples' Day in Portland. and encourage all residents, businesses, organizations, and public institutions to observe this day by reflecting on the ongoing struggles of indigenous peoples on this land and to celebrate the thriving culture and value that indigenous peoples add to our city. So if everybody who would like to participate in the photograph, please come up. Ms. Hossman-Ritlao, I'm going to give the proclamation to you. I hope this is just one of a long career of activism for you. Thank you.
 Yes. Everybody's on that side. Well, that's good. We can take a look. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Nice and tight. Can we get some folks down in the front? Thank you. I'm going to take a couple more. One, two, three, smile. One, two, three. . Since there is no further business, this meeting is adjourned.