Can we move on to 1094 then, please? 1094, request of David Gweither to address council regarding 10th and Southwest Yamhill Parking Garage project. Mr. Gweither, go back. He and Mr. Peterson have requested to speak next week during the communications. That would give us seven people, if that's okay. At least we can do, Mayor. Yeah, we will add them to the communications list for next week then. Thank you.
 Okay, then let's move on to the consent agenda. I believe we have one request to remove an item for discussion, and that's 1101. I want to make sure our chief engineer is here. Teresa, is there a Water Bureau item we're either pulling back from consent or is it from the regular agenda? Oh, okay, that's a regular item. Excuse me one second. We're just housekeeping. Is there a matter you want us to pull back?
 There's 1107, sorry, but that's a regular item as well. All right, so now we're just on the consent. Yeah. No, that's okay. It's okay to check. Anything else? So I don't have any other requests to pull items from the consent calendar other than 1101, and that we will. So can we take a vote on the balance, please? Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Okay.
 males hi okay let's go ahead and take item 1101 because i believe it was lightning who requested that we have discussion about that so 1101 pay claim of samuel sachs in the amount of 130 000 involving the parks bureau okay lightning come on up oh we're gonna pass all right he's gonna pass so uh let's go ahead and take a vote then please on that it's an emergency ordinance so roll call please novick hi brit hi fish hi
 yes okay uh now there's been a request uh under regular agenda to uh hold over item 1107 for a week for questions from the bureaus so without objection i will do that and we'll move on to 1108
 1108 authorized city fleet to purchase replacement bridge inspection crane for use by the Bureau of Transportation at $811,932. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good morning, Mayor and Council. John Hunt, I'm the city fleet manager. And the item before you today is to authorize us to move forward and purchase...
 A bridge inspection crane, which is needed very badly because the old one's beyond its economic and useful life, and now it's just time to move forward with a new one. It actually is an upgrade, so it'll go out 60 feet, and we'd like to gain authorization. Okay. Questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Do we have someone signed up to speak on this item? Yes. 1108. Yes, these people who were waiting over in the Portland building. Okay. Okay.
 We're going to do one at a time. First person is Dan Handelman on this topic. On this topic. So, okay, we'll pause. I'll instruct Mr. Handelman about the rules. We're going to take testimony on this topic. So, I think I'll read their names as they are watching over there. It should be Dan Handelman, Micah Rhodes, Teresa Rayford, Malcolm Craddock,
 and kelly francois and charles johnson have all signed up for 11-0 they're all free to come over and speak on this item but if people come over and speak on things that are not on the agenda i will rule them out of order so if they're coming over they might want to understand that that's the rule and then i'll reiterate that when they arrive okay mr hunt is very pleased that people are so interested in the crane not it's a very interesting crane i'm sure
 Oh, yeah. Delay it for that. I think so. That's great. Oh, he's got a picture. Mr. Nobby just said to me, I wish I had a picture. Oh, my. It goes down rather than up. Does it go up as well? Yes, it does.
 for the hearing this afternoon because we're taking action on the rest of the council calendar you're free to testify on the item before us that you've signed up for you must speak only to the subject at hand and to no other subject
 If you speak to some other subject, I'll rule you out of order and ask you to sit down. If you don't sit down, I will ask you to leave the chambers, and if you don't leave the chambers, you'll be excluded. I'm going to warn each of the folks that signed up for multiple items this afternoon, because it might be the case that people signed up thinking they could talk about other subjects, and this one's about a crane.
 So you're free, Mr. Hanelman, to speak about the crane and only about the crane. Mayor, I feel it's very unusual. The other people who are testifying on this can't hear my testimony, so they don't know what I've already said.
 um this makes it not public hearing so i'm hoping they can hear what i'm saying is there something set up no because they they walked over here with me so they can't hear what i'm saying now unless they're allowed to we're not going to have multiple people in the room today so you're free to speak about the creating well my name is dan handleman i'm with port and cop watch we're glad to testify about the purchase of the inspection crane um we're a little disturbed that it was taken out of numerical order as the charter says that items are supposed to be taken on the agenda and that this meeting was called with less than 24 hour notice as state law requires
 It's good to keep the record open during a first reading of an agenda item to allow public testimony. We wonder why council felt the need to put the public out of another room to testify about the bridge crane. We also wonder if the mayor's staff lobbied the neighborhood associations to support the bridge crane and became indignant when the neighborhood associations refused to do so. We wonder if those staffers called people who oppose the bridge crane not helpful.
 It also isn't clear whether the bridge crane purchase will leave important public policy issues like body cameras in the hands of the police instead of the public and city council, although your modification to that other agenda item might have dealt with that issue.
 Did the auditor and IPR director come out in opposition to the bridge crane? You're off topic. I'm talking about the bridge crane. No, sir. You're talking about the auditor and IPR. Mr. Handelman. Listen to the record. Every sentence I have said is about the bridge crane. Yeah, I know. You're very cleverly constructing sentences to conclude the word bridge crane, but we're not going to discuss IPR. We're just talking about whether we should buy this crane or not. Mr. Handelman, the subject before the council is only do we buy the crane or not. I'm still talking about the bridge crane.
 Only that subject. Do bridge crane operators now have more than 48 hours to review reports and footage before they have to be interviewed? I'm ruling you out of order. Thank you. Please sit down. You're out. You're out of order. Have a seat. Okay. Next person is Micah Rhodes. Okay, so Teresa Rayford is next. Okay, Ms. Rayford, welcome. You're welcome to speak on this item and only on this item.
 If you raise any other subject, I will rule you out of order, and you'll need to leave the chambers. Then you need to clarify to me what that means. That means if you talk about anything other than whether the council should or should not purchase this bridge crane, I will rule you out of order.
 And so what would that sound like if I said anything that was relative to anything like what, Charles? If you raise the subject of other city bureaus other than the Transportation Bureau that's buying this crane. Okay, so we're talking about the city purchasing property to build. The Transportation Bureau. Right, the Department of Transportation or the Transportation Bureau with the City of Portland. That's correct.
 Okay. And so bridge crane. In regards to purchases made by the city or any bureaus within the city, I think that everybody's relativity to the outcomes or the return of investment should be included in that. So when we as a city spend money on things like bridge cranes or public safety or any other things that would improve the life of our community, we need to have those policies to include the voices of the people on all forms. Any money spent
 Any money spent, bridge crane money or any other money spent by any other bureaus to bring public safety or transportation support needs to be included with people's comments.
 Not subjected to, let's say, oppressive policy that is not mandated. I don't know where me being able to say things outside of bridge crane would violate anybody's tolerance of me having anything else to say when I was listed to make testimony on earlier items, but I was not available to do that because of your process.
 It's out of order, but bridge crane is something that we're supposed to be talking about. When we talk about the items that are on the agenda here, let's go ahead and talk about how everybody should be included in understanding how those items, those purchases, are going to benefit all of us. A bridge crane bought in the City of Portland, I'm hoping that the management and the operations of the companies that are vendors in this partnership
 include a lot of minorities. I hope that the outcomes of that process does not include the opportunity to hire more officers to hurt people that come around that property. I hope that if I go anywhere near a bridge crane that I'm not assaulted or murdered by a police officer
 in the city. I hope that the bridge cranes have safety measures around them to protect all citizens. Do you understand what I'm saying? Because right now, I don't think that there's any policy in place that would make sure that we're safe if we decide to go look at bridge cranes. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, we'll take the next person, please. Mr. Malcolm Craddock. Good afternoon. Welcome.
 I want to make sure you understand the rules that you get to speak only to the item before the council, which is the purchase of a bridge crane. If you veer away from that subject to any other subject of other bureaus, I'll have to woo you out of order. And that's because the city council is now trying to get yesterday's agenda done. We sent people home to New York who came to speak yesterday afternoon. So we're trying to make sure we get the rest of the city's business done. So, therefore, I'm going to ask you to focus only on the question of whether we should or should not
 by this bridge crane and if you veer off to some other subject, I'll rule you out of order and ask you to leave the chambers. Please proceed. Bridge crane. I think that this process is flawed. Bridge crane. I think that you guys are out of order. Bridge crane. I really think that you guys should be shut down. Bridge crane. I think that this City Council has lost its way. That's what I think. And bridge crane.
 the police accountability stuff you're out of order bridge crane your police so-called reforms you're just trying to cover things up now another subject oh am i well i'm sorry mr mayor because you lied to us i can lie to you you know what bridge crane you guys are so wrong
 You're pushing people out onto the street corners instead of taking care of them. You're making contracts to cover up police misconduct. You're out of order, Mr. Craddock. You're out of order. Please leave. You need to leave the chambers now. I see it. The next person is Kelly Francois. Are you excluded from the chambers? Yes, you are. Oh, my God. I am so upset by that. You can't even imagine. Okay, well, go ahead and leave, please. You know, I really think that you're right.
 Mr. Craddock, if you don't leave, you'll be arrested. Very well, then. Good day. Thank you. Kelly Frank-Coyce. Oh, and fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck. I know you love that word so much. Mr. Craddock is excluded for the remainder of the day based on use of profanity. Okay, next person, please. Kelly Frank-Coyce, and she'll be followed by Charles Johnson after her. Good afternoon. Welcome.
 want to make sure you understand the ground rules the council's way behind schedule now we had to send people home to new york yesterday who came to speak on an important policy item yesterday so we are limiting testimony to the subject at hand we do that anyway but we're particularly um urgent about that today so the only question before the city council on this item is the purchase of a bridge crane so if you wish for eight hundred and eleven thousand nine hundred and thirty two dollars
 So please stick to that subject. If you don't stick to that subject, I'll ask you to leave the chambers. So please proceed. This is my first time speaking in front of the Council. You're welcome. Thank you. Yesterday was my first ever Portland Council member. We're new to Portland from Louisiana. So I was really excited to get to see my actual Council and see how it worked.
 I was very scared yesterday. I felt like things got very out of hand. You need to testify on that. Okay. Go ahead. I'm sorry that was upsetting for you. It was upsetting for a lot of people, including the people that didn't get to speak. So we're apologizing to you and anyone else who didn't get to speak yesterday. But please focus on this subject because we've got to move on. Absolutely.
 I just wanted to thank you all for listening to me, and I've been sure to let all of my friends know that they need to get active in city council for things like the bridge crane, things that do come up that maybe some of my friends don't know about and don't really understand how bridge cranes get purchased or how contracts get signed or what happens when you speak out against something that you feel very strongly against.
 Like a bridge crane. If I felt very strongly against a bridge crane being purchased, and I showed up and I was not being listened to, and I wanted to stand up and say, I feel very strongly about this. I do not feel like this body is representing me in this bridge crane purchase. I would like to know, I told my friends that if that did happen and you're black,
 you will get SWAT teams called. If you are black and speak against bridge cranes, SWAT teams are called. When the only weapon... Pam, you're off topic. You're off topic. Okay. It's a purchase question. That's all. Should we or shouldn't we? Should we or shouldn't we? Well, I...
 I was listening to the testimony and I thought how great it was that he got to have a voice, that he got to speak about this bridge crane. And I was trying to understand, how do you get a voice? How do you say what you find is important, especially when you're a marginalized group? It doesn't seem like he was because he looked like a lot of y'all. He said, rest the item at hand. The purchase. The bridge crane. Right, exactly. And getting heard is also, you know, an important part of
 There's several hundred people who need to be heard this afternoon on the comp plan, but that's why we need to get through the rest of this business. So their voices count, too. So why don't you focus on the bridge crane and then let us get to them? Right. It sounded like the bridge crane was needed, so I would say I support that. And I appreciate that my voice got heard today. Yeah.
 Is that my time? That means time's up 30 seconds. Thank you very much. Yeah, well, it's good to know how the process works. I think it's important. We have an activist city, and it's very important for all voices to be heard, especially the ones that are yelling the loudest. It's very important to listen to those voices. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Matt, given that we're now past the time certain, maybe we could shorten the time that we're giving this person to testify. I think we will have to move to two minutes. Yeah, okay. So who's next? Charles Johnson, and then Matt.
 And then Micah Rhodes will be speaking. He's here now. We're doing two minutes. Councilman, welcome. You're regular here, so I probably don't need to iterate this, but I will anyway. Better statesman, sorry. The council is under a time crunch now. We have people showing up this afternoon to talk about the future of their city in the comp plan, so we're limiting testimony to two minutes, and we are enforcing the council's rule that you speak only to the subject at hand. So the only subject this afternoon is the –
 that we're dealing with at this moment is item number 1108, which is whether or not the city's Bureau of Transportation should purchase a bridge crane. That's the only subject that you'll be permitted to speak on because, again, we have a lot of other citizens who want to show up this afternoon and talk about their zoning. So please proceed. Cool. It's kind of sad that for an $811,000 crane, we only get a four-page PDF, and some of those pages are Performa. One's almost blank. Okay.
 I think many of the people in this city realize when they go across the bridges across this river that we have county bridges. So I'm sure, and I don't know how many miles, I mean it seems like so much of the road is under the State Department of Transportation or the county that an $811,000 bridge crane, I'm sure there's been adequate research, but I feel like
 people would have more confidence in this purchase if there had been additional documentation that says how many bridges, how frequently. I noticed we have a crane that's – and also the proposal doesn't really talk about, even though it may be fully amortized, if there's any cost recovery on disposal of the current crane. So I think if those issues could be addressed, the public would be even better served. Thanks, y'all. Good questions. Thank you. Actually, I had kind of the same reaction, which is –
 that there are a lot of other bridges but we actually own commissioner novick can probably iterate it something like 150 bridges um and uh and fair question about what happens to the old one we'll find out thank you ebay you can buy anything on ebay thank you very much mr rhodes is not talking okay that's all okay uh then let's take a vote please on item 1108 novick aye
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. 1110. Vacate a portion of an unnamed alley between North Midway Avenue and North Columbia Boulevard, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Novick. I just want to say for the record that I always think it's sad to vacate an alley before it's even gotten a name, but Mr. Arruda will explain why that's appropriate in this case.
 I'm Carl Rutter with the right-of-way section in the Bureau of Transportation. So this ordinance is to vacate most of an unnamed alley between Columbia Boulevard and North Midway Avenue. The proposal was started a little over a year ago by one of the adjacent property owners, Francis Meduja, who's here, in case you have any questions. It's an unpaved alley. It's about 16 feet wide and 62 feet long on the north side, 82 feet long on the south side.
 comments were solicited from the usual city bureaus, other agencies, utilities, neighborhood associations. Mr. Meduja spoke with the St. John's Neighborhood Association a year ago or so, I think he said to me. The one...
 significant comment and change we had was that PBOT staff wanted to maintain enough space along Columbia Boulevard for the possibility of future sidewalks and so we reduced the vacation area to make sure there's enough space for a 12-foot sidewalk if that happens in the future. The petitioner will receive a portion of the alley closest to North Midway, two
 Two of his neighbors will receive smaller portions. Then PBOT actually owns the triangle piece of land north of the alley adjacent to Columbia. And so PBOT will actually receive probably the north half of the alley. And the vacation area is about 1,100 or so square feet is being vacated. Okay. Questions? Do all of the surrounding properties have their driveways on the existing streets?
 Yes, I believe the petitioner, his driveway is on Midway and the other adjacent owners have their driveways on Olympia, which is on their south side. But what about lots 23, 24, 25, 26 on the exhibit? Do they all front-end? I believe they all...
 Front on Olympia. Yeah, so Mr. Meduja's house, he's on parts of lots 23 and 24 near the alley, and his driveway faces Midway.
 Okay, thank you. But you just said a 12-foot left for sidewalk, but on the exhibit one it says four feet. Right, yeah, because the Columbia Boulevard, the current Columbia Boulevard right-of-way has enough space for an eight-foot sidewalk. And so when the PBOT development review looked at it, they said, well, we have room for an eight-foot sidewalk, but the current standard is 12 foot, so please save an extra four feet. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you very much. Do we have anyone to speak on this item? I have four people signed up.
 Micah Rhodes, Teresa Rayford, Kelly Frankois, and Malcolm Chaddock. Okay. Mr. Chaddock's been excluded. I want to clarify that he was excluded for being disruptive as well as for using profanity. So he's excluded today. We just have two people left, and then we'll walk back over here, even though we told them to wait right outside. Okay. Let's see if they're still here. One minute. Yeah. I think we're going to move to one minute for testimony now because we're running out of time.
 While we're waiting, could I ask another question about the exhibit, please? So in the summary, it talks about the adjacent property owners, you said, wanting to vacate. Wouldn't the other adjacent property owners get part of the right-of-way as well? Yes, yes. So Mr. Meduja's neighbors who owns Lot 25, he actually was here yesterday, he'll get a piece of it in his backyard. And then the owners of Lot 26 further...
 near Columbia, they'll get a very small piece of the alley. Okay, and everybody's fine with that? Yeah, yeah, they already signed the petition, yeah. Thank you. Sorry, didn't see that part. I guess those two people have left. Okay. All right, so this item will move then. We'll close the hearing, move to second reading. Let's take item 1111. Thank you.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement between Portland Parks and Recreation and Portland State University to develop a citywide tree planting strategy. Second reading roll call. Novick. Well, thanks very much to Jen Cairo, our city forester, and the partnership with Portland State University. What we need in many cases is more accurate data, and this is going to do it. Thank you. Aye. Fish. He's out of the room. Hales. Aye. Item 1112. Aye.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder and provide payment for the construction of the Cornell Road Services McClee Park project at an estimated cost of $600,000. Second reading roll call. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. And then why don't you read items 11, 13, 14, and 15 together, please.
 1113, approve application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program for 9101 Foster located at 9101 Southeast Foster Road.
 1114, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for cause 16th and Marshall located at 1015, 1033, and 1039 Northwest 16th Avenue. And 115, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for cause 2211 Southwest 4th.
 located at 2211 Southwest 4th Avenue. Okay, we have a presentation on these. I don't believe so. They're pretty standard fare. Has anyone signed up to speak on them? Hey. Yes, please. Okay, yes, I have. I don't know if Teresa's here. Teresa Rayford, Judy Lowe. Oh, they're here to make the presentation. All right, come on up about the multi-applications, all three of them.
 And just I want to say the written materials that you presented were so terrific that you hardly have to amplify them. Perfect. Yes. Well, my name is Dori VanBakkel. I'm program coordinator for the Housing Bureau working with the multi-program, and I'd be happy to answer any questions about the three projects. Okay. I think they're pretty clear, and we do have testimony on them. So thank you. Stand by and see if we have any questions afterwards. So, Judy, come on up, please. I can do it.
 All right. You can have longer than that. Did you receive my written testimony? Because if you did, I don't need to read it out loud, and we can save some time. Why don't you summarize it, because I don't think I did. Give us your name, please. I'm Judy Lowe. I'm the Lentz Neighborhood Association Chair.
 And I am here today to support the PDC request for a multi-unit limited tax exemption to be applied to the 9101 at the corner of Foster and Southeast 91st. As you know, some Lentz residents have been rather vocal about their dissatisfaction with the perception of the city's lack of attention to Lentz.
 For the past several years, Lentz has been battered by jaw-dropping rent hikes and the soaring prices of homes. Add to that the dearth of living wage jobs and the destruction of the Springwater corridor, compounded by the crime that accompanied it, and you can imagine why morale is at an all-time low in Lentz. Lentz needs affordable housing, living wage employment opportunities, and a community gathering spot in East Portland Living Room.
 After Williams and Dame withdrew from this cornerstone project, PDC took on a significant risk in keeping it alive and recently approved $15 million to move the project forward. The Portland Housing Bureau has committed over a million dollars, which shows support and collaboration for this endeavor.
 Groundbreaking for the 9101 is scheduled for later this month and is visible proof that Lentz is not ignored or abandoned. The 9101 is a lifeline for Lentizens, the first injection of vitality into Lentz. It will help change the perception of Lentz as a down-and-out battered community.
 The 9101 offers some of what Lentz needs, 16 permanently affordable housing at 60% of median family income, employment opportunities as the retail space becomes occupied, and a town center with something shiny and new to attract tourists.
 The 9101 could be a reflection of the character of Lentz, mixed use, mixed occupancy, and a central location. My hope is to attract more businesses to add to the diversity of Z-House. I don't know how to say Zoological House. El Pato Feliz. Restaurants, retail shops, business offices would all offer employment opportunities for Lentizens
 and the commercial affordability program could encourage minority-owned businesses to locate in what's called downtown Lentz. In order to make these opportunities available to a primarily low-income yet diverse population, PDC has asked for a multi. The 10-year abatement will allow PDC to recover a reasonable return on its investment, which will hopefully allow it some leverage towards other Lentz properties. Give you a little more time. Go ahead.
 whose plans for development was postponed because of this commitment. There are over 22,000 people who live in Lent and over 16 native languages spoken. Many of them have roots as refugees, immigrants, Native Americans, and other marginalized communities. This mostly silent population that adds so much richness to the fabric of our city historically has a low rate of civic engagement. Survival comes first.
 I became involved in the Neighborhood Association in part to increase civic engagement, especially in this critical period of growth in Lentz. The 9101 offers affordable housing and opportunities for living wage employment, factors that give hope to move beyond mere survival into stability, which in turn encourages participation in our Neighborhood Association. That's my hope, anyway. The 9101 foster is at the front door of Lentz, near the Western Lentz Monument that welcomes you to East Portland.
 Nearby is the first retail U-Haul site in the nation. U-Haul was a mom-and-pop business started by Sam and Anna Marie Schoen after Sam was discharged from the Navy at the end of World War II. Founded in the 1940s, U-Haul is now a billion-dollar company employing thousands of people, including several who live in Lentz.
 This is an example of the possibilities that exist for Lent. Find a need and fill it. Add value and provide good service. Work with integrity and honor your commitments. Follow up and follow through. The city knows the need for affordable housing and living wage employment. PDC is building 54 new housing units, 16 of which will be permanently affordable at 60% of median family income. With over 7,000 square feet of retail space, there's opportunity for businesses that bring jobs and the potential for business startups as well. Who knows?
 There may be another billion-dollar U-Haul lurking in Lentz. This is filling a need, adding value, and honoring a commitment to a neighborhood that has felt like an outsider. Please grant the multi that PDC is requesting. Thank you. Can I just make two quick comments? First, thank you for coming to council on these tax abatement applications, whether we're adding or subtracting. We very rarely have people from the public come and testify, so it's very important. Number two, I recognize...
 I remember the conversations where Lentz was advocating for a lot more market rate apartments as part of the mix. And I think it's worth noting that not only are 70 percent of the units in this building market rate, and there's a shortage of market rate and affordable units in Lentz, but it reflects Commissioner Saltzman's push to also make sure that a number of the units are family-friendly, two- and three-bedrooms.
 And the third thing is, you mentioned there was a 10-year abatement, but I also heard you earlier say permanently affordable. And I just want to put a plug in. If this is a success,
 You can come back in 10 years, or your successor can come back 10 years and advocate that we renew the abatement if we want to continue those affordable units. But thank you for taking the time. I'll make a note of that for my successor. Thank you. And I'd just thank you also. I'm sure you probably came yesterday as well. I'm very glad you came back. Thank you. And thank you for reading that into the record because more people need to know about how.
 what Lent is and what it can become and how much it's cherished by the neighbors there. So thank you very much. We are very hopeful and very encouraged by this development. That's great. Thank you, Judy. Appreciate it. Thank you. Okay, anyone else on those items? We have two more people. First one is Teresa Rayford. Okay. Once again, Ms. Rayford, on these items, we have read all 3, 1, 13, 1, 4, 1, 1, 1, 3, 1, 1, 4, 1, 1, 5, all been read at once. So on those three items, please. Yes.
 So is there any particular way you would like for me to give my testimony on this item? It's just about these particular council items, so testify on those subjects and those subjects only, please. Right, okay. So I'm not going to repeat anything that the lady before me said, but I want to reiterate on the issue with civic engagement and the process of civic engagement and the courage that it takes community members that aren't a part of vetted networks –
 of political partners or community policing partners that engage in civics and that promote the engagement for other people, especially people that live in communities like Lentz where there's a lot of poverty, a lot of diversity, and a lot of over-policing, which we know exists in Multnomah County and all throughout the state of Oregon. Upon meeting with people like Halit Peters with the Department of Corrections, who now has policy influence,
 in the legislature, I thought that it would be mindful for people like us that live in those areas that are very diverse, that are going through development and growth, to not only have our investment in our local communities, but throughout the state where it has to do with policy and policies. Thank you.
 Like, you know, the bargaining agreements that... Thank you very much. You've used your time. Thanks very much. Thank you. So I don't think... Was my five... Didn't I have a couple minutes? We've reduced to one minute because we're so far behind schedule. Okay. So the time that I had to take in order to ask you how I should testify, since I'm used to testifying and you know I don't stutter, but since you guys have made me run back and forth and...
 Sorry for the inconvenience. We've been held up in our work in this. We're way behind. So thank you so much. Okay. So make sure that any assessments that you guys make on any of these agenda items include public safety for all Portlanders. And stop using the propaganda to criminalize people of color. Ms. Rayford, thank you very much. Because we're not the problem. You're done. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else on these three items? We have one more. Kelly Frankois. I'm sorry. I didn't hear what she said, Carla. Yeah. It was still over there, right? Yeah.
 Good luck. Okay, welcome back. Unfortunately, because of our schedule, we've reduced testimony to one minute, so just on these three items.
 I was not expecting to be doing this today. I just spoke with the Neighborhood Association representative from Lentz outside, and she gave me a little rundown on this. And we found our commonality in that we're both here to use our privilege to bring about positive social justice in our city. She said that she –
 The information that she gave me said that this sounds like a good project to go forward. And thank you for your time. Thank you very much. They've been advocating for it for a long time. Thank you. Okay, anyone else? Charles Johnson. Okay. Is Mr. Johnson still here? He's coming. Okay. Good afternoon. We're doing all three of these items together in one minute because we're cutting for time here. Thank you. Shana Tova. Oh, Dan's not here. Charles Johnson and...
 You know, obviously, anything we can do to increase housing when developers come forth and say they're ready to work within the guidelines. I do wish that we were in not such a time crunch so there could be broader community discussion about the successes we're having. The project over by St. Francis with Catholic Charities and...
 It's kind of idiosyncratic that one developer has these three scattered sites. And I hope that Dan and the Housing Bureau staff will engage to see if maybe this is another catalyst we can use, especially as the inclusionary zoning. I think inclusionary zoning, we mostly think of applying to downtown core properties where we really need to pressure developers. But to see that we've, as Judy Lowe talked really comprehensively on, it's a great opportunity for Lentz
 Um, and then to see a developer jump from Lentz over to Southwest, um, I'm a little bit concerned with what will be the final product and how it will apply, you know, what the tenants are going to get. But, uh,
 We need to move during this housing emergency. So yes, this, no, please contract. Thank you. That's fair, yeah, in terms of one developer. Appreciate that. I've got to keep scrutiny on that. Thank you very much. Okay, no one else on these three items? So then let's take a vote on each of them in turn, please, starting with one, one, one, three. Sorry, I was looking for my – lost my spot here. Is only the first one an emergency ordinance? No. Okay, let's take a vote on that then. No, Vic. Oh, there it is.
 I wish I Okay, and then one one one four moves to second reading next week and so does one one one five Let's take a five minute recess and start up our 2 p.m. Council session Rated okay, we'll resume this afternoon's council session. Would you read the item please?
 Item 1117, amend the official zoning map, planning and zoning code, and transportation system plan to carry out Portland's 2035 comprehensive plan, establish a new community involvement program and committee, amend related codes.
 the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and Plan Map to coordinate policies and programs. Okay, I've got some information and stuff for folks that are coming to testify. I'm going to save that until they're here and have Joe and Eric set the stage for us first of all. Okay.
 Joe Zender, Chief Planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm here today with Eric Engstrom, who is Principal Planner and also the Project Manager for the entire ComPlan package. Today we're bringing forward testimony on a package of actions to implement
 the comprehensive plan policy document that you adopted in June. It includes zoning code changes, zoning map changes, transportation system plan updates, and community involvement program changes. Specifically, and these are in the binders that we provided for you earlier,
 We're going to be discussing changes on the maps showing zoning map amendments, and this includes changes to base zones, overlays, planned districts and trails. So you'll hear some map testimony. There we will be addressing the recommended zone code changes, which are included in the report. New zoning code provisions and maps related to commercial and mixed use properties can
 campus institutions, employment lands, a variety of changes to residential zoning designations and open space related zoning changes. Other relevant pieces of this are the phase two transportation system plan report, which has got 16 sections. It's in your binder, but it includes the bike classification discussion. And finally, a public involvement program report and related code.
 These changes, as I said, implement the comp plan that you adopted in June. And to the extent that there is testimony about elements that a change today would imply that we need to go back and revisit a policy decision you've already made, we'll make sure that that's clear to you. So thank you.
 Okay. All right. Well, then let me go over some logistics. And again, we'll get people in here gradually. Our apologies, folks, for the awkwardness of how we're proceeding today. But we literally were rudely interrupted in our work in this room. And now we have to exercise a little extra procedure for a while.
 I want to make sure people know about time limits and process. Obviously, people can testify in writing or through e-mail or online with the MAP app, as they have all along, if for some reason you don't get everything in today or you have other points. We're going to limit testimony to two minutes just because of the number of people signed up and the amount of time we think we have a quorum this afternoon. Okay.
 If you're testifying about a section of the zoning code, please try to specify the section. That just gives us more context. Obviously, avoiding repetition of previous testimony is always helpful. We are scheduled to go until 5. I think we can probably last until 5.30 or 6 until we do finally lose a quorum.
 This is the first of two hearings. We'll be continuing this to 2 p.m. on October 13th, and we'll decide at some point next week exactly when the record will close, but we are now continuing to accept written testimony.
 We have a work session scheduled on October 25th to discuss the testimony and identify potential council amendments, and a hearing scheduled for November 17th to allow public comment on the amendments we propose. So obviously keep checking the council calendar to confirm dates, times, places.
 So with that, we've asked our Planning and Sustainability Commission Chair and Vice Chair, Kat Schultz and Chris Smith, to come first, and then we'll take testimony after that. Welcome very much, overdoing it, volunteers. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, Mayor Hills and Commissioners. As you begin to consider testimony today, Chris and I would like to highlight a few things that the PSC emphasized in our recommendation on these early implementation measures. As you're well aware, there are several elements of this package, enough that over the past year, the PSC held 10 hearings and 12 work sessions to discuss these proposals. Thank you.
 Our summary includes our recommendations and concerns regarding the changes that Joe just outlined. Bear with us. There's a lot to cover here. We'll try to keep it condensed, but we've got a lot to go over and share with you. So beginning with the mixed-use zones, the PSC voted unanimously on our final recommendations for the mixed-use zones. But there were a number of topics that we discussed that we'd like to briefly cover.
 Regarding commercial mixed-use base zones and FAR floor area provisions, we are supportive of the proposed base zones and bonus zoning structure in the commercial mixed-use zones, but we are concerned about the viability and effectiveness of the bonus structure to provide additional floor area and height when the public benefits are provided. Specifically, we're concerned about the possible reductions in development capacity if the bonuses are not utilized.
 Inclusionary housing program is important, and since it's critical to maximizing the opportunity of developing housing units. And so that all ties together, and if we can't kind of figure out how to get that balance right, then we're afraid we'll miss some opportunities. We support the concept of providing bonus for affordable commercial space as well, but we're concerned about the lack of clarity that's currently
 tied with that regarding the administrative aspects of the program. And we look forward to participating in a follow-up process to further define the program. We generally support stepping buildings down to adjacent residential zones in order to minimize the scale and height impact to the neighbors. These are for the mixed-use buildings along the corridors.
 we support allowing flexibility in meeting building articulation and we support providing an extra five feet of building height when the ground floor has high ceilings in order to create better commercial space and support sufficient height for mechanized parking stackers as an option we did not support stepping buildings back along transit corridors due to the cost and the effect on development capacity and code complexity
 With regards to low-rise commercial storefront, we received a lot of testimony against the CM1 zones, areas that are today consisting of one- and two-story commercial buildings. We recommended changing the zoning in all CM1 areas to CM2, except in three areas where there was strong community support for the CM1, which was Multnomah, Belmont, and Selwood.
 We are concerned about the cumulative effects of the cost of the development on some of the proposed zoning and transportation provisions, such as energy efficiency matters, building setbacks, TDM, and other items. We recognize that each of these together are kind of small impacts, but are concerned that the cumulative impact of these may be large enough to inhibit development in a time where housing is in short supply.
 Therefore, we have recommended an economic analysis to understand this cumulative effect on these proposed changes along with the inclusionary zoning changes that are being proposed. Go ahead, Chris. Thank you.
 One of the more interesting issues in mixed use was drive-throughs. As you know, the comp plan policy asked us to limit drive-throughs. We came at that from three different perspectives. The first was to get the location of the CE zone, which is the auto-accommodating zone, right. And we chose to basically keep it out of centers,
 and out of the inner ring neighborhoods. We did allow it to be right at the edge of a few centers, but we did not put CE zoning inside centers. As an offset, we did create some grandfathering provisions for existing drive-thrus that are in zones that don't otherwise accommodate drive-thrus. The second part of our consideration of drive-thrus was a question raised about whether
 The development types that typically accommodate drive-thrus are actually helpful for parts of our community that are trying to lift themselves up, principally East Portland. And as a result, we included a provision that effectively prohibits drive-thrus east of 80th Avenue. And you will hear support for that from Commissioner Baugh and from the East Portland Action Plan later today or next week. Okay.
 That also makes drive-thrus non-conforming uses in that area, so they don't enjoy the grandfathering benefits that we'll have in the other parts of the city. And then the final consideration on drive-thrus was recognition that some businesses –
 operate exclusively as a drive-thru or for certain hours operate exclusively as a drive-thru. And we put in a provision that basically does not allow those businesses to refuse service to someone who does not show up with an automobile. So if the only way to get to a business through the drive-thru, you have to find some way to accommodate pedestrians and people on bicycles. Chris, can I just, on the drive-thru question, if they're non-conforming
 then aren't we in effect saying that for a certain period of time we want to discourage the owner from updating the site or making improvements which may actually make them more attractive or create a better fit to the neighborhood? Right. I think the argument of the folks who proposed that change for East Portland hope that those properties will redevelop into other uses that are more directly beneficial to the community.
 But for a period of time, we're saying that if it's an eyesore and someone wants to update it, that that would not be allowed. Correct. If it's a nonconforming use, if you're updating your building, you can't retain the drive-thru. So you have a choice of updating or keeping the drive-thru or not updating. What's the third option? I'm not sure what you're hinting at, Commissioner. So there's a camp that loves them and wants –
 Dutch Brothers coffee in every street corner, my 12-year-old included. And there's people that don't like them, the mayor included. And there's some maybe middle ground where we're not discouraging people from maintaining their property in a way that enhances the community that they serve. So is there a third option that at least can be debated? Well, I think in –
 The rest of the city west of 80th Avenue, we've done that with a grandfathering clause. So Dutch Brothers can stay. It can continue to update their building. If they were to close it for three years in a row, they would lose the privilege. But as long as it's continuously operating, they would have that. The priority that was articulated in East Portland is to make land available for uses that are more directly beneficial to the community. And I think the...
 Strong proponents of that will testify and give you their logic on that, but the commission believed that that was an important conversation for the council to have, so we've ordered it to you. Another provision of mixed use was TDM. TDM also shows up in the campus institutional zone, and implementation pieces are in the TSP. We believe TDM is very much a work in progress, but we're supportive of that progress continuing and increasing.
 We included hooks in the zoning to require TDM in both of those zones. We also gave a general recommendation in support of the Title 17 language that would implement TDM but recognize that it will continue to need to be developed. It will also intersect the central city plan that we're working on. And the last consideration of mixed-use zones is that we –
 avoided revising the zoning in some of the areas near proposed transit corridors. As those corridors are becoming clearer, some of those areas may want to be looked at sooner since they won't be transit line. A perfect example is probably the corner of Powell and Chavez. That will not be part of Powell Division transit line, it would appear. So you may want to look at reviewing that zoning sooner than you would have otherwise. We did not because it was still under consideration for the transit corridor.
 Another major component of the comp plan implementation is the TSP.
 and this was our first opportunity to adopt the bicycle master plan classification into the TSP. We did so, made some tweaks along the way, generally small changes to look at the network in local areas and make it more optimized. One major change we did look at was the 7th and 9th corridor. I know you grappled with that during your consideration of the project list. We did make a change there. We made the policy statement that the major city bikeway should be on 7th rather than 9th,
 And there was heated testimony on both sides, but really breaking that down, the testimony for 7th supported the idea that if you look at the topography and the connectivity, it is the better corridor. The testimony in opposition was primarily that there's lots of cut-through traffic on 7th, and please don't move it deeper into the neighborhood. So we believe that, you know, the correct policy is to be on 7th. The...
 The devil in the details will be to do an implementation plan that actually takes that cut-through traffic and puts it back where it belongs rather than inflicting it on other streets in the neighborhood. So, you know, there is a challenge there, but we believe it's one that PBAC can look at in the implementation project.
 You're likely to hear testimony about Hayden Island, a feature of the TSP and of the 2009 Hayden Island plan is a path around the edge of the island for pedestrian and bike access
 There was testimony asking us to remove that, fearing that it would cause mobile home parks to be removed or condos to be torn down. Obviously, it doesn't do that. It's a feature that only applies if redevelopment occurs. We believe that it was important to keep that marker down for access to the water in the future, not knowing exactly what form that would take, but keeping the marker. There's a public interest in that. One point.
 interesting provision of that is that when that was examined in the 2009 Hayden Island plan, council opted to remove that path from the area around Hayden Bay. We put it back. So we have a path around the whole island. So you're likely to hear from the community about that again. And
 And there were a few issues in the TSP that we thought needed more time for discussion, so we asked PBOT to include them in stage three of the TSP. As you know, the TSP is being done in stages, and those include looking at additional major city bikeways that would correspond with Metro's active transportation plan on some of our civic corridors, moving several major city bikeways that
 where development has sort of pointed in a different direction than it did in 2010. We have asked PBOT to look at policy around autonomous vehicles with a strong preference for the shared mobility model of autonomous vehicles, the robot taxi as opposed to the robot chauffeur and the desire to limit the miles that vehicles travel around with no passengers in them.
 And finally, we asked PBOT to look at a work-at-home program. We don't quite call that a mode, but it's a way of helping reduce demand on our transportation system. We also looked at the residential open space zoning program.
 The biggest part of that was simply aligning that zoning with other things that have happened, with new comp plan designations, trying to make patterns of zoning that were inconsistent in an area more consistent, and in particular trying to match the designations from the 1980 comp plan. So the number of areas going from R5 to R2.5, for example.
 One notable feature of that project was some selective downsizing in the David Douglas School District to help them with their school capacity problems, while still at the same time retaining the comp plan designations for future growth when they've got those overcrowding issues under control. We also looked at the community involvement program, and I will...
 express a little bit of remorse that we changed the name from citizen involvement to community involvement. I support that change, but as an old neighborhood association leader, I have nostalgia for the proactive engagement with government that citizenship applies. Unfortunately, the word has also become associated with legal distinctions, and we clearly don't want to link it that way. Okay.
 Probably the biggest issue we've faced in considering that was concern from neighborhood associations that we were downplaying their role. And we did increase the language around neighborhood associations to try and show that we still have great respect for them. But equally, we know that to engage our whole community, we have to have other avenues, whether that's culturally specific or other vehicles for people to give feedback.
 government input and we strongly supported that. We also appreciate that the community involvement program described is stronger than the current one and it is going to take both funding and effort to implement that effectively and we hope you will support that on an ongoing basis.
 And then finally, there was the Miscellaneous Zones project, which had two components. One was an update of the public trails map, and I think we took a lot of input from the 40-mile loop trust. We also had input from property owners who had preferences about how trails would cross their property. I think we generally have people happy about the tradeoffs that were made there. The issue in that project that's getting a little bit of press right now is the –
 4-to-1 FAR map in the RH zone. So as background, the default FAR in the RH zone is 2-to-1, except where specific properties are mapped to a 4-to-1 FAR. We had to update that for a number of technical reasons. As zones change, properties were not in RH anymore, or some were added. But we also had testimony about the impact on historic districts.
 Irvington called it out first, and in the discussion draft phase, there were some accommodations made to help protect the Irvington Historic District. That led then in our hearing phase for both NWDA and Goose Hollow to say, well, what about our historic districts? And we asked staff to look at that. Our recommendation was to remove a section of the Alphabet Historic District north of Gleason from the district.
 the 4-1 map in the interest of protecting contributing properties in that area. We looked at Kings Hill, and the assessment was that the buildings there of sufficient bulk, that 4-1 FAR was not going to change the character of that neighborhood, so we did not make changes there. I think you are likely to hear from property owners in the alphabet district because of the timing of our process. We got testimony essentially saying, you know,
 certainly cognizant of the historic preservation policies that council added to or beefed up in your consideration of the comp plan after our recommendation. I want to be respectful of that. But since testimony was already over for us, individual property owners would not have heard of our decision or the issue until today.
 after we were done essentially it would have gotten their notice and preparation for your process so i would say that you should probably listen closely to individual property owners in that district and if necessary make adjustments to the map for individual circumstances And why he said finally that was only finally for chris
 I'll try to be brief as I can here. Next item would be employment zonings. So we confirmed the code changes that were proposed there with a few exceptions. One was to be consistent with metro allowances, we recommended allowing nature preserves in prime industrial overlays. And we supported removing various metro-owned submerged properties near Smith and Bybee Lakes from the overlay.
 Additionally, we supported a zone map change in the Giles Lake industrial area from industrial use, which is IG1 to EG1, to minimize the impacts of the adjacency to the mixed-use neighborhood to the south. But in doing so, we recognized the transportation impacts to the intersection of Northwest Vaughan need to be mitigated, and therefore we limited FAR on office use to one-to-one. They can get a bonus by kind of...
 putting money into a transportation fund to help kind of look at mitigating the impacts on that intersection. With regards to campus institution zoning, we recommended adopting two new base zones for campus and institutions to replace the conditional use master plans and impact mitigation plans. This was done with a 9 to 1 vote.
 And the reasoning for that was that there was a lot of testimony from both the sides of the campus and institutions as well as the neighborhoods with regards to this item. As we were kind of working through issues, staff spent some time to try to understand what the campus and institutions' concerns were and to work through those.
 But we didn't have a chance to reach out to the neighborhood and make sure that they understood kind of how those changes were happening. So as Chris has mentioned, you may very well see in your process the neighborhood now reacting to our response to that. And those were all with regards to TDM. And in conclusion, we'd just like to note that these changes strive to ensure that we can accommodate the expected housing and job growth in ways that advance our community goals, specifically,
 For more affordable housing for more livable waves wage jobs and to meet our can't climate action plans So thank you for hearing us out. Well, thank you both We're at that 90 percent point or wherever you want to peg it where you know We've been working on this this massive effort for a long time these volunteers have put a lot of time in you've raised a bunch Of issues that I want to probe into further, but we've got a lot of people who want to hear from so I mean
 I'm going to torture you further and ask you to meet with me and Camille Trummer again in my office and go through some of these there and obviously answer council members' questions now and later, please. But I want to schedule some more time with you so that I can come back to the council and say, okay, I've delved into some of these, for example, the bonuses issue that you raised right out of the –
 right out of the gate. Obviously, we want these bonuses to work, and if we haven't calibrated them so that they will, that's a big deal. So it raised a lot of important issues, and just appreciate you and the rest of the members of this body that spend a great deal of time trying to figure this out, at least most of the way, for the five of us who have to ultimately decide it. So thank you. Well, there's still work to be done, and we will meet with you upon request at any time. Questions? Concerns? I want to, if I could, just take the liberty of having two leaders from the
 Commission here and put you on the spot on something that has divided this council. Tomorrow is October 7th. It was the day that the council set as a deadline for entering into a contract for a temporary shelter at Terminal 1 North. That contract has not been finalized because the parties have been unable, the parties meaning Housing Bureau and the developer, have apparently been unable to come to terms. So it is still an open question.
 But what the council initially said, we're going to do a short-term use there, which is allowed under the state of emergency. And that short-term use could last six months longer, but it could be as short as six months. The longer-term possibility that's been discussed and debated is converting prime industrial land to some other use, in this instance, to housing. My sense about the comprehensive plan that we adopted is, it's very carefully balanced.
 We already have a shortage of industrial land that's referenced in the comprehensive plan. If in the next couple of years there was a future council or action taken to try to convert prime industrial land at Terminal 1 North to, say, housing, where would we find the replacement land to backfill the 14 acres that we'd be taking out? And given the protections that we've built in in this comprehensive plan –
 How is it even legally possible for us to take that up? They're excellent questions, and I know you want to weigh in, so just a second. I would just say they're questions that we have robust discussions as well, but I would say in general we are always very supportive of protecting the industrial lands for just the reason that you were talking about.
 I can say personally, because this is not an item as a commission we've discussed, I would support maintaining it as industrial land and perhaps consider a temporary use for a short-term need, but that's where I would land. As far as finding other lands... We had to find 14 acres to replace that. There's a really robust discussion that was had regarding on West Hayden Island, which
 which has now been kind of taken out of discussion. So there's certainly one option there. And then, of course, the other areas that we have looked at were the golf courses. And then I think it's getting, and we certainly have that targeted, but brownfield redevelopment, and it's probably getting really serious about how many more of those areas we can really kind of start pushing forward. Probably, I would say, just my own view, we're at the point of being –
 particularly aggressive about brownfield remediation. I mean, we can add to the inventory, but given how difficult it is to convert brownfield, what our history has been, it's pretty aggressive. Chris, you want to add anything? Well, I think Kat identified the three potential places to look. The only thing I would add is, first, a clarification. We don't have...
 a shortage of industrial land we have exactly as much as we need for goal nine so if we take some away then we have a shortage but right now i'm sorry balance the plan in the sub-district in which terminal one is located i believe there's a shortage you're saying overall in the city we're balanced we are but it is a delicate balance um and i would
 Having been a very vocal participant in the conversation around annexing West Hayden Island and zoning that for industrial use, I would really like to try to avoid re-triggering that conversation. That would be the only thing I would add. Thank you.
 Other questions? Steve? Not a question, but just a heads-up along the lines of the heads-up the mayor gave you. I hope to engage each of you in discussions about particularly the actions on the alphabet district in Irvington and the CM1 designation for those three areas. So you'll be getting a call. Fabulous. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you both. Thank you. Look forward to more discussions.
 Okay, folks, we're going to be moving to testimony here again. Some of you weren't in the room when we started, but I want to reiterate some things. We're going to take people and ask you to confine your testimony to two minutes just so we can hear as many people as possible. We suspect we're going to lose a quorum in the neighborhood of 530 or 6, so we'll hear as many people as we can today. If you are standing by either in the Portland building or here farther down the list and you don't get heard today, you'll be scrolled up for the October 13th hearing, which is a continuation of this hearing.
 If you don't get everything in that you want to say today or think of something else or want to skip verbal testimony and submit testimony by writing, you can still do that. And, of course, we'll be accepting written testimony through the closure of the hearing, which we'll figure out when that is sometime after next week. So, again, we'll try to hear as many people as we can today. And if we don't hear you, you're already on the list for next week. And in the meantime, of course, you can submit testimony in writing.
 Miss anything, staff, there in terms of the process? And, Mayor, I just want to say to all of our friends that are here, we had originally hoped that this hearing would start earlier. We'd have the full day. Circumstances beyond our control have cut into that. I have an excused absence at 4 o'clock because I have to meet my son from school and take him to a soccer practice. But I regret I won't be here past 4. I will review the record and we'll get a briefing.
 Thank you very much. Okay, let's proceed, please. The first three, please come on up, are Terry Parker, Rebecca Mode, and Tony Jordan, and they'll be followed by Alan Kessler, Kiel Johnson, and Chris Rall. Good afternoon. Welcome. Mr. Parker, I think you're first. Yes, sir. Thank you. My name is Terry Parker. I'm a fourth-generation Portlander, and I'm speaking as an individual today.
 Regrettably, the TSP was developed under a cloud of biased discrimination. The one-sided stack deck policy expert group that helped develop the comp plan policy was assembled with an overwhelming majority of citizen members that were vetted to represent or lean towards supporting special interest alternative mode and anti-car groups and three members for freight interests. As with nearly all PBOT citizen committees, nowhere is there a...
 specific proportional representation for the primary financial stakeholders for TSP projects, the motorists who pay gas taxes, and other related motor vehicle fees. On Sandy Boulevard, any removal of motor vehicle lanes will increase congestion and emissions.
 With bidirectional weekday traffic volumes that exceed 26,500, each minute added to the average motor vehicle travel time will result in an increase of more than 440 hours of daily emissions.
 Any removal of on-street parking will have a negative impact on the small and minority businesses that line the street. With that said, the Rose City Park Neighborhood Association has continually opposed bike lanes on Sandy, instead favoring alternative routes being developed. Rose City Park is a working-class neighborhood. Unlike the more affluent neighborhoods of Lorehurst and Eastmoreland, the city is forcing the upzoning of nearly 20 blocks of mostly affordable R5 single-family homes near the light rail stations.
 Meetings with homeowners have suggested alternatives that now appear to have been ignored. At 51st and Sandy, a developer with the reputation of a villain wants to build an 89-unit, six-story apartment building with only 19 parking places. The area already has a tight supply of parking, given the city's own studies. Where are the other 45 cars that tenants were all looking for?
 will have going to be stored when not in use. Implementation of what the city is pushing will be detrimental to the livability of my neighborhood. This has prompted strong feelings by many homeowners that the city doesn't care about them. All too often, working through the system as it now exists only bestores less than marginal results. So instead of ramming through the status quo, PBOT and PSC edicts,
 What will it take for motorists and neighborhood associations to receive priority attention for a positive decree of resolution? Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you. I strongly oppose the Portland State Council. Oh, just put your name in first, Rebecca, I think. Rebecca Mode. Thank you. That whole thing can be pushed closer to you so we can hear you. The whole thing moves. The whole thing? Oh, like this way. Okay. Thank you. It works.
 I strongly oppose the Portland City Council adopting the PSC recommended zoning map and zoning code changes for my property at 506 Northeast Thompson Street, Portland, Oregon 97212.
 This down zoning of my property from R2 to R25 is inappropriate for my lot of 9,375 square feet. The current R2 zoning allows this property to add more units on the existing lot with the existing duplex. If this property changes to R25, the most that can be built without lot division and therefore tax reassessment would be an ADU. This could only happen if duplexes are allowed in ADU as proposed in the residential infill project.
 This downzoning violates Amendment P45, Encourage and Enable Middle Housing. Downzoning will add more costs due to lot division, tax reassessment from the lot division, thus making it too expensive for a homeowner to add housing on their existing lot. Thank you.
 The Elliott Land Use Committee initiated this proposal with the assumption that everyone who wished to add housing to their property wanted to demolish their existing dwelling. Simply not true creates huge financial burden to anyone wanting to add housing and keep their existing home on larger lots such as my own. I also want to see the historic character of Elliott preserved. I don't agree with the one-size-fits-all down zoning is the best way to attempt to deter home demolition.
 Elliott neighborhood consists of many varying lot sizes that should be looked at individually when considering down zoning The financial hardships of this proposal to individual property owners affected were not presented Some Elliott residents were allowed to be removed from this proposal even though they are also in the Elliott Conservation District This is inequitable
 My lot is perfect for keeping R2. It's large, close to public transit, parks, grocery stores, everything many residents value living in Portland. Downzoning this property takes so many great possibilities out of its future. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Hello. Hello. My name is Tony Jordan. I'm here on behalf of Portlanders for Parking Reform. We encourage council to trade parking requirements for more affordable housing by eliminating minimum parking requirements in the mixed-use zones.
 We asked council members to propose an amendment to allow new mixed-use developments to be built without off-street parking. The Obama administration recently released a housing development toolkit, which argues that, quote, parking requirements have a disproportionate impact on housing for low-income households because these families tend to own fewer vehicles, but are nonetheless burdened by the extra cost of parking's inclusion in the development. The significant cost of developing parking from $5,000 to $60,000 per space is,
 is incorporated at the start of the project, which can impede the viability and affordability of the construction. Portland's current requirements not only make housing more expensive, but also harder to find. Hundreds of homes may not have been built since 2013, as parking thresholds distort the cost-benefit calculations for new apartment buildings. These requirements will undercut the effectiveness of incentives for affordable housing and any eventual inclusionary zoning rules.
 Furthermore, BPS modeling revealed that additional required parking may limit utilization of the affordable housing bonus due to high cost of providing structured or underground parking. As most Portlanders can testify, off-street parking minimums also fail in their attempted goal of making curbside parking convenient. We can require developers to build garages, but we cannot require people to pay to park in them.
 The only way to make curbside parking more convenient in a busy neighborhood is to charge more for it. If the city prices its permits and meters properly, developers will be forced to provide adequate but not excessive off-street parking, as the COP plan asks, in new buildings without the city having to guess what that level is. Trade parking requirements for more affordable housing in Portland. Eliminate minimum parking requirements in mixed-use zones. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 Next three are Alan Kessler, Kiel Johnson, and Chris Rall, and they'll be followed by Charlie Tso, Joseph Schaefer, and Michael Robinson. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Alan Kessler. I'm a member of the Richmond Neighborhood Association Board, although I've been speaking for myself today. I was here to testify when the council was considering adding a parking minimum to the Northwest District.
 And there was a really compelling argument at the time that there's this inequity, there's this unfairness that the Northwest has this tool that the rest of the city doesn't have.
 But I think the council made the right choice. They realized that this tool is the last go-to tool in a stack of really great tools for parking and decided to postpone this and use some of the better tools to alleviate parking there. Well, now we have the chance to fix the whole city. As part of the mixed-use zone, we can undo the damage we did in 2013, and we can –
 give the other tool set that we're going to give to the Northwest to the whole city. So I think that argument is really compelling. The rest of the city should not be burdened by bad policy if the Northwest isn't so burdened. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. Hello, my name is Kyle Johnson. Four years ago I came up with the idea to put bicycle parking at the bottom of the tram. At that time the bottom of the tram was actually used as a goat field and there are a few goats that were trimming the grass. We came up with a plan to turn it into bicycle parking. Now four years later that's the largest bicycle parking area in North America.
 In the space that you could fit about 20 cars, we fit about 600 bicycles. So it's very efficient. My main message is whatever you build, people will use it and that's what they'll use to get around.
 The Bicycle Valley has been really successful, and so a few years ago I was able to purchase a condo in the Lloyd District. And I chose a building specifically because it didn't have car parking, because I didn't want to have to pay for the maintenance and maintaining car parking since we didn't own a car.
 So I'm here to testify against our support eliminating parking minimums in mixed-use zones because I think that it will increase affordable housing and better development around the city and encourage more people to use other means of transportation. Thank you. Thank you, and thanks for putting Portland on the top of another list. Yeah, anytime.
 Welcome. Hi, Mayor Hales, members of the commission. My name is Chris Rall. I work for a national transportation advocacy organization, but today I'm testifying as a dad. I have my twins turned nine yesterday, and I've also got a five-year-old. We're a one-car family. We live in southeast Portland, 54th and Division. My kids go to Atkinson Neighborhood School.
 And the reason I'm testifying as a dad is because the decisions we're making in this comp plan are about what our city will look like in the future. What is that vision? It's a walkable city that isn't choked with traffic where people have lots of options to get around and good housing options.
 And off-street parking requirements work at cross-purposes to that vision. They make housing more expensive, they incentivize car ownership, and with more cars we get more traffic. And after all these negative impacts, parking on street won't be any easier because we will have failed to address that issue of on-street parking directly. People will always park on street if it's free or insanely inexpensive, whether there's off-street parking or not.
 Thankfully, there's lots of tools for managing on-street parking. We've only just begun to tap those tools. There are even approaches that give existing homeowners grandfathered parking rights. Let's manage on-street parking where it's an issue. Let's just deal with it directly. In 10 or 20 years, which is the amount of time that many of these decisions will substantially impact the way the city looks, my kids will be looking for their first apartment. Will there be enough housing for them?
 or only for cars that they won't even be likely to own? Will the streets be choked with traffic because we doubled down on the suburban model, or will we have a walkable city? We can chart the right course with this plan, so please eliminate off-street parking requirements, and thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you.
 The next three are Charlie Sissot, Joseph Schaefer, and Michael Robinson, and they'll be followed by Sam Noble, Margo Black, and Paul Niedergang. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Charlie Tso, and I'm here today with Portlanders for Parking Reform to ask City Council to propose an amendment removing minimum parking requirements in the mixed-use zones. Our request is supported by Policy 9.58 in the Comprehensive Plan. Parking requirements have exacerbated Portland's affordability crisis by adding significant costs to development and limiting housing supply.
 A recent White House report states that parking requirements generally impose an undue burden on housing development, particularly for transit-oriented or affordable housing. Indeed, since 2013, Portland has lost an untold number of homes due to parking requirements restriction on housing development.
 minimum parking requirements will add more congestion onto neighborhood streets the mixed use zones are in many neighborhoods vibrant commercial corridors that are walkable and transit accessible but if we build abundant parking spaces for every housing development we're incentivizing people to bring their cars with them if we want to grow without adding more congestion we need to stop requiring parking and start giving people more mobility options
 At the hearing on July 6th regarding parking requirements for northwest Portland, City Council agreed that there are better parking management tools yet to be explored. Commissioner Fish reminded us that the 2013 parking mandate was only an interim solution, never meant to be the final product. But now, thanks to the hard work of PBOT and BPS staff, we have more tools at our disposal.
 and we know the harms of parking requirements. Where are the crossroads here? We can either build a city that puts housing for people first or a city that puts storage for private automobiles first. Trade parking requirements for more affordable housing in Portland, eliminate minimum parking requirements in mixed-use zones. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Good afternoon. My name is Joseph Schaefer, and I'm here on behalf of Michael Foster and Tim Ramis, who own abutting properties at 1434 and 1512 Southwest 58th. This is in Lower Sylvan.
 These properties are unusual in that they are zoned R20, which is for half-acre lots, even though the comprehensive plan is R2, which is essentially a townhouse-style density. And we are asking for the zoning to be conformed to the comprehensive plan and changed to R2.
 At the Planning and Sustainability Commission, there was concern raised that if this was approved legislatively, the city might not be able to get street improvements including a sidewalk built, that they would have more leverage if a separate zone change application was required.
 Apparently, the concern may be that the property owners would elect to use the new fee-in-lieu provision instead of paying for the sidewalks and the street improvement, in part because there are some gaps in the sidewalk in the neighborhood. However, those gaps are getting filled in rapidly. Our neighbor immediately to the south has a hearing on a seven-lot subdivision for townhouses next week.
 And the property at the intersection of 58th and Montgomery has also been approved for development of apartments with full frontage improvements on Southwest 58th.
 The property owners are happy to agree in whatever form the city would like to provide a full half street improvement when their properties do develop. We just ask that we not be required to go through the full rezone to get to the comprehensive plan designation of R2. This is a terrific opportunity for missing middle housing and we hope you can help us provide it more quickly and more efficiently. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, members of council. My name is Mike Robinson. I'm here on behalf of Richard Passantini. Richard and his family own about 30 properties in the city of Portland that are affected by the rezoning. Richard submitted a letter dated October 5th in which he asked the city council to consider changes to 11 properties. So all I want to do is just summarize those properties. I think the letter is self-explanatory and I don't need to go into a lot of detail given your schedule today.
 So the first property is at Southeast 60th and Belmont. The Planning and Sustainability Commission agreed with Richard's request and has recommended that those two properties be zoned CM2 and CM1, and we appreciate that recommendation and hope Council will follow it.
 The second group of three properties is zoned CM1, and we ask that it be zoned CE. The reasoning behind that request is that they're in appropriate locations for increased density. It allows more development, which in turn supports better transit, and we think it encourages more walkable neighborhoods. The second group of properties are four properties. They're in the inner city. They're proposed to be zoned CM2, and we request that they be zoned CE.
 and the letter explains why that's the case. The last single property is at, I want to make sure I get the right address, Southeast 12th and Belmont. It's just outside of the central city.
 It's proposed to be zoned CM2. We think it makes sense to have it zoned CM3. You're right across the street from the end of the central city. This property is appropriate for development, and with the different zone you have additional height and thus additional floor area in the development. We appreciate your time, and we'll hope you'll consider the request that Mr. Passantini put in his letter. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you. The next three are Sam Noble, Margo Black, and Paul Niedergang.
 and they'll be followed by John Denny, Elizabeth Moore, and Susan Whitney. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Sam Noble. I lived at Southeast 62nd at Stark in the Mount Tabor neighborhood, and I drive almost everywhere I go, and I just want you to understand that when I say that I want to speak categorically against parking minimums in the mixed-use zones and anywhere else that's relevant. I just don't think it's fair or reasonable to expect residents of new mixed-use buildings –
 to pay more rent in order to subsidize my on-street parking. The right way to address parking shortages is by charging a fair price for parking in the right-of-way. Without the inherent costs in forcing developers to include those parking costs that they can't recoup, the city leaves plenty of room to extract other concessions from developers in exchange for the right to build. Maybe that looks like inclusionary-style subsidies. Maybe it just means that when we have a downturn, rents will go down.
 Don't know. That's kind of up to you guys. But as I said, I drive almost everywhere I go, and that's because there just aren't very many commercial services in my neighborhood, certainly not around 60th and Stark. And so I want to talk about the vacant lot at Southeast 60th and Belmont that you actually just heard about. I really want to see this as a CM2 building. I came to talk to you at the comp plan hearings, and so my testimony then is still relevant.
 I think that the density is really important to support any kind of walkable services for me. This area is one of the very few commercially zoned areas that I can actually walk to, and since this council has not elected to provide more commercially zoned areas,
 particularly undeveloped ones, this one is really critical that it be developed and that it be valuable enough to be developed soon. I think that you might hear maybe from my neighborhood association that there are many good reasons why you shouldn't do this. I just want to suggest, and there's going to be more detail in my written testimony,
 What I want to say is that every one of those concerns can be addressed in different ways, be they a better signaling system or just some retiming. Maybe there's some concession to extract from the developer, but please respect the PSC's recommendation for this. And you're going to be submitting additional written testimony? I'm going to be submitting additional written testimony. Could you just tell me where do you park your vehicle? In my garage or my driveway. Okay.
 So, all right, thank you. Or when I drive to work, I pay for a parking permit. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Margo Black. I'm here today as a renter and a car driver to speak against anything at all that would possibly limit or more housing being built or increase the cost of more housing being built, which would, of course, be passed on to renters in the form of higher rents. So specifically, I'm here to oppose minimum parking requirements
 and any potential down zoning that is being considered. We know our population is growing. We shouldn't be doing anything but building more housing as quickly as possible.
 As a renter, I hear a lot about how if we can't afford the rent now that Portland is this cool, hip city, that we should just move. And I would say that Portland is growing up and it is becoming a bigger city. And that has come with increased rents that are typical of big cities. But it also means that it comes with increased parking and traffic situations that are usually dealt with by big cities, by landlords.
 by encouraging more public transportation and bicycle use and not facilitating on-street car parking. Big cities make room for people, not cars. And so I would say to the folks that are telling me to just move if I don't like the high rents, if there are folks who don't like not being able to find a parking place, they should just move as well. We need to be making room for people and not cars. I also...
 I want to say with respect to the sort of bizarre nature of today's testimony and being escorted in, I hope that city council will recognize as white folks and parents like I am that the people of color in this city who are being killed by police officers need to be heard on the police contract. And rather than suppress their voices, we should listen to their input and prioritize them. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thanks, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. My name is Paul Niedergang. My wife and I own and operate a small real estate investment business in urban Portland. Since 1999, we've owned and managed a mixed-use property at Southeast 50th and Hawthorne Boulevard. The property is currently zoned CS, and as the comp plan has evolved, our property was initially zoned CM2,
 and is now slated to be downzoned to CM1 because of the amendment F61 sponsored by Commissioner Fritz. I'm here today to ask you to reconsider the designation and return this property to its originally proposed designation of CM2. The draft plan shows that the corresponding zone for CS is typically CM2,
 and we feel that the proposed CM1 designation not only downzones our property, but also misses an important urban design opportunity. The intersection of Southeast Hawthorne and 50th Avenue plays a special role in the urban fabric. Whether coming from south along 50th or from the east from Mount Tabor, the intersection is a gateway to the Hawthorne District.
 This gateway is an important urban design element and an opportunity to create a strong sense of place and identity in the urban fabric.
 As an example of gateway zoning, if you look at the comp plan for Division and 50th, you'll see that all four corners of the intersection are zoned the same, creating essentially a gateway to Division up there. We feel that the easternmost entry to the Hawthorne District also deserves to be zoned in the same manner.
 The proposed zoning for the intersection of CM1 is unbalanced. The property is along 50th, and the west side are zoned CM2, but on the east side, they're zoned CM1. We feel that the intersection should have consistent zoning.
 We have no plans to take down the building, but we're concerned that if anything were to happen to the building, fire or natural disaster, and at some point we were going to rebuild the building, then we would certainly prefer to rebuild under the CM2 parameters. Thank you.
 And this corner is really kind of a keystone to the neighborhood, being at the end of Hawthorne Boulevard, and we feel that it really deserves a higher density zoning than CM1. So just by way of background, I was president of Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association for four years and sat on the Hawthorne Transportation Plan for six years.
 During that time, I worked with Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association to support the design and implementation of the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Entry. I need you to go ahead and complete your testimony. But you've done a great job of giving us great written backup here for it. Thanks. I just appreciate it if you would reconsider this and really review it and consider this one specific property for CM2. Thank you very much. No, this is great. And you've given us all the material we need. So that's great. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you all.
 Next three are John Denny, Elizabeth Moore, and Susan Whitney. And they will be followed by Ruth Adkins, Arlene Kimura, and Tim Ramos. Good afternoon. John Denny with Portland Nursery. And I'm here, I guess maybe because I don't understand the whole process as well as I should, but I really feel that the intersection of 92nd and the freeway or 92nd and division is underappreciated as a transit hub. Okay.
 I recently got this Notice of Proposed Zoning Map and Code Changes, which we participated with all of the comp plan hearings. And this indicates that the one particular tax lot on 92nd in the northwest corner of Clinton is going to go from R2 to CM2 in R2. That property is approximately 400 feet as the crow flies west of a light rail station.
 This zoning predates any of the light rail. It also is going to be on the new express bus from Gresham to downtown. There's good north-south bus, east-west bus, freeway ramps. And so I really think that having the R2 really under-exploited
 that utilizes this property. Now, it is designated to be R1, but we would like to see that R1 designation on that property and our property south of Clinton get the R1 designation so that it doesn't get developed as R2. This is not property that we'll be able to use as nursery under the comp plan, so we probably will have...
 do something with that property, which would be three or four acres of residential. We would like to see it all be R1 when that happens. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Elizabeth Moore. I own and reside at 5706 Northeast, 25th Avenue, Portland, Oregon. Today I speak for myself as a homeowner, an 18-year resident of the Concordia neighborhood area to be impacted by the proposed comp plan project.
 Thank you for the opportunity to address the City Council in regard to this proposed rezoning for my neighborhood. I'm here today to oppose the zoning change from R5 to R2.5 in this area of Concordia. I've attended city residential infill proposal sessions, attended the open houses sessions,
 attended the Concordia Neighborhood Association meetings and the LUTC meetings. I have heard from divergent organizations, and I've concluded at this point that the intentions of the City of Portland to provide housing affordability are just that. If we daylight the word affordability in Portland, you will only find minimal opportunities to become just another renter with little security of rental costs and occupation.
 where popularity where the popularity of the tear down build two expensive homes have been rightly challenged the urgency or quote moral obligation of providing houses for the influx of thousands in the form of middle housing as one group states has become the new embrace i have not heard that this proposal is anything more than additional apartment rental units built with a punity impunity in all residential r5 neighborhoods
 and as such would be questionable as affordable given the extreme leeway given to property corporations to set rates and evictions. The Concordia Neighborhood Association never canvassed my neighborhood, but nonetheless made recommendations to the City Council representing the neighborhood through a letter supporting a land use that does not represent my interests, nor do I suspect the majority of my neighbors affected by this proposal."
 I'm concerned with families that are not building equity and stability in our Portland neighborhoods when the only choice is to be renters. I would ask that you consider the missing middle class when the obvious consequence of removal of our modest homes leave the possibility of home ownership in these neighborhoods out of the reach for middle-income families. Thank you very much. We've got the rest of your testimony here. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Well done. Thank you.
 Appreciate folks, appreciate these. Not everyone has to supply a letter with your testimony, but it's very helpful when you do. So, and folks, again, if you want to, after this, if you just testified verbally, if you want to send us your remarks, it's very helpful to have both my notes and yours as I go back through all this. So thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Susan Whitney. I live on Southeast 47th in the Richmond neighborhood. I'm opposed to the rezoning of large portions of Richmond from R5 to R2.5. Supposedly, the city wants to create affordable housing, a very laudable goal. In fact, what is happening in our neighborhood where housing,
 there is already R25 zoning or they manage to get a zone change or a lot line uh change is that expensive housing is created one unit a perfectly affordable wonderful middle class old 100 year old bungalow is torn down and two behemoths are building its place and each of those is
 sometimes twice as expensive as the one house that was torn down. I have...
 many examples of canvas the neighborhood this is what's happening in the real world I hope you can see this it is with my written testimony this is a darling little bungalow on Southeast 49th Avenue it was amazingly sold to a developer for six hundred and twenty thousand dollars way over market
 What was built in its place is two lovely modern-style homes, taller than the rest of the neighborhood, completely out of character. How much are these selling for each?
 $800,000 each. This does not create affordability in the neighborhood. All of this is used as comparables by the real estate agents, and pretty soon every house in the block is going to be worth $620,000. Here's another one.
 4513 Southeast Madison Street, about four blocks from my house across Hawthorne. You can't really see, but behind the trees is a darling little affordable bungalow. It was sold to a developer in July of last year for $500,000. Again, over market.
 This does not fit in our neighborhood. Our 2-5 zoning is going to destroy the Richmond area. It's going to destroy the Sunnyside neighborhood. And 20 years from now, this lovely neighborhood where we all live is going to be gone. And people are going to say, no.
 There's a neighborhood here? And look at this now 20-year-old housing that was shoddily built. I was a construction lawyer. I know what's being put up is not going to have a useful life of 100 years. Thank you for your testimony. You've beautifully capsulized the problem. It is a problem. Thank you very much. A huge problem. Thank you. The next three are Ruth Adkins, Arlene Kimura, and Tim Ramos, and they'll be followed by Travis Phillips.
 Jim Warren and Mike Crean.
 good afternoon mayor hales and commissioners for the record my name is ruth adkins i'm with oregon opportunity network we're a statewide association of affordable housing and community development non-profits also on a personal note i've been a homeowner in portland since 1989. so first off i just want to appreciate the incredibly hard work of staff and the volunteers on the planning and sustainability commission and everyone involved in this massive and historic project
 I'm here today to ask you to support changes that will encourage density and the development of affordable housing wherever possible. I have two specific comments, but just in general, we know that neighbors in many parts of the city are upset about the pace of change and then particularly in historic areas, they want to preserve the character of their neighborhood. But with the housing emergency that we're facing and the growth that is projected to continue into the future,
 We need all neighborhoods to accept growth through increased density and to be willing to share the opportunities in their wonderful Portland neighborhoods with new residents, particularly those with low and moderate incomes who will otherwise be shut out or displaced. The best character of Portland includes values like smart growth, good design, and most of all, being welcoming and inclusive for all.
 So two specific pieces within this massive package before you. One, we asked that you would support, this is item, I believe, M42. It's supporting upzoning to mixed use on a stretch of North Fremont. And this would allow for mixed use projects that could include density bonuses for affordable housing. This would help with avoiding additional displacement of African American residents and businesses.
 The second piece is asking you to oppose the down zoning of Northwest. I believe Commissioner Smith alluded to this in his comments earlier. This is a swath of about 27 blocks of Northwest Portland that would be down zoned from the currently allowed 4-1 FAR to 2-1. This would undermine the city's intent to increase the availability of affordable housing and provide equitable access. So we're going to have to do that.
 So we request that you pull that one, and you'll be hearing more about the specific project that has been, that would be blocked because of this change. Good. Thank you. Thank you very much. Please do let us know. Thank you.
 Welcome. Arlene, sorry, you're next. I can wait. No, go ahead. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Maye Harrells. I'm here on behalf of the East Portland Action Plan to ask that you expand the ban on drive-thrus to include all the CE areas, or conversely, make more CE areas that are not east of 80th Avenue.
 The map on the testimony that I have handed in earlier shows that there's more than enough drive-thrus east of Adia we don't need anymore. Unfortunately, our land use pattern allows for bigger lots and has more commercial areas, and we think that this is not getting to the Portland ideal of community building, getting people out of their cars and walking through their neighborhoods.
 And so we ask that you support a ban on all drive-thrus, including in the CE zone, for new ones. The existing ones should be allowed to stay, and if they need to be fixed, fine.
 But I think we don't need any more additional drive-thrus. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the Commission, Council. For your record, Tim Ramos. I'm here today to speak to the proposal to substantially reduce available FAR through a large part of northwest Portland and its impact on housing, and not just theoretical impact, but on the impact on a specific project that
 160 units of low-income elderly housing including units designed for citizens with special needs this is a project proposed by northwest housing alternatives and the developer tells me that the project will not survive the loss of one half the far on the site you will recall this site from a couple of years ago when girding edlin and the owners mark o'donnell and i brought to you a proposal that was expensively detailed multi-family housing
 We needed a demolition permit, which was not granted by the council, and the conversation that day revolved around two important matters of public policy. One was protection of the historic contributing property there, and the other was the contribution to affordable housing. So with the help of, after that, with the help of Northwest Pilot Project, we sat down and worked with Northwest Housing Alternatives, and they are –
 they have developed a plan to save that building and to provide 160 units of housing for senior low-income individuals. That project is the one I'm here to advocate for and to point out that, as you know, those are very difficult projects to finance efficiently and to make work. And in this case, loss of half the FAR will downsize the project to a point where it simply won't work.
 This is a project that is being located at a place where it should be, a walkable neighborhood.
 where the city and the region have spent substantial resources on transportation infrastructure. It's the kind of place where this housing should be located. And without your help, it won't happen. So I would appreciate your attention to this issue. Remus, can I ask you a question? You'll miss your full amount of time. So we're getting a lot of e-mails and letters and things and testimony that generally supports transportation.
 your position in this and and i'm hearing from affordable housing advocates all kinds of people so the question i have is um um timing um assuming the council agree with you what what's what um is northwest housing alternatives under the gun in terms of of the sequencing of of their work on this and development i mean is there is there a is there a time that that
 that you and others would prefer we decide this way? I'm... Let me ask this another way. I was going to ask the same question. I'm going to defer to my colleague who will put it in plain English. OK. It was my understanding that the comprehensive plan doesn't go into effect till 2018. So if this project is already under more than just a twinkle in your eye,
 Won't it be able to be done under the current zoning? I would hope so. But the problem is – Is that what you were trying to ask, Commissioner? It was actually – you made it seem even – you dressed up my question. It became even more grand, so thank you. But that's one part, and the second part is what is the timing issue here? With good luck, that would happen. But we've all been involved in trying to build affordable housing projects. You're looking for certainty over time.
 Because as we know, having survived the worst recession in our lifetime, the market could change and there could be some delay, in which case the uncertainty kicks in once LUBA presumably adopts the comprehensive plan. If I could just make a very brief point. I believe Martha McLennan, the executive director of Northwest Housing Alternatives, is out of town this week, but she's planning to come next week, so she'll have additional detail. But I think it's that certainty piece. Okay.
 as well as other projects in the future that could potentially be developed in this area. Yeah, that's the issue, isn't it? You're using this as an example, but what you're really asking about is underlying...
 Do you respect what the Planned and Consumability Commission recommended, or do you ask us to do something else? That's a choice. Yeah. And one further point to emphasize something Chris Smith mentioned, and that is if the council were to decide to implement the proposed policy of reducing FAR in this area, I urge that you take a very careful look at the map. And the map, as you will see, is a kind of –
 checkerboard patchwork, and there probably is room to make some specific decisions on particular blocks, and I would urge you to do that on this one. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Let's proceed. Picks three are Travis Phillips, Jill Warren, and Mike Crean, and they'll be followed by Michael Foster, Sam Stuckey, and Bruce Sawyer, or Peter Fry for Bruce Sawyer. Good afternoon.
 Afternoon, Council Members. Thanks for having us here today. I'm Travis Phillips, and I understand that the current growth in population and related increase in development may make many nervous about the pace of change in our city. But I think it's worth reiterating a theme stated earlier by our Planning Commission members. The comprehensive plan must accommodate the anticipated future growth in our city while reiterating a theme stated earlier.
 It must accommodate anticipated future growth while retaining Portland values such as livability, affordability, and vibrant neighborhoods that are welcome to all. So I'm here in part as a resident of northwest Portland and within the area proposed for downzoning from a floor area ratio of 4 to 1 to 2 to 1. And I ask, as the couple folks before me did, that you pull this item for a separate vote and vote no. Thank you.
 There are a wide variety of building types and sizes within my neighborhood. And protections exist and are enhanced in the comp plan to retain the historic fabric in one of Portland's most walkable, accessible neighborhoods. Please help us keep this existing zoning to retain the livable yet compact development nature of the neighborhood.
 I'm also here on behalf of the organization I work for, Northeast Portland's PCRI, one that I believe all of you are familiar with. And on behalf of PCRI, I encourage you to approve Amendment M-42 with similar logic. This is an area of North Fremont that is proposed to be rezoned from residential to mixed use.
 In particular, the change includes incentives for developing affordable housing. This can help mitigate the significant displacement that's happened in north and northeast Portland, and it's still happening among historic residents, often lower-income ones of the Boise neighborhood. And I think this particular change is one that is in a neighborhood that can sustain the additional density, and the incentives will help provide affordability. Is that Fremont and MLK? It's Fremont between Mississippi and Vancouver.
 Thanks, Travis. Thank you very much. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council members. My name's Jill Warren, and I own two historic buildings over in the Alphabet District, and there are ten units of rental property. Back in 1996, we had the big flood, and both of my basement units in both buildings flooded. And we did a comprehensive mitigation for all the water and discovered that
 the municipal pipes are made out of clay. And so we did our mitigation. Everything's been fine up until this past spring. And you probably don't remember, but in late February, early March, we had a frisky little downpour. And because of the mandate to disconnect downspouts, my neighbor's house is pretty close to one of my buildings now,
 all the water just sheeted down into my backyard and flooded my basement unit again. And I had just moved in my tenants five days before.
 And fortunately, I had an empty unit upstairs, so I moved them and all of their belongings upstairs. And it took us – we had to replace everything because when you have water, you have mold. And so we had to replace drywall, flooring, cabinets because the water got in. And it took six weeks and cost $20,000. Right.
 So the infrastructure is of concern to me that to always have all of this, you know, increased density, it would be nice to upgrade the infrastructure system. So thank you very much. Thank you. Sorry you had to deal with that, but you made your point. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Michael Crean, and I reside at 7707 Southeast 141st Avenue in the Pleasant Valley neighborhood of the City of Portland. I'm here as a member of the Board of Directors for the East Ridge Park Homeowners Association to voice our strong objection to the proposed zoning map amendment, which locates a segment of a major public trail through the properties of our homeowners.
 the trail was part of metro's mount scott scouters mountain trail loop master plan completed in 2014. as presently proposed the segments in question as indicated on the map would pass immediately behind and contiguous to residences in our quiet neighborhood and there thereby pose a significant intrusion additionally we have concerns that the trails may conflict with the city's environmental protection uh requirements
 We believe there exists a much less intrusive alternative alignment around our property through publicly owned land. The public outreach process using the development of the proposed trail routes by Metro had one major shortcoming which curtailed our participation. It did not include a public hearing process such as this one whereby property owners directly impacted by a proposed trail route were formally notified.
 and given an opportunity to voice their concerns. As a result, a consensus of support, a stated metro goal from key stakeholders such as East Ridge Park was never obtained.
 In conclusion, we strongly protest the inclusion of these objectionable proposed trails into the zoning document and request the council do what should have been done as part of the planning process two years ago, work with us in discussing a much less intrusive trail alignment around our Portland neighborhood that both Metro and our residents could support. Thank you.
 The new one for me. I had not noticed this issue before. So is this your proposed alternative? No. These are two options that were put into the Metro report, both of which we object to. There's another alternative entirely, in your opinion. We think there is that we would like an opportunity to discuss. Which of our bureaus has the closest connection to this? Parks, BES? I would say Parks. Okay.
 All right, thank you. Appreciate you calling into our attention. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Michael Foster, Sam Stuckey, and Bruce Sawyer for Peter Fry. Thanks, Tim. And they'll be followed by Mike Connors, Peter F. Fry, and Tamara DeRidder. Good afternoon. Welcome. We'd like to go first. Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. My name is Michael Foster. I own a half acre property.
 right next to Mr. Ramis' property on Southwest 58 in the Sylvan area that Joe Schaefer spoke about earlier. I also own a house and live in the neighborhood of three parcels up the hill. I built the house in 1989. I've been in the neighborhood for 25-plus years. Okay.
 It's in Sylvan. That area is an excellent place to live. Services, business districts, proximity makes it very attractive. It seems natural for redevelopment. And as part of that redevelopment, what we need is for the zoning, which is R20, needs to conform with your plan.
 To get it to our to for redevelopment the issue here is We need to say so in order to get it redeveloped An order part of the part of the redevelopment plan is making sure we get good sidewalks in the area So that people can get down the hill to a bus stop or to light rail or in and out of the in and out of the area There are some restrictions, but we need to get to
 What we can in sidewalks during this redevelopment process, the properties that have developed, they built their fair share of the sidewalks. And the only way we can finish it is with redevelopment of the other properties that the city already has planned for redevelopment. If you can conform the zone. So for the plan, it would allow us to move ahead and start the redevelopment. I know there's a concern with the staff.
 about somebody ducking the responsibility. Tim's explained with the covenant, very easy to get a remedy. The properties that we'd like to redevelop both have very old homes on them. One of them doesn't even have a foundation. A third one that's going to be redeveloped has already been bulldozed. The house that I own was built in 1949. It's a two-bedroom with no historical significance.
 I know that that's been a hot button lately. That's very helpful. Thank you. Are you going to submit a written testimony as well? Yes, I can. Okay, please do. Thank you. Yeah, it's very helpful. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. My name is Sam Stuckey. Thank you for letting me come in to speak. I'm a lifelong Portland resident. I actually grew up in historic Irvington. I currently live in the Buckman neighborhood. I live and work there.
 My neighbors in my building are Portlanders through and through, a teacher, a nursing student, a musician. There's actually even someone who really works at Powell's. The neighbors outside my building are also Portlanders. They live in tents, and they sleep on beds of cardboard. We are in a housing crisis.
 and you know it and i know it and everyone here knows it and that's what i want to talk about the city's new comp plan is in my opinion phenomenal um for the most part seriously uh however there are i think you've said we're at the 90 point that 10 uh has some details in it that threaten to sort of undercut the whole deal and make it more of a toothless extension of outdated zoning and unsustainable housing policy
 Like I said, I grew up in Irvington. It's a beautiful neighborhood. But what makes it beautiful are not the big old houses. It's the people. And it is the schools and the parks and the block parties and the soup nights and the soccer games. And the beauty in where I grew up does not come from the fact that there is a house on the end of the block that sold for a million dollars.
 It comes from the fact that same street has a 17-unit apartment complex with affordable units for the elderly and millennials alike. Neighborhoods like Irvington and the Alphabet District are incredible examples of the communities that can spring up when diversity and development and inclusion are encouraged, or at least they used to be.
 For a time, Portland actually had an incredible diversity of housing types in its urban core, greater than any city in the country. That 17-unit building was built in 1929. Current zoning would not allow such a building to be built today. Proposed zoning could bring back that piece of Portland's historic character, or it could protect the property values of a handful of Portland's wealthiest homeowners.
 Would you submit the rest in writing, please? I will. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you, Mayor. Councilman. Sorry, I have a cold. Got you the wrong one. I'm Bruce Sawyer with Norris & Stevens. I'm a property manager for the company.
 I'm here to ask to allow older buildings to retain allowance for office in the industrial sanctuary zones. I've been talking with the Bureau of Planning, Steve Kuntz, and there are five buildings similar to what we have in the city of Portland. It's Columbia Pacific Plaza, located on 21st and Columbia.
 boulevard northeast there are two two floor office buildings excuse me uh square feet of 63 000 with warehouse underneath the buildings and underneath the two buildings it's 46 000 square feet of warehouse total of 109 000 square feet
 The building is approximately worth $8.5 million, and the landlord doesn't want to tear the building down. Watermill Properties Corp. purchased the building in the mid-'90s. Norris & Stevens took over the management leasing in the late-'90s. The property was developed as a bank office for savings and loans.
 with needed warehouse for the bank. Since the loan crisis, a single warehouse office user has not been found. Property has good parking ratio, limited bus service, no max. We proposed different types of tenant uses. One was call center. Because of the out-of-core area, it was rejected by the tenant. Our previous big box tenant was GSA census temporary lease tenant.
 GSA, Portland MEPs, military processing. In the west building, that was terminated 2002, and we haven't had a tenant, one tenant in there. Mountain Walk County Corrections was in the east building. They just moved out. They moved downtown and other areas of the city. You said there are five buildings that fit this pattern? No.
 Those are tenants that were in the building. Yeah, okay. Could you give the rest in writing, please? Yeah. If you could submit that to us in writing. You've given us enough to go on. Okay. Thank you very much. And that way you won't have to speak any longer. Thank you. Next three are Mike Connors, Peter F. Fry, and Tamara DeRitter, and they'll be followed by Wendy Chung, Mark Whitlow, and Bob Lefebvre.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Head camera while they're getting ready.
 Hi, how are you? Very well, thank you. Very good. I'm here, Tamara DeRitter, representing Rose City Park Neighborhood Association. And the comments that I'm providing are on health and economic vitality of the TSP that is being proposed. First of all, both Halsey Street and Sandy Boulevard are being identified as city bikeways.
 That's a concern for us because, you know, here we've got Sandy Boulevard that carries over a quarter of a million cars annually. That's a huge amount. And it's a major freight truck route. And then we've got Halsey, which is now being identified as an industrial street.
 We have, there's empirical evidence right now, scientific evidence that has proven that bicycling along major arterials in the urban areas generate harmful short-term and long-term health impacts to the cyclists. A recent publication, which is partly published by one of the folks from PSU, identifies that breath concentrations of the biomarkers of the volatile hyaluronic compounds that are inhaled
 We're significantly higher than the background levels after riding on high traffic arterials and on path that has high exposure to industrial areas. And these markers are 100 to 200 percent greater.
 than those that are on low-traffic residential streets. And so with your indulgence, I'd like to look at a change in the policy to add N health impacts based on air quality to 9.5.B, which is city bikeways. Okay.
 Again, it would read, motor vehicle lanes and on-street parking may be removed on city bikeways to provide a need for width and separated in-road facilities where compatible with adjacent land uses and only after taking into consideration the essential movement of all modes and health impacts based on air quality. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Welcome. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Mike Connors here on behalf of Hayden Island Enterprises. They are the owners and operator of the Hayden Island Home, manufactured home community, manufactured home with approximately 440 sites. I'm here to testify in opposition to the proposed city bike path.
 on the northern end of our park, extending through the northern part of Hayden Island as part of the TSP amendment. We have several concerns. First of all, there's overwhelming opposition from not only my client, our residents in the park, but also residents in the island, residents
 And we just object to the concept of proposing a public bike path against the wishes on private property, against the wishes of the owner and the residents that live there. Secondly is the impact. If and when this bike path is built, it would require the removal of numerous manufactured homes, somewhere in the neighborhood of 40 to 50 homes because they're along the northern edge of the park.
 and we obviously have residents who are very concerned about this. We're concerned about this. We think you should be concerned about this, given the importance of affordable housing and the recognition that this is a vital affordable housing resource.
 During the Planning and Sustainability Commission process, PBOT staff noted that the bike path wouldn't likely be approved unless and until the property is redeveloped. There's a couple problems with that. Number one, there's no guarantee that it won't be developed until the property is redeveloped. In fact, in their own staff report, they quantified that as it would not likely be developed unless the property was redeveloped as a whole. That's different than saying it won't be developed.
 And secondly, you should be concerned about the idea of proposing something on the anticipation of the redevelopment of an affordable housing resource. The recent comp plan that you passed included a policy, Policy 5.37, that encourages the preservation of manufactured home parks to go to that very need. And we think that the concept of a bike path, albeit even if it isn't built until the property is redeveloped, is inconsistent with that policy. Okay.
 I'm not quite sure what I think of this particular ingredient in the plan, and likewise with the portion on Hayden Bay. And I want to talk to the planning staff further about this, but there's an existing pedestrian walkway there now, right? Right.
 That's right, Your Honor. But there's not a – Mayor. I guess I was in court too recently. Too recently. Then there's not an easement, right? It's just a walkway, right, on a piece of private property.
 Correct. In the 2009 Hayden Island plan, there was a pedestrian path that was adopted as part of that plan. My client, the residents, weren't aware of that. But what you need to understand is what's being considered as part of the TSP amendment is an expansion of both the nature and scope of that, changing it from a pedestrian path to a road path.
 to a bike path extending along to the eastern end of the island. And so what we're asking you to do is if you're revisiting that issue as a whole, we're asking you to reconsider the concept. I get that, but it's ironic that you lapsed into your courtroom approach because I'm just looking at this from a legal standpoint. I don't think...
 that this provision would ever come to bear unless the property were redeveloped and an easement were granted right it's it's just a all you have there now is a line on a map there happens to be a walkway there but it's a fee simple piece of real estate with a line on it right well
 Well, but there's a practical impact. First of all, we have residents who are very concerned about this. I'm talking about in terms of legal and planning reality. You've got one single piece of real estate with a line on it, right? There's no easement. There's no public right to that as yet. There's not. But understand, too, for instance, practical implications of refinancing the property. That's going to have to be disclosed. And the impact of that on the property, it's going to reduce the value of the property.
 I see that. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Frye, welcome. So it's Peter Finley Frye. I'm here on Columbia Plaza. You just heard from Bruce Storr about that issue. One, there are five buildings, according to Steve Kuntz at the Bureau of Planning, that have the same unique problem.
 These buildings were built back in the 1980s. This case was built with this savings and loan. So it's an office building over a warehouse. The office building cannot be leased to an industrial use except for industrial office, but that's not allowed outside of the downtown area because industrial office is not allowed outside of the inner city. Okay.
 So basically, we're asking that in these older buildings, there's a provision in the zoning code, which I'm happy to write, that would allow these office buildings to continue to be office buildings. Our argument is that they have been there for 30 years or more. They have not caused any real problems. I'm talking about traffic and that kind of impact.
 And we're not going to tear them down. And it does add employment density. And we're not going to get the downtown office type of user out there on Columbia Boulevard. So it's a technical zoning problem. And, in fact, it's one that I wanted to avoid because every time they have a new tenant, they have to call me and I have to do a conditional use. And I don't want to constantly be doing conditional uses to it.
 At some point, I think they should just be fine and permitted. So that's our testimony. Thank you. Well, I might want to take you up on your offer and get you to follow up with written testimony that contains your suggested code language. Yes, I will. Thank you. Thank you. We always take free help when we can get it. Thank you, Peter. All right. Who's next? Next three are Wendy Chung, Mark Whitlow, and Bob Lefebvre.
 and they'll be followed by Eric Hovey, Brent Arendt, and Chris, I believe the last name is Kovare on Upshur. Okay, who's ever ready first proceed? Oh, she's got a PowerPoint. Yeah, there we go. Do musical chairs and let her have technical support. Mark, why don't you go ahead because that will take a minute. Okay, thank you.
 Mayor Hales, council members, Mark Whitlow for the Retail Task Force. We think you need to be concerned that the city isn't yet ready for high-density mixed-use citywide from downtown to its eastern edge. The market's just not there yet. It's going to take years in some areas, especially out east. The current mode split for traffic is...
 is 80-20 auto, with PBOT's 20-35 projection being only 76-24. So we have a long, long way to go to reduce reliance on the auto. That means there remains a real need to accommodate the auto during this planning period. The MUZs don't do that. They make vertical mixed use of the preferred development format.
 And that's also true for the CE zone. It's partially auto-accommodating, mostly mixed use. So in fact, the general commercial zone doesn't have a counterpart in the MUZ zoning mix. Yet the MUZ says it's multimodal. And so we need an adjustment to provide equitable zoning for auto-accommodating businesses, including grocery. There's a food desert problem.
 CE zoning would be part of that fix. But under this plan, all existing auto-accommodating developments become non-conforming. They're not favored for redevelopment. That causes blight, stagnation. It's bad for the local economy. Owners and operators hate it. We addressed this issue last time. You gave us policy 7.17 saying phase things in. The PSC missed that point.
 So we're asking three things. We've proposed a detailed CE zone map with good justification, including 28 sites requested for CE by Albertson, Safeway, Fred Meyer, McDonald's, Starbucks, and Dutch Brothers Coffee. We got two out of 28. On the big map, we got virtually nothing. Number two, please revise the CE zone purpose statement to make it auto-accommodating. And three, adopt our proposed drive-through prohibition map to
 and treat existing drive-throughs as allowed instead of non-conforming. Thank you. And you've submitted that proposed map? Yes, and I'll have a detailed thick stack for you before the end of this. Thank you. All right. Thank you very much.
 Who would like to go next? I've been elected. Okay. Mayor Hales, commissioners, my name is Bob Lefebvre with Commercial Realty Advisors. I'm a retail broker here in town. CRA just celebrated its 20th anniversary of business, representing retail developers and retailers throughout the state of Oregon and our office here in Portland. Our office is fortunate to represent a number of grocers, a couple of which are very large format affordable ones.
 Throughout this process, we have pushed for more CE zoning because it is the only auto-accommodating zone with which these retailers absolutely require to locate in.
 The PSC virtually ignored our request, and the end result is it will exacerbate, I believe, the food desert problem we have in the city, particularly for affordable grocery. It's going to cause an increase in VMTs as urban residents continue to drive out to the edges of the cities to shop on weekends, particularly for those affordable goods. And, of course, it will prevent hundreds of jobs that these retailers would bring from ever occurring here.
 We also ask for greater use of CE zonings to allow new drive-thrus and quick vehicle servicing. The drive-thrus for many of these businesses, obviously if you're a Dutch Brothers, it's 100% of your business, but for many of the other ones, it is a material impact on their sales and their profitability. And without them, many of them are not likely to come.
 It is also important for elderly, for handicapped and families with small children. It is a necessary convenience. I was just with a woman yesterday who said she drives way out of her way to go to this particular outlet that happens to have a drive-thru.
 We recognize the tradeoff with preserving urban form and centers in our meetings with you, Mayor Hales, and traditional walkable districts. However, the PSC chose to implement a ban east of 80th in areas that are primarily auto-oriented. Why? Because some fast food restaurants sell some unhealthy food choices? Why?
 I think people need to make their own food choices personally. And also fast food restaurants are evolving to have more healthy choices as a result of consumer demand. And what about all the other uses that get thrown out with the bathwater, all the other drive-thrus for banking, gas stations, et cetera? I please ask you to look at both of these issues with greater detail, and we'd love to participate if needed to any further meetings on it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Wendy, welcome.
 Mayor, commissioners, I'm here to testify on behalf of the Northwest District Association. I'm Wendy Chung, for the record, vice president of the Northwest District Association. And I'm testifying today specifically about one portion of Task 5, early implementation, the RH zoning issue in the Alphabet Historic District in Irvington.
 As Chris Smith mentioned, and I think Commissioner Novick commented at the last hearing that Chris Smith is the smartest guy he knows, and I agree with that. He's a smart guy. He mentioned that the procedural posture of this issue, which came to you, and I'm actually going to discard most of my prepared remarks because I have to respond to some of the things that were said.
 testified to earlier, but I think there's been some sort of confusion because we're not asking for down zoning. We're asking for a correction or truth in zoning. So you'll notice, for instance, that under the current code, and this answers Commissioner Fritz's question, I think, to Tim Ramis, which is under the current code, historic overlays,
 supersede base zones. And so in your findings, this body, and I wish Commissioner Fish hadn't left because I believe it was he who specifically opined that the historic overlay with this particular parcel that we're talking about as the example, which I don't think is a particularly good example given the fact that this body, landmarks, BPS, BDS, and the Northwest District Association all agree that Port 101 is incompatible and could never be built here.
 So I think that the affordable housing argument is a red herring in this particular case because of the fact that it could never be achieved. So back to the amendment itself, one thing I want to point out is the reason that it's incompatible with, and this is BPS's own map, but you'll see that each of these parcels above the green line are the ones that BPS has recommended changing from 4-1 to 2-1.
 Most of them have little black dots in them, you'll see. And those little black dots are historic landmarks. So this idea of losing 27 blocks of housing and I don't know how many millions of square feet were in the paper that we're going to lose, it's disingenuous at best because most of those parcels contain historic properties.
 We are, in fact, asking you to implement the comp plan as you've adopted in June, specifically Policy 4.49, which demands that we resolve conflicts in historic districts and refine the base zoning in those districts. Thank you very much. Thank you for giving us your testimony and writing. That's very helpful. Thanks. Thank you all. The next three are Eric Hovey, Brent Arendt, and Chris Creaver.
 And they'll be followed by Timothy on, sorry, I can't read the last name, and Dennis Harper. Good afternoon. And Doug Klotz. Good afternoon. Haven't seen you in a while. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 For the record, my name is Eric Covey, economic and development consultant speaking on behalf of the Retail Task Force. Analysis that we have prepared and submitted in testimony to the PSC yields three observations for consideration with your deliberations for mixed-use zones. First, outside of the central city, Portland is under-retailed, especially in East Portland where grocery choices remain scarce and expensive for residents. Thank you.
 The lack of adequate and affordable full-service grocery means that residents must travel further to shop or use convenience stores as a less healthy alternative. Second, the city's food deserts are also the places where building rents are often subpar, making it more challenging for investment in providing affordable goods and services to Pencil.
 especially for day-to-day needs like grocery, pharmacy, restaurants, banking, and personal services. Auto-accommodating use is important for customer convenience and for business viability. And third, while transit, walking, and biking are on the rise...
 Auto use still accounts for more than 80% of the trips outside the central city. Development standards that work in higher density areas with good transit service run the risk of proving counterproductive for residents living in areas with the poorest access to quality, healthy, and affordable shopping choices.
 Expanding CE zoning for auto accommodating development and phased implementation of mixed-use zones is urged to avoid the risk of disinvestment in those areas of Portland where retail services are needed most. Phased implementation becomes pivotal to encourage investment in sync with what the market will support today as well as over the next 10, 20 years. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. You're going to submit that as well? Yeah. Good. Appreciate it. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Brent Arendt. I'm a traffic engineer, and I've worked for a number of large retailers throughout the metro area. So I think I have a pretty good handle on how things work as far as needing to have the auto accommodating uses and their customers needing to be able to travel there by auto. I testified both before council and the PSC.
 earlier on these issues and provided examples. One was the Costco that had been proposed in northwest Portland and indicated their existing customers have to drive out of town. And what that VMT impact is, a lot of extra miles for Portland residents to drive out of town to go to those other stores currently, where it would be nice if they could stay in town, not to mention the employment and the tax dollars that would stay in the city if you're able to locate one of those uses.
 And I also mentioned about a lot of the larger retailers have located along the 82nd corridor, and people that live between downtown and 82nd, they often drive out that way and then back home, driving extra miles out of their way to buy their groceries. Okay.
 And you may be familiar with the WinCo that recently opened at Powell and 82nd. I think the only reason that that could open today is because it was an existing facility. I think it was built as a food for less originally. And that place is doing great business. I've seen it operate, and most people are driving by car. And as was mentioned before, a lot of the lower-income people, they shop at these places, and they need to –
 need to get there and they go once per week and going by auto is the best option for them they can go they can get everything they need in one trip uh as opposed to um the the smaller uh higher end uh grocery stores for example a lot of these people can't afford to uh to shop there but that's what the zoning is kind of limiting uh for in the city is these higher end smaller uh grocers that don't serve those people well thank you thanks very much welcome
 Hi. Thanks, Mr. Mayor. Commissioners, thanks for having me. My name is Chris Krieber, and I own a property at 2580 Northwest Upshur Street in the Northwest District. And I'm here to strongly object to the downzoning proposal for my particular piece of property. Upshur is located in two vibrant employment centers, Northwest 23rd and Northwest Industrial District, Upshur.
 We're right near the streetcar, we've got bus routes on Vaughan, shopping, restaurants, and a walkability score of 95. Clearly we're in a housing crisis and limiting the ability
 to potentially build affordable housing at my location is something that I deem, you know, counterproductive. Um, yeah, I currently am surrounded by, uh, some section eight housing on the, uh, between 26th and 27th and Upshur. Um, and I have a unique piece of property that, that you could develop, uh, and take advantage of the current CM zone currently, uh, uh,
 We're looking at going from CM to CM1. I have a 45-foot height restriction today, and that is being threatened to go down to 35 feet in the CM1. So going from a medium-scale commercial mixed use to a small-scale commercial mixed use is something that –
 is something that I strongly object to. Looking at the map, it is a checkerboard proposal. And when I look at Northwest 26 and Thurman behind me, one block closer to the core Northwest residential neighborhood is a laundromat, which is still designed to say CM1. I'm
 In a situation, or CM2, excuse me, and I'm in a situation where I'm much closer to the Northwest Industrial District, where three to four stories apartment buildings and residential buildings are of the norm. I'm right around the corner from the Vogue and the Xavier Flats apartment building. So I request that we revisited this, and hopefully we can keep my zone either CM or go to CM2. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 The next three are Timothy Ray, Dennis Harper, and Doug Klotz. And they'll be followed by Giselle Johnson, Vicki Skyra, and Scott McLean. Welcome. Good afternoon. Mayor, Councilman. I'm here for a small piece of property located on Williams Avenue. The address is 3300 North Williams.
 We participated in some of the community discussions regarding zoning for this area. It was zoned R1. Unfortunately, it remains R1. I have submitted...
 at least my letter of explanation, along with a letter from the City Environmental Services. We got one of the original first grants for brownfield remediation. This was a cleaning, dry cleaning site where people had been literally pouring the chemicals out on the ground. It's one of the most... It was deemed one of the most contaminated sites in northeast Portland...
 We've been vacuuming and aerating the soil for the last two years. As an R1 zoning, we may not be able to put housing on the first floor because of the extent of the contamination. And the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, they kind of rule any kind of –
 The particular, the particulate matter for residential housing. When you look at the map, we're surrounded by CM2. And we thought for sure that we would be getting the same zoning as the rest of the properties around us. It's kind of bizarre when you look at the map. It's.
 both to the north and the south of us on williams at cm2 and then there's this one small piece of r1 that's us we would like to see this uh just be contiguous with the rest of the cm2 and rather than going through sort of
 The uncertainty of not being able to develop it with the residential on the first floor, I think we'd go along with the mixed use, which was the intended development from...
 years back. Okay. Thank you. The site's vacant now, is that right? It is vacant. Yeah. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. My name is Dennis Harper. Upon reviewing the miscellaneous zoning amendments proposed draft June 2016, I was alarmed to find that a vast swath of northwest Portland was zoned RH with FAR of 4 to 1. Almost all of the affected area occurs within the historic alphabet district east of Northwest 21st Avenue.
 Subsequently, city staff proposed that only the southeast quadrant of the Alphabet District retain the RH zoning with FAR of 4 to 1. As a longtime owner of a home listed as a primary contributing building in the southeast quadrant of the Alphabet District, I urge City Council to designate all of the historic Alphabet District at FAR 2 to 1. The RH zoning with the maximum FAR of 4 to 1 is a threat to the future of the southeast
 southeastern quadrant of the historic alphabet district. Property owners and developers will certainly be enticed to demolish smaller historic buildings in the district in order to replace them with larger, taller buildings up to FAR 4-1. I request that City Council reduce the FAR to 2-1 in all areas of the historic alphabet district in order to eliminate the owner-developer enticement to tear down and build bigger,
 Furthermore, the historic resource protection overlay zone and the planned district required development in the area to be compatible with existing patterns in historic context. So a maximum FAR of 2 to 1 would be a better fit for properties currently with no structures, such as parking lots. Tall, out-of-scale new buildings near such prominent older buildings as St. Mary's Cathedral, the Northwest Children's Theater, and Trinity Episcopal Cathedral would damage the character of the historic alphabet district
 If you are assuming the RH zoning with a maximum FAR of 4 to 1 is necessary to sustain adequate supply of housing units in the city, then refer to page 120 of the miscellaneous zoning amendments. The commentary states that due to the large surplus of residential capacity in the city, the code provisions for no net loss of housing and a housing pool are to be deleted. So under the proposed zoning amendments, a reduction of FAR to 2 to 1
 in the historic alphabet district would not be in conflict with the requirement to maintain residential capacity in Northwest Portland. So in conclusion, I urge you to support the reduction of FAR to 2 to 1 throughout the historic alphabet district. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
 Hi. Thank you. Doug Klotz. Thank you for having me here. I support the majority of the proposed coded mapping changes. I support Portlanders for parking reform and their effort to remove parking requirements in the mixed-use zones. Now that we have a parking permit system waiting and ready to go, we have a growing housing crisis, and we have the White House advocating for eliminating parking requirements, this is the time to do that and remove parking requirements for all mixed-use zones projects.
 We should trade parking requirements for more affordable housing. As a member of the Citizen Advisory Committee for the mixed-use zones, I support the CMC 1, 2, and 3 concept, but I'm concerned about the reduced base FARs in those zones. Inclusionary housing will take over that and may encourage the –
 use of the bonuses, depending on where the inloufea ends up. But we should also look specifically at what happens on 5,000-square-foot lots. Nineteen units could be built on these lots, which doesn't trigger the inclusionary housing. It could be built on these lots, and it is currently being built in our neighborhood, in the Richmond neighborhood now. But the two-and-a-half-to-one base FAR that's proposed is too small to allow that to happen.
 And I don't, those may not pencil out, so we'll lose all those units. I would raise the base FAR in CM2 from 2.1, I'm sorry, from 2.5 to 3.5 for lots smaller than 7,000 square feet, just to address that one issue. Okay.
 I support the ban on drive-thrus east of 80th. Commissioner Andre Baugh made a very eloquent argument at the Planning Commission as to the effects of all the drive-thru facilities in the neighborhood out there, and I support his reasoning on that and what you've heard here from Chris Smith.
 At all existing drive-thrus, I support requiring the business to serve anyone at any time that they're open, not just those in cars. In other words, if the drive-thru is open, ownership provide a safe way for those on foot or cycling to also buy a burger or use the ATM. That is a proposed amendment. I mean, that's proposed in the plan. Thank you. You've obviously given us a great deal here. Oh, yes. We will review. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay, who do we have next? Our Josel Johnson, Vicki Scaria, and Scott McLean. And then the last two in this first session are Brad Hochhalter and Pearl Mead. Great, welcome. I can't remember who's first, so you probably do. I'll jump in. So my name is Josel Johnson, and greeting to Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you.
 I am actually the face of an individual resident in the Northwest Alphabet District who owns my own home and wanted to speak on the FAR changes from 4.2 to 2.2. I actually support this. I purchased my home in 95 because of the historical nature of the activity. One of the things that I have seen specific to my neighborhood, and I'm on the corner of 18th and Hoyt, is Park 19th.
 So we were able to see the first large building go in there, and it completely cut us off from the park. As we continue to see these large developments come in, we change the character of the neighborhood. I have long-term tenants. I have tenants over a decade. So in some cases, I am affordable housing. I'm able as an individual person to maintain that community and to engage in it.
 What I'm concerned about is the legislation by headline. I want us to work together as a community and ensure that what we have agreed upon, we put forth and we don't cherry pick what we're doing. If I hear one more developer tell me it doesn't pencil out, the rules are there. The rules are there from the start. As an individual homeowner, I have to follow those. What is different? Why can't we keep that so that we're consistent?
 I believe this recommendation supports that, so it clearly lays out the outlines of what is available and what isn't, and stops getting these people coming in and saying, well, it would pencil out if I had another 50 feet or another 2,000 acres. I'm being facetious there.
 So what I'm looking at, again on the affluence, I'm a little bit concerned that affluence regarding having to chain down my front door, my front porch furniture really doesn't count. In fact, that I can't leave anything in my car. We're a neighborhood in transition. I'm a community member that wants to engage in there. I'm living there. I'm tired of people coming in and purchasing property, creating things, and not being in the community.
 I support the alphabet district. I support the community as an over 20-year resident. This is not supporting that community.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Okay. Hi, I'm Vicky Skria. I'm pleased to be here, and thank you so much for hanging in there with this long day of testimony. I'm a property owner that's directly impacted by the FAR change in the RH from 4-1 to 2-1 in the Alphabet Historic District. And I propose the change that's recommended by the PSB.
 I see it, as Wendy Chung explained, as a technical correction that aligns the base zone with the overlay requirements. And the real issue is the historic overlay, which kind of tampers down what can be grown. I think that historic preservation and affordable housing should not be at odds. I think they should work together. They're both important. I fully support the affordable housing project that is proposed on the lot across the street from me that's gotten a lot of media attention. Right.
 But a development has to comply with applicable zoning requirements and be compatible with the neighborhood. That's just the way it works. The last neighborhood discussion about this site concerned a proposed luxury hotel, and the site owner presented a concept that preserved the historic building
 and adjacent and proposed adjacent three-story construction. The neighbors praised the preservation of the historic building and the scale of the overall project, but pointed out that the residential zoning does not allow a hotel and would require a zone change. When Northwest Housing Alternatives reached out to me personally a month ago to discuss the proposed housing project, I was delighted. I, based on the last neighborhood discussion with the owners and NHA's two most recent elderly projects,
 They each have 45 units on sites that are larger than the one in Northwest and were successfully developed and operated. So one is Alma Gardens in Orinco Station, has 45 units. The other is Oak Ridge Park Apartments with 29,000. The site in question is 20,000 square feet. So part of it is just like that.
 So, that's a malfunction with the timer. We've given us the testimonies. We've got this on the record now. Okay. Well, I really encourage you to look at this closely and consider the two-to-one. Thank you for being here. Thank you. Before you start, I think we still have some folks over in the Portland building that may be standing by, and I don't think we'll lose a quorum until 5. I'm not sure about my colleagues' plans or endurance, but...
 but I also want to be sensitive to the endurance of folks who have been waiting to speak. Yes, they're going to find out and see. Okay, so if there are some folks over in the Portland building who still have stuck it out and would like to try to speak today, I think we can get a few more in. We've got a list of 35 more people. 35 more? We won't get all 35, but we might get some of them. Some of them may have gone already. Some of them may have decided to wait for next week already, but please, sir, go ahead. Five more.
 Okay, well we're going to keep going for a while then. Go ahead, sir. Okay, my name is Scott McClain. I'm a commercial real estate broker with Colliers, and I'm representing a property owner. His name is Richard Chiaragino, and he owns property at 102nd and Southeast Portland. It's 1004 and 1040, Southeast 102nd. His property is currently zoned institutional residential. The comprehensive plan is recommending changing the zone to campus institution.
 institutional. The big change there is his zoning currently allows household living. The new zone will not allow household living. So his property will be significantly down zoned if this comprehensive plan is passed. His family's owned the property since 1910. There's two older homes on it that will also be out of conformity. They'll be non-conforming houses at that point, which are complicated because it's hard to get insurance and financing and sell properties when they're not conforming.
 So right now, housing is pushing out. Eighty-second, we're seeing lots of sales of apartment land. We're going to start seeing it on the other side of the freeway. This property is a little bit ahead of the game. And if we change this zone and he doesn't have a chance to sell it for an apartment at some point down the road, it's going to significantly impact the value of the site. I'm sorry, but I'm confused. You say it's zoned in institutional residential now, but it's owned by a private party, not by an institutional? That's correct.
 Okay, I'll get more information later about how that happened. Yeah, and so the new zone, which I believe is the campus institutional use, will not allow household living. And this property, which is owned by an individual, has two houses on it. What do you think the zoning should be? I think it should stay the same.
 Stay as institutional residential. I think we're doing away with that. Well, there should be another zone that's similar, something that allows household living that's similar to the current zone. I apologize, I didn't realize that. That's okay. I appreciate you highlighting this. That's an unusual situation. It's an unusual situation. It would be a significant impact on this family if the property is zoned. It really only works for one buyer at that point if the zoning is changed and doesn't allow household. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you all.
 And the last two I have in this first session are Brad Hochhalter and Pearl Mead. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. Mr. Mayor and commissioners, thank you. My name is Brad Hochhalter. I'm a homeowner, and I live in New York.
 the alphabet district at Northwest 18th in Gleason. And I'm a Portland native as well and was born just a few blocks away from where I live, actually, which wasn't planned. What I'm here to testify about is in support of the proposed change from 4-to-1 to 2-to-1 in FAR. I think it's a great idea. I think it shows...
 Whoever does those comprehensive plans, all that work, they're obviously very thoughtful about it. And I think it's going to help the neighborhood. One of the strengths of the neighborhood for me, and I've...
 I've lived other places around the country. It's intimate, yet it's still vibrant. There's still many people living there. I think this will help retain that quality and the historical nature of the neighborhood. And I'm surrounded by a bunch of historical homes as well, so I'm really lucky. Anyway, I just wanted to say I support that change, and I hope you do too. Welcome. Good afternoon. Go ahead. My name is Pearl Mead. Yes.
 And I don't even know why I'm here, so I'll let him tell us. Mrs. Berry. Welcome. Mrs. Mead owns three lots and a home on Southeast 83rd Avenue at 6831 Southeast 83rd. And she also owns a home across the street at 6834 Southeast 83rd.
 you're proposing to change all that area from R1 zoning to EG1. And as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't affect me, but for the people up the street, they are concerned. We've got new people moving in, and they've just bought their homes, and they read this as an EG1. If they ever sell their homes, this goes back to a –
 vacant land rate of cost. Their home value will go down rather than up. The people across the street, which it only involves like 10 homes, are concerned that their home values at the present time, which are one and will remain that, will decrease because of the commercialization of the area. And I wish to thank you all for your service.
 And that's why we're here today, to try to work something out that will be comparable to the R1 rating of the homeowners and Mrs. Mead as a property owner, which could be developed into small business, which she's more concerned with the love of the neighborhood than the money. Yeah.
 Appreciate that. We'll appreciate you calling this to our attention. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, we have some other folks that... We have one person who stayed, Tony Schwartz. Okay, come on up. He just stepped out. Oh, he just stepped out, so let's give him... Pull up there and...
 I have a filler, actually, because it occurs to me that a lot of those requests are on matters that we did discuss, and so people are coming back for another bite of the apple, as so to be said. So can you make sure that if other people came to testify before and they –
 opposing what's been asked, that they get specifically notified that what they thought was a done deal is now back on the table. I'm thinking on Fremont. There's a few other places where we had a lot of testimony, a lot of discussion. If I was a neighbor there, I'd be like, fine, I'm done. And now they're not done. So can you make sure that we notify people, please? If there's an amendment that affects them, we will do a courtesy notice of it.
 Great, thank you. What would they know for next week? Are we going to have any more testimony after next week? We have another hearing next week. Right, but then... There will be a hearing in November on the amendment. Okay, so the next time that people need to come in if they support what we decided before is in November. So if we make a change, or if we're considering a change in the form of an amendment, then the folks that would be affected by that are noticed, right? Thank you. Great.
 It's important to remember how that works. Thank you. Welcome. Thanks for waiting. Oh, thank you, sir. My name is Tony Schwartz. I live at 17th and Irving in the Alphabet Historic District. I'm here in support of the change in zoning of the 4-to-1 FAR to the 2-to-1 FAR in the Alphabet Historic District. I want to know quickly, and you know this, that the comprehensive plan does call currently the one that you're reviewing right now for an additional 267,000 units. The forecast is half that, 137,000 units.
 So the downzoning at this point from 4-1 to 2-1 will not impact housing in a drastic way. Obviously, there's concerns from other people that it will impact housing. The fact of the matter is, as Ms. Chung said earlier, the vast majority of the housing stock in the Alphabet Historic District is zoned as historic, and it can't be developed anyway. There are a few parcels that could be developed elsewhere.
 But nevertheless, the historic base overlay essentially says that all the housing must be compatible with these existing structures anyway. So although it's zoned at 4 to 1, really it should be zoned at 2 to 1, which is what we're asking for, to create expectations in future development and also allow folks like me who bought into the district in 2007 when Mr. Ramis' law firm was in operation in that area just about a block away. I came into the historic district with expectations.
 that those expectations of the district would be met in future years, that additional development would be in scale and scope to my house and other houses around. It's not just me versus Mr. Ramos. It's actually about the district as a whole so that when I don't live there anymore and my children don't live there anymore, that future homeowners will enjoy the district and Portlanders will enjoy the district as well.
 That's exactly what the simple 4-to-1 to 2-to-1 truth in zoning change essentially does, which is allow expectations going forward for everybody. Thank you very much, and I'm the last one, so you all have a good night. Thank you very much for staying. I really appreciate you. I appreciate you staying. Thanks. Okay, so we are going to continue this hearing until 2 p.m. on the 13th, correct? And we are adjourned.
 Just as a process check, though, how many – you said there was another 35 people there. No, not there, but signed up, 34. So then they will go first next week if they can come. Correct. Yeah, they're on the list. Then what happens if there's a lot more people that want to come next week? We'll deal with that when we get to it. Well, I think we should, one, plan on going until 6 p.m.
 Yeah. Okay. And we probably should, if we can, let people know that there's at least an hour's worth of testimony before new people who would get to sign in. Yeah, good point. Thank you all. Good process. Yes, some substantive stuff there. Really a credit to everybody. This is always next week. It's Thursday next week, right? Yes.
 tripping over anything else. How do you figure that one? I don't know. It is trying to figure that out.