Morning, Steve. Morning. Okay, are we ready? Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the October 7th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? No, please. Here. Fritz.
 Ritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning everyone. Welcome. We have an interesting and full agenda this morning, so we'll dive right into it in a moment. First of all, we'll have some citizens who've signed up for council communications. We have a practice here where we let five people, or today only four, sign up for the opportunity to speak to the council on the subject of their choosing for three minutes, so we'll hear that first.
 then we'll deal with our consent calendar and then move right into the regular agenda
 If you're here to speak on one of the agenda items this morning, and if you're not someone who's already been set up for invited testimony, just let our council clerk know that you'd like to speak, and she will make sure you're on the list when we call people to testify. We exercise courtesy in this chamber, so if you are here to speak, we want to make sure that we get to hear you, and if you agree with someone testifying, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand, but we also ask that you...
 not make a vocal demonstration to support them and likewise to the negative if you disagree with them feel free to make a Negative polite hand gesture, but no vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow Horlanders points of view so we get to hear them all so with that I just wanted to announce if anybody's here for item 1024 the renter protection ordinance That has been moved till 2 o'clock this afternoon. I
 Thank you. Thanks for that announcement. And in another announcement, before we proceed, I want to welcome a delegation here from Kuriyama City in Hokkaido, Japan. They're here with us in the chambers. They're being led by Kuriyama Mayor Noriaki Subakahara. And Kuriyama City is about 25 miles north of Sapporo, which is our sister city. So I want to welcome you, Mayor, and delegation here. Welcome you to the chambers. Thank you.
 Oh, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The council will enjoy that after the meeting. Hi. Thank you.
 We will. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome to Portland. Welcome to Portland. It's nice to have you.
 We have an amazing relationship with Japan because, in part, we have this now 56-year-old relationship with the city of Sapporo, one of the first sister city relationships in the world, a program that was begun, among others, by President Eisenhower, who believed that friendship among cities is a good thing to foster and that cities ought to do that deliberately. And we have had such a great partnership with Japan and with Hokkaido and Sapporo in particular. But welcome. It would be wonderful to have you here with us.
 Okay, let us move on to communications items number 1009, please. Request of Jose Sirica to address council regarding housing injustice. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. How are you today? Good. Thank you for hearing me. Welcome, Mayor from Korea. And it's going to be a good day for the indigenous people as well from what I hear. I've been a housing advocate for the last three years. My name is Jose Sirica. I'm a pastor.
 I gave away all my possessions three years ago and I decided to go out into the streets and live with the homeless community to see what's really going on and to actually experience sleep deprivation, malnutrition and non-regenerative sleep and how it affects the person and how a person's higher intellect is affected and they're only thinking basically with their base survival thought process out there, which explains a lot of irrational behavior with homeless people on the street.
 Two years ago, I spoke here and I quoted the Pope by saying...
 That the poor have become the collateral damage of the wealthy, and that has never been more prevalent than today with out-of-control rents, lack of affordable housing, and homeless advocates such as myself are looking forward to a rush, a flood of more homeless people coming out onto the streets. I've witnessed a family of six with an 18-month-old baby living in a tent. I found a family that took them home with them.
 There's another family living up by Washington High School with children living in a tent. They were thrown out of their house because of a no-cause eviction.
 The thing that I'm finding really disturbing is that there's a monetization and industrialization of the human suffering through the homeless market. It's become profitable for some people to create themselves six-figure digits as administrators in some of these places and then really actually forgetting what it is that they're trying to do. The only ethical business model is basically to put oneself out of business.
 inevitably. Yes, the poor will be with us always, but they don't have to be living in our streets and dying in our doorways. Winter is coming. There's going to be some people who will die because of exposure. It happens every single year. This year, I want to stop it, and we need your help. There are certain areas that are designated or can be designated as campgrounds. A yurt community can look just like a micro-community, and it'd be more...
 tasteful for the community. Yes, there's going to be some ugliness to rehousing homelessness, and it's going to look a little bad at first, but it will get better.
 Intel had a chip that was flawed. It was going to show that it was going to have a, every 27,000 years, that there was going to be a flaw in its spreadsheet. But the internet community rose up and said, you've got to fix this. So Intel spent millions and millions of dollars to replace that chip. We have a government today that makes flawed decisions every single day and doesn't spend a dime on the mistakes that they make.
 We have got to turn this around. And now we have a perfect chance to work together, to start using some of the ideas that I know that you yourself has been looking into. All these options are very viable, and I think now it's time to save lives and to start thinking about the humanity that's involved here. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. Thank you. Okay, let's take the next one, 1010. No, please, folks.
 We only applaud for visiting delegations. Local people, we just have to give them a thumbs up. We give special courtesy to visitors and students. That's our other exception. So let's call Ms. Ying, please. 10-10. Request of Helen Ying to address council regarding camping and drug use, possession, and other issues in public spaces. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioners and Commissioners.
 So I want to also say thank you for the new sidewalks in East Portland. I, you know, just seen how much has improved the community there. But today, what I want to come before you to address the lawlessness behavior, examples being using drug in the public, sleeping on the sidewalks,
 setting up tents. I serve on the Old Town Chinatown Community Association as its chair, and every time I share about that with my friends, the first thing they bring up are the concerns about these kinds of behavior that they see. And most recently, one of our own board members, Evan, was attacked while he was going home, getting into his car. Someone was trying to steal from him.
 So, you know, even yesterday when I was in Old Town Chinatown, one of the women who lives in a shelter came up to me and said, hey, you know, she thought she knew me and she can engage me in a conversation. She says, where I'm from, she says she's from South Florida. We don't have this kind of people, you know, sleeping on the sidewalks. She is in a shelter right now. And that's her concern. And she was trying to tell me some ideas on how to fix it.
 A few weeks ago, I went to Boston with my daughter. First thing she said to me, Mom, I only smell pee twice. So, you know, she's so envious of their walkway along the water. She says she doesn't feel safe or does not even want to run along our waterfront park because of all the behavior that's going on there.
 So what I'm coming to you before you today is really ask you to consider being proactive in this matter, just like the gentleman who spoke before me. And I believe that we have to be systematic as well as systemic in how we do this work. So one of the things that I'm talking about is what do we want our community, what do we want Portland to look like 10 years from now, 20 years from now, 30 years from now?
 And we know that there's no silver bullet, but I believe that one of the most important things is to break down silos. I do see our government working in silos. And so to talk about how to be focused and collaborative at the same time, to connect the dots, to bring the public and the private efforts together, to replicate what works. I toured Portland Rescue Mission just the other day, and I see how –
 you know, wonderful, the work they're doing there. I heard about the North Park Block efforts. And I was in Boston, like I said, I visited Harvard, and they have this project going that's led by the students at Harvard to look at how to only, you know, separate the young adults from shelters of people who have been on the streets for decades.
 So it takes leaders to work together hand-in-hand and asking you as our Portland Council to work together hand-in-hand to invest in human capitals and resources, to look at a management plan, enforce the laws, support services that include mental health and addiction, have high accountability, high support, to let our people know that you are lovable and capable. Thank you. Thank you very much, Helen. Thank you. Okay, item 1011, please.
 request of charles j matt matuk to address council regarding lack of neighborhood safety drug and campaign camping problems morning morning thank you for making this time available we appreciate it my name is charles matuk and my fiance alicia matos and i own charlie's deli at 22 northwest 4th in old chinatown we live six blocks away in old town and so we consider both our walk work and play neighborhoods
 We have great neighborhoods, both a shop and home, and we feel a community around us each day. I have the great opportunity to live in several major cities around the country and the world. And the one thing that stands out most when comparing and contrasting Portland to all of these major cities I've visited or lived in is the fact that there are so many individuals that occupy the streets every day without shelter. Thank you.
 It's tough for the individuals. I hear a lot of them screaming each day, and I think in the end it's because people feel that they're not being listened to anymore and there's nobody that cares. I care. I'm sure all of you care. My community cares, both where I work and where I live. It's obvious, but we just don't see enough action other than people caring sometimes. We need to forge ahead and make certain that if someone needs or wants to come off the street, they have that opportunity. We need to encourage beautification.
 and perhaps put more of the houseless community to work in programs like Clean and Safe to clean up their own streets and our streets daily so that at least we can be better, cleaner neighbors. The new 4th Avenue intersection is opening soon. For now, people who cross Burnside onto northwest side of 4th Ave towards Cooch find themselves really unable to travel the entirety of the block on either side because of clusters of people that occupy it day in and day out, mostly because they don't have many other options or some that choose to just not move.
 Most people that use my block use the asphalt roadway each day, and on 4th, that's kind of a gamble. You know, the trash and the debris that gets cleaned up each day, that I get out there and clean up each day, comes back each day. The one thing that I have been able to see over the last 10 months working in the neighborhood has been building rapport helps. Speaking with individuals on a daily basis, on a weekly basis, getting to know people's names. After all, they are my neighbors, and so we just try to make better neighbors.
 It's worked. It's worked for me. I have specific individuals who make it a point to borrow, broom, and sweep up once in a while, who try to vacate my side of the block, although unfortunately that just creates clutter on the opposite side of the block for another business and another resident. There's no access or egress to parking spots, and the city does have the audacity to issue parking tickets to spots that I cannot access or egress safely. Thank you.
 That's always a sore spot for me. There's no access to bicycle spots that are completely overtaken by personal property. It doesn't promote people coming into our neighborhood. And with that intersection opening up, it almost seems like an intersection to nowhere should we do nothing to allow people to traverse it. I'd love to propose no loitering areas where active residential units exist and businesses exist, at least during business hours. Individuals need help. Mostly everybody out there are not bad people. They just need some attention, help, and compassion. The streets should never be an option.
 Thank you very much. I hope you continue to stay involved with the Old Town Chinatown Neighborhood Association and the Business Association. They're doing a good job of working together on these issues and just appreciate the spirit that you're bringing to that work. So thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, one more public communication. Item 1012, please. Request of Bud Coe to address council regarding North Park block issues. Okay, Mr. Coe. All right, he may not be here. We'll give him another opportunity. So let's move to the consent calendar. I don't...
 i have one no i have no items yet pulled from consent are there any requests to pull items from the consent calendar the regular calendar if not then let's please take a roll call vote on the consent calendar mr lightning that was uh your item is on the regular agenda so we'll get to that novick aye fritz aye bish aye saltzman aye hales hi okay now i believe we're ready to move into our regular agenda let's start with item 1020 please
 Declare the second Monday in October as Indigenous Peoples Day in the City of Portland and encourage other institutions to recognize the day. Reaffirm the City's commitment to promote the prosperity and well-being of Portland's American Indian, Alaska Native, and Indigenous community.
 Well, good morning and welcome. This is a great day for Portland and a great day for our indigenous citizens and for those of the state. This is an idea that's come forward out of the community and has been brought to this council for action, and I know we're looking forward to the discussion and to that action. You know, when you think about it, we don't really have power over history, but history has some power over us. History shapes the water course that our lives are lived in.
 And I think there's some things we can do in light of that history. We can remember and we can repair and we can respect history.
 Remembering is important and it's important that we understand history and it's actually one of my favorite subjects. And one of the things that I've been trying to do to better educate myself about the true history of this country is read some of the great books that have been published over the last few years about our Native American history. My current read, I just flew back from visiting my son yesterday, I'm reading The Heart of Everything That Is.
 the amazing story about red cloud the leader of the sioux during the the huge conflicts of the 1860s empire the summer moon about kwana parker the great leader of the comanche i think it's incumbent on each of us regardless of our cultural history to try to understand the history of our neighbors
 our native neighbors, our immigrants who come here from so many other countries. So it's a responsibility of citizenship, I think, to remember and to learn. And I hope we all do that today and not just today.
 The second thing we can do is repair because there are still injustices and problems that flow from that history. One of the efforts underway in this community that I'm so proud of is what the Portland Public School District is doing under the leadership of Lorenzo Poe and with the support of our Black Male Achievement Initiative effort here in the Office of Equity and Human Rights is they've taken on the fact that African American boys and Native American boys are disciplined,
 excluded or suspended or expelled four times as often as white kids. And no surprise, when that happens several times in a student's life, they're much less likely to graduate, much less likely to succeed in their hopes and dreams. So the Portland School District has said, let's cut that rate of difference between Native boys and African-American boys and the rest of the school population. Let's cut that difference in half in a year. And they're doing it.
 So I want to praise the good because that's excellent work by the school district, and that's one of the many pieces of repair we need to do to make sure that this is a city of opportunity for everyone. And then the third piece is to respect
 to respect the tribal communities that are here, that have always been here, and that are part of our community life today. And again, I want to praise the good. I know many of us here were involved in the opening of the Telecom Crossing Bridge and involved in its planning as well. And I think that was a high watermark, if you will, in the process.
 relationship between public agencies and our tribal leaders and communities in this state of both planning a project and then naming the project and then providing public art for the project and then opening the project in a way that really respected that history and the role that tribes have played here in our state. And again, I know many of you here were involved in that effort.
 So those are the themes that come to me as I think about this issue here today. We are the home of the ninth largest Native American population in the United States. Our urban Native community is descended from more than 200 tribes. The history of our indigenous communities is woven into the fabric of the city. It includes things like a shared commitment to environmental stewardship, which again was so evident in the Telecom Crossing project.
 So we're asking the Council today to support declaring the second Monday of October Indigenous Peoples Day and encouraging other organizations and jurisdictions and businesses to join us. So I want to call some folks forward to address this. We have a list of invited testimony, but it will begin first with a song from Rebecca Kurt and members of the Klamath and Ojibwe tribes, an honor song. So welcome, and we're so glad you're here.
 Oh, hey, oh, hey, oh, hey, oh. Oh, hey, oh, hey, oh. Oh, hey, oh, hey, oh, hey, oh. Oh, hey, oh, hey, oh, hey, oh.
 Thank you very much.
 Let me call forward Seyedam Edmo, who's one of the members of our Human Rights Commission, and Matt Morton from NAAH. And then we also have members of the Tribal Council of the Grand Ronde here, as well as other tribes. So let's take Seyedam and Matt first, and then we'll call up our tribal leaders. Good morning. Good morning. Hi.
 Good morning first to our elected tribal leaders within our...
 presence, Mayor Hales, City Council, I am very honored to be here with you this morning, not only as a tribal person, but as a person who was born and raised within the City of Portland, raising children in the City of Portland, and now serving the City of Portland as a Human Rights Commissioner. I'm Shoshone Banek-Nezpurse Enyakama.
 And the village where my family comes from is Celilo Village along the Columbia River. And I'm...
 just really overwhelmed by this first step that I see towards recognizing the legal and social foundations of what now is known as the city of Portland and welcome you in a process to engage with
 sovereign tribal nations to engage with the community of tribal people here in Portland in making the city a stronger place. So I'll just open with those comments and thank you for this step forward. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning.
 It is a really great day to be here and to be indigenous in Portland. It's a great week, knowing the action that you're taking today kicks off so much more from other jurisdictions within our area.
 My name is Matt Morton. I'm from the Squaxin Island Tribe, and I have the privilege of serving as the Executive Director of the Native American Youth and Family Center here in Portland. As Mayor Hales mentioned, we have one of the largest Native communities in the United States, over 40,000 Native people representing hundreds of different tribes from all over the country.
 I'm really excited to be here today. And as Siata mentioned, my hope is that the action today only serves as the beginning of the support that Portland can offer our community as we seek a self-determined strategy to live and thrive in Portland. Thank you.
 One such strategy in partnership with both public and private entities is a place that provides Native Americans and Alaska Native families with the stability and support necessary to break the cycle of intergenerational poverty historically experienced by Natives living in the Portland metro area. We call it at NEA generations, and it's the beginning of the way things used to be.
 Combining 40 units of affordable housing with a community center and early learning academy on three and a half acres in the Lentz neighborhood, Generations offers families, neighbors, and friends the love, the respect, and the dignity that has graced so many other Portland communities, but until now has been an elusive dream to too many natives living in Portland.
 In the coming weeks, I'm going to reach out to each and every one of you and ask you for your support to make this dream a reality. Together as partners, we can reduce poverty, we can improve health and wellness, and add the Native community's own fabric to the patchwork quilt of Portland success. As I close, I'd like to share with you an excerpt from the great binding law, which is the Constitution of the Iroquois Nations.
 Look and listen for the welfare of the whole people and always in view and have always in view not only the present, but also the coming generations, even those whose faces are yet beneath the surface of the ground, the unborn of the future nation. That's a really tall order. And it's no wonder this law served as an inspiration for our own American Constitution.
 Locally here in Portland, its vision binds us together as we align our efforts and our investments with the need of both the present and future native Portlanders. Thank you again for your action today, and it is an absolute pleasure to wish you a happy Indigenous Peoples Day. Thank you. Thanks very much. So we have a number of tribal leaders here. Let's begin with the representatives of the Grand Ronde who are here who would like to speak. Please come up. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hale, panel. My name is Ren Alino. I'm the tribal chairman of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde. Some of our other leadership is here, is Cheryl Kennedy, our tribal secretary, council secretary, John George, Denise Harvey. I don't know if we got it. It's kind of like a test, seeing who's here and who's not.
 It's a real honor to be here today. I really want to say that. I think this proclamation of Indigenous people for Monday is really a first step forward.
 We took great honor in being, you know, using our language for the naming of the Tillicum Crossing. That was very unique. That day of escorting the train and the tram across the bridge the first time I think was historical for us.
 I think we are the people of this. You know, we carry the Willamette Valley Treaty that runs clear to the top of the mountains on one side and to the east and the west side to the coast range to the south. It's just one of our seven treaties. Huge amount of ground. Portland all lies within that. But our relation with Portland is just not to the city. It's actually to the ground. I was thinking of that. I did an interview out in the hallway. Okay.
 People said they had one of the questions, well, when did you keep start working on this? And I thought for a moment, you know, when did we start working on it? For some of us who were around at termination, I was five years old. We started working on it in 1954 to tell our story because that's when the government, by a piece of paper and pencil, said you ain't Indian anymore. And to me.
 You can't erase history and culture with a piece of paper and pencil, but you can do things like this, the acknowledgement of Native American people. So our connection to Portland is with the land, and as I said in my interview, you can pour a lot of concrete, you can pour a lot of blacktop, you can lay down a lot of gravel, but it doesn't change. For us, when we come here, we walk in the footsteps of our ancestors for hundreds of thousands of years.
 And that is really important to us. So to have you acknowledge that by naming this day is very great. And then I'd also like to acknowledge all of our other Native Americans here that have come here for this day and that will participate on Monday.
 For me, this is a very historical moving day. I've been on our council for 20 years in our battle to let people know what is going on and tell our story. And we've even gone as far as to create our own curriculum now. And we're working with some of the Portland schools to actually teach our curriculum in the schools. So, yeah.
 It's a great thing. I just want to acknowledge all of what you've done, and this is a first step forward. We just need to keep going in a positive direction, not only for Grand Ronde, but for everybody. So thank you. Thank you very much. Greetings from the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde. Appreciate this wonderful day that's been set aside to me. It truly represents that there is a change in the hearts of people today.
 that when people put their hearts and minds together, change can happen. And I really appreciate that that is what is happening today. And for the great city of Portland to be able perhaps to be one of the first in the nation, I don't know. But to establish Indigenous Day is truly, you will go down in history.
 showing the leadership that you've exhibited here today. I want to thank you for doing that, and especially from the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde. Ren and I are close relatives, and our grandfathers were the ones who took care of the Willamette Falls. We were the keepers of the falls. Our grandfathers were born there, treaty signers.
 of our treaties. So I in particular want to thank you for doing that. We also have a couple of gifts, but I believe that John has something to say before we make the presentation. Good morning, John. L'chaim in our language means, you know, hello, good day to you. So we really appreciate this opportunity, you know, and an honor that you are bestowing upon the Native people.
 I just wanted you to know that we are the ancestors of the people of this area, the Clackamas, the Multnomah, and the Tualati people here. And so what an honor that it is that you recognize the natives here in this area, but also here.
 today to create a day and to also create a day allowing Native people to come and speak, you know, on behalf of that. What a great celebration it is today for Portland to recognize that. And so as tribal leaders, that we always want to have the opportunity to
 to have partnership with our local governments and our governments, and also the opportunity for the educational part of that, of telling you who the people are. You know, that we always remember, as we are, we are an oral people.
 And so that we always want to be able to tell our story and to always to remember, you know, let people remember who we are. And so in this, we thank you for this opportunity today. And we would like to bestow gifts upon each and every one of you for this. Thank you and welcoming us into your home today.
 We have a picture here and it's taken on the Tillicum Bridge crossing and it's a picture of our color guard Ren is part of our color guard a veteran from our tribe and so it's customary to make a presentation a friendship of a necklace to all of our friends Thank you again, it's good to see you all
 thank you we'll uh we'll find a place of of honor here in city hall for that wonderful photograph that captures that moment um
 I was on that first train coming across the bridge and the excitement inside the train was palpable just like it was in the whole community as that honor guard came across. So thanks for capturing that nice moment in our city's history.
 So I know we have some representatives of some Columbia River tribes here, Jeremy Fivecrows, Nicole Charlie, others. Please, anyone from any of our sovereign tribal governments and communities that would like to come forward, welcome. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Thank you for being here, Commissioners and Mayor Hales. My name is Jeremy Fiveprose. I am a Nez Perce tribe, and actually I'm happy to report that I'm a descendant of the Nez Perce that were banished from Oregon in 1877, and I'm happy to report that I've found a welcome home here in Portland. Thank you.
 The Nez Perce is one of four Columbia River Treaty Tribes represented by the Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission, which is based here in Portland. Several years ago, I saw a piece of graffiti art near my home on Hawthorne Boulevard, and it read, Everywhere you are, Indians have been.
 And this is true. Every hill, every creek, every meadow, every forest, every inch of the Willamette Riverbank in this city has a story of its connection to the indigenous peoples who lived here or traveled here to utilize the resources that the fertile Willamette Valley provided. People learn to believe that the history of this land we call home began in 1492 because that's where the history books often start. The European arrival in the Americas certainly was pivotal in history. However, it was far from its beginning.
 For far too long, thousands of years of Indigenous culture, history, learning, and wisdom has been dismissed or ignored as prehistory that has nothing to do with today. Sadly, all that many people know of the Indigenous people who lived here before them is what they learned from the introductory chapter in their Oregon history textbooks.
 Fortunately, times are changing and we live in a different era. There's a growing awareness that this event is a painful reminder to the tribes. Actions like this declaration of Indigenous Peoples Day helps with this healing as well as promotes a greater understanding of the Indigenous people who are an important part of our shared American story. This declaration gives us the opportunity to honor the thousands of Portland citizens with Indigenous ancestry, their culture, and the sacrifices their ancestors that opened this landscape for everyone.
 It also gives us the opportunity to educate the city citizens by learning about the indigenous cultures of this place and what they knew about living here. The city is enriched with a greater understanding of its shared history and the traditional ecological knowledge that could help further the city's environmental and sustainability goals. The land upon which this city is built molded the cultures of the tribes who called it home, just as it continues to mold the culture of Portland today.
 The tribes believe that we are of this land. This is true for everyone on earth. For all of us, this land is both the source of our strength and our greatest responsibility. This might be the most important teaching that the modern world could learn from Indigenous peoples' cultures and experiences. I hope that of all things this declaration brings, it is the realization that the Indigenous peoples' story is part of all of our collective story. We are all connected to one another and to this place we call home.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Commissioners and Mayor Hales. My name is Nicole Charlie. I'm of the Taiheqwamban. I'm a member of the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs, one of the four Columbia River Treaty Tribes, also a member of the Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission. Our creation story teaches us that we were created in this landscape.
 Our brothers and sisters, the salmon, the game, the roots and the berries offered to provide for us. And as a result, we have a responsibility to help take care of them. This relationship provides a cultural foundation that guides everything that we do. And this cultural foundation is often overshadowed by the tales of Christopher Columbus and of the expansion of the West. These events forever changed our communities, our families and the resources that we rely on.
 The creation of Indigenous Peoples Day would be an important first step in broadening our cultural education for Portland citizens. It provides an important platform to educate those around us about the cultures upon which the city of Portland has been built. It allows us to share stories about the sacrifices that have been made in the name of development and highlights the struggles for a cultural way of life that defines our pasts and our future generations.
 The city of Portland has a robust and proud native community. I grew up in central Oregon and came to Portland for high school, stayed for college, and stayed for work. So it's my second home, and I love it. We can be found at Pow Wows and Pioneer Courthouse Square, harvesting lamprey at Willamette Falls, and celebrating the first salmon at Celilo in the springtime.
 This is a great time to honor the culture and sacrifices of our ancestors that opened this landscape for everyone. It's time to share the complete history of Portland and the creation of an indigenous people's day is one step in doing that. Thank you so much. Thank you both. Thank you very much. Are there other representatives of our tribes here who'd like to speak? And we'll give them the courtesies first and then, please.
 and then we'll turn to the sign of sheep welcome back thank you so much for the honor song indigenous becca kirk hello everyone my name is rebecca kirk thank you mayor and commissioners i'm an enrolled member of the klamath tribes i'm also leech lake ojibwe i was born and raised here in portland oregon i'm the granddaughter of barbara ellatory farmer who in the 70s in 1969
 and from there forward started the first Native American encampment powwow, Delta Park Powwow. I just want to say one thing, and that is that I, as a Native woman, look forward to bringing my future children into a world where we no longer celebrate a man who caused a lot of pain to our Native people, but rather an Indigenous day where we are able to celebrate and embrace who we are as Native people.
 Thank you. Thank you very much, Rebecca. Thank you. So let's turn, please, to the sign-up sheet if we have others that would like to speak. I have about nine other people. The first three, please come on up, are Milt Markowitz, Marilee Day, and Dante James. Good morning. Come on up, please. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Thank you, Mayor Hales.
 city councilmen, and particularly Hector Miramontes, for bringing this proclamation forth to make October 12th Indigenous Peoples Day. My name is Marilee Day. I'm a nurse practitioner, and I'm active in the Cully Neighborhood Association where NEA has its home.
 I want to share with you a book, and I think because you love to read history, it's called The Indigenous People's History of the United States. It's written by a doctor, Dunbar Ortiz, who herself is indigenous. And we found it to be really past time to truly honor the indigenous people after reading this.
 If we had used the paradigm of the Métis people to protect our environment, our water, air, land, and forest for future generations, actually for seven generations, we would not be in the fix we're in right now of warm water in the Columbia and fires raging everywhere and a drought in half of the country. Right.
 I urge the City Council to pass this proclamation to honor all of the treaties and to consult our indigenous elders whenever the natural resources are at risk, such as the fossil fuel exports and fossil fuel infrastructure. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, council members. My name is Milt Markowitz, and I'm the first of this group who is not native. My grandparents are from Russia and Germany. But I want to commend you first for having this day, for doing the listening, doing all the work that you're doing. It's very incredible. I'm proud to be a Portlander.
 And I was born and raised in Portland. I went to Hillside Chapman grade school, went to Lincoln High School. And then I went to Whitman College, the Navy, and I worked for IBM, where I was fortunate enough to return to Portland for the end of my career. And part of that work in IBM, probably the most significant work, was working with other cultures.
 and seeing how other cultures really think differently. And it's wonderful to have the Japanese delegation here, because it was from the Japanese that I learned to see manufacturing as a living process. It's very different than is seen in most American, and something to be learned from, I think. I became a pro bono consultant after I retired. Got into education a little bit, but mostly I got into sustainability.
 And the indigenous sustainability message was the only message that made sense to me. It was about finding balance and harmony on the earth, about having ecological integrity, social harmony, and having an economic system that was consistent with the guidelines of what's necessary to keep the ecological integrity and social harmony. So it's very different in the society that we have today.
 I helped a sustainability company start up and found from that work that I needed to go back to school and I needed to understand the consciousness of the garden. I needed to understand living systems, and I did. And what I found out was one of the things, one of the many things, was that the theory that underlies sustainability is living systems. And that makes sense, I think, to everybody when they hear it.
 But if you think about the work that we're doing, you don't see living systems anywhere. You don't see an understanding of it. You don't see it taught. It's not part of the STEM standards. It's a piece of work that's really missing. And it's so present when I hear Native people speak. My current work is infusing Indigenous wisdom into Western cultures. Thank you.
 And I go about it with the following assumptions, which are a little harsh, but off the beaten path for today's celebration. But I'll share them with you. The Western world has institutionalized not being sustainable. We find that in business, in politics, in religion, in education, everywhere. The consciousness that creates a problem like we're having now with global climate change, which is overwhelming the changes, the good things that we're doing,
 isn't sufficient for solving the problem. We have to find a different consciousness. I'll give you a little more time, but you need to wrap this up. I'm sorry. I really ran over here. Current actions raise consciousness incrementally. They're necessary, but not sufficient. Our desired state is homostasious, as I mentioned, and the indigenous cultures have lived this state for millennia. So...
 I think that the work that I would like to do, what I did when I went back to school, was understood living systems. I developed curriculum. I developed a curve of hope. I developed archetypes for sustainability. I developed a living system curriculum. And I'm not saying this to toot my horn. I'm just saying these bridges, I think, are what we need to be able to really listen to and appreciate and live.
 the way people have lived for millennia and blend it with the system that we cherish so much. So thank you again. I appreciate your openness to listen and learn and welcome the opportunity to share more in depth. Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning, Council, Mr. Mayor. My name is Dante James. I'm the Director of the City's Office of Equity and Human Rights and Director.
 Besides that, as a fairly recent transplant of Portland and an employee of the city of Portland, I am truly grateful and honored that I work for the city as the city of Portland truly leads the way in making this recognition for Native peoples today. This day is symbolic. As you can see all around you and what you have on your neck, it's symbolic. But it's also a promise.
 A promise not to forget what the symbol means and a promise to remember that this is a first step in acknowledging and creating greater awareness of Native peoples in this community and what they bring and how they have been left out of so many things. And so the promise for future generations is what I would hope that we can put in place that this day will always mean something to everyone in the city.
 And so I guess as my somewhat official request, I would encourage the adoption and acceptance of his resolution naming Indigenous Peoples Day. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for the work of your office and our commission in preparing it and getting it ready for us today. Thank you very much. Okay, let's take the next three. The next three are Janet Marclay-Hayes, Diame, and Charles Johnson. Come on up, please. Good morning. Good morning. Yes, please.
 Hello, my name is Diame Thomas. I'm Claremont and Ojibwe, and I'm a former Multnomah Youth Commissioner in 2011. I'm just going to keep this really brief. Growing up, I was never taught the real truth in school. We were taught to praise Columbus for his discovery. I think it's time for people to know the actual truth of what really happened, because something so brutal should never be disguised as heroic.
 Indigenous people are still here thriving. Indigenous people were here long ago. Indigenous people will be here many years after I'm gone. That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And I think before I say anything else, I just want people to write down six letters of the alphabet, C-R-I-T-F-C.
 Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission. It's been mentioned before, but we're all internet-y connected people, so whether you .org that or put it in Facebook, it's a chance to learn more about the survivors of genocide and the survivors of land theft and dishonesty. Many of us, people who have migrated to Portland in the last 200 years, can say, oh, wow.
 My ancestors didn't even come to the United States until after the worst genocide of Manifest Destiny. But we're still living on stolen land, and we're still, in many ways, blind, rude, and insensitive about the injuries that have been caused to the four tribes that are part of the Intertribal Fish Commission and the many other tribes along the river up past the Omatilla Reservation and throughout North America, really.
 So it's incumbent upon us, regardless of when our ancestors came here, whether we're first-generation Americans or Mayflower Americans, to do the right thing, to assist, to partner with. Not assist. They have brilliant skills and knowledge that will probably save us during climate chaos. But we need to partner with them respectfully to assist.
 Stave off that climate chaos, deal with the incoming climate refugees that Mr. Novick is always advising us about, and make a space for true leadership for people from the indigenous tribes, and also reduce barriers to indigenous people from all over North America. We know that there are now...
 probably hundreds of thousands of immigrants from Central and South America, working very hard to help us build a great community here in Portland. And we want to make sure that we do everything in our power to reduce barriers and oppression for people whose roots go back here tens of thousands of years and make more space for leadership of the Grand Ronde tribe, Warm Springs tribe, descendants of the Multnomah and Clackamas people,
 and really know that it's not that important for us to step up and take leadership positions, but to step back and hear the voice of Native women and men to this area. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Next, please. Was there a Janet Markley-Hayes? The next three then are Leo Rhodes, Ed Edmo, and Idalis Riggs. Please, come on up if you're here and still wish to speak. So come on up, please. Thank you.
 Good morning. Welcome. Good morning, everyone. My name is Idalis Riggs. I come from the one who walks around, people born for the many goats people. My maternal grandparents are of the Bitterwater people. My paternal grandparents are of the Edgewater people.
 I'm from the Diné tribe of Wildcat Peak, Arizona, and I'm currently a second-year student at Portland State University. And on behalf of the Native American Student Community Center and being Miss Naimuma and also a community member, I've been here for six years. I'd just like to say thank you, and it's a real honor to be here and to have a
 Indigenous Peoples Day because I personally am very traditional and I like to share my culture and my tradition and this is a first step to doing that to teaching others about ourselves, about our history and what we went through.
 sharing our knowledge with them and it really means a lot to us indigenous people and Yeah, thank you very much Thank you, and we appreciate the student leaders from the state. So thank you for that taking that responsibility Good morning. I'm Edmo. I'm Shoshone manicness Prasad Yakima. Thank you for the leadership of the city and
 I'm a leader also. I'm great-grandson of Chief Aramo from the Shoshone-Bannock tribe. I was born on the Duck Valley Indian Reservation in 1946. My mom must have wrote to my grandparents living at Salawa, so we cut the train up. I've been on the river for 68 years and six months. Long visit. I really commend you on this Indigenous Day project because in school, I was raised with a lot of prejudice in the Dallas, Oregon.
 That hat that was from Johnny's Cafe, only a restaurant were allowed to eat it in the Dalles. There were signs in the windows saying, no dog food is allowed. Walk down the street, white boys would spit on me. I was raised with overt prejudice, you know. So I carried that hurt with me and tried to drown it in tokay wine. I spent 12 years on the streets. Slept in every door underneath every bridge except the Fremont in Portland for 12 years. Now I'm in recovery today. It's important that
 We help those that want help. We know that people need help, but it's good to offer these things. I know Dave Berrios, the officer of the parks, he's a kind man who's offering assistance to the homeless to get services, not to bust them, you know. It's good work that people are doing with that.
 event to get people off the streets to give them shelter because it's cold out there. It rains a lot, you know, and I've seen a lot of death in my family. My nephew drank himself to death being on streets, you know, so I've seen that happen. What we're talking about here is respect and telling the Indian legend, I need everyone's help. Can everyone go like this and make noise like a snake? Everyone.
 I know you people, I know you got a mean face, so put your mean face on and do Snake. Good mean faces. Long time ago, there was a young boy named Snake. Had arms and legs. Snake liked to run races. Snake liked to climb trees. Most of all, Snake liked to jump off of cliffs into sand. Snake didn't like anything he would say. He always say, if you want to do what that Snake, he makes you the same to go visit.
 That night when Snake was asleep, Medicine Woman snuck Snake's lodge, cut off his arms and legs, rubbed it in the midst of him and he healed up. Everyone get your hands up, everyone. All night that night they rolled Snake, rolled Snake, rolled Snake, rolled Snake, and sang a magic song. Help me say it, everyone. All night they rolled Snake, rolled Snake, rolled Snake, rolled Snake, and sang a magic song. Everyone get your hands up and help me say it, everyone. All night that night they rolled Snake, rolled Snake, rolled Snake,
 All night they roll snake, roll snake, roll snake, roll snake and sing a magic song. Come on, Dan. All night they roll snake, roll snake, roll snake, roll snake and sing a magic song. All night they roll snake, roll snake, roll snake, roll snake and sing a magic song. As the sun was coming up and the snake was long and round. You know how snakes look today? See?
 and they threw them down and they slithered away beneath people's feet. Snakes, they remember what people did to them a long, long time ago. What do snakes say when they see human beings nowadays? Thank you. Thank you. We tell that stuff to have respect for other people's difference. Thank you for the respect you're bestowing on us by making Indigenous Day. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yeah, we'll suspend the rules for that.
 Thank you very much. I just want to thank the council for this and this, putting Indigenous Peoples Day for Portland. Like the young lady here, I'm from the southwest also. I'm a full-blooded Pima.
 from the Gila River Indian Reservation. And that's one of the things, like you were saying, Mayor, you're reading a book about the Great Plains people, the Sioux. Well, a lot of the people are thinking all those tribes are like the Great Plains people. My people, the Southwest, you know, we do have our dances, and we do have our singing and praying, but also we're about art, drawings.
 and pottery, when you come up here to the northwest, you know, it's a totally different culture up here, which I enjoy going to different tribes or different areas and learning about those cultures. And that's what we need is more education, like just bringing it more on out.
 I am a homeless advocate and I've always talked about homelessness and also that up in Seattle I was one of the board members of a place called Chief Seattle Club, which was a Native American day shelter I was a third dishwasher, but I was also a board member and as a board member I was the only homeless person on that board. So they asked what can we do for the homeless people? Or what should be our mission statement?
 Well, I first told them, well, we need to get the drugs, alcohol out of their system. And when you do that, they have an empty feeling inside. And so we need to put the prayers, the singing, the drumming, and, you know, all the legends into back into their system.
 So to me, this is kind of the same way. When Native Americans, that's how they feel. They feel lost because they don't have something like this that brings out their culture and everybody helps on out with it. They do have the powwows, yes, and that does come on out. But if it's a bigger, broader expansion of the whole state coming on out, I mean, that is even better, or the whole city coming on out, that's even better.
 So this right here is what I'm saying is that making these ties or bringing this on out, it would make us stronger band or working together kind of thing. I also would like to say that the gentleman that was asking about the affordable housing, yeah, I would like to get on that project to help out the less fortunate Gideon and the Native Americans in helping out with that part too. And I would encourage you also to make sure that this does happen. So,
 So thank you. Thank you. Leo, put your name in the record. Oh, my name is Leo Rhodes. Thanks, Leo. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Are there others that are signed up, Carla? That's all who signed up. Anyone else that would like to speak who hasn't signed up? Then unless the council has any questions, we'll take a vote, please. Novick?
 It's a great honor to be part of this day. I grew up in a time when some people in the United States were beginning to think about the treatment of indigenous peoples. I grew up reading Custer Died for Your Sins by Vine Deloria and Bury My Heart in Wooded D by Dee Brown and following the work of the American Indian Movement.
 Years later, as I was working for the Justice Department, one of my best friends was Kalen Free from the Choctaw Nation.
 on quote Columbus Day in 1992 is the 500th anniversary. So there were these celebrations of Washington Mall and Kalen was out there, the group of protesters. And somebody from Australian television came up to her and asked her, why are you protesting? She said, well, we don't celebrate the birthdays or commemorate in any way Ted Bundy, your son of Sam. So some of us indigenous peoples don't understand why people are celebrating Columbus. Right.
 There's a couple of things that one national, one local, that we can do to honor native people that I just want to bring up.
 There's a move to get Andrew Jackson off the $20 bill and replace him with a woman. Andrew Jack, and partly it's about honoring women, but also partly it's about the fact that Andrew Jackson was the guy who sent the Choctaw, Chickasaw, Creek, Cherokee, and Seminole away, the so-called five civilized tribes, away from the Southeast, forced them to go to Oklahoma against the direct order of the United States Supreme Court.
 So simply removing Andrew Jackson, whoever was replaced with would honor Native people. There was a online vote as to who should replace him. I voted for Wilma Mankiller, the first female chief of the Cherokee Nation. But Harriet Tubman won the vote. She'd also be a good candidate.
 Also, locally, I apologize for not having done something about this earlier. A couple of years ago I noticed that in my neighborhood, Multnomah Village, there's a park, Custer Park, which is named after George Armstrong Custer.
 And this morning I could get around to it today. I emailed the chair of my neighborhood association saying, can we initiate a process to change the name of Custer Park to something honoring native people? An obvious choice, of course, would be Crazy Horse, because we were talking about Custer. But obviously, we should take a look at some phrase or name honoring local native tribes or leaders.
 So I ask you to join me in those two efforts. And thank you so much for everything everybody said today. Thanks for joining us. It's a great honor to be part of this today. Hi. Thank you for honoring us with your presence this morning. And some people will say that this is tokenism.
 It's not. It's a symbol. It's a nudge to Commissioner Novick, who I've been encouraging to submit that request for quite some time. And I've told him that as Parks Commissioner, I will be more than happy to entertain a suggestion for renaming that park.
 I thank the Native peoples of this area, and particularly the Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde, under then-Chairwoman Cheryl Kennedy, who in my first term arranged a training for city council staff and for city council members. And it was held in the Portland building. And I was walking into the Portland building with Chairwoman Kennedy, and she said, Welcome.
 And I learned and came to understand that this is a – I stand on tribal ground and that even though I thought of the Portland building as something that I had reserved the room for, it was in fact I do that because of the treaties which assigned me the responsibility to do that through the treaty with the tribes, through the treaties of the 1850s with all of the tribes.
 That was very, very helpful to me to understand that. We then helped write the tribal consultation policy, which I believe has been very helpful in formulating first the Portland plan and now the comprehensive plan, and has had some significant influence in very important policy decisions, especially the West Hayden Island decision and other issues.
 river protection efforts. And I need to mention right now Patty Howard, who can't be here today. She's sick, but she worked for seven years for the Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission and has taught me a lot about the treaty rights, especially with regards to fishing and the rivers. It's a great partnership to know that the sovereign nations are continuing to look after the lands of your ancestors.
 Christa Columbus, the Columbus dude, was not English. I am so happy he was not English, because there's so many things that I apologize for that my ancestors did, including the subsequent invasion of this country and the genocide that happened. And I am truly sorry that my ancestors did that. It gives me even more reason to need to make practical amends. So in addition to the policy changes and this...
 hugely important symbol, which I'm very proud to support. We've been doing many things, starting with new emphasis under Mayor Potter, continuing under Mayor Sam Adams, and now thank you, Mayor Harris, for your continued leadership. We have been supporting Native peoples through the Diverse Civic Leadership Program through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. I was very happy last week to be with
 Councilmember George at the Oregon Native American Chamber where we gave scholarships to Native youth who were just so fantastic and we support the Multnomah Youth Commission we had a member testify here Rebecca Kirk our honor singer who's so beautiful didn't mention that not only was she a Multnomah County Youth Commissioner she won the Spirit of Portland Award in 2010 so we have a
 history of honoring our native peoples and our sovereign nations here, and we're putting the money behind it. I appreciate Commissioner Saltzman for his leadership on the Generations Project. So it's not just the renaming and the symbolic.
 resolutions, it's practical assistance and we must do more. We owe a great debt and we very much appreciate the ongoing partnership. Thank you for being present and honoring us with your ceremonial drumming and singing and being at the opening of the South Waterfront Greenway as well as the Tillicum Crossing. I'm glad that now people across our city are thinking
 who needs to be invited and who should be at the table, who should be honored. This resolution honors our great sovereign nations. Thank you. I. Yes. Well, I'm proud to join with my colleagues in thanking all of our honored guests for being with us today. Thank you for the gifts, and thank you for the powerful words. The last time that I spent with you was when I was invited to join you at the opening of the Tillichan Crossing.
 And it was a singular honor to march with the Grand Ronde and the larger family of Native Americans here in our metro area to be the first to march across the bridge, in fact, ahead of the streetcar and the MAX train. And I marched with Paul Lumley and Philip Hilaire and Matt Morton and many others, and it was a profound honor. We have a shared destiny in our city. We are inextricably linked. And the next big challenge on the horizon is Superfund.
 We have a shared interest in restoring the Willamette, and we each have different legal responsibilities that we bring to the table. But in the next couple of years, Superfund is going to become very real. And so we look forward to working with you and the broader community to get the cleanup right so that future generations can have a healthy and restored river to celebrate. Mayor, thank you for bringing this resolution, and I'm quite honored to vote aye.
 Saltzman? I also want to thank Mayor Hales and the tribal leaders for bringing this proclamation to us today. I think it's very important. It's been a very informative session we've had this morning. I mean, it's no secret that our treatment of indigenous peoples is absolutely shameful. This is one small way to make an amend and an important one for us to recognize. And I'm very pleased to support this. I also...
 uh you know when i first got to city council in the late 1990s i led the effort to create our office of sustainable development and a lot of people sustainability is a big concept today in portland it's a part of our economic future it's part of how we view ourselves but you know it's often has very convoluted definitions u.s
 any three different people and you get three different definitions of sustainability. I always like to keep it simple, and I think it's really building on a native concept, which is sustainability is simply living lightly on the land. I think that conveys a lot to people, and I think that's what you have helped to convey to us. So I'm very honored to support this proclamation today, and thank you. Bye.
 Well, this is a great day. I'm so proud of our city, and thank you to this council for their full-hearted support of doing the right thing. I want to thank and respect the fact that we've had leaders of sovereign nations here today, and both tribal elders and youth leaders who are part of the next generation today.
 tribal leaders in our community and leaders in community life here through organizations like Naya Matt thank you so much for you and your organization all that you do I want to return to something Commissioner Fritz said because I think it's a characteristic of who we are as a city and it's why this matters and that is we are a city that is actually making an effort being mindful
 about being inclusive. It's not just hoping that we'll get there. If I can be forgiven to returning to the analogy of the river, we can drift and hope, or we can paddle to where we want to go. So thanks to having a paddle.
 I will keep that in mind, that we should actually decide that we want to be a community that is inclusive, that celebrates all the amazing variety of cultures that we have in our city now, and particularly remembers and respects the native cultures who were here long before. So this is a good day, and I'm very proud to be part of this council. I'm very proud to vote aye.
 want to suspend the rules for a moment so that we can just celebrate indigenous people's day thank you all very much we'll take a recess take a recess for a few minutes it'd be a tough crowd to get under control
 Okay, everyone, we'll have to get back to work here. The rest of the council's business this morning is not going to be as much fun as that, but we're going to get back to the work in a moment. Okay, so to return to important but less important and less wonderful business, let's move, please, to item 1021.
 Authorize a grant agreement with Legacy Health to support the construction of the Unity Center for Behavioral Health in an amount not to exceed $500,000. Without objection, that's going to be rescheduled for council action on October 14th and 10-22nd.
 Ways Title 33, Planning and Zoning to Allow Short-Term Temporary Public Use of an Indoor Track and Field Facility at 2400 Northwest Front Avenue from December 1, 2015 through February 28, 2016. Second reading. Roll call vote, please. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Very happy to vote aye. Thank you.
 1023. Authorize a five-year price agreement for purchase of hydrants and valves from Mueller Co. LLC for an amount not to exceed $5,220,000. Good morning, Ms. Moody and Mr. Kovach. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. Good morning, Mayor.
 Before you is a procurement report recommending the award of a price agreement for hydrants and valves that will be used to supply the Water Bureau's hydrant installation and replacement program that anticipates replacement of approximately 300 hydrants and 675 valves each year.
 In July of 2015, the city conducted a competitive bid, and two responses were received. Mueller Company has the lowest bid at $5,220,000 for a five-year contract period. And I will turn this over to Ty Kovach to talk a little bit more about the program. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners, Ty Kovach, Portland Water Bureau, and
 Just wanted to share that a lot of people don't necessarily think about the water barrel when they think about fire hydrants. And it is a huge component of our distribution system, not only for fire suppression, but also for water quality purposes. We use it to provide potable water for people in emergencies. They're a very important part of our system. And we have hydrants all over the city that were installed in 1895. And you can look in your own neighborhood, and there's a variety of them. If you look at the barrel of a hydrant, it will say what year it was manufactured.
 And all over the city we have 1895 hydrants, which on one hand is really cool because that is a great
 a great amount of longevity for something that our predecessors in the Water Bureau installed. But I also think it's really important that we have a robust and ambitious maintenance program to make sure that people can count on what we're putting in now for the next 80 to 100 years. And so in the last three years, we've essentially tripled the amount of hydro maintenance that we're doing. We've installed or replaced
 about 300 or 350 every single year. And we've also done the same thing with valves. And there's 45,000 valves in the city, and they're like the offensive line of the distribution system because you don't think about them until one of them doesn't work, and then you've got your hands full. Good metaphor. Good metaphor. The Seattle Seahawks might ask for some valves. They could use some valves in there to protect Russell Wilson, for sure.
 So this is something that we've really increased over the past couple years. It's driven the need for us to get a long-term contract established, and this contract gives us five years that recognizes the change in the pace that we've had in maintaining these key pieces of our infrastructure. So we respectfully request your support for moving forward with this contract. Okay, questions? Yes.
 I remember we just very recently authorized you to go out and get this, so good work to Procurement Services for getting it done so quickly. I just have a question about what do we do with the old ones? Presumably, we recycle the metal? We actually turn them over to our scrap metal.
 provider, which is a separate contract that we have. But they are scrapped. The old ones are. Some of them are salvaged, the ones that have breakaway flanges and that have modern components that can be replaced. But the ones from 1895 are well beyond their useful life, and they are sent to the scrapyard. So do we get money for them? I don't know that we...
 i don't know that they're worth very much money so i think i don't know the answer to that but i could get it for you i'm really interested to know because it seems like they're pretty heavy so you think there'd be a lot of metal in them and the other question i have is are we saving one or two so for his historical purposes yeah we have
 If you just drive around and evaluate hydrants in the city as you do, if you start having this on your radar screen, we have a wide variety of styles that have been installed over the years. Some of them are real straightforward and, you know, you don't notice them, and other ones are very unique. And so we try to...
 Hang on to the unique ones when we come across one that's odd. Mr. Fritz, when we opened the interstate maintenance facility, we put a couple of our historic fire hydrants out, but we have some real treasures in the stacks at that facility. So if any of my colleagues would like to come see some of the pieces of history that we do have, the Benson bubblers that we have in storage, some of the old fire hydrants and equipment,
 it's pretty cool we'd be we'd be very happy to host that Commissioner Fritz may be on to something there I mean I wouldn't have thought there would be any retail value of pieces of old airport carpet so so maybe there's a souvenir value or at the very least the parks Bureau might want one or two for some of their dog parks but there seems like there might be a reuse opportunity rather than simply a recycling opportunity out there somewhere for someone who's clever enough to figure out how to market something like airport carpet
 Well, you know, we'd be happy to look at it. Oh, you do? We spun off to lose, and now we get money for others manufacturing to lose. If we discover there's a market for old fire hydrants, maybe there's like a website where dogs bid against it. They bid for nostalgic reasons. They bid for these. But we'll take a look at it. It's a good suggestion. Thank you. Okay. Other questions, serious or not, for this team? I was serious. I know you were. I know.
 Thank you both. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then a motion, please. Move to adopt the procurement report. Second. Discussion? Roll call. Aye. Fritz? Mayor, I think you have a good point about who would have thought that airport carpet would be selling for $60 for a doormat. So I do think that there might be people who would like one of these for decorative gardens or whatever. So I'm pleased that you're going to look into it, Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 I want to thank Ty Kovach. As you know, we keep Ty doing day-to-day work, and this is one of those rare occasions where the director allowed him to come to council and present. He did a great job. And, Mayor and colleagues, I started my morning visiting the call center at the Portland Water Bureau. We are very proud of the customer service that the Bureau provides to a lot of people. And the recent –
 PCI compliance journey that's impacted all of us meant that for temporarily we've had to suspend auto pay. That necessarily inconveniences a lot of people, up to 32,000 customers. And so there's been almost a 50 percent increase in calls to a call center that's already has a very high volume dealing with customer concerns.
 One measure of how good a job they're doing is how few emails we've gotten from customers who have been unhappy with whatever service they got at the Bureau level. So we went over today, Director Mike and I went over and thanked them, and we brought donuts and coffee. They're sort of the unsung heroes of our work. They're people behind the scenes interfacing with customers. And this morning we said thank you for doing a wonderful job during a very challenging transition. And today I'm pleased to vote aye.
 Well, on behalf of Portland Fire and Rescue, we want to thank the Water Bureau for this contract. And I don't know, the report has a very interesting, my favorite little trivia, which is we have over 14,000 fire hydrants in our city. I find that really fascinating. But anyway, we need these, and it's good to get this contract approved. Aye. Nails. Good work. Aye. Okay, 1024. Aye.
 Approve innovation funding of $395,690 for four major grant and five micro grant proposals for fiscal year 2015-16. Welcoming our innovation team here. This is a great opportunity.
 but relatively modest success story in terms of cost and size, but it's having an outsized impact, I think, on people in the bureaus coming up with great ideas. We had this interesting process, which we'll hear more about, about lots of competition, lots of ideas, and I'm really pleased about the package of projects that have come forward. So welcome and good morning. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor and members of Council. I'm Jane Brayton. I'm the Business Operations Division Manager in the Office of Management and Finance. We're here today to ask for your approval of an ordinance authorizing funding for four Innovation Fund major grant projects and five micro grant projects. And those total just under $400,000. Okay.
 Now in its third year, second year with the Office of Management and Finance, the City Innovation Fund continues to support innovative ideas with an emphasis on equity and opportunity and promoting a culture of innovation within the city.
 On behalf of our proposers and the review panel, we certainly want to thank the Mayor and Council for continuing to support the Innovation Fund. Many of our proposers continue to let us know that they could not have made their ideas happen without your support. Since we last came to Council at the end of July, we've also held listening sessions with our proposers and our review panel to pick up more ideas on how we can continue to make our process better.
 Our innovation panel gives their time and expertise to this project, and we want to thank as many of them are with us today, if they can wave. We have community members Warren Chan and Gail Mandel, and city members Sam Hutchinson, Leslie Goodloe, and Robert Walker.
 And our proposers work hard to come up with these new ideas that they're sending off to the review panel and to us. And we also want to thank them today. If all of our proposers who are with us today could please wave. We want to thank them for continuing to bring these ideas forward. Thank you.
 And just briefly on some background, our innovation fund major grants are for those projects that are $20,000 or more. And our micro grants are for those projects typically $10,000 or less or up to $20,000. Those will be considered as a micro.
 We started our process in July with a call for ideas. We got 34 proposals from 14 city bureaus in the last call for ideas. And then once we received those, those proposals were shared with all city bureau directors for a period of time so they could take a look at them, provide input, and they also looked for ways that they could do cross-bureau partnerships.
 Then the review panel had the tough job of reviewing each proposal, and along the way they asked tough questions because they take this responsibility to bring these recommendations to you very seriously, and they used the following criteria. When they looked at the proposal, they wanted to know, does it promote equity and opportunity in city government and our community? Does it improve customer service to the community and or within the city?
 Does it save time or money for the city, our partners, or community members? And does it improve city services and make things better?
 We invited all of our proposers into a facilitated meeting with our review panel where they could answer questions and get feedback from the panel. The panel then narrowed down the list of 34 to the nine proposals that they're recommending to you today. And some of our proposers are actually getting feedback from one round, polishing their proposal, bringing it back, and getting review panel funding. So we have some success stories in our alumni network of proposers.
 that we're also trying to share as well. Right now, I want to introduce Janet Storm from OMF Business Operations. She served as the primary contact for all of our proposers and our review panel, and she'll be introducing you to a couple of our innovation proposers who look forward to giving you a short overview of their projects. And then I'll be back to answer any questions. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Janet Storm. I'm a management analyst with OMF Business Operations, and I coordinate the grant proposal process that you just heard about. We wanted to share a little bit more about that with you today, so I'll go into it just a little bit more detail than Jane just did. On July 13th, OMF Business Operations put out a call for major and micro grants. We were looking for creative ideas.
 All city employees were notified that we were looking for ideas which promote equity and opportunity in city government and our community, improve customer service to the community and our city customers, save time or money for the city, its partners, or our community members, and improve city services or generally make things better.
 Interested employees submitted their proposals, and those proposals were then sent to bureau directors to ask for input on the proposals from their own bureaus as well as to help them identify cross-bureau partnership opportunities. We then forwarded those 34 proposals submitted by 14 bureaus to the Innovation Review Panel. The panel was asked to evaluate the proposals based on a few filters. We asked them, do you think this proposal is innovative? Does it show strategic creativity?
 Taking other funding sources into consideration, such as the Sponsor Bureau's operating budget, is the Innovation Fund the most logical funding source for this particular proposal?
 Is the proposal actually feasible? Do you believe that the proposed project can be achieved within the estimated budget provided? Are the key partners confirmed to be on board with this effort? And does this project advance equity? Does it save time or money? Does it provide opportunity? And is there a potential for greater benefits with broader applications citywide?
 On September 14th, the panel met and through a facilitated discussion with proposers agreed upon the funding recommendations for the nine projects you have before you today. We've invited five proposers to come up and share a minute or two with you about their individual proposals. So first, I'd like to introduce Elizabeth Mahone from the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Elizabeth's proposal is piloting the use of renewable power in public spaces. Thank you.
 Good morning. Hi, thank you. Good morning, Mayor Hales and commissioners. As Janet mentioned, my name is Elizabeth Mahan. I'm a project manager with the Bureau of Transportation. I'm here to talk about PBOT's innovation grant request for piloting the use of renewable power in public spaces. So PBOT is currently working with the Portland Development Commission, the Bureau of Environmental Services,
 and the Gateway Community on the development of a piece of underused right-of-way located at 112th and Halsey-Weidler. This area, which is commonly referred to as the East Entry Triangle, will provide much-needed green and open space to this underserved community in East Portland. And this includes the Parkrose Heights and Hazelwood neighborhoods.
 As the three bureaus worked with the community over the last six months to develop the concept for the triangle, we continually received requests to highlight the area's designation as an ecodistrict. In addition to testing different materials, such as permeable papers for the plaza, the stakeholders asked if we could use solar technology to power all of the lighting at the site.
 They'd like the triangle to be a demonstration site with a kiosk that educates the community on solar power and how it could be applied in a residential setting. Initially, PIVOT shied away from this concept because we have not had much success in the past using solar technology, and this is because of environmental conditions or heightened maintenance requirements. However, when we heard about the next round of innovation grants, we decided to explore just what it would take
 to successfully use solar technology on our facilities. We'd like to develop a solar-powered system to power all of the lighting at the site, as well as the rapid-flash beacons that will safely get pedestrians to this new plaza.
 And then determine the level of maintenance and the true lifecycle costs that are required in order to make this project a success. And then based on the results of this project, we'll be able to determine how and when it could be applied on future construction projects and future PBOT facilities.
 We know that using this technology can help reduce our carbon emissions and contribute to the city meeting its climate action goals. We're also eager to determine if applying this technology will save the city money in the long run.
 Over the next year, once the site is constructed, we'll be studying the amount of power that's actually generated from the solar technology, as well as determine the level of ongoing maintenance and operation costs that are required, and then look forward to reporting back to the city council on our findings.
 And I'm on behalf of the community and PBOT, I'd like to thank you all for this opportunity. And then I'm glad to answer any questions you may have. Great. Great. Questions for Elizabeth. Good presentation. Thank you very much. Thank you. OK. Thanks. Next we have Matthew Schabold, I hope I said his name correctly, from the Portland Housing Bureau, who will speak about improving access to affordable housing. Morning. Mayor Hales, commissioners, my name is Matthew Schabold with the Housing Bureau.
 And so the proposal that the Housing Bureau submitted is improving access to affordable housing. And so to kind of set the context for that, one issue we've known for a while that we needed to work on and there was an area for improvement is the ability for rental households to find out exactly what rental units were supported by the City of Portland through direct financing or one of our regulatory programs,
 well as the application process to actually get into those units so as it currently stands the city takes a fairly passive role in the actual application and rental of the unit there are a number of partner property management companies that advertise vacancies in the units and that facilitate the application process
 for a renter household that can create difficulties because the regulated units are managed by a host of partner organizations. And so these households have to go to many different websites or organizations to find out not only about the regulated units, their cost and their availability, but to actually submit an application, pay an application fee, and this happens multiple times.
 And so with the expansion, so looking forward as the city and you all as the city council have moved forward on increasing the tax exemption for rental units through the city's multi-program, as the city increasingly looks at getting affordable housing units through density bonuses in the central city, as well as the mixed-use zoning outside the central city, we anticipate an increase in the number of property management firms,
 joining the regulated affordable housing industry. That's a good thing. We need a greater supply of affordable housing, but that can have a potential
 potentially negative impact on the renter households trying to access housing. As you increase the number of companies managing units, you increase the number of companies that individuals need to call or visit websites or visit offices to get information. And so this proposal is to develop a web application that will not only identify all of the city's regulated affordable housing units, but actually facilitate the application to those units
 by listing when the units are vacant, regardless of what property owner and property management firm is administering those units, and then provide a process on the back end to facilitate a notification of vacancy and an application process.
 The analogy that I've been using that I think has helped folks understand is governmentjobs.com, that Government Jobs Act has a conduit between individuals applying for a job in government service and any number of government agencies, the city, the county, the state, and other governments around the region. To the applicant, all they see is one applicant profile they have to create online,
 They see a comprehensive list of openings, and then the web application facilitates their application to the job to the city governments, governments in general. They can post their jobs on this site, and then they get applications from multiple sources. So that's the premise behind this proposal. The Housing Bureau would like to thank you for the opportunity to move forward on this if possible, and I'm happy to answer any questions if you have them.
 Sounds good. Any questions? Thanks very much. Thank you. I'd like to ask Morgan Masterman of the Portland Development Commission to come up, and Morgan will discuss bridging the digital divide for disadvantaged businesses. Thank you.
 Good morning. Hi. Good morning, Commissioners and Mayor Hales. My name is Morgan Masterman, and I manage the Portland Development Commission's Microenterprise and Small Business Development Program. And today I'm joined by my colleague, Enoch Agary, who played a pivotal role in developing our proposal for bridging the digital divide for disadvantaged businesses. Thank you.
 The microenterprise and small business development program is a city funded program that provides approximately 500 local small businesses with technical assistance annually. Typical services include business planning, financial analysis, marketing, and access to capital.
 We support an extremely diverse group of businesses. Last year, approximately 75% of businesses were owned by people of color. 70% of business owners are living at or below 50% of the median family income. 60% are female-owned businesses, and 40% of business owners have limited English proficiency. Okay.
 And we've intentionally structured our program to provide targeted outreach to the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative and Main Street areas. Last year, 40% of those of the businesses participating in our program lived or worked in those priority areas. And an additional 350 businesses and entrepreneurs were served through our NPI and Main Street office hours service model.
 One issue that these businesses often face is web access. If you're familiar at all with, I'm assuming you're familiar with the work of the Office of Community Technology and their work on digital equity. They define digital equity as having access to the internet as well as hardware and education around knowledge of how to use the technology.
 We recently learned that about 65% of the businesses in our program lack a website and more than half of them have no web presence at all, which would include things like a Facebook page or a Yelp site. In this digital age, lacking a web presence makes it difficult for a business to scale and plan for long-term survival.
 Research and feedback from our partners in the community have identified several barriers that prevent disadvantaged business owners from establishing a web presence, again, including limited knowledge of the technology, language barriers, limited time and resources, as well as limited access to the Internet.
 With this funding, we plan to develop a web clinic to support 75 to 100 disadvantaged businesses and through this model, businesses would receive one-on-one advising, a customized plan outlining how they can enhance their web presence, brand development such as logo design, support to implement their plan, and training on how to maintain their web presence in the future. And we would hope to have this clinic become available in January of next year.
 I'd like to thank you for this opportunity and for your ongoing support for local small businesses, and thanks for the continued funding for the Innovation Fund. Thank you very much. Another piece of the deliberate effort we're making in inclusion, so thank you. Thanks. Next, we'll hear from Susan Barr from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, and Susan's proposal is Accessible One-Call Phone Translation.
 Susan sent a replacement. Oh, wow. Susan. Good morning. Actually, I'm John Dud. I'm Susan's supervisor for information referral program. She couldn't be here, so I'm pinch hitting for her today. So her proposal, when we talk about micro grants, I think this was the most micro of the micros. So a couple thousand dollars for accessible one-call phone translation services.
 So currently, we at City-County Information and Referral act as sort of the main operator for both the city and county government. We get calls for lots of other things as well. So being a general access point for folks trying to do business with the local government,
 We do get calls from folks that do not speak English as their primary language. So currently we're able to access phone translation services to help us with that. But what happens a lot of times is we are engaging with them to figure out what they're trying to accomplish and helping them figure out who they need to contact and then connecting them on elsewhere. Okay.
 And the current model with our translation agreement, once we finish figuring all that out with them, we then transfer them where they need to go or give them the information they need. Then they have to kind of start all over once they get to that other office, whether it's a city office, a county office, or a nonprofit like Home Forward, somebody like that. So then they have to start all over with a new translator. So the idea here that she had was to…
 reach an agreement with our translation service to be able to keep that interpreter on the call for the length of the call, no matter where we send them, whether it's to another city bureau or a county office or even an outside service of some sort that they need to connect with. So this creates a fund, and we have an agreement with Language Line Services that they're okay with that, and then this...
 when we have those calls this fund would help to support that service thanks john thank you our final presenter is lieutenant terry krueger with the portland police bureau who will speak about the youth and the law publication and it's brought reinforcements with him so just pull up another chair if you'd like to slide up another loose chair
 Mr. Mayor, good morning. Commissioners, thank you very much for your time. I brought with me today one of the educators and a couple of the students from Roosevelt High School. But what this grant fund proposal is about is it's a youth and law pamphlet that was a student-led project at Roosevelt High School.
 where the students went and interviewed police officers, parole and probation, public defenders, mental health professionals, and they can tell you more about it. And then they compiled a booklet with their answers to the questions from their interviews. Portland Police Bureau was heavily involved in this process and
 We recognize the benefit of this. At this time across our nation, there is a wound. This booklet is titled Youth and the Law, but it could be trust and understanding or trust and education. And, you know, there's a gap in our country.
 an injury that we need to heal. And this booklet starts the conversation and the relationships. We saw the value in it and the need for this conversation to expand beyond what their original proposal was, which was to get it out to their incoming freshmen to begin to educate them. And this proposal is to expand their footprint
 To start the conversation, it's already begun to grow and have its own roots and legs, and I'd like them to share with you. So this is Kate McPherson. She's a supporting educator at Roosevelt High School. Here you have Skye. She's a junior heavily involved in the project, and Carson is a senior involved as well. And at this point, I'd just like to step back and let them share with you a little bit. Great. Thank you. Good morning. Hi.
 I want to, Kate McPherson and I have the pleasure of providing leadership for Roosevelt's Writing and Publishing Center. I want to kick off with first just a real genuine thank you to Terry Kruger for his involvement throughout the summer. And we know without his leadership and support, we would not be before you. So we really appreciate this being an alliance and a partnership that's gone deep.
 My job today is I work with the Writing and Publishing Center, so I work with teachers and students to help ensure that student writing has greater voice
 and value in the community. And so what I'm really thrilled to introduce both Skye and Carson, who are the ones who will really speak about the project. I'm here to sort of intro, take photos, and answer questions at the end. Skye was a part of the class that started the program last spring. She can describe that and answer questions related to that.
 And then Carson worked with me during the summer through our summer internship, taking that work deeper and making sure that our book moved beyond the school to have greater impact and have a deeper quality to it. And also he was the one who originally thought of the idea of every freshman and proposed that to the police department. So I want them to launch the conversation, and then I'll be here at the end to answer any questions that you might have. Welcome. Good morning, Skye.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. My name is Skye Skalbeck and I'm a junior at Roosevelt. This project started in September of 2014 when one of our students was tased by police. And a lot of our community, they were very angry and they didn't know what to do with it. And it showed a lack of trust and knowledge between both youth and police.
 So in my mock trial class, we had the opportunity to ask questions about anything related to the law, anything we didn't understand. And we got those questions back to research them. And part of our research was interviewing people from the community, and that included police, people from Multnomah County and beyond.
 That allowed us to build relationships with our community and humanize this conflict. We often see people, you know, stereotyping one side or the other, and it kind of breaks us apart. So we were allowed to come together and be together. Good morning, Commissioner, Commissioners, and Mayor Hales. Again, thank you for your time today. And...
 Piggybacking off what Sky said about relationships between police and the community, this book specifically deals with that situation, with that gap. A lot of these people that we've seen across the nation who have had incidences with the police, and some have been killed, some not,
 But most of these people are adults over the age of 18, and it speaks on how they have been educated as young adults, as teenagers, on how to de-escalate situations, on how to deal with police officers. And this book directly correlates with that gap in education. It talks about your rights as a community member, as a teenager, as an adult.
 It speaks on how police officers go into situations after they get in a call. What are they looking to do? How are they looking to handle the situation? And just it's a big help for any person, any person 13 or 35 who may have less knowledge about the law. Any person can pick this up and learn something.
 And it's just a big help for the community, build relationships, because like she said, there's a gap in communication. There's a gap in that. And without this project, I never would have met Terry Kruger, who is obviously a great human being and who has helped us a lot in this process.
 Thank you very much. Questions? I just want to say, man, it seems like there are two indispensable pieces of this. One is having somebody in the Bureau, a former Lieutenant Kruger, who believed in this need and the need to meet it. But it wouldn't have happened if we didn't have student leaders because if it was the Police Bureau trying to do this, how credible that would have not been compared to having you do it with the Police Bureau's support. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Of course. Would you like to come up and take a picture with the council? Come on. Do you mind? You guys interrupted before. We'd love to interrupt. Actually, why don't you come up here and take a couple of these seats? Because you're going to be in later. I'll give you a poppy. Many evidence on it. You guys are fighters. You can be mayors for the day. That's a good idea. She should be pleased. That's a good idea.
 I know. I haven't seen an actual camera in a long time. It's true. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Congratulations. Good work. Ciao. Ciao.
 I just wanted to, in a passing note, Sky was at a conference for teachers throughout Oregon. Oregon Education Association invited them to present, and so there are teachers throughout the state who are quite interested in Oregon. Oh, that's great. Good work. This is wonderful.
 Okay, so we've had our series of presentations about these projects, a great view of what this effort has resulted in so far, so thank you. Anyone else that signed up to speak on this item aside from the presenters? We do not have a sign-up sheet. Okay, anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up, Charles. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and it's just been awesome to see these presentations, to have students come from the fire-scarred Roosevelt High School,
 and talk about the good things that are going on there and positive partnerships with the police. As you know, usually I'm up here about the more negative concerns about inadequacies or problems in policing. So I've met Mr. Kruger at the City Club and gotten straight on which Krugers are which Krugers in our police department. And on this particular agenda, I think that there's a broad concern in Portland about –
 how wealthy and corporate units are taxed. So I would like to encourage you to do some behind-the-scenes things and talks with the city's attorney to find out, since we're not doing a lot of corporate taxation, what are the legal guidelines so that local leaders like Columbia Sportswear, Intel, Nike...
 can partner in funding these great projects so that it doesn't all come at taxpayer expense. I think taxpayers are great to pay this, but I think it's an awesome opportunity for the Paul Allen Family Foundation, for Mr. Knight, and for the corporate CEOs at those companies to engage with the community and encourage youth leadership and innovation among young professionals working for the city. Thank you. Thank you. Good suggestion.
 Okay. Any questions for council? Then let's please take a vote on the emergency ordinance. Okay. I'm continually impressed by the innovation, the enthusiasm shown by both people in the bureaus and the community members they work with. And Mayor Hales, I think that these innovation grants are among the most innovative things you've championed in your term as mayor. Hi. Thanks.
 Well, I particularly appreciated the presentations by Jane Brighton and Janet Storm today.
 outlining the diligence of our city employees in going through these grants and making sure that they're asking all of the questions that taxpayers would want to have asked And I appreciate the examples that we've been given today Particularly this last one that this is the pamphlet that the students have put together Which is now going to be paid for to be given to all high school students in Portland And I I think that's a very good thing. Hi Well, thank you
 Office of Management and Finance for managing this process, and we've got some great proposals here. I'm really intrigued by all of them, and they all sound great. Congratulations to the Housing Bureau for being the big winner there, $150,000. Great work. Hi. Tails. Tails.
 We started today with welcoming a delegation from Japan who is here visiting, and we get a lot of those delegations, and they often come here to study sustainability. But I think all of us are looking forward to the day when they come here to study sustainability, but also how we're a model internationally for equity and for inclusion and for innovation. So today is about those goals that we share here as a council and as a community. So Jane, Janet, thank you for great management of this.
 innovative program and i just am really impressed with the people in the bureaus that have come up with these ideas have developed them polished them with constructive criticism from their peers and and then also engage community leaders in making these things happen so i'm really proud of this effort proud of what's been brought forward look forward to more thank you very much aye good work
 Okay, we have a few more regular items this morning to address. Item 1025. Amend ordinance to modify the conditions of approval for the vacation of a portion of Southwest Moody Avenue north of Ross Island Bridge subject to certain conditions and reservations. Mr. Novick?
 colleagues we have lance lindahl from pibot here to explain the reasons why we need to modify the ordinance one reason i need to stress is that apparently in the original vacation uh we misnamed we misnamed some manholes so part of what we're doing here is correcting the name of this name manholes and commissioner fish told me that is that this is a great concern to him that as long as he's in charge of the manholes they need to be treated with respect and that means they need to be called for their proper names
 But there's other things you need to do, too. Lance. Thank you. Again, my name is Lance Lindahl, right-of-way acquisition, Bureau of Transportation. Before you today is a proposal to amend Ordinance 187032, which was approved by Council back on February 25th of this year. That ordinance vacated a portion of Southwest Moody Avenue north of the Ross Island Bridge, subject to certain conditions and reservations. The vacation area has not been used for surface transportation purposes since Southwest Moody was relocated and reconstructed several years ago.
 the amendment language before you today provides needed clarification on the public sewer facilities are being transferred to private ownership at the request of your environmental services it also reduces the size of the required bes sewer easement area in order to better match the needs of both the city and the abutting property owners and i'm happy to answer any questions that you have about this one sounds like none thank you okay anyone else want to speak on this item if not then let's take a vote please nothing thank you lance aye
 Thanks. I'm just laughing over the naming of the manholes. Was that actually serious? Thank you. Actually, I had that conversation with Commissioner Fish, but yes, that is one of the things you're doing. Well, I will find out from you later what their misnaming was and what we're now going to be naming them. I hope there's a solid naming policy within the Bureau. Aye. Saltzman? Aye.
 Well, I hope you can come up with a gender-neutral name, too. I'll get the consultants on the line right now. Okay. I hope it doesn't take that. Thank you very much. Okay. Yeah, we've got auctioning manholes and naming – auctioning fire hydrants and naming manholes. Who knows what else our bureaus are going to come up with. Okay, 1026. Future proposals. Innovation rules. Okay.
 Authorized contract with Sargent's Towing, Inc. for abandoned vehicle towing and storage services. We had this before us before. There's some changes here.
 No. I mean, we did have it. Actually, I wasn't here last week, but I was told that Commissioner Fritz was asking the PBOT making commitment that we review and assess our abandoned auto program with particular attention to the criteria for identifying an abandoned vehicle and the notification period given to owners of the abandoned vehicle. We are going to undertake that review and make a presentation to Council within the next 90 days. Okay.
 so i wanted to state that for the record and then be about staff are here to answer any questions and with that i'm i'm satisfied that the ordinance uh for the towing can proceed as written okay good any other questions for our team that developed this proposal and got this bid all right then let's take a vote please novick thank you very much aye thank you for that commitment and the council last week for taking a little bit more time to allow me to work through the issues with both the bureau and commissioner novick's staff aye
 Heltsman? Aye. Hales? Yeah, I'm glad we're going to do that. As I indicated at the hearing, I think we have to be very thoughtful about how this tool was used because it is pretty invasive of people's lives and wallets when we do use it. And then the story Commissioner Fish told about the storage pod being towed away from somebody's
 In front of somebody's house while their house is being remodeled is just simply horrific And I hope we can somehow make amends to that person for the damages that were done and Again, we ought to be very careful about using this tool It's an important tool for managing the public right-of-way, which is a right-of-way not a right of absolute occupancy So I get that we have to do this, but how we do it really matters. So I look forward to that discussion. Hi Thank you very much
 Okay, 1027. Conduct a pilot project to amend administrative procedures in order to increase time for public review of City Council public meeting agendas. Commissioner Gritz. Thank you, Mayor. I am super excited to be bringing this resolution in partnership with the City Auditor and the Council Clerk staff. We are proposing to change the deadline for when Council offices must submit documents.
 the items for the following week's agenda to the council clerk. And I won't go into all of the details of how that works because we'll be visiting with the bureau directors at their next meeting. We have had some email communication to make sure that that's clear. But the net result for citizens and for city council offices and everybody else is that the council agenda will be published on Thursday afternoons instead of Friday afternoons.
 which will give a whole extra business day, but also the weekend for citizens and staff to be able to look into the items on the council agenda. So I'm very, very excited about this, very grateful to the council clerk and to the auditor's office for working with my staff and also Rachel Wiggins' staff.
 Mayor Hales and your staff for putting a lot of effort into this. Celia Heron in the Office of Management and Finance and Tony Anderson have also been hugely helpful. And there are other internal processes for improving how we get things on the agenda, how we manage the agenda, that I am very hopeful will be worked out.
 results in better public process, more transparency, and increased opportunity for us all to know what's going on in advance and ask our questions in advance. Did Sarah Landis, does anybody from the auditor's office want to say anything? Okay. Sarah Landis, the deputy city auditor, has been extremely helpful also. And like I said, I've been trying to...
 Hoping to do this for almost seven years, and it's very exciting, and I appreciate each of my colleagues for expressing a willingness to at least try it for six months. This will go into effect, the first filing deadline to be on a Monday will be October 26th. So starting in November.
 Council agenda will be published on Thursdays. The other piece of this is that things that are heard on Thursday afternoons cannot have a second reading the following week. So if each of us are thinking of scheduling things on a Thursday afternoon, we should know that either it's something that's going to get voted on that day or it's something that would have to wait for almost two weeks to come back to Council. Thank you. Questions for staff? Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 Could you just explain that last point? I'm not absorbing it. So because the council clerk will be –
 in council chambers on Thursday afternoons, and we won't necessarily have finished whatever we're talking about on Thursday afternoon. We won't know whether it's going to need a second reading or a second hearing until after the council agenda is published. So anything that's heard on Thursday afternoon either has to be voted, something that's voted on right then, or something that can go over for two weeks rather than for one week. Okay, thanks. Thank you.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I myself do not approve of the amendment. I do not want any changes made on any public communication. I have a few issues. I feel we have ample time to review. I don't think there needs to be any changes. One of the concerns I do have on public communication is that for the public, when they communicate, we should not have certain...
 items that have been already pre-approved by either committees or the council without hearing the public statements. And why I say that, if I might explain, is that we have had items on these agendas that I have come up and communicated on, stated my facts against it, and within an hour I go out and I read a publication that it's already been approved.
 There is no way that you can do that from the media, from you approving it, to the media to have it outside that it's already been approved
 These discussions that we have, the public has a right to come out and communicate. That's why public communication is necessary to allow the public to make their statements and not have it already negotiated with the media to where they have it in their publications. When I walk out of this room, it's already been approved. I don't like that.
 The whole point of public communication is to have the public to be able to come in here and say, hey, this is what I believe. I don't want you to approve it. I'm speaking against it. I hope you're listening to me because it is public communication and I am the public. And why is it already pre-approved to where the media has it in their print that you've already agreed to it? So I want to have an auditor take a look at that and understand that the media is,
 should not have access on the final approval before public communication and public has a right to state their opinion. Because my understanding, the public has a right to be here by state law, if I am correct, by state law to communicate.
 to the council chambers on what I believe on these type of communications. And I would like that to be looked into further, but can you actually deny me to come in and communicate as the public on these issues? And that's what I want to have an understanding, because if you say that public communication is not necessary, then let's not have it.
 Because I feel it's not necessary if we don't have the right to state our opinions and already have the media have it in their publication. It's been pre-approved earlier. And what I have to say has no bearing. And why I say that, I can look at certain issues in here that I will speak on and I will disagree with. And within an hour, I can go out and look in the publication and they'll already say it was approved. Right?
 Now, how can the media get access that fast and have it in their publication? Well, I think we might be talking past each other a little bit here, Lightning. I mean, the purpose of this innovation, if I can use that word again, is to give people more time to know what's on our calendar. The public. The public. The public, yes, and also council colleagues. And council. So that we have not – no one's trying to surprise our colleagues. Right.
 The time window is short enough that an ordinance can get filed, and everybody else sees it only days before it's brought to the public hearing. So I like this idea. I think it's worth a try, and that's why it is an innovation and why we are going to do it as a pilot project first. But the idea of giving everyone more time to see what's on our docket
 doesn't change the necessity to make sure the process has integrity and we don't decide things before that. I get your point about that. My point is you're asking for an additional day to do research, if I am correct. One day is what you're asking for. That's the effect of this. That's the effect of this. That is correct. My position is if the public, when they communicate, has no bearing on,
 to your vote if it's already been pre-approved and the media has already been notified. That's a different – I don't think we have that problem, but that's a different problem. Oh, no, there is that. I'd be interested to know the specific example. Sometimes what happens is that we send out a draft press release that's embargoed until after the vote. So if it turns out that something comes up, and there's been numerous occasions when you've been here where public testimony has changed the outcome.
 So I'd be very interested maybe after the hearing to hear from you what was the specific time that you went out and it was in print. The only time it has changed is when we push it over for another week. But I'm saying there are instances that have been pre-approved.
 where public has come up here and communicated, and I will walk out an hour later, and it's in media that it was already approved. I'd be very interested to know what specific instances, because my vote is not pre-approved. I can bring up numerous instances, and I will do that, because I follow that immediately when I walk from the council chambers right to the media what's been printed. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners. The first thing I'd like to note is the absence of Joe Walsh, but he's watching from home. And I'm sure he would also be glad that this item number 1027 is not starred as an emergency. Yay. I think this is a generally good innovation that does give the public another day at home to prepare and research and to communicate, to talk about testifying so we can try and influence –
 you to vote in the way that we think is in the best interest of the city i do think that when we talk about public engagement and awareness it's important to go and look back at page one and note that today only four of the five slots for public communication got used in the past few weeks you all have talked some great partnership work with a deborah kifori chair of the county commission and the county commission
 And I hope that you will also, as you review this innovation that Ms. Fritz has brought forward, that you'll also look to making your public comment procedure at the beginning more open, maybe with a standby list the way that it's done at the county commission so that you can have better engagement with your constituents. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. This is a resolution, not an ordinance, so we do vote on it today. So let's take a roll call. No, thank you. Commissioner. Sure.
 my staff and i very much appreciate this change we our practice is when the agenda comes out on friday afternoon to review it to see if there's something we didn't know enough about and see if we have any questions and the problem is that it being friday afternoon often the people with answers to the questions aren't available
 So we spend the weekend sometimes kind of freaking out, wondering if we'll get the answers to those questions. So having that extra day to be able to call the relevant people on Friday and clarify issues is going to be extremely helpful to your colleagues as well as to the public. So thank you. Thank you for your support, and thank you very much to the auditor and your staff for working with us on this. I know it's a big challenge. It's a change to the way we've been doing things, and I hope that it does work out. And certainly let me know –
 ongoing. Our plan is to return with a report to council after six months to say and gather input from you and the public as to whether it has been helpful. And so I'm very excited about that. The hope also is that the city budget's office financial impact statement can also come out a day early. So instead of Tuesday, we would get that on Monday, which I will find very helpful. We'll also...
 opportunity to talk with each other one-on-one on Mondays with any proposed amendments rather than, as you say, Commissioner, I often can only have found out the information I need to know whether I want to propose an amendment to put on the table by Tuesday. So we didn't write that into the agenda.
 resolution, but the hope is that if we can continue to work as hard on Fridays and Mondays as we currently do on Mondays and Tuesdays, that we might be able to get more input from citizens earlier and therefore be ready with any amendments that either council offices or citizens propose so that we can just improve the process. So I very much appreciate everybody's willingness to give it a try. Aye.
 oh by the way i do also need to thank jasmine walsworth on my staff who is coordinator of my council agenda binder and my two chiefs of staff tom bizot and tim krayle who are extremely diligent we believe that this is the most city council hearings are the most important things that i do as an elected official as lightning said to listen to the public to make sure that we are taking appropriate public input and so our office and i know each of yours puts a lot of
 effort into finding out about the items. And so I greatly appreciate my staff. Aye. Well, this sounds like a great experiment. Glad to indulge your seven-year quest, Commissioner Fritz. Let's see if this will improve how we do our business. Aye.
 I'm gonna steal Commissioner Novick's role and quote song lyric Cheryl Crow which is that change would do us good thank you for its night and we're recessed till 2 p.m. because item 1028 has been rescheduled to 2 p.m. get to work
 Do you have an inside track? My first reaction was, why am I the last to find out? I was thinking maybe you're the first to know. You should be housing emergency. Hey, Josh. Well, we can deal with that when it comes up. Let's just deal with that one. Okay. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the October 7th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Novick? Aye. Fritz? Starr? Fish? Aye. Starr?
 I'll take those eyes. See what you started? Yes.
 Okay. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome. We'll read the items in a moment that are before the council this afternoon. I want to welcome you all here. Many of you have probably been here before. Some basic rules of procedure. We'll have these items up for council consideration. We're actually going to take them as a group. And I'll want to hear a little bit from staff and from our clerk about how we're going to handle testimony because we do have more than one agenda item on the same subject, a
 If you're here to testify, you just need to let our council clerk know, and she'll have you on the list of people to speak. We typically allow three minutes per person to speak, though, with the number of people here today, I think we might want to ask people in individual testimony to try to limit your comments to two minutes, just so we can hear from everyone, because that's our goal, is to be able to hear from everyone that wants to speak on this issue.
 Speaking of that, we try to maintain the rules of Portland polite and courtesy in this room, and that is give everybody a chance to have their say even if we don't agree with them. So if you do agree with someone and want to indicate your support for their point of view, feel free to wave a sign or give them a thumbs up or make some kind of nonverbal affirmation of their opinion. If you disagree with them, make a polite hand gesture to the contrary. But we ask that we not make...
 vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' point of view in this room so that we can hear from everyone, and that's the idea. So, again, we want to welcome you all and appreciate your participation in the discussion this afternoon. Carla, why don't you go ahead and read all three items that we have before us? Item 1028.
 Amend Affordable Housing Preservation Code to add Portland renter protections. Item 1029. Amend Title 15 Emergency Code to authorize Council to declare a housing emergency under specified circumstances and define duration and Council powers during a housing emergency.
 And item 1030, declare a housing emergency to address increased homelessness, identify council powers, specify one year duration, waive zoning code, and authorize request to governor for an emergency declaration.
 Thank you. Well, let me start with some opening comments, and I know that some of my colleagues want to do so as well. And let me start with what may seem like an incongruous moment when we're talking about housing today. But a couple of months ago, I had this extraordinary opportunity to go to the Vatican at the invitation of Pope Francis to talk about climate change and human suffering.
 And there were about 60 mayors from around the world gathered in a little group in front of the Pope while he was speaking with us. And he kept referring to, you world leaders, you world leaders. And a couple of us literally looked around and, well, who came? You know, just a bunch of mayors here, right? But he meant that, that he knew, and that's why he convened mayors to talk about these issues, that the locus of activity and innovation is at the city level.
 And, in fact, when you look at the issues of climate and gun violence and housing and homelessness, in all three cases we're talking about huge issues, national issues or international issues. And yet the activity and the innovation is happening at the local level, and that's why we're here. That's why we're considering an extraordinary action of a declaration of emergency about the cost of housing and the homeless crisis in our city.
 because this is where the action is. And, in fact, if misery loves company, I guess we have some in this issue because all of the West Coast mayors...
 are dealing with these same issues. I had the opportunity while I was at the Vatican to speak with Mayor Murray about this because Seattle is in a housing crisis as well. My friend and colleague Eric Garcetti has just had his city council consider and act on a state of emergency declaration that talks about many of the same issues there, except that the numbers are really shocking, 19,000 unsheltered homeless on a given night. Okay.
 So, again, these are big national issues. Income inequality and the other drivers of the housing crisis and the homelessness crisis are a national problem, but it is both our responsibility and the trend that innovation and action, decisive action in this case, is happening at the local level.
 So when we look at these twin crises of vanishing housing affordability and heart-wrenching homelessness, I think it's good to point out that we have done a lot with the tools that we've had. We've created, what, Commissioner Fish, 13,000 housing units, affordable housing units over the last 10 years. We've done some great work.
 But those tools are not adequate to the emergency that we face today. So we need to be nimble and we need to be flexible and we need to be swifter in our response than we have typically been as a community.
 I don't ask the council to take up a declaration of emergency lightly. And, in fact, it's something no mayor takes pleasure in. No mayor takes pleasure in declaring an emergency in his or her city. But this is one, and we have to face it that openly. Thank you.
 There are good things, though, about declaring an emergency. The fact that you are here today because it's galvanized a lot of people into collective action. It's brought people together in collaboration. And it's given hope, I hope, to a lot of people in this community who are up against it in terms of housing costs or who are outside waiting for help and hope.
 So I think this is a great opportunity for us as a city to use this declaration and the authority it brings to make a difference and to, under Commissioner Saltzman's leadership in our discussion today, address the protection of renters who are seriously vulnerable to what's happening in our housing market. And with that, I'll turn it over to Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Today we are here to provide some new tools to help us respond to the current housing crisis we find ourselves in, as well as to establish some renter protections in this ever-escalating rental market. We have over 1,800 people sleeping on our streets on any given night. We don't have enough affordable housing, nor do we have enough emergency shelter space to keep people safe and warm at night.
 So we need to do more, and that's why I appreciate so much the mayor's declaration of emergency and his proposals he's making today. And we'll also be talking about establishing some fundamental renter protections. But I did want to touch upon a few other things we are trying to deal with to address the issues of more affordable housing in our community. We have currently 1,100 new affordable units in the pipeline. These are projects that have been funded and are underway in one form or another.
 And this month we will be deciding on funding for an additional 600 units of affordable housing throughout our city. The council in the next couple of weeks will be talking about increasing the urban renewal amount of money set aside for affordable housing investments.
 And let me be clear, I will be asking this council to prioritize the addition of tens of millions of dollars of additional money from sort of the PDC side of the ledger to the Portland Housing Bureau side of the ledger so it can be invested in affordable housing. And on the 28th of this month, I will be asking the council to take the first step towards a permanent citywide source of affordable housing known as a developer impact fee.
 We will assess developers a fee to develop in our city to support the creation of thousands of more units of affordable housing.
 And finally, I did want to touch upon something that's in the works and will be coming to council, but it will be later next year. And that's part of the comprehensive plan. We have established proposals to establish new incentives. I mean, we're using somewhat the stick approach, but we also want to use the incentive approach by being able to offer developments additional height or density in exchange for a commitment to include affordable housing in the development or to pay into an affordable housing fund and in lieu of payment.
 So all these things are in the works, and it's going to be a busy October. It'll be a busy next several months as we respond to the urgency of this crisis. And I'd also like to say that the tenant protections that we will discuss soon, it's not the end of the discussion. It's, in fact, perhaps the beginning. We need to make sure that tenants get more help to enforce their rights.
 And that is why with the mayor and Chair Capore's announcement last week of some $30 million of additional funding for affordable housing in this year's proposed budgets, there is an amount for a legal tenant enforcement team. And we see this legal enforcement team as indispensable to the tenant protections that we will hopefully enact after having a hearing today and a vote next week. So thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much. Commissioner Fisch, do you have some comments? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I believe this is the third time that we've declared an emergency on the seven years that I've been on this council. First was the winter storm of 2008. Second was the winter storm of 2013. And the third is the storm that is affecting so many low-income families and adults in our community that caused the mayor to announce his intention to declare a state of
 maybe bigger than some people realize. It's not a surprise to anyone in this room that so many people want to live in our community, or that people from around the country are pouring into Portland, or that our national and local economy is changing so dramatically, leaving so many people behind. The consequences are made visible to us every day, whether we're talking about teardowns in Boise-Elliott, view corridors downtown, apartment buildings with limited parking,
 food carts being replaced by $750,000 condos, Airbnbs, short-term rentals, older adults forced out of their homes, homeless families and children in the North Park blocks and in our natural areas, no-cause evictions for families living on Rosa Parks Boulevard, or the need for additional shelter space for some of our most vulnerable residents. We're talking about the same thing. All these threads are part of a larger reality in Portland
 a city that is changing, and a city where we collectively need to make sure there is room for everyone in our city. When cities become denser, when land becomes more scarce and more valuable, it's not those at the top that get squeezed. It's those at the bottom. That's not my opinion. That's the fact in Portland, in San Francisco, and in cities around the country. And that's why it's appropriate that this larger discussion has zeroed in on affordable housing and homelessness
 and mayor why it is correct in my view for you to declare this emergency i am glad that the council's attention has been focused on this vital conversation and i am grateful for the chorus of community voices who have demanded that we take action i will support this declaration today i will fight i will join each of you in fighting for new funding and i will support any reasonable proposal that relieves or prevents struggles facing those who have the least
 and need the help the most. And I want to close by acknowledging that because of Dan Saltzman's leadership and the conversation that the mayor has launched, and because of the tremendous advocacy of the people in this room, we have as many as 12 concrete proposals which this council is poised to act on. And they fall into one of four categories, new money, new homes, new tools, or new protections.
 I was honored to stand with the mayor and Dan last week to express my support for the $30 million pledge to the home for everyone. And I'm pleased that the mayor has chosen the plan that was developed by the community. It is a plan that has already been vetted. We don't have to reinvent the wheel, and it will make a dent in ending homelessness. I will support increasing the TIF set-aside from 30% to 50%.
 I will support Commissioner Saltzman's ordinance, which he intends to file shortly, to dedicate all revenue from short-term rentals like Airbnb to the Housing Investment Fund so those resources can be used to replace the inventory of affordable housing we're losing. I support Commissioner Saltzman's request to fund a nexus study, a precondition to identifying a new impact fee. I support all of the market-based proposals that Dan has supported that would encourage the market to provide more affordable homes for people.
 in opportunity areas across our city. And today I will support changes in the law that give renters greater protection. Council will once again this year demand that the state legislature finally act to lift the preemption on the ban against inclusionary zoning. And whether you support inclusionary zoning or not, it is offensive to our system of government to have one body declare that another cannot even take the issue up.
 I will work with Commissioner Saltzman and Home Forward and other partners to make sure that Section 8 voucher holders can find an affordable home in our community and are not forced to turn them back. Commissioner Saltzman and the Housing Bureau have announced that they will do a pilot to test whether we can bring down the cost of new affordable housing. And at a time when we have few resources, it makes perfect sense to find common sense ways to reduce the cost and to house more people.
 I also believe that we have to continue to invest in community policing and effective outreach. And we need to make sure that as we do so, compassionately, we also make it clear that bad behavior on our streets will not be tolerated. And finally, I will enthusiastically support the call, when it comes, by Welcome Home and Jess Larson to capitalize on this moment and at some point in the future to go to the voters and to say, Thank you.
 We need a new and robust dedicated funding source to continue to find and provide and build and support homes for our most vulnerable families. Mayor Hales, thank you for your leadership in declaring an emergency. Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for the plethora of innovative ideas you put on the table to address this emergency. And I'm proud to be part of a council that is poised to do something big.
 to address a huge problem in our community. And maybe, Mayor, if we keep faith with this exercise, the next time you meet with your mayors, you can tell them about the Portland approach to ending homelessness, and we can become the national leader in that conversation. So thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Comments? I am very encouraged.
 by my colleagues' actions and proposals. I'm encouraged by Commissioner Saltzman saying that he thinks that we might have a chance of having a new dedicated revenue source for affordable housing. I'm encouraged by the mayor saying that by declaring an emergency, we can give ourselves some tools to make it easier to house people. But one thing I don't want to do today is to let the federal government off the hook.
 Homelessness is not just a Portland problem, it's a national problem, particularly acute in the cities of the West Coast, but you see the same problem in New York and elsewhere. Homelessness and housing affordability are among several crises that the federal government is not facing up to. We have an infrastructure crisis. It's not just the streets of Portland, but the streets of many cities across the country that are falling apart, and the federal government does nothing.
 We have a climate disruption crisis, which is putting stress on our food supply and creating disruptive climate events, which have an impact on businesses and homes and governments. And the federal government does nothing. And we have an inequality crisis, which is, to a significant extent, responsible for our housing affordability problems. Portland is an attractive city for everybody to move to, including rich people.
 So rich people move here and they drive up the prices for everybody else. But if there were not such a huge gap between the rich and other people, then the crisis would not be as acute. And the federal government does not act to address the inequality crisis, which it could, for example, by reforming our labor laws. Thank you.
 So I applaud my colleagues' actions here today, but I think it's important to remember that this is not just our problem, it's the country's problem, and our country's leaders are not doing what they need to do to address this problem. Thank you. Chris? Sorry, I appreciate the opening statements, some of which sounded like closing statements. We are here to hear from you, the public, as to whether you think the proposals on the –
 Council agenda this afternoon are the right things to do and I'm very much wanting to hear from you Mayor could you outline the process for amendments to any of the three of these please? So I think the order we're going to take them up in will be first the declaration and therefore 1029 and then two
 1030 and 28 in that order or the other way around Dan that's right 1030 and 1028 so I think what we'll want to do is right after the staff presentation
 take up any proposals for amendments that anyone has now. On any of the three? On any of the three, so that when people testify, you'll know that the council's already put an amendment on the table that may make it a better proposal or a worse proposal, but you'll at least get to react to what someone intends to do in terms of an amendment.
 So with that, I think I'd like to bring up Josh Alpert and our city attorney team to walk us through the declaration, and Mark Jolin from Home for Everyone, who leads our consortium effort with Multnomah County and the Housing Authority and City of Gresham and nonprofits all working together the way governments and the community should. Welcome, gentlemen. Great. Thank you.
 Mayor, commissioners, Josh Alpert, mayor's office. Thank you for the opportunity to bring to council this declaration of the state of emergency. It's been a few weeks full of chaos and uncertainty and long days and nights for me, for our city attorneys, for our staffers, our partners at the county, home for everyone and throughout the city. And yet the chaos, uncertainty, and long days and nights are the status quo for Portlanders living on the street.
 The declaration we bring to you today to consider comes with a promise to all Portlanders that we can respond to an emergency in the Portland way, a way that involves each of us looking out for our fellow Portlanders, putting aside differences and digging deeper to make Portland truly a safe, dry, warm home for all our inhabitants.
 There is no model to follow, no playbook we can borrow. What you have before you today is the work of many people expert in housing and the issues of homelessness, aided by the compassion of others who simply know that we should be able to do more faster. I appreciate the opportunity to bring this forward for your deliberation, and we'll turn it over to Mark Jolin, Executive Director of Home for Everyone, to walk through how these new tools can expedite our work, and then I'm happy to take questions. Thank you, Mark. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council members. My name is Mark Joel, and I'm the Initiative Director for Home for Everyone. You chartered a Home for Everyone a little more than a year ago to provide a shared set of priorities and strategies that could unite the ending homelessness efforts of the City of Portland, the City of Gresham, Home Forward, Multnomah County, as well as the important work that's being done by our federal and state partners and by the faith, philanthropic, and business communities. Our goal, your goal, simply put, is to prevent or end the homelessness of thousands of people
 who find themselves sleeping on our streets and in our shelters every night. Achieving this goal is not simple, but we knew that making progress would depend upon having a comprehensive plan with clearly articulated strategies and investment priorities for each of the critical dimensions of the problem of homelessness. Access to housing, economic opportunity, health care, and the need for basic safety while experiencing homelessness, what we call safety off the streets.
 With direction from the executive committee, the 30-some members of the Home for Everyone Coordinating Board worked with dozens of other community partners to develop action plans which, if fully implemented, could lead to a 50% reduction in the unmet need for permanent housing in our community. What we didn't know, even in January of this year, when we were finalizing these plans, is the depth of the crisis in our housing market and that it would disrupt so many lives so quickly, with many more people becoming homeless than we've previously experienced.
 With rents increasing 40% over the same four-year period as the earnings for low-wage workers declined by more than 5%, we saw a 42% one-year increase in the number of people accessing our emergency shelters. We also didn't foresee the significant rise in homelessness among some of the most vulnerable populations in our community. The recently released 2015 Street Count Report, although showing only a small overall increase in street and shelter homelessness, documented significant increases in homelessness among children,
 the elderly, women, and African Americans. We know from the agencies working with these populations the lack of affordable vacancies has made finding housing an almost insurmountable challenge for a growing number of these very vulnerable people.
 So even though by starting to implement the strategies and investment priorities set out in our action plans, we were able to help more people than ever end their homelessness last year, over 3,500 people. And we fully expect to exceed that number with the new initiatives already underway this year. We know from the data and from what we are seeing on our streets every day that if we're going to keep people safe and significantly reduce the number of people suffering homelessness in our community, it will take extraordinary action.
 We have to be able to implement our safety off the streets and permanent housing strategies more quickly and on a larger scale. That is what the state of emergency and the city and county's commitment of $30 million will allow us to do. With the authority granted by the state of emergency and the $30 million investment, we'll first be able to increase shelter options for our most vulnerable neighbors.
 Our first priority is always to move someone who has become homeless into permanent housing. But while that process is underway, we have to be able to offer a safe place to spend the night to those who are most vulnerable on our sidewalks. By removing the obstacles to siting shelter, we will be able to make life-saving places to sleep available more quickly. With the funding proposed, we will work with our faith and nonprofit partners to establish the projected 650 needed shelter options for women and people with disabilities.
 we will increase our homeless prevention efforts. We know that the best and most cost-effective strategy to end homelessness is to prevent it from happening in the first place. With this funding, we will be able to help at least an additional 1,000 people avoid eviction and keep their housing. We will work with legal services to increase their ability to help tenants protect their rights, and we will work to support the implementation of Commissioner Saltzman's new proposed tenant protections. And third, we will increase the number of currently homeless people
 who have access to permanent housing. We know that the best shelter and the only true solution to homelessness is permanent housing. Under the state of emergency and with the designated resources, we will help more than 1,300 additional women, children, and people with disabilities who are homeless move out of our shelters, off the streets, and back into permanent housing. The action plans call for allocating an additional $10 million to build units that serve those who are homeless or at imminent risk of homelessness,
 And we will put special emphasis on permanent housing for people with severe mental illness who are homeless, including those who are accessing the soon-to-be-opened Unity Center. We do face a housing emergency in our community. And I'm grateful to you, Mayor, and to the members of City Council for taking this critical step.
 I know I speak for the Home for Everyone Executive Committee and Coordinating Board when I say that we will do everything in our power to ensure that your actions today result in real improvements in the lives of the thousands of people who are homeless in our community tonight. Thank you both very much. Questions for our two leaders in our administration on this issue? So then let's go ahead and take up proposed amendments to the declaration, please, before we begin. I think we're going to do the...
 I think you were going to have an invited panel. All right.
 I am going to have invited panels. We can do the invited panels first and then start the amendments process and then take public testimony. I want to do an overview for the rental protections after your invited panel. Okay, let's do that then. Let's proceed. Unless there are any questions for Mark or Josh, then stand by. I'm sure there will be. And let me invite up Michael Bonacar, Stacy Bork, Israel Beyer, and Matt Morris. Just pull up one more chair if you can find one. And come on up, please, as a panel.
 You might have to be the BYO chair there, Stacy. Okay. City Attorney. Good afternoon. Who wants to start? I'll start. Mr. Mayor, Councilors, I'm glad to be here today. I'm Stacy Bork, Housing Services Director with Transition Projects and co-chair of the Home for Everyone Coordinating Board. First, thank you for your attention and for your support
 and your action on our homeless and housing crisis. On a given night, any night, more than 1,800 women, children, and men sleep outside on our streets, in our parks, under our bridges, and in our doorways. That is 1,800 people too many. Our city and our county can do better. Over the last four years, we've seen the number of unsheltered women increase by 41%.
 One out of five children who experienced homelessness in our community last night slept on the streets. We can do better than this. In the last two years, we've seen the number of unsheltered African Americans increase by 48%. The wait for a city-funded shelter bed is at least six months. If you got on the wait list today, you would spend the fall and winter outside waiting for your name to come to the top of the list in March.
 We can do better than this, and we will. The Home for Everyone Coordinating Board has realistic, actionable plans. We know what to do, and now we need the resources to do it. Last year, we explained our need, put a price tag on that need, and turned those investments into action. The additional investments that came from our requests resulted in an additional 575 more people who ended their homelessness. We're ready.
 On behalf of the Coordinating Board, thank you again for your attention and your action. Thank you. Who's next? I'll go ahead. Go ahead. Please, folks. We know you agree, but just give her a thumbs up. I will, too. Thank you, Stacey. Go ahead. Mary had to stop the clapping before I. Yeah, I know. Sorry. Somebody had to get short straw. Mayor Harrell's commissioners, my name is Michael Bonacore, and I'm the Executive Director of Home Forward.
 I'm here today to voice my support for Commissioner Saltzman's proposal for increased renter protections. Over a year ago, we increased the amount of time that we give new housing choice voucher recipients to find a place to live from two months to four months. As you heard from Portland Housing Bureau Director Kurt Krieger last week,
 The number of people who are able to successfully find a place to rent with a housing choice voucher in this community is decreasing. And for those who are successful, they need that four-month window. It's taking longer than ever for people to find a place to live. For those with a voucher renting in the private market, they remain vulnerable to rent increases. If a landlord raises rent above the maximum amount we will subsidize, the tenant has to make up that difference.
 or find another place to live. So even the security provided by a deep subsidy is not enough to buffer renters in this crisis, and time is a precious commodity when people are forced to react. The turmoil and fear of this housing emergency shows up in our work every day at Home Forward.
 And it shows up in my personal life as more and more people are looking to me for answers for loved ones and friends who find themselves in disastrous circumstances, and I rarely have good answers for them. I didn't need to attend the Community Alliance of Tenants' renter state of emergency to hear more of these stories, but I did, and it was powerful. Commissioner Saltzman, I appreciate that the proposal for increased renter protections was in direct response to what the community has asked for.
 And I know your staff has worked hard to figure out how to craft something meaningful that works in the face of state preemptions. Thank you. You likely know that Home Forward has a sizable portfolio of apartments that are unsubsidized, where we act more like a traditional landlord. And we do increase rents. We try to do that very thoughtfully. But that rental revenue has to keep the portfolio financially viable. So rent increases are a reality.
 I want to close my comments today by announcing that we've spoken to CAT about how we can support their voluntary landlord pledge. And with some small caveats, Home Forward will sign on. We hope many others will join us in recognizing that healthy profits can be made while still taking care of our community. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question. How does Home Forward decide how much to put the rent up?
 Well, we look at each property individually. Our asset managers are working on developing individual property budgets at this time. And so in many cases, we will have...
 no or small rent increases, and in other circumstances, they may be a little bit bigger. Part of the landlord pledge is that we won't raise rents more than 5% in a year. So for us, a small caveat is the timing of when our budgets take effect.
 and 5 percent will be on the high end. So we're doing analysis now to figure out how we can make those impacts as small as possible. Thank you. Thank you. Who would like to be next? Israel, Matt? Sure, I can go. I'll be fairly brief, just a little bit of historical context. I think these emergency measures are a historical
 event in our city. I think for the many people in this room and throughout our community that have experienced the trauma of homelessness.
 and for the many people that have dedicated their lives for just this day. So we thank you for this opportunity to be able to move forward. I think we're really at a great point in our community to be able to do this. Saying that, you know, we've got a long road to go. There are a lot of obstacles that face us. There are a lot of market forces, a lot of industries that won't be happy about the changes that are coming. So it's going to take our collective leadership in.
 to be able to do these things in an effective way and to be able to follow through. It's no time to let up on the gas on any of these efforts. So we very much appreciate the opportunity for these emergency measures. We've been calling...
 for a lot of long-term revenue through a lot of different measures. We fully support the short-term rental fees. We support the demolition tax. We support other ways to be able to find opportunities to get permanent revenue towards housing. So I want to say this is a great time, but we've got a lot of work ahead of us, and we've got to do it together. So thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Mr. Mayor, commissioners.
 My name is Matt Morris, and I am a part of the Wayfair ministry team at First Congregational UCC Church downtown, just off of Park in Madison. I am not an expert in policy. I'm actually not even very much of an expert when it comes to the direct work that many of the people in this room have done with our brothers and sisters who live outside and who experience life outside. But I'm here to talk.
 voice something about the reality of communities of faith in Portland. It's not typically popular in Portland for people to speak about their religious convictions, and that's fine. But for me, acknowledging the dignity of every human being is a strong religious conviction, and that is one that I share with many people who find themselves in communities of faith.
 This acknowledgement of the reality in Portland, not even the declaration of a state of emergency, but the recognition that there is a state of emergency and that people are on the ground doing the triage work on the streets every day and every night, is extremely valuable. And I know that there are many people in communities of faith who would gladly open their buildings today
 to create these temporary shelters for people, if that was made easier and made possible for them. But there are a couple of things in my short time that I'd like to acknowledge here that may or you reference the other drivers of this crisis. And I think it's important, speaking as a person from a religious community, that it's important that we acknowledge that there are forces within each of us
 that drive this forward, the reason that we continue to have these declarations every few years in some way, leads me to question whether or not we acknowledge that there are certain core beliefs that we have and hold about the dignity of every person
 that need to be acknowledged that no person should sleep outside that no person should go to bed hungry and that that becomes a strong conviction we have to be willing to challenge the belief that many of us continue to hold that a person's worth is determined by how much money they have and how many possessions they have and what board they sit on where they where they sit in this room
 our community of faith acknowledges everyone is pretty much on a level playing field here. And the more that each of us can embody that through our own traditions and our own systems of thought and belief, perhaps we won't have to declare this state of emergency in another three years. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you all. Questions for this panel? So, Dan, do you want to proceed? No, I mean, if there's any questions for this panel. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
 So now, Dan, let's turn to the next item, please. So I wanted to preview the rental protections, and then I have one panel, invited panel, and then we'll go to testimony and amendments. As we've heard, Portland is facing the highest rental increases in the nation. I think in last August, in August, our year-over-year rental increase average in Portland was 15%, and it was the highest in the nation.
 So we are and we are continuing to experience very, very low vacancy rates, which is creating the true housing insecurity for many, many Portland renters. People are getting priced out or otherwise displaced from their neighborhoods. In fact, not a day goes by that my office does not get a call from a Portland renter who receives a large rent increase that they're not they're not sure how they would be able to afford it. Or hear a story of someone who has received a no cause notice.
 to terminate a home they have lived in for years. Just yesterday, I heard from a woman on a fixed income who's resided in her apartment for more than eight years, and she received a rent increase notice that will raise her rent 40% from $850 to $1,400 a month. As I said, she's on a fixed income. Many families are also getting notices to vacate their rental housing within just 30 days, and that's just not enough time for them to find a new place to live.
 let alone try to keep their kids in the same school or the same school district. It's clear that Portland renters need help. This ordinance that I'm proposing with the new tenant protections are intended to provide a safety valve for tenants and extend the notice requirements for rent increases and no-cost terminations. Currently, renters who have rented for less than a year receive only 30 days' notice
 of a landlord choice to terminate their tenancy for no cause the new proposed portland policy would increase this notice to 90 days the proposed renter protections would also for the first time establish a notification time when a landlord raises rents by more than 10 percent in a 12-month period and again that notification would be 90 days advance notice 30
 It's just not enough time to budget for these changes for exorbitant rent increases that many families are facing. That's why we're proposing 90 days. When the Community Alliance of Tenants first declared a renter state of emergency, it resonated with Portlanders because so many, too many, have been affected by this rental crisis. It resonated with me as the housing commissioner, and I immediately asked our city attorneys to review the proposals that the Community Alliance of Tenants put forward.
 and found that Oregon law really provides local governments, i.e. us, only to go so far in our own regulations. These two tenant protection measures that I am proposing are based on the Community Alliance of Tenants' original proposals and also based on the belief of what I and I believe the city attorney's office believe we are able to do legally now to help alleviate the housing uncertainty for many. They are not a panacea to our rental crisis, but they are needed now,
 And we must, as a city council, fast track these renter protections. It is also clear to me that tenants need help to enforce their rights. And the mayor and chair Kifori's plan to fund homelessness assistance, as I said, will involve the creation of a legal services tenant protection team. And that's a much needed special service that I am very pleased to support. And we'll do everything I can to get that up and running. And before we move on to public testimony or amendments, I'd like to invite up a
 the following people to give their perspectives and then we'll open it up justin bury the executive director of the community alliance of tenants deborah mc of multifamily northwest and wayne stoll who is a private landlord i'd like to thank all three of you for being here i think you're all here yeah okay and i also wanted to you know particularly thank deborah mc who just uh
 finished up serving six years on the Portland Housing Advisory Committee. So she was one of the founding members of PHAC. So thank you for your efforts on behalf of our community. And we'll start with you, Justin. I'm Justin Curry, the Director of the Community Alliance of Tenants, Oregon's only statewide grassroots tenant-led renter's rights organization.
 With over 1,000 tenant members, our mission is to educate, organize, and empower Oregon renters to demand and obtain safe, stable, and affordable rental housing. Low-income tenants, predominantly low-wage workers, families of children, people living with disabilities, seniors, and people of color are CAT's primary membership base. In Portland and the rest of Oregon, tenants face housing injustice in the form of increasing rents, discrimination, unsafe housing conditions, and the constant threat of retaliation or eviction.
 Portland is one of the most gentrified cities in the nation and has among the highest rates of rent increases, displacement, and no-cause evictions. Landlords and developers issuing such evictions and dramatically raising rents are forcing responsible and reliable tenants into one of the worst housing markets in our history without considering the impact on the individual tenants or our community.
 Portland's unprecedented low vacancy rate gives landlords more power over tenants, increasing incidents of discrimination and retaliation. These conditions make it easy for a landlord to refuse when a tenant asks for a repair and demands accounting for bogus fees or deposit charges. These challenges that renters face, especially rent hikes, evictions, and other forms of displacement, are especially dire for tenants with high barriers and members of protected classes under the Fair Housing Act.
 Tenants cannot wait for incremental change. We need bold, courageous action to address this human-made disaster. Building-wide, no-cause evictions are popping up like brush fires across the city, fanning the flames of displacement and our communities continue to bleed. The flood of speculation from Wall Street, corporate landlords, and private investors buying up buildings to empty them and raise rents has dire consequences on people's health, economic stability, and their children's educational opportunities.
 We need real leadership from this housing commissioner, this mayor, and this city council. We are in a renter state of emergency. In CAT's 19-year history, we have never seen it this bad. Tenants are in dire distress and in need of immediate relief. Mass evictions of entire buildings, 30, 50, even 100% increases are impacting our communities and threatening the social fabric of our city, and there is no end in sight.
 We can count the number of cranes in the air right now building more luxury apartments, but how many of these new apartments will be available and affordable to low-income and even middle-income renters? When will we go and recognize that building only market-rate luxury apartments will never trickle down to lower-income tenants, no matter how many we build, despite all the zoning changes, cash incentives, and sweetheart deals we offer to developers? How long does this council think it takes to find a decent apartment in our rental market?
 How many affordable apartments are in your neighborhood? Likely with good schools, transportation options, low crime, and neighbors you know and trust. How long would it take you to move if you received a no-cause termination notice tomorrow? Now imagine if you had a bad credit from a foreclosure, medical debt, or student loans. Would you qualify? Imagine if you received a no-cause notice if you had asked for a repair. Would you put that landlord as a reference on your next rental application? Okay.
 Imagine you had a criminal record because you had been once sleeping outside and arrested from these homeless sweeps. Imagine if you had been racially profiled or a victim of this war on drugs that targets African Americans and people of color. Would you qualify for an apartment? Imagine if you made minimum wage to support your family and worked the 72 hours per week it takes to afford a modest two bedroom apartment. Where would you find the time to move?
 Where would you live? Would 30, 60, or even 90 days be enough? In order to move, you have to take days off of work to find a vacancy, pay multiple application fees, hope and pray that you are finally accepted, move your family, change your children's school, find a new bus route to work, pay the deposit, first and last month's rent, pay the movers, clean the house, and pray you get even a fraction of your deposit back. How long would that process take for you? Is 30, 60, or 90 days enough?
 Do you have money in your savings to do that? For the majority of tenants, the answer is no. Low-income tenants, people of color, people with disabilities, working families making poverty wages, and seniors in a fixed income are being told, if you don't like it, move, which really means you are no longer welcome to live in the city. Tenants are tired and in distress, tired of moving, tired of our homes making us sick, tired of paying over half of our income on rent.
 Tenants are tired of being silenced out of fear, out of retribution or a bad reference from a landlord. Tenants are tired of being told that our voices, our experience, our stories don't matter. Tenants are tired of hearing housing will have to wait. We have more important priorities right now. Tenants make up almost half of Portland's population and deserve to be heard. It's time for bold, courageous leadership from our housing commissioner, from our mayor, and from our city council.
 If you want to see examples of leadership, look to Chair Khafre and the County Board of Commissioners who have committed to housing every homelessness veteran by the end of the year with the Home for Everyone. Look to Governor Kate Brown, who helped champion $62 million for housing in her first year. Look to Speaker Tina Kotak, who fought to include tenants with Section 8 as a protected class under the Fair Housing Act and fought to include rentals in this year's inclusionary zoning bill, which ultimately died in the Senate.
 If you want to see examples of real courage, look at all the renters that are here today, despite their fear of retaliation from their landlord when they speak out. It's time to recognize that Portland is not livable, equitable, nor sustainable when tenants are being pushed out of their homes.
 It's time to recognize that housing is human right, and that should not be left to the under-regulated free market. It's time to prioritize the needs of all Portland residents, not just the landlords, investors, tech companies like Airbnb and developers. It's time to prioritize people over profit, and recognize that everyone who lives in here has a right to the city.
 Folks, let him talk. I know you agree, but let him talk, please. We can no longer wait for incremental change or accept the breadcrumbs that are thrown to us so we can count it as a win. If the intent of this 90-day proposal is to act as the first step and building block of real change and have the commitment of this housing commissioner, mayor, and council of enacting real immediate change, then we can support it. If the intent of this 90-day proposal is to say that you've done all you can do and go back to business as usual, then we cannot. Thank you.
 We are calling for a moratorium or suspension of no-cause terminations for one year and to increase the notice period of rent increases over 5% of rent from the current 30 days to one year. 30, 60, or 90 days notice is not enough, either to move quickly or observe a shocking rent increase, especially in today's disaster-like housing crisis. We will no longer accept that your hands are tied due to explicit or implicit preemption in Oregon state law.
 If that is the case, then demonstrate the courage and leadership necessary to either change them or challenge them. The Supreme Court of the United States has reaffirmed disparate impact under the Fair Housing Act, so let's use it. Both the City of Portland and the State of Oregon are currently compiling their analysis of impediments to affirmatively furthering fair housing. Evictions, rent hikes, displacement, and substandard housing are fair housing issues and should be treated as such.
 These unjust laws and policies, such as the ban on rent control, inclusionary zoning, and the no-cause evictions statute should be challenged, just as the landlords will likely challenge this modest proposal by Housing Commissioner Saltzman. Tenants can no longer wait for our Housing Commissioner, Mayor, and City Council to act. We need bold, courageous leadership in this human-made disaster. We are in a renter state of emergency. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks, folks. Okay. All right.
 Okay, folks, I'm going to ask, please, let's use hand gestures. I know there's passion, and you did a great job, Justin. Thank you. But we need to let everybody be heard. So obviously, regardless of point of view, we ought to try to keep it nonverbal. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Deborah Imzee with Multifamily Northwest, a trade association that represents owners and managers that house over 175,000 units in the state. I want to begin this afternoon by sharing how committed both I and my members are to housing.
 Our mission statement is promoting quality rental housing. And we were actively involved and continue to be in the ending homeless vet program that Justin just mentioned.
 Multifamily Northwest understands that the current extremely low vacancy housing market is causing challenges for renters looking for available units at their price range. We believe that this is a short-term market condition, exasperated by years of underbuilding for multifamily demand, that will be addressed in the long term by increasing the supply of housing at all affordable levels.
 There is a critical difference between using a 30-day end of tenancy notice to renovate many units in a building or after a sale, and the infrequent but important times when it is used to protect the overall safety and well-being of the residents in a unit.
 For example, an end of tenancy would be given under multiple tenant complaints about drug or gang activity to the manager or the police. Declining to renew the lease with a 30-day notice is a critical tool for managers, especially in cases where complaining tenants do not want to testify for fear of retaliation from that problem tenant.
 A 90-day notice for all lease agreements would not only put other tenants at risk, but likely result in responsible good renters moving to a place they feel safer. In recognition of the current market conditions and that supply cannot be built overnight, Multifamily Northwest can support a temporary change to end-of-tenancy notices in the case of a sale or major renovation.
 The framework around that would be a 90-day requirement for end-of-tenancy notices for multifamily buildings of five or more units if 15% or more of the units are noticed for remodeling for at least $7,500 or within 12 months of the building sale. All other end-of-tenancy notices would follow current state law, 30 under a year, 60 over a year.
 a policy review at 12 months, and a hard sunset in two years. Regarding the second proposal before City Council, we believe that a requirement for 90-day notice on rent increases is controlled by state law and cannot be adopted at the local level. Multifamily Northwest opposes any changes to the state law regarding rent rates because rent control does not address supply and it does not achieve affordability.
 San Francisco is a stark example of the failures of rent control. Rents there have dramatically increased, and far fewer affordable housing units have been built there compared to what has been built in Portland. Multifamily Northwest works with housing advocates through the Landlord-Tenant Coalition to develop important state housing policy and discuss current housing issues, and will continue to do so.
 While the new housing cannot be developed overnight, we strongly urge the Council to focus its efforts on housing policy that encourage more housing to be built faster through simplification of current tools and employing new ones.
 Multi-Family Northwest supports, let's improve the approval and design process for both non-profit and private housing developers to reduce the time it takes to complete these multi-family housing projects. Revise code, create incentives that facilitate infill and affordability.
 Eliminate zoning restrictions that allow only single-family homes in neighborhoods and encourage row houses, triplexes, cottages, and accessory dwelling units for long-term rentals. Waive permit fees for multifamily buildings that can renovate existing space to add additional housing units. Use Airbnb funds beyond cost recovery for bond affordable housing, as was recently suggested by Mr. Krieger.
 advocating for additional funding for affordable housing development, such as recording fee surcharges for two to four years. Multifamily looks forward to our continued collaboration with the city and state officials, as well as private and nonprofit developers, to increase the supply of affordable housing to our community. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Stoll, welcome. Thank you. My name is Wayne Stoll. I am here representing our family.
 And I will only speak from personal experience because our family has owned rental properties in Portland since 1950. And in that time, we have never given a no-cause notice simply to raise rent on a unit. What we have a problem with is if we have a tenant who is a smoker in their unit. All of our properties are non-smoking. The tenant's smoking, neighbors complain, we go to the tenant and say, hey, you can't smoke in your unit. It's not me. I'm not smoking.
 So on we go. Tenant next door complains again. There is smoke. I see the tenant outside on their patio smoking. So we give the tenant a 30-day for-cause notice. The tenant says, it's not me. I'm not smoking. I've cured the problem if there was one. So the notice is rescinded. So then we give the tenant...
 and can give the tenant a 30-day no-cause notice. Because we've got tenants, and we've had this happen, around them who are subject to secondhand smoke for days, weeks, and months. That's where the no-cause notice, 30 days, can come into play and has an effect. We also had another case recently, and this is really hard, where one of our tenants overheard a neighbor, a tenant of ours, outside smoke.
 who was using the worst racial slur you can think of. Our tenant approached the other tenant and asked them not to use that word because, A, there's a mixed-race couple who lives immediately next door, and, B, the other tenant of ours talking to these people has mixed-race children of her own. And she said she would appreciate it if you did not use that language. I do not want my children or the neighbors subject to that kind of talk around here. The tenant said, okay, fine. Okay.
 as our tenant was leaving she heard the word used again now is that a reason to give a four cause notice for somebody's language i really don't know i'm not an attorney and i would have to go to an attorney and find out but that type of language we won't put up with and so if we had to give a 90-day notice to that tenant
 that tenant could then continue to use that language outside. And if that tenant fought a four-cause notice, how long would that tenant be able to stay there? And what kind of retaliation could occur? How could that escalate? And so when we gave a no-cause notice, solved the problem. And the neighbors are happy. The tenants are happy that we have. Now these cases happen
 when you have the small percentage of tenants that do not obey the rules, do not live by the standard code that we have in society of you don't smoke to upset your tenants, don't use offensive language to upset your tenants. Same thing happens when you have bad landlords. They're a very small percentage. I recently agonized, agonized over a 3 percent to 5.5 percent rental increase for our tenants.
 It's hard to do. We've had tenants who lived with us since 1974, 1975. Joe has been with us for 32 years in Hollywood. We don't want these tenants to move. Are they paying below market rent? Yes, substantially below. We have one person who's paying $415 a month for a studio apartment, and that includes his heat.
 our average rents are from 690 for a studio up to 9 10 9 50 for a two bedroom we have one apartment that's a one-off 1240 square foot unit that should be running for 1835 according to the market but right now it's at 1250. we don't raise rent just to raise rent so i would appreciate it if you did not punish the many many exceptional landlords in the city just because a few are greedy you know
 And I've had actually two tenants who have raised their own rent for me because they were embarrassed that they weren't charging enough. And last month, I reduced one tenant's rent because I thought our apartment manager was charging her too much. She was a new tenant. And I said, that's too much. We're going to reduce it. And when I called her, the tenant was silent and said, okay, what's the catch? And I said, well, the catch is you need to come in and re-sign your rental agreement because we've got to reduce the rent and everything.
 initial that and things like that. So I also brought, because I'm one of those mean, nasty landlords, a couple notes that I received. We've received many over the years, but this is where my tenant says, I'd like to say a hearty thank you for offering to me and my guide dog rent in your apartments. And she even had her guide dog Delroy sign it. That was, it's very sweet. Unfortunately,
 Judy passed away. She had terminal cancer, passed away last February. She was a sweet, sweet lady, and she was a great tenant. And another lady wrote, Mike, because of what the blank has been doing, I was expecting a rent increase, probably blank to blank. But only blank. Is Wayne a prince of the landlord or what?
 I've checked the notice three times. I can hardly believe my eyes. Now, I'm not telling you this to show you what a good guy I am, because you already know that, of course, but to show that there are people, tons of landlords around the city, that experience the same thing. We don't raise rent just to raise rent. We have to keep up with expenses. We have to keep up with raising property taxes and other things that happen. And there are times when a tenant will move out, and we've spent $10,000 to improve the apartment, not because anything the tenant's done,
 but because we want to update the apartment. Maybe somebody lived there for 40 years, and we have to update it. So I don't have a problem with the 90-day notice for a rent increase of more than 10%. I don't know that they've ever given a 10% increase. That just doesn't happen. But if you ever watch Monday Night Football on the pregame show, they have a segment called Come On, Man. Well, recently you saw the – it was last night –
 media report that rent raised by 20% at city-owned apartments, which has since been rescinded. That was one of those, come on, man. What are you talking about? And the other thing I want to let you know is we do care about our tenants enough that since this is October and Halloween is coming up, we've sent a notice around about what to do in case of the zombie invasion so that they're all clued in on what to do.
 So with that, Wayne, thank you. I think I'm done. I think there are a couple of questions. Yes, sir. Go ahead, Commissioner. I've got some, too, but you look like you're ready. Thank you, Mr. Stoll. I have known you and your family for quite some time, and I appreciate that you are one of the good landlords in the city, and I appreciate you coming to testify today. So that's why I wanted to ask you what if the rule was about a 5% increase that you had to give enough time for the tenant to find a new place?
 Find a new place for 5%? Yeah. You mean a notice? To give a notice. If it wasn't 10%, if it was 5%, as the Community Alliance of Tenants has suggested, with a certain amount of notice. A 90-day notice for a 5% increase, is what you're saying? Yeah.
 Right. Potentially. I probably wouldn't have a problem. I personally would not have a problem with that because my highest increase was a 6.9%, but that was because the tenant had not received an increase for two and a half years. And you'd be thinking about it, and you'd be able to give that amount of notice. I try to forecast what's happening. I just showed a tenant a space, and they said, well, they looked at another space, and the rent was going to go up $200 a month as of January 1st.
 And I said, well, if you can't forecast what you're going to be doing in three to four months ahead of time, then what are you doing in the rental business? So I probably wouldn't have a problem with 5%. I appreciate that response. And then secondly, you raised the issue about no-cause evictions actually being easier than four-cause evictions. Yes. Do you have –
 an alternative proposal for, because there are some landlords in the city who do raise rents, do use no-cause in order to be able to raise rents. Do you have a suggestion for how to make it so that four-cause is not more difficult than no-cause? I haven't really thought that through. It's so alien to me to think that somebody would give a 30-day notice to someone just to raise rent.
 I can't wrap my head around that because, as I said, we've had so many good, loyal tenants over the years that we're loyal to them. And I don't want to give them a massive increase because I like them. I like units. I like them. Well, so help – that was the question I was going to pose to all three of you, actually. So –
 you, Wayne, and Deborah to an extent as well, paint this picture of how responsible landlords operate, which is really not Kat's complaint, right? So...
 I get it that there are a lot of responsible landlords who think hard and agonize, to use your word, over even a 5% rent increase. And that's good because that's what we would want from businesses being socially responsible and for people to think of themselves as being in the housing business, not just profit-taking, right, which is very much your family's approach, so I respect that. So I don't understand –
 I understand the red-hot rental market. I don't understand what the financial motivation is, given that you can increase rents, right? What is the financial motivation, not for you because you haven't done it, and maybe none of your members has done it either, but what's the financial motivation for somebody to empty out a building?
 by giving everybody a 30-day notice in a market where there are plenty of renters available and you don't make money unless somebody's paying the rent. So it's kind of an econ 101 question. I'm not being playful here. I just don't understand why in this market somebody, and with relatively light state laws governing what you do, why would you empty out a building? Why are people doing that? I mean, you probably have an explanation, Justin, don't you?
 I mean, greed is a good all-purpose answer, but it doesn't quite fit because you don't make money until you refill the building. So why is this happening? The Community Alliance of Tenants has been organizing under the Safe Housing Project for about eight years. And these are buildings that are severely substandard in need of repair. Okay. And so what is...
 Commonly turned as the rent gap means that sometimes the value of the land is actually because the building has fallen into such disrepair, the building isn't actually worth that much. So there is an economic decision that the landlord makes at some point when it gets to a state where it costs so much to fix it that they willfully disinvest in that building.
 knowing that they can sell it to a developer that will come and buy it cheap and flip it into luxury housing. So it's going to be substantially remodeled or demolished? Correct. We also heard in the discussion of the extremely distressed properties enforcement and also the universal inspection that if one tenant complains and then gets evicted unless –
 inspect everybody so that it's not known who was the complainant, that that tenant is used as an example to everybody else to don't complain and you'll get evicted. Well, conversely, Mayor, the reason we were highly successful with the preservation agenda during the Great Recession is that the market conditions were such that there weren't the same compelling reasons to convert buildings or to do it. So we had, in all 11 instances with at-risk buildings, we're able to
 get them transferred to nonprofit ownership, in this market we would not be and we will not be as successful with their preservation agenda. Yeah, okay. I get it. Thank you. That happened in the office boom of the 80s, if you remember, when everybody's uncle was building office buildings to make a lot of money. And we have a friend, John, who bought the medical dental building.
 on Southwest Taylor and converted it to office space. He hit it right at the wrong time, and he could not rent his building. It took so long that some of his HVAC equipment was out of warranty by the time he got tenants in there. And he had to sign that building back to the bank because he couldn't make a go of it. So I don't want that to happen in this apartment market either by having overbuilding and have apartment buildings sitting empty in five, 10 years. Well, there is one potential benefit of that.
 The reason that some investors are locally not investing is if there's an overbuilding, there could be a correction. And one of the benefits of a correction is typically prices go down. Can I piggyback on something you said? Go ahead. So Steve Weiss is here. And, Steve, please don't – you don't have to come forward, but I just want a reminder. What was the cost of living increase for Social Security recipients this year? It's a long line.
 And there's no cost of living increase for next year. Yeah, so zero for next year. Yes. Okay. So under the formula that's used, it means that effectively they're not building in any inflation factor into Social Security. Yes, and there's been legislation languishing in Congress introduced by Bernie Sanders and Jeff Merkley to recalculate the tolls for seniors and people with disabilities, Adam.
 that legislation has gotten in only four years. So the reason, though, I want to highlight that older adults on Social Security are going to get a zero cost of living increase next year is it brings us back to the questions that Commissioner Fritz and the mayor asked, which is what is driving the increase in rents locally if we are basically at a we're such a modest inflation environment? And so what would let me start with you, Deborah. And by the way,
 Deborah, thank you for your six years on the PHAC. And, no, seriously, you represent an industry, but every single time this council tried to do something different, like fair housing and affordable housing, you were there. So I want to thank you personally for your work. And I know that you didn't always have the full support of everyone you represented in some of that work, but it's a mark of your leadership that you helped us get some things done. Let me come back to what –
 Just in the typical case, not where a building maybe is out of code and has to have substantial capital investment or something, why would someone need to raise rent above 5% in this market?
 Need as opposed to what? Well there are so we didn't build anything as we all know from 2008 until about a year and a half ago and Market rate. Yeah, we're market rate correct and in that's in the air. We're all affordable housing yes, and during that time
 People didn't do anything with their units either. So you have years of deferred maintenance. So you have folks getting in a place where, you know, the – and –
 not only deferred maintenance, but offering concessions. That's the other piece to this pie is that when – and the market will turn again. You said if, but it will. So offering concessions. So they didn't invest in those properties during that time period. As we've seen, people want to come back into Portland. As we've seen, folks outside of the area want to invest. They're willing to go into those properties, buy them,
 make them into very nice properties, and that puts a lot of pressure on the rent. To Justin, one of the things that I want to make sure we don't do in this process of reform is create an incentive for someone to use a for-cause eviction process. And so I want to be careful as we're going through all these reforms. And I think it's worthwhile having you observe why is a for-cause eviction –
 for most renters a bad thing, and how does it prevent them from renting in the future? So a four-cause notice is if the tenant has violated the lease in some way. I'm assuming someone is doing it on a legitimate basis or as a pretext, but
 But I'm most interested in what's the consequence to the renter in the future of having a no-cause on his or her record, a four-cause? If a four-cause notice is given to a renter, the renter has the chance to know what the renter has done wrong and the chance to remedy that situation. They're given what's called a 30-14 notice, meaning that unless you fix the problem within 14 days, you're being asked to move forward.
 in 30 days. And we think that that is fair because the tenant knows what the tenant has done wrong and the tenant has the opportunity to fix it.
 What we see with no-cause notices is the tenant isn't given that opportunity. And so the landlord decides on his or her own what the violation was, sometimes does not tell the tenant what – often does not – they're not legally required to tell the tenant what the violation was. And the tenant has no possibility to remedy it.
 And so the only option for the tenant is to move out. And if they move out before that termination period is over, it does not show up on their record for future rentals. But the next landlord still can call the previous landlord and ask about that rental situation. And oftentimes renters, because there's a lack of tenant education, Community Alliance of Tenants is really one of the only places
 organizations that has like a renters rights hotline to walk tenants through this. There are a number of other social service agencies, but for regular tenants, community lines of tenants is the only one. They believe that that termination notice is already on their record and they are fearful to list that landlord as a reference on the next application because they don't have any say in terms of the conversation between the future potential landlord and the previous landlord. Last question. Um,
 We're talking about a renter's state of emergency in the context of historically high numbers of renters who are what we call rent burdened. What does that mean? Rent burdened means you're paying more than 30 percent of your income on rent, and extremely rent burdened is when you're paying more than 50 percent of your income on rent. As Steve mentioned earlier, many of our seniors on fixed income and Social Security and disabilities sometimes may pay more than 70 percent of their income on rent.
 And who sets the formula for what constitutes rent burden? Is that at the state level or the federal level? It's the federal level, I believe. And the assumption behind it is that above a certain threshold of what you're spending on your home, you're cutting into the money you'd otherwise have available for things like food and clothing and basic transportation. Yes. And we estimate that about half of the renters in our city are between rent burden and very rent burden? Correct. Okay.
 Other questions for this panel? I would like to echo Deborah's statements from earlier. During that time, landlords were not investing in their apartments and were not making repairs even when being asked to do so by tenants. And that is the nature of the dynamic between the tenant and the landlord given the economic conditions.
 Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Do you have some other invited testimony, Commissioner, before we take amendments? We have the city attorney here to answer any questions or provide
 Okay. And Shannon Callen from my office. Okay. So we have that. We can do that as needed. Come on up. Come on up and then let's take up amendments with you there to give us some adult supervision while we do amendments. Who's got an amendment to propose? I think we have one set already in front of us. Is that right? That's the one you're referring to. I'm looking for the document now. Sorry. Maybe I don't. So Amanda, go ahead. Oh, here it is. So...
 So we have an amendment in front of us labeled Agenda Item 1030, and it makes some amendments to Directive D and then adds a Directive F. So do you have copies of that one? So I'll explain that amendment and move it, and then Commissioner Fritz, who's also interested in this same amendment, can talk about it as well. Okay.
 What it does is change shall to may there. In other words, here's the effect. It says, right now it says, the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management Director shall submit a request to the governor through Multnomah County to declare a housing emergency. Yeah.
 It will now read May, and that is we're not sure that we need to request the state's intervention yet. So we don't want to pre-program Carmen Merlo to make that request until such time as the council says now we need to actually ask the state to –
 declare an emergency as well. So changing shall to may obviously still preserves the council's ability at any time to direct the emergency management director to forward that request to the governor through the county because that's the way it works. If the state's going to declare an emergency, the county has to ask the state. That's just what it says in state law. So this says we've got that tool, but we're not automatically using it.
 And then the second amendment in this same package is just a process by which, if we do proceed and declare an emergency, that the whole council, which is being asked to declare the emergency, is regularly updated on how we're implementing it. So it says the mayor's office shall submit written reports to council offices biweekly, providing status updates on efforts to implement the council's directions on the, I should say, housing and homeless emergency.
 And identifying any further council directives that may be needed. It's just housing rather than this. Okay, just housing, obviously. Homeless is included in the law. Your health emergency. So I would move that set of amendments, but I'll wait and get. It's either a question for either you or for the attorney or for Shannon or for Josh. They're now turning to another attorney. And we have a lot of people who are resources. I just want to ask a question about the first part of this amendment.
 about the uh changing the shell to a may on seeking the state to declare an emergency here's the question my understanding is that um thanks to the work of nami and other advocacy groups there's about 20 million that the governor could could release for mental health housing and services that's but that's that would be carved up statewide based on a formula
 And I also understand that there are, from the community coordinated care organizations, the so-called CCOs, that there might be as much as 38 million of redundant reserves that could be tapped, where they might be, through the health care system, where there seems to be an appetite for
 using that money to provide housing for people that come out of programs like the Unity Center and the like. Does this amendment change in any way our opportunity to seek either of those funding sources? As I understand it, Commissioner, no.
 The amendment takes away a formality that triggers a whole bunch of things at the state level that we don't necessarily think we need. None of that precludes you, the mayor, the rest of council and partners going to work with the governor, who is aware of all of the things that we're doing here today, to have those conversations with her, with the CCOs and others. And Commissioner Novick, I know you've been working on this issue a little bit with Ed Blackburn and others. Yes.
 The sponsor of your Sunday Parkways, who I had the honor of writing with the other day, alerted me to the $38 million and the desire to get some of that money into the system. I don't know whether that can be done administratively by the governor or an agency head or legislatively.
 But it seems like we have the momentum of the CCOs thinking that's a good idea to tap that money. And, Josh, do we have a plan to follow up on that? Yeah. There are quite a few conversations happening right now, both within our building, with our partners at the county, and with the CCOs themselves. It's a bigger conversation than just what we're trying to do here. There are a lot of ways –
 that I believe that money can be moved out of the CCOs and into the hands of people to actually put money onto the street for things like this. Let me just say, I think it's encouraging that our health care friends are beginning to realize that
 investing in stable permanent housing is long-term going to save money and result in fewer people getting their primary health care services through the emergency room and maybe better outcomes on long-term things. So let me restate where I think we are and where I think the council would be poised on this issue. That is, we want the ability to request a declaration from the state. We
 We intend to ask the state for serious funding from that pot and others if it gets us one more dollar to have a state declaration of
 of an emergency than we get with a local one, I will bring forward a recommendation that we seek a state declaration. But we don't know yet that that's a necessary condition for us to get the state funding. I've talked to the governor about that particular need for mental health supportive housing coming out of the Unity Center. She's very supportive. But I don't, if it
 improves our case versus any other folks around the state that might be competing against us for that money, for Multnomah County to declare a declaration and to seek the state declaration, then obviously we will want to do that. Mayor, I'm prepared to second this amendment to put it on the table. Okay. And further discussion?
 I know Commissioner Fritz wanted to discuss it. Go ahead, Commissioner Novick. I have a suggestion. We're talking about the amendments to 1030, right? Yes. I have a friendly amendment, additional amendment, another one-word change. This is actually from Carmen Rouleau. She pointed out that the second sentence now says, the request will identify the city seeking assistance regarding state assistance, provision of services. Okay.
 for the homeless and health and mental health services and direct state agencies to utilize and employ state personnel, equipment, and facilities for activities designated to alleviate the circumstances giving rise to the emergency for the protection of the health and safety of citizens affected by the emergency. Carmen's suggestion is we might say residents instead of citizens because we want to help residents who don't happen to be citizens. I understand that's a friendly amendment and make that word change. I believe the definition would be people who are in the city are citizens whether or not they are
 citizens of the United States. But yes, I think that's the secretary. That's
 That's a Scrivener's change. So, Commissioner Fritz, did you have some other comments or suggestions? Yeah, I would like Josh to further explain the second amendment, which I'll just go through again. The mayor's office shall submit written reports to the council offices biweekly, providing status updates on efforts to implement the council's directions on the housing emergency and identify any further council directives that might be needed. Yeah, thank you for that, Commissioner. Okay.
 One of the things that you'll be voting on today is to actually not only include housing in the code as a reason for an emergency, but also changing from simply having the mayor declare to having council declare. I know the mayor felt strongly that this should be a shared decision, particularly in a case like housing.
 In order to ensure as the process moves forward, that council is kept apprised and gets to weigh in at all the various steps as all of this is moving, we thought it would be helpful to produce a written report to council offices every other week on status updates on all of the different pieces, so that everyone has the opportunity to weigh in throughout the process.
 We're open to doing it other ways. That seemed like the most streamlined way of making sure that everyone had the opportunity to be kept up to date and to weigh in. The other thing that we, my colleagues at the staff level and I will work out will be regular meetings of each of our offices together on all the various pieces so that at the staff level we're all coordinated and working with our bureaus.
 and so the clear thank you for that for the clear intent is that if there are going to be applications of waivers of ethics of the building code if there are going to be sightings that would normally not be allowed except for the emergency that those would be discussed at those meetings and in the bi-weekly reports correct thank you
 questions, concerns about that proposed amendment. So let's take a vote to accept that amendment for purposes of testimony. If we're ready to do that, roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thanks very much to the Mayor's Office for working through this. Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fritz?
 salt smith hi hi thank you are there other amendments to either um either 1029 or 1030 at this point i might have one to 1028. okay so let's let's deal with the emergency declaration first okay i don't think there are any more okay so you have a proposed amendment 1028. i do um as we heard from home forward
 Two months, three months is really not enough time to be able to find a new place in the current housing market. So I would propose in 30.01.085B and C that we change the notice to 120 days rather than 90 days. Is there a second for that? Second. Okay. So question to staff. I would like to have...
 I will oppose that amendment because I feel that what we're presenting to you today is something that is legally defensible, and I'd like to ask our city attorney to provide the city attorney's rationale in advising us that this is a 90-day notice is defensible and potentially legal, whereas 120-day, that's what you proposed, right? 120? Yes. The city attorney said that 120 would be fine. Reemption. Okay.
 Lisa Lisa Graham deputy city attorney
 So with regard to the first item that you were suggesting, 120 days for the notice itself, whatever the city does with regard to this code amendment needs to be able to exist alongside the Landlord-Tenant Act. And so it needs to be compatible with that. And so while that act sets the floor –
 So 90 days is sort of a reasonable amount of time that doesn't start to feel like it's foreclosing a right that the landlord otherwise has under the act, because the landlord does have the right under the act to terminate without cause.
 And so when we start to get into longer periods of times, it starts to just sort of edge towards the risk that we are foreclosing a right that's otherwise allowed under the state statute, which we cannot run afoul of. And why does 120 days seem so much worse, more likely to be afoul than 90 days? It's just a question of reasonableness in terms of time. Can I – I think we're – because I also think we're going to be –
 risking challenges who say that even 90 days is not legal. Right. So it's trying to strike, I guess... It's a balance. I use the threading of the needle, I guess, is how I like to refer to these items. Having read your excellent legal memo, which I thought was very well done, I would say that...
 There's a lot of gray here, and there's a lot of risk. So I appreciate your role of being cautious in this discussion. And the question is how much risk are we willing to take with the risk of a court overturning us. Does it present less legal concern to you if instead of changing the 90-day framework, we drop the –
 on one of the notice provisions from 10 percent to 5 percent on the rent increase? In terms of the you're just now talking about just in terms of the percentage of the increase that triggers the 90-day notice? Does it cause you the same heartburn? And putting aside the question of whether we go from 90 to 120 days, I'm just asking if we lowered the floor,
 from 10% to 5% on the rent increase, which is subject to 90 days notice. Does that present risk concerns to you legally?
 I think that the 10% was a number that was struck upon as being sort of, you know, trying to balance sort of the administrative burden on the landlord, you know, in terms of like as you've mentioned, this is a very gray area. So trying to strike a balance in terms of what the administrative burden would be for issuing these notices, 10% was sort of a number that seemed a reasonable number. We also heard from Mr. Stoll and –
 others that in fact a 5% increase is unlikely for him and his tenants. So I'm
 There's two ways to get at this, it seems to me. One is extending the period of time, or two is changing the trigger. And I'm getting the sense that you have less concern about the trigger versus the time frame. Yes. I think the time frame to move on to that other amendment to see 120 days, you know, that's controlled, you know, by a different part of the statute, which is the rent control statute. Right.
 having a period of time where a landlord is not able to increase the rent extended to 120 days starts to feel more like we're running afoul of the prohibition on rent control. And again, 90 days seems like a more reasonable period of time where we're running less risk of running afoul of that. Yeah, and I would just say that these risks are not imaginary. Right.
 You know, we have a legislative session going into session in a couple months. If we don't put something on the books that can withstand any amendments, then those amendments won't be proffered by Mr. Stoll in Salem. They'll be proffered by others. We just, you know, we can fight a good battle, and we can fight a good battle for years. But I've been down there fighting for inclusionary zoning, and, you know, I've seen the legislature fight.
 give us goose eggs too many times to sort of blindly accept the fact that all we've got to do is just, by golly, fight it hard enough and we will prevail. You know, maybe I've just been around too long, but I try to find the art of the possible. As I said, threading the needles to what I think is legally defensible as opposed to maybe what,
 you know, is going to satisfy the most people in this room today? Well, the reason I applaud Dan for his approach is it's a pyrrhic victory if we do something today that a court stays tomorrow, and then it doesn't benefit anybody. So let's find a balance that we can implement quickly, and then let's refine it as we learn more. But let's not put the whole package at risk. But, Mayor, I do think the 5% floor presents less risk and at least ought to be considered. Thank you.
 Okay, then, with that as a good discussion, I'd like to, with my second's approval, table the previous amendment and instead substitute that we change it from 10% to 5%. Okay. I'll second that. All right. Further discussion about accepting that amendment before we take testimony? Okay. Then roll call, please. Aye. Prince. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. No. No.
 I'm going to support that. It was a very interesting discussion because my assumption before this discussion we just held with our council was that our legal risk would perhaps be greater. But I'm pleased to hear that. And to me, now that I've heard that discussion, it makes sense. Why are we here? We're here because of a financial emergency.
 And therefore, we ought to focus on the financial question. And we're trying to avoid harm to our citizens by extraordinary rent increases at a time where they have few other choices. So I'm pleased to hear that we think that's both a sound policy basis and focusing on the heart of the problem. Aye. Okay, so that amendment's approved. Are there other amendments before we take testimony? Other questions for our staff? Yes.
 Thank you very much. I'll just mention that I can't take credit for that excellent legal memo. That was Denny Vanier in my office that wrote that. Well done. Thank you very much. Okay, so let's turn to the sign-up sheet, please, and take testimony. And let's do this declaration of emergency first. So if you're signed up on that item, please, we'll take that testimony first, and then we'll move to the rent of protection. Okay.
 issues. Are we going to alternate? Okay, sorry. Somebody else figured this out before I did. Thank you. Let's alternate. And we have a total of 48 signed up. Again, please try to limit yourself to two minutes and if you've heard someone already articulate your points, don't feel like you have to repeat them. You can give them a thumbs up or stand up and say it's been said. But let's try to make sure we get to hear everyone. Please. The first three, please come on up, are Mary Ann Drake,
 Dana Denny, and I believe it's Waheed Brown. And they'll be followed by Phil Owen, Jessica Blakely, and Melissa Mendez. Welcome. Who would like to be first? Go ahead. All right. My name is Marion Drake. I'm a tenant. Thank you.
 Long-term member of Community Alliance of Tenants. First thing I'd like to point out is this conversation has been 99% male. You hardly hear any women's voices in this conversation that we've just had, you folks have just had. I want to point that out. Next, we do not need politically motivated shelters concerning the Sears building. Oh, okay.
 which wouldn't happen anyway until after July 2016. The 10-year end homelessness plan that the city implemented 10 or 12 years ago didn't happen.
 And so this probably won't happen either. There's been a proposal, I think it was four years ago, there's an article in today's Tribune about this, the Sears building. There was a proposal, I believe it was four years ago, to turn the Sears building into housing, not shelters. And this has languished. Nothing's been done. We need housing. We need shelters too, but what we really need is housing.
 Another thing is Airbnb is flaunting the city regulations, avoiding lodging taxes. Yes.
 and has already effectively removed thousands of affordable and low-income potential, you know, buildings and potentially will do more. So we're talking about funding. We need to get Airbnb in on the act and enforce the requirements that they pay hotel lodging taxes, all the ones that are using B&B. I don't know how you're going to do it, but you've got to do it. Okay.
 I'm also in favor of required mixed-use housing development with...
 A 10% very low-income, non-subsidized housing included in any new developments. The City Council has been talking about extending one floor up for new buildings in exchange for what I understand is called some low-income housing. However, it doesn't give a percentage, and there needs to be a percentage, and I'm proposing 10%.
 Also, what is so-called affordable housing? I forget who it was saying that so much affordable housing has been created in the last few years. We need to be talking about, quote, this is my term,
 that I developed with several other people that are in low-cost housing now, we need very low-cost, non-subsidized housing. Because at a meeting I went to, it was sponsored by Cable about a month ago with a bunch of renters and stuff. They said that generally when public officials in the papers are talking about
 low-cost housing they're talking about public housing and i'm saying we need non-subsidized uh house local very low income thank you how is it very much need you to wrap up because your time's been used so okay um commissioner okay one last thing commissioner novick
 wants to bring in the federal government. We also need to reform the state laws because the state laws preempt many options that the local governments, such as potential renter protection, banning no-cause eviction, and a lot of other things that have been listed by street routes can't happen because of that. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Welcome. Hi.
 Hi, my name is Dana Denny and I want to thank you all for listening to us today. I've heard a lot of really incredible things and I'm amazed at the challenge that you have in front of you. My background is I built my own home in the 80s, lived in it for 30 years, thought I'd die in it, took care of my mother for four years and lost it all.
 I moved here in hopes to start over, found a nice place to rent, have been an excellent renter, and my landlady came up with a no-cause termination. I had never heard of this. I was shocked. She said, oh, you're a perfect renter. You do everything great. Our tenants are all going to miss you, but here. And I said, could you tell me why? And she said, no, I'm not obligated to tell you. Okay.
 So I started looking frantically for housing. I am 60 years old. It's hard to get in, you know, all the groovy kids who want some groovy person living in their house. I am not working right now as well because of this search for housing. So because in my past I've built houses, I've chosen to build a tiny house. And to me, that will solve my problems. Okay.
 But I have found that in Portland, the zoning laws do not allow me to put my tiny house somewhere. So I am asking you to please adjust the zoning laws for those of us that are willing to make the effort, give up everything we, I've given up almost everything I have, to do this so I can live the remainder of my life safely in a little tiny home.
 So I hope you can listen. I know there are a lot of other people that are hoping to do this as well. So it's one free solution. That's what we're looking for. Thank you. Thank you. You make the case very well. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Hello. My name is Vahid Brown. I've been in touch with most of your offices this past few weeks about the tent camp at Greeley, between Greeley and North Interstate. And I want to say, first of all, thank you to the city, to the mayor's office for working with me. Yesterday, I got commitments to work with the campers there going forward from the mayor's office.
 I heard this morning from Josh Alpert that trash pickup is going to come out there tomorrow, still working on toilets out there. But I appreciate being told the answer that the city was going to work with the campers to allow them to stay there. So I really appreciate hearing that. I also heard from your office yesterday that the city, a member of your staff said that the people have a constitutional right to sleep in the parks.
 And that was a positive thing to hear from the city. This morning, I wish I could bring some of the members from the Greeley Camp here to be here and testify, but they were dealing with an emergency because last night, Park Rangers told some friends of theirs who are disabled veterans living outside in the park at Overlook Park that they had 10 days to leave. They were given a sweep notice by Park Rangers.
 This caused one man, Rico, who has a traumatic brain injury, to have a panic attack, and he was taken to Kaiser Hospital. So the people that are camping agree they were at the hospital supporting one of their fellow veterans who was sent to the hospital because of the panic attack brought on by a sweep request.
 So I would like to advocate for a moratorium on sweeps that are not addressing bad behavior, as was said earlier, on the streets. So there are people that are staying in parks, that are sleeping in orderly ways, they're not engaging in open intravenous drug use or whatever, that are being told, get out. So I would really encourage the other commissioners to follow the mayor's lead on this and work with people who are sleeping outside who are finding shelter, who are doing so in a way that's not disruptive.
 to continue to do so in a safe way. People that had to leave, there was a pregnant woman, a woman of color that left the Greeley camp in fear of being swept when the ODOT posted a sweep notice a week ago. She had to move into a much less secure scenario because she left a camp that was pretty safe and her partner had all of his possessions stolen by other houseless people. So sweeps push people who are trying to make safe sheltering zones into less secure spots and positions. They're not working.
 So I would also like the city to encourage the city to work with Trina Sutton and the Clackamas Service Center on a site at 105th and Foster that is owned by the city that could accommodate 70 households, people, in an R2D2 type of situation, where it's fenced, it's secure, they have rules and regulations. So stop the sweeps. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Brown, was that a park incident? Was that an overlook park? Yes. Thank you. Yep. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
 Okay, let's take the next three people, please. Our Phil Owen, Jessica Blakely, and Melissa Mendez, and they will be followed by Keith Schultz, Linda Lloyd, and Misty Irwin. Welcome. Good afternoon. Who would like to be first? Thank you.
 Okay, they nominated you. So I thank you today for being here. My name is Melissa Mendez. I'm a community manager here in Portland. And I'm here to discuss the no-cause notice, specifically retaliation, resident activity that are suspicious to landlords. In one instance that I've dealt with personally is I had a client.
 resident come in from a building complaining about their neighbor having high volume traffic late hours. We're talking 12 at night to 4 a.m. So it's a little suspicious to management, but it is after hours. So of course we instruct our residents to contact patrol, police if need be after hours. By the time patrol shows up and or police activities vanish, the traffic's gone, they can't prove anything, therefore we don't get any paper documentation for our records as well.
 A few days later, another resident comes in complaining about the same thing from the same apartment. We're left. We understand. We've been told about the situation. We then inform them just as well, contact patrol and or police so we can try to pinpoint exactly what's going on and be able to get a paper trail for our records.
 Still nothing is able to be tracked and or found. We talked to both of the residents that came in complaining, asking them if they would be willing to testify or write a statement. Due to a lot of retaliation, as we know goes on, unfortunately, in this world today, they're not willing to testify. They don't want retaliation. They don't want their tires slashed.
 different things like that. So upon investigation, we as landlords going through the file realized that this particular resident that we believe is causing after hours activity and issues for other neighbors, their lease is up for renewal.
 So then we're left then with currently the ability to issue the no-cause notice, allowing us to at some point have them vacate the apartment and kind of getting around the scenario that's currently taking place. And so I propose that the no-cause is still permitted to us as landlords. It's our only way right now for us to be able to dictate and –
 control issues that unfortunately, because they happen after hours, we're unable to pinpoint the exact problems. Thanks very much. Thank you. Welcome. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Jessica Blakely, and I'm a landlord.
 I am also a responsible landlord in the sense that I have never once in 15 years issued a no-cause notice, an attendancy notice, we'll say, for any reason of rent increase. It's not what my business and a lot of my fellow landlords use it for. We use it specifically to address issues which we cannot prove with the 3014. I have one specific example that I can share with you.
 and one of them relates around smoking, which someone also shared something about that as well. But in this case, we had someone move in who had a small child, and they were upstairs, and they move in because we're a non-smoking community. And what had happened was is a week within moving in, they complained that they smell smoke and that their child is asthmatic and they can't handle it. They moved in here because we were a non-smoking community. We spend...
 going through the disturbance notices, 24-hour notice of inspection, all of the proper procedures we would use to try and get some type of evidence that this person is, in fact, smoking in their unit. We get nothing. We end up having to transfer this person by way of reasonable accommodation because the child has a health problem. We think, okay, well, we're not sure we were able to substantiate
 A week after the apartment was vacant, a new tenant moved in. Completely different demographic. This person's not even home except for evenings and weekends. Within one week, we get another smoking complaint for this tenant. Again, denial, denial, denial. And so we utilized this particular notice because her lease was coming up for expiration, and we were not able to substantiate the smoking inside the home.
 And we had two separate cases, same deal, same evidence, where that evidence was presented. And so we utilized the no-cost notice for that reason, the end of tenancy notice. It was the end of her lease, and we utilized it. Oh, thank you. How many units do you have? I have over 2,000 at this moment, and I've been doing this for 15 years. And I've not once used it for a rent increase, not once. 2,000 units?
 Yeah, I'm a regional between here and Seattle, where we face the same problems, too, specifically within the city of Portland, the rest in the suburbs, and the rest all the way up to Seattle, where I'm active in that community as well. But we don't use it for that reason. And that's why I would like to retain the ability to have the 30%...
 the 30-day, if less than one-year tenancy, the 60. And if they've been there over a year, the 60 seems okay to me as well. And only, you know, if somebody's intention is to sweep a building or to clean out a building, I completely agree with the 90 days. Absolutely. For that scenario, I can't even imagine doing that to my residents.
 They post reviews online all the time. I have to be, you know, subject to that, you know? I'm sorry. I'm just trying to – this is a complicated area, but are you suggesting there be some exception for a circumstance where there's an imminent health issue? Yes. Well, what I'm saying is that I would like to see the 90-day –
 move forward in the sense of does it fit that description of it being, we're going to clean out the building, or we're going to get rid of more than 15%, or we are actually going to push a large amount of people out the door. This tenancy notice that I use, we've only used maybe six this year. And so all I'm asking is that we are able to retain that ability to protect the residents. And in her situation with retaliation,
 I don't want to tell my resident that they can't live in a safe place for fear that the other person is going to retaliate against them. If we have to put her on the stand and she says, that person is stealing drugs, I saw it happen. I hear that. What's been your average rent increase in Portland this year? It really depends from building to building and what the scenario is surrounding the building. We do renovate homes.
 So increases are a little bit higher. But like in Vancouver, a situation where we have just a stable billing, they range between 5 and 10. And I'm just curious, do you allow tenants to rent out their places as short-term rentals? No, there's no subletting. No subletting at all? Yeah, no subletting. They have to fall within the same.
 Thank you.
 For the last couple of years, we've had experience with a 60-day notice for people that have been there in the apartment for over a year. The problem, one of the problems comes up that for people moving out, they only have to give a 30-day notice. Since they only have to give a 30-day notice, I don't know that there is a, if somebody comes in and says, I have to be out in 60 days, okay.
 I'll say, well, come back in 30 days because I can't give you anything because nobody has given me a notice. And they're not going to give me a notice for another 30 days. So if I did have a unit available and they says, well, I have to be out in 60 days, I say, well, I can only hold this unit for a week.
 So you've got to come back in four weeks, five weeks, in order to be able to find a unit that I can actually put you in. So to me, the idea of having a 90-day notice is going to be a real problem. Plus the fact, like these folks have said,
 The good people, they only have to give 30 days notice to leave, and if they are living in what they feel is a threatening situation, they will get out before the 90 days is up for the bad tenant to leave. Okay, thank you. Any questions? Thank you all very much. Next three, please. Are Keith Scholes, Linda Lloyd, and Misty Irwin?
 and they will be followed by Tyler Morris, Lauren Gross, and I believe it's Marie Allen-Claire. All right. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Keith Schultz. I'm a disabled resident of Gresham. That's where it seems like everyone's been going out from Portland when the rents started getting higher. Well, I've lived and I have lived in the Portland area for 41 years.
 I grew up in rural central Oregon. And for the past 10 years, I've lived in a complex which has some amenities I enjoyed, like a pool, sauna, hot tub, grassy areas, and whatever. Well, about a year ago, it was sold to a company from Colorado. They immediately started doing what they've been doing here in Portland, turning it into a fancy little...
 spa area, you know, and we have a dog park. We have a dog washing place and whatever, you know. And some of my neighbors were displaced because of all this, and they're remodeling some of the apartments and everything. But anyway, our current rents have been going up substantially. I'm on Section 8, and my share of the rent in the past four years has doubled. Okay.
 And, you know, my Social Security hasn't doubled. We're getting a zero increase this year. And, yeah, just like I was thinking about this, I looked at a Willamette Week article, and a friend of mine was quoted as, there's a lot more people looking for a Chevrolet and being offered a BMW. The place that I am seems more like a Rolls-Royce.
 And where are we supposed to go? Hood River, Sandy, Mount Hood, the middle of nowhere? And those of us who are transit dependent, we're screwed. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hi, my name is Misty Irwin, and I'm a person with a disability that qualifies under the Federal Fair Housing Act for reasonable accommodations. And in August, I received notice of a rent increase.
 And my rent was going from $844 to $959. That's a $115 increase. I'm on a subsidized housing program. And the way the current law was, my daughter and I would have had to be out in 30 days if I hadn't filed a reasonable accommodation, or I'd have to pay $1,059 a month to go from a lease to month to month. And I'm here to petition that at least maybe the federal government can give us some sort of more funding for these people.
 for the housing programs, you know, because otherwise a lot of us that are on disability, we're going to be out in the streets. We have nowhere to go because the housing programs don't have enough funding to help out with us. It would cost them more in the long run to move me in one shot in a year than it would to pay the increase for the whole year, you know. And I don't understand why they can't help out more on these grounds and –
 I've been doing a lot of research with landlord-tenant law and reasonable accommodations with disability, and it's amazing to me how many people don't really know their rights as far as tenants and as far as people with disabilities. I think that the Social Security and each landlord should hand out a booklet giving you your rights, letting you know what your rights are, that you are protected under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a person with disabilities for reasonable accommodations and modifications. Okay.
 and that's all I have to say. Thank you. Can I ask you a quick question? Yes. Are you in a unit that's privately owned? No, I'm in an apartment complex. Is it a housing authority home forward project, or is it a private landlord? No, it's a private landlord. But your housing assistance comes from a federal program. Yes, it does. And just on that point, because Commissioner Novick said it earlier so succinctly,
 Every single year we're seeing cuts to these federal programs under sequestration. And thank goodness the Veterans Administration is the only federal agency exempt from sequestration, which is one of the reasons the county and the city can continue to focus on veterans homelessness. It's the one agency of federal government that doesn't get the automatic cut every year. Would that we had the same clout to extend that principle to the housing. But I will tell you, I don't want to make a bad situation seem more bleak.
 But there are major party candidates running for the presidency who have said they would abolish the Department of Housing and Urban Development and don't view it as a core function of government. And if that happened, we'd continue to have a tax code that gives $200 billion of foregone revenue relief to middle-income people who deduct their property taxes and their mortgage interest, but we'd have no money for people that are no longer served by the market.
 So I – in addition to all the good work that's happening locally, I hope housing finally breaks through as an issue of concern at the federal level. I don't remember housing coming up in any debate that I've watched so far. I don't remember a single question about housing. And we cannot let housing –
 wither on the vine at the federal level because most of the issues we're talking about are federal issues. They're national concerns. So I very much appreciate your testimony. Thank you. Okay. Now, I do have a comment on that. Now, there's a lot of veterans out there that are homeless. Yes.
 You know, I mean, where would we be today if it wasn't for those veterans fighting for our country? That is a great spot. Why isn't the federal government helping out with that? As Commissioner Fish said, we've got to give the Veterans Administration credit. I got a call a year ago from the HUD Secretary saying, from the Veterans Administration saying, would the city of Portland sign up?
 to get all of our homeless veterans inside. And so we partnered with Multnomah County and our housing authority, Home Forward, as well as with the city of Gresham and some nonprofits that we did make that commitment. And we started out this year with 690 homeless veterans, and we're down to about 230, and our goal is to get them all inside by the end of the year. And that wouldn't happen if it weren't for the Veterans Administration, as Commissioner Fish said, stepping up and giving us vouchers. We're housing two a day with vouchers. Okay.
 There are some very responsible local landlords who need to be praised because in this superheated real estate market, they are reserving units for this program because Chair Kofori and I have been calling them, along with Commissioner Saltzman, asking them to reserve units. So that's a success story, but it's a rare –
 as it now stands, is not supporting housing. But the Veterans Administration here in Portland and nationally needs to be praised because they are making a really good thing happen. That's great. With an assist for Sally Erickson because it was a broken system until recently.
 The ending homelessness team at the Housing Bureau sat down with the VA, sat down with the nonprofit providers, and fixed the structural problem with the VASH vouchers program. And that actually opened the door to us becoming eligible for more vouchers. So a lot of good people worked on that. What about people that are in recovery and treatment programs? I mean, they qualify for reasonable accommodations under the Federal Fair Housing Act,
 and people that have a criminal past or don't meet the income requirements. Yeah, that's right. That's got to be the next round. They get denied housing all the time. And if they're not made aware that they do qualify for a reasonable accommodation, for them to overlook their past, for them to overlook their criminal or their poor credit or their income requirements, they wind up out in the street and then they wind up relapsing, and it's a vicious circle. Yes, it is. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Just slide that.
 Pull that microphone down a little bit. There you go. You got it. Thank you. And thank you for hearing me today. I hope I can get my message out. Just give us your name for the record. My name is Linda Lloyd, and I'm here representing an area I haven't heard you talk about yet, the mobile home parks. An investor from M&Enterprise bought our mobile home two years ago.
 I'm paying 90% of my income for rent today. Bought a mobile home because I like the community. The TriMet was going to be having Max through. We thought we'd be going to museums and things you dream about doing in retirement. But my retirement has been fighting no-cause eviction. Thank God for legal aid.
 And I was shocked when, I'm going to quick give you all of it. It started with phone calls saying your house is for sale. Then you got a creditor calling you. Why? Why?
 And then you get an eviction. And when that don't work, I get chased on my land that I'm paying for and screened at. And I'm a kindergarten teacher. I'm trying to walk away. You're not going to communicate? I'll give you time to calm down. I believe in communication. Plur-Invest Management runs our park. There is no management there.
 There are no rules in force. I put photos online if anybody cares. The health department will probably close this up. Those of us living there have lived there over 10 years. It's a wonderful community. We're being priced out, and I want to know why the law you passed.
 to protect us is not working. They're to buy us out, not scare you out, not to threaten you out, not to harass you out, and sure as hell not to evict you for no reason. I'm sorry, I cuss. I'm really at my wit's end. I've tried everything educationally I know possible.
 But I see our system failing. I see hope through you. And I hope I can take this hope back to everybody in our complex. I wrote a letter asking for help. What I see is the ex-cons are getting a place to live in our park, and we welcome everybody.
 I've seen them improve their lives, and I've seen them say, I'm not paying this kind of rent. They leave. We're in a mobile home. We're stuck. Now the rent is going to be $610, I believe, a month. I live on Milwaukee, on McLaughlin, next to the Sex Predator Motel, which is why the property value was down.
 I don't mind the halfway houses. I don't mind the improvement programs. But don't increase my rent. When I've sacrificed my safety, which is only, which I got to give credit today to the sheriff department that has been doing drive-thrus because we are not sleeping. Seniors are not taking medication. They're not doing diabetes testing. They're going without.
 I'm proof you can eat one meal a week and make it. People are going without. And we're in the United States of America. We send relief overseas. I taught my children to believe they could be anything. But I thought I was a great teacher. And I'm sitting here before you with a hopeless cause.
 I went to Salem two weeks ago with the mobile home commission. They're worried about putting these meters in. I understand improvements, new parks, but the mom and pops are being pushed out. Our landlord, God bless him, he'd give us a $20 increase with the letter Y. We're increasing it. When he gave us an increase to $422,000, nobody complained.
 It's a hardship, but $422, half our income, we're willing to pay because we could see it. But now we've got an investor. First thing they do, take the table out of the laundry room. So you, the senior that carried it over there, you don't have a place to set it, to fold it. You carry it in, you've got to physically get it out.
 They put in candy machines that nobody puts money in. Ma'am, I need you to wrap up your... And security systems that are no protection to our home. You passed a law to protect us to be bought out. Can you help us somehow? Thank you. That's why we're here. We haven't passed the law yet, but that's why we're here today. No, you did pass the law. That said, mobile homes, if an investor came in the park, had to buy it.
 That's a state law, but we helped get it passed, but we shouldn't take credit for that. We just supported it. But you have a legal aid attorney now? Well, they're busy saving evictions, so the harassment, I'm on my own the last year. Ma'am, the problem is investors are buying up mobile home parks because of the dirt.
 not the homes. And unless Oregon strengthens existing protections, they are going to continue to be, and we have a number of them in our community that are vitally important as affordable homes, but they're being bought up for the dirt with an eye towards long-term development, and we don't have adequate protections for people in mobile homes right now. They are slumlord with drug lord tactics. I grew up out of the...
 projects thinking my life would be better and I'm back here fighting for the same thing my mother did. But I have faith in all of you. May I suggest you stop downstairs in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement? They can help find your state representative and I think that might be the person who would help you. Yeah, downstairs in that corner. They're still here. They're always here. Or you can always call 823-4000 to find out where to get help. Thank you very much.
 Okay, let's take some more testimony, please. The next three are Tyler Morris, Lauren Gross, and Mariah Allen-Claire, and they will be followed by Mitchell White, Francis Campy, and I believe the last name is Carr or Kerr on Southeast 80th. Okay. Did you get called? Come on up if you did. All right, go ahead, please. Welcome. Hi, I'm Maria Lynn-Claire. Hi, I'm Maria Lynn-Claire.
 The reason why I wanted to come down today is because I represent one of the first-wave tenants that are getting priced out due to the rent hikes. My rent went up – well, it's going to go up at the end of my lease – 40 percent, a $400 increase, which is totally shocking. And I used to be a landlord here in the state of Oregon. Okay.
 And the gentleman that left that was so kind was the type of landlord that used to exist here across the board. So when I started getting wind of this new contagion of rent hikes, I was totally shocked because I've been here. I'm a native and I've never seen it like this before. It's just totally shocking.
 And so it seems to me it's so inhumane to push people out, seniors and people with disabilities and just everybody cranking it up for people who have families and that kind of thing. I've been talking to people almost daily and I've heard $700 a month increases. So we really do need, it sounds like the law changed. If the law isn't serving us,
 and we seem to be serving it, then there's something wrong here. And I'm all about change. And I know that we can do better than this. I would like to see the humanity put back into the rental market where we're dealing with people's lives. And I know Portland is a good city, and we do care about people. But we have to go the extra step.
 and change the law. So if that means us going down to the state, then that's what we need to do. And so, but I want to see temporarily for people, I'm working with some ladies who are like right hanging over the cliff, about to be homeless in just a few weeks. So I need to, I want to see some emergency housing for people. And renters want to be at the discussion table, not be talked about. But we want to,
 do some of the problem solving here with you all. And there's some really great ideas. And we want the Section 8 rules to be adjusted so people don't lose their Section 8 and put priority on displaced tenants at the top of these waiting lists because they're like 18 months to five years long. So where are we going to put people is the question. And so I really want us to think about that and to come up with something innovative and creative. And I know we can do that.
 And just, thank you. Thank you very much. Well said. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Board of Commissioners. My name is Tyler Morris. I'm a landlord here in Portland. I just wanted to give one quick example of how I've used the notice of non-renewal to a tenant. Just one of the multiple problems that we've kind of come across would be one thing was pest control. I've had an apartment that has had confirmed pest control.
 roaches and other issues that starts to affect other tenants in that building. We have obviously things in place to pest control companies to come by and treat those apartments. They have a list of instructions that they'll leave for the resident. They'll tend to follow those things but maybe not
 We'll do inspections to confirm those ideas or confirm whether they're following those things along, but I would just say that we have issued non-renewal in that instance, which helped us in order to fix a problem that was occurring that would then prevent
 disrupting other tenants for that matter. I just wanted to voice my opinion on that notice for non-renewal, and I do feel like that is something that can be utilized as a tool to help the greater renter population. I understand. Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks very much. So, Carla, how many people do we have remaining in the sign-up sheet? About 28, 30 maybe. Okay. And just a show of hands, folks that are still planning to testify? Okay.
 Okay, it looks like a little less than 28, so I think we might make it. So, again, try to be brief as you can, and let's call the next three, please. Mitchell White, Francis Campy, and the last name might be Kerr, our car on Southeast 80th. Okay, looks like you've got one of those folks. Let's keep going then into the list. Go with Gail. I'm sorry, let's stick with this list. Mr. Lightning. He's here. Keep going. And Kim Poo, K-I-M-P-U is the name.
 Okay, keep going. Ken Summer, K-H-E-N Summer, S-U-M-R, I believe it is. What about Gail Williams? Okay, got her. One more, please. Colette White. Come on up, Ms. Williams. Okay, let's take those two, and then we'll see who's left. Carolyn Anderson. Okay. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. Commissioner Saltzman, I definitely agree on any extended time. Rent increases, no-cause evictions, etc.
 Again, we have to follow the landlord-tenant laws. Some of those may be challenged, but you're setting a reasonable time frame, so I do agree with you on that in the amendments that were proposed. One of the issues I have is Mr. Stoll was a very interesting speaker, and one of the things that I got from his speech was that he stated that there could be a concern of overbuilding the housing inventory.
 comparing it to the office from the 1980s. Now, when he made that statement, I'd like a little more research on exactly where he thinks the balance is to where we don't have 2,000 to 3,000 homeless people out on the streets and where he thinks it would be considered being overbuilt because, in my opinion, we have a housing shortage. In my opinion, at 2% to 3% vacancy rate,
 We need more housing units built. And I don't think anyone in this room is worrying about overbuilding the housing market and saying we have –
 three to 500 units over in this location that are empty, let's see what we can do with those units. So I'm very interested to understand what he means by overbuilding the housing market in the city of Portland and where he feels that if we currently have at this time around 275 housing units out there,
 and we have a population base of 600,000, and we use a family of two units per unit, what number do we have to have as far as housing units to balance that out with the current population? So I'm curious for him to have a discussion with Commissioner Salzman on that issue, and let's look at some of those numbers. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hi, I'm Gail Williams. I'm from Gresham, who Portland is coming to visit, which we've heard. My rent, I just got a notice on the 30th that it will be increasing at the end of my 13-month lease, effective January. Minimum rent is going up over 200, well, it will be like $230.
 $270 a month, which is basically three extra months rent this next year. However, I only have two weeks to take that option, then I'm given another option at a higher price. If I still don't sign, it's on a month-by-month, and who knows what it could go up to. So it's just we don't know where to go. We don't have any extra places around Gresham for one-bedrooms. The article that was in Willamette Week,
 that listed the, from just last week, listed the percentage. I will be paying more, 17%, and that's higher than this article that's about for a two-bedroom. I just hate to see people that I've talked to recently who have been in Gresham, Portland, we all love this place or we wouldn't be here. But I hate to see people saying we're going to have to move because we don't know where to go. People that are planning on retiring here. I would love to stay here forever. Thank you.
 So please help us. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, my name is Carolyn. There's a little button on the bottom of that. Just push the button there on the base until it lights up. There you go. You got it. Hello? Yes. My name is Carolyn.
 I just wanted to say thank you for the opportunity to have us here to speak to you today. I've been trying to get through to you for several times. I've called to try to make appointments, and so I'll try to do the best I can. I'm a little nervous about speaking in public. Obviously, I'm black, and I do have a disability, and I'm a little nervous about speaking in public.
 I am low income. I've lived in Portland for almost 15 years. It's about 15 years. And the process, or more, I was here when the process of gentrification first started in Northeast Portland. And when this issue hit the black community,
 there wasn't too much concern about it until it hits, it started hitting the dominant minority community. But that's not my point.
 The point is, as a disabled person and being on low income, it's very, the situation is very complex because there are laws that prevent people who receive SSDI from having a certain amount of money to even make to be able to live in an apartment. That is Section 8. That is considered affordable housing.
 Then once you have a certain amount of income,
 you pay that toward the housing, then that forces another problem on a system. You have to go and try to max out as much as food stamps as you can. And then if you're living, then you've got the food stamps, and then you have the issue with the housing, then there are other laws that says, well, you can't have any money in the bank, a certain amount of money in the bank, because if you have that, then that's going to affect your health insurance.
 So then we'll cut your benefits here and then add here and take away there. And that's where many of us stand, and that's why we're not going anywhere, and that's why I'm here today to try to help. I want an appointment to try to help explain this to you so you can understand you're making decisions that affect us. Thank you. And so you need to hear the voices of us. We've heard you.
 We've seen the decisions you've made, and it's not lame, but it's without our voices. Does that make sense? It does, and thank you so much for bringing those thoughts here to us. Thank you. So I hope that I can call and get an appointment, and I can help you help us, and we can work together. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, we have some more folks left.
 The next three, last name is Lian, L-I-A-N. And then Cecilia Kem, K-E-M, I believe it is. Joel Spector. If I call your name, come on up. And then we're going with June Johnson. That's not a C behind Carla. Cindy Roberts. Please. Or Margaret Black. Come on up. Okay. Come on up. Welcome. Please, go ahead. Thank you. Okay.
 I've been working with a fair number of – Excuse me. Yes, Joel Spector. Thanks, Joel. Yes. I work with a large number of the nonprofits in town. Relevant to this, I'm working with Community Alliance of Tenants, Right to the City, 350pdx.org, SolarCon, Jobs with Justice, Health Care for All Oregon, 15 now. I'll stop the list there. It goes on.
 I think it's obvious to all of us, and I think someone, although I forget who, had noted that there are a large number of problems that are affecting us and that they're all interrelated and that many of them go on on the national level or the state level as well as the local level. But Mr. Mayor, as you had pointed out in your meeting with the Pope, this is the level at which we can actually get things done.
 I think that we have a real need for a more unified approach to approach the overall issue of throwing people under the bus. No slur on TriMet there. They do wonderfully. The rental packages that have been proposed are really just Band-Aids, but we really need Band-Aids to stop the bleeding.
 I think Justin Burey spoke to the specifics of that. I'm not going to get into that. I had the great fortune to be talking with Stephen Kuntz of the Sustainability Office yesterday at a meeting he was addressing, and I want to follow his example. I'll prepare a more detailed proposal and send it to you in email. I think we have ways that we can approach this problem, and it involves breaking out of –
 the rather small scale of thinking that we've been doing here. Right now, when you're trying to get feedback, I'm not going to toss that out. We have to, I'm sure. Thank you. We are looking for ideas, so we want you to keep them coming.
 I don't think you know what you just asked for. I'll take the chance. Okay, you'll find out. So wrap up if you can, please. Well, I'll stop then. No, do keep them coming. Actually, I wanted to mention that earlier that you've heard from Commissioner Saltzman and others here, you know, some specific things we want to do with the state of emergency and also the renter protections, but we're also trying to get the community to come forward with ideas that,
 during this state of emergency, we don't think we've got it all figured out at the front end, but we know that we've highlighted the problem. So we want to encourage you. In fact, Mayor, let's just acknowledge that a good number of the most significant proposals that are before us were proposed by the community. That's right. And between the declaration of an intent to declare an emergency and the community helping us define what the response should be, we've moved very far very quickly. And I take my hat off to advocates –
 and community members who have been with a unified voice demanding that we act so don't stop thank you i won't okay welcome please hello my name is june johnson and the reason why i'm here is because my rent has gone up 350 dollars so therefore my room will be 11 45. um
 I'm a senior. I'm 60 years of age. I'm disabled. I worked over 25 years with Monoma County. But I found affordable housing. I put my $50 deposit down.
 It's on North Williams. They have 75 apartments, 15 are affordable housing. The regular rent starts at $2,000. For the two-bedroom, it will be $993. That's for the 60%, but if it was 50%, it would be $827. So with my income...
 I am I'm over 1500 1600 but I am sure 452 dollars so therefore I need a cosigner um department I've been at now I've been there two years and before that by the Lloyd Center I was there for 15 years I have an excellent housing never been evicted um
 or anything and i don't have a criminal record uh so now i need a cosigner this cosigner needs to make four thousand nine hundred sixty five dollars a month and i am having one hell of a time trying to find a cosigner and i don't think that's fair
 You know, like I said, not a criminal, don't have, you know, no background, no drugs or no anything. You know, I'm a missionary. I go to church. I do volunteer work. I mentor. I go into the prisons. I do my work and this and that. And I'm lost. I'm stuck because they found a loophole to not accept me.
 because of this cosigner so okay what do I do now because I don't have a cosigner that makes almost 5 000 a month but this is affordable housing that I'm applied for
 Okay. So tell me, what can you do? Well, there's some people in this room that I think can probably help you soon, I hope. But you certainly highlighted the problem. Thank you. And again, there's some people here, I see them in the room that might want to talk with you before you leave. I talk to a lot of people. I've been to Salem three times, Alaska.
 year and a half and I helped them with two million one time and almost a hundred million one year and I had made all this money, I advocated and now I have nothing to show for. And so that's what I'm saying. These contractors, yes, they're coming over to back over to North and Northeast. They want the minorities to come back, but they don't want us to live there.
 They're shutting us out. They're actually locking us out. So we really do need help. So please, whatever you can do, commissioners, please work on this. This is the last foot to get in the door, what I'm trying to say. I'm begging you to please help us. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you for coming.
 Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Cindy Robert, and I represent the Rental Housing Alliance of Oregon. We have about 1,900 members, 81% of whom own 10 units or less. So your mom and pop folks. You know, it's really hard for me to say after the stories you've heard because they're tragic, and it breaks my heart.
 But for the most part, the crisis that you're talking about in this ordinance is trying to address is not a landlord versus tenant issue. It's a rental market supply versus demand issue. Most folks, let her speak. Go ahead. Okay.
 Changing the rules on landlords does not lead to more housing. The same number of people will be in need of units. While you assume that more people will be able to stay put with this ordinance, you will see that unhappy neighbors will actually be leaving. The main reason landlords terminate tenants is not because they want more money. It's because they want more peace.
 Small landlords don't want to evict anyone, but sometimes it happens for the good of the community. The current Oregon law is 30 days, which to neighbors of bad actors seems like an eternity, those 30 days. Other tenants have the right to a safe community, and they should not have to wait 90 days to have one. The bad tenants will force the good ones to move out.
 leading to the exact displacement that your ordinance is trying to fix. Fact, for most landlords, it is not about aimlessly terminating tenants. It's about protecting residents. Please look at the requirements on landlords, what government has added to their obligations in the last four years. What other private business has as much regulation? What do they get in return for it? Property tax breaks? No. No.
 Low-cost loans, no. Income tax breaks, no. Business license credits, no. They pay taxes, they pay employees, they pay local fees, and they make business, tenants, screening, zoning, and housing requirements. Landlords provide a service for the people of this city. And there's good landlords, and they are all treated like pariahs.
 Another fact, if you want more of something, you remove barriers. If you want less, you put up barriers. The actions in this ordinance will not change the vacancy problem, but you do have the power to do that. And you are doing that by bringing down barriers to building more affordable housing, and we applaud you and want to help you with that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mike Knight, just before we lose you, since you represent a trade association, does the RLA believe the council has the legal authority to regulate in this area? No.
 Mr. Commissioner, my association has not taken up that issue. And our... We're hearing from others that the lawsuit is imminent. Do you believe we have the... You don't have a position today as to whether we have the legal right to regulate? Sir, my comments are mostly directed at the termination notice, not at the increase in rent notice. I think that you probably have cause to do that. And let me just say, if your industry believes that in...
 Taking up common sense renter protections, we're implying that landlords collectively are pariahs. I regret if that's the message because I have not heard that in this debate. I think we're struggling to find some balance. And my guess is that the approaches that other cities have taken, like San Francisco, would cause even more concern to your industry. We're trying to find a balance, and we have an emergency, and we have people looking at insurance.
 significant rent increases that they can't cover. And so I just want you to know I have not heard anything in this discussion that singles out the landlords as pariahs. We are trying to exercise our duty to regulate in an area where there's an emergency, and we're hoping to find the balance. And frankly, up until this point, I have found the relationship with the landlord community very productive, and
 And a lot of the things we've done in the last few years, we would not have done without the full participation and cooperation of the landlord community, including Section 8 reform, including fair housing reform, and the efforts to police substandard housing.
 The community has been a full partner, so I regret that there's a sense that they're now, quote, unquote, pariahs because we're talking about some common sense renter protections. Commissioner Fish, I appreciate that. And I think that you'll find that my organization has been at the table on the Section 8, on the affordable housing issues. We've been there. We've talked about it, and we want to help. We really do. But I think you probably see in this room the actual evidence of what I'm talking about, about pariahs. There's lots of stories about bad actors. God, I know they're out there, and I wish I could find them so that I could go and take care of them.
 There's bad actors, yes, but for the most part, we're good people. And when we talk about the basic needs that you have to pay in your monthly paycheck, we're talking about housing, food, clothing, and transportation. And housing is the one area where it seems like it's an us versus them, and we don't want it that way. Like I said in the beginning, this is not a landlord versus tenant issue. This is a supply versus demand issue. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, let's take the next three, please. Are Marion Haynes...
 Nathan Starr and Barry Joe Stull. Okay. Are you earlier black? Oh, I'm sorry. We'll go with Margo Black first. Mr. Stull's not here, so why don't you come on up? Is he coming down? I should have called her earlier. Why don't you come on up? We'll take him next if he's coming down from upstairs. We'll get to it. We do have some seats downstairs if anybody wants to testify and wants to come on down. Okay, Marion, I think you're first. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, members of the council. My name is Marion Haynes, and I represent the Portland Business Alliance.
 I'm here to speak just on the declaration of emergency ordinance before you and to say that we very much appreciate this ordinance coming forward. As you know, for some time we've been saying we have a crisis on our streets and in our parks with the homeless population. And so the increased –
 focus and urgency to act that this brings we think is a very, very good thing. As you know, we started a petition asking for some additional focus on increased shelter space, services for those who want and need them, and also for enforcement for some of the illegal activities that are occurring out there.
 a lot of times these behaviors are really preying on those most vulnerable that are on our streets. So we've had at this point about 3,300 community members sign on to that. They're mothers, fathers, citizens, some actual homeless people that have signed on in support of that. So we think this is a good first step. We know that it's a complicated issue and there's a lot to come, but we applaud the focus and we're committed.
 ready to continue the conversation and be a part of the solution thank you very much welcome who'd like to be next good afternoon councillors my name is Margo black I think I've emailed you guys a few times I'm 36 I'm a married mother of three my husband and I both have advanced degrees in mathematics and are professionally employed in careers relating to that together we make at or above median income just just barely above
 We were hoping to buy a house in Portland when we moved back here after graduate school, but essentially weak tenant protections has wiped out our savings and our ability to save. As a tenant, I received two no-cause evictions. I want to disabuse you of the notion that no-cause evictions are only issued for problem tenants. Mike?
 My first no-cause eviction was in 1998. I was a young single mom. I was recently orphaned, and my landlords believed that the co-worker who was bringing me home after work was my boyfriend and didn't approve, and they gave me no-cause eviction. I only found out when I sort of pressed them for the reason why, and I won't even repeat what they said, but I assure you that I was not in a position to have deserved that. I was a rent-paying...
 a good citizen. And I had to move 10 miles away from my apartment, and I ended up losing my job because of that, because I couldn't get to work reliably on time. And it was a really devastating experience. My next no-cause eviction was an owner move-in, which is sort of hard to
 hard to say that they shouldn't be able to do that. But I just want to really quickly address, because I've heard so many people bring up this problem, tenant issue issue.
 that no-cause evictions, they may be being used to raise rent, but I also want to point out that they don't need to issue a no-cause eviction to raise rent. We can just raise rents. And then if tenants can't pay them, they're faced with economic evictions. I think that if the 3014 isn't working, then we need to address that issue rather than allow no-cause evictions to be used for retaliatory and discriminatory purposes.
 I mean, if those problem tenants are in a lease, the only option would be a 3014. So I don't understand why the landlords feel like they have to retain this ability to issue those in other situations. It should wrap up soon. Okay. Okay.
 Well, so as I said, I'm a numbers person, and today I spent some time looking at how much it costs to move. I live in a three-bedroom apartment, a 43-year-old apartment complex. I don't have a washer and dryer. I'll remind you that I have three children.
 I live three miles away from work, half a mile away from my kids' school. I searched Craigslist today for apartments that were less than or equal to my current rent, which is already 9% above HUD's FMR and 12% above the average rent listed in Portland Housing Bureau's state of housing for my neighborhood. I found 15 listings in Multnomah County, three in Portland, and two in Portland Public School District.
 that are at or below my current rent. My commute to work right now is 11 minutes. It would go up to 45 minutes each way. Same for my husband. I'd pay $60 less in rent, but $460 more in transportation and child care associated costs with additional transport time. And then there are the moving expenses.
 The deposit and application fees would be $2,050. Assuming that my 90-day notice is timed to coincide with my lease ending and I find replacement housing quickly. I need you to stop. It is important. I wish if you could give that. I have emailed it to you before.
 before and i would like it to be on the record okay okay try to finish assuming that i find replacement housing quickly um then i either need to pay three thousand six hundred and twenty five dollars in double rent or a two thousand two hundred and sixty five dollar lease break fee and seven hundred and twenty five dollars in in double rent which comes to two thousand nine hundred and ninety dollars and then there are the moving expenses the truck the boxes the time to pack load unpack and clean my husband is an hourly employee who bills for his hours
 All of that comes to $19.15 altogether. This comes to almost $7,000, which is $600 a month. If we assume I have to do this every year because we can issue these no-cause evictions at the end of every tenancy, that becomes untenable, and essentially it means that families like myself
 mine will have to leave Portland in order to survive. And if a family like mine, I'm white and I make median income, I'm stably employed and I don't have any barriers, if I have to leave Portland because I can't afford to rent here, then what about everybody else? Thank you very much. Thank you. Well done. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Excuse me. This is the first time I've ever done any public speaking, but I'll do my best. Just give us your name and proceed. My name is Nathan Starr. Thank you, Nathan. And thank you very much, Commissioners and Mayor. Am I coming in loud and clear or is there a buzz? Yeah, you're fine. Either mic works. All right. I'll wrap this up in a quick nutshell here. I'm a gentleman who's 40 years old, and on my 25th birthday, I got run over by a 14-ton forklift by my coworker twice in less than 10 seconds. I've had 19 surgeries and spent over 70 days at OHSU.
 I have a 15-year-old autistic child that I've had primary custody for since he was born. Recently, my son and I were given a no-cause eviction for retaliatory major tactics, I believe. But nonetheless, I'm paying $1,075 for my three-bedroom apartment, and the people below me are paying $500 more. They just moved in a few months ago. I had this...
 Ready for you to, I wanted to read this for you if you don't mind and keep it on point. So I said, I've recently been given a no-cause eviction notice despite the fact that there are no complaints on record and rent has always been paid. My son and I have lived here for over five years and I was not given the option to release. I have submitted an application for low-income housing to the Clackamas County Housing Authority, but my son and I need emergency housing while we wait for this housing to become available.
 My son and I are to be moved out no later than November 8, 2015. As a result of this no-cause eviction, and because I have no savings at all for myself and my 15-year-old son, of whom I am primary custody, I am asking for financial help in order to pay movers to move my son and me. I believe the property management company is utilizing retaliatory tactics in order to evict my son and I because I informed them of serious safety concerns and code violations and incidences of illegal entry by workers hired by the management company.
 Losing one's home, regardless of its problems, is especially unsettling for a youth of whom a home and neighborhood have been so central to his security. And his particular disability requires a settled situation as soon as possible. Though an adult, I continue to be impacted by multiple hardships and issues from my injuries and congenital disabilities. My son and I would greatly appreciate...
 The assistance of all of you to make the best candid and honest and forthright conscientious decision possible for us Oregonians out there who are getting displaced for no reason whatsoever.
 The fact that my son and myself's lives have been uprooted for months now. We just finished with court and somewhat of a victory. I'm not allowed to explain it right now. But nonetheless, nobody should have to be forced with these no-cost evictions. Do you know if one person is owed $1 to an apartment company, they're not allowed to take retaliatory actions? If $1. And to...
 To be given no-cause evictions without having to be told why is also unconscionable and inhumane. And I'm wondering why the one-year moratorium, Mr. Saltzman, would be something to debate when one year is the conscionable, humane thing to do at this given time, not only in Multnomah County, but on all of Oregon, all of Oregonians. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well said.
 Appreciate it. Okay. Okay. We can do that. Yes. All right. Questions for these folks? Thank you all very much. Thank you. Okay. Who do we have still signed up? Next would be Barry Joe Stull, Edith Zadunich, and Miranda Milligan. Okay. Come on up, please. All right. Let's take these two folks and then we'll call some more. Mr. Stull, go ahead. Thank you. My name is Barry Joe Stull. As we sit here, your partner and your partner and your partner.
 your partner and Commissioner fish your partner my former landlord PCRI has been keeping the entire five apartment complex at 4066 Northeast Grand Avenue vacant for four years an affordable housing landlord provider now when I spoke with this the last time I had a candid conversation with Commissioner fish it was last Halloween I said they're keeping the five plex vacant he said that's crazy yes
 When Chief O'Day was sitting over here and I said, go get him, Tiger. That was just, everybody knows it's organized crime. So I'm going to tell you who you're dealing with. My sister researched, found out she's eligible for the Daughters of the American Revolution. I'm eligible for the Sons of the American Revolution. Turns out my folks, after we kicked England out in the Revolutionary War, they were building a house, had to take a break, fight the War of 1812. Won that, went back and finished the house.
 200 years later, that house is still standing. Now, PCRI filed a 30-day no-cause eviction against an express statutory prohibition. It wasn't legal for them to take that 30-day no-cause to court because my rent was paid, and you can't file the 30-day no-cause when the rent was paid. That's ORS 105.120. My Supreme Court case, Stahl v. Hoke, defines the act of filing a case. How much work could I possibly do?
 Go to the Supreme Court, find out what the landlord's not allowed to do. What's the landlord destroy 20 grand on my property in 2006? Last week I applied for a claim for $4,775, which was what PCRI cut me a check for in 2010. What about the quarter million dollars under the Landlord-Tenant Act that I had coming? You folks have done nothing but cause this problem.
 Maybe you should go to the auto parts store where they say, poor planning on your part does not make an emergency on our part. Now, none of you has the backbone to go out here and get on the number six bus and go up to Mason Street on MLK and go one block and see that fiveplex that's been vacant for over $100,000 of affordable housing rent. You can't find landlords to take your Section 8 vouchers. How about the landlord you're partnering with? Right.
 Right now, the landlord that you're funding right now with your Portland Development Commission, the one that has an executive director reserve parking space and cares more about that than as you do than getting people into the affordable housing stock that we currently have. You have no emergency. You have no backbone. That's your emergency. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 My name is Edith Sadunich. In the last half year or so, me and my partner both faced no-cause evictions. Neither of us had ever been evicted before. I just find that interesting that we both went through that around the same time. And for him, it was because the apartment was being sold to someone else, the whole property. Okay.
 And then for me, it was because the real estate was selling at the house that I was into somewhere else. And we were both just renting rooms. That's all we could afford. We're both pretty educated. I have a master's degree in liberal studies from Reed College. I work as a freelance editor. And I try to supplement that with the various temp jobs I'm able to find, which are often very menial and really, I think,
 beneath what I could do to fulfill myself in the community. And it's just not enough really to make ends meet. And this is a huge hardship to have to move. But to add to that, when you're living as a roommate in a place, there's often extra burden. So when I moved in, I was told I was signing a one-year lease. And then I signed a lease. And then my roommate got a form and didn't tell me about it and signed us on as month to month, like around that time.
 And then I was really shocked when we got the no cause eviction. And then this housemate who lived there longer decided that she was going to move out a month earlier. And we actually got the thing in the mail a few days late. So I really had about three weeks to try to find a different place to live. And I was forced into kind of a dangerous area in northeast Portland where I felt unsafe getting in and out. Yeah.
 Yeah, so that was my time. I just wanted to give an idea of what some other people are going through here in town, people who rent rooms. Thank you. I also haven't gotten my deposit back. Thank you very much. Mayor, can I just make one comment? Under the First Amendment, we welcome people to come before us and to have their say. And it is our tradition to respectfully engage and listen to people. And if they say something we disagree with,
 We still give them the privilege of speaking, but we do have an individual comes before us on a regular basis, making outrageous claims about a nonprofit partner of the city, which just so happens to be a nonprofit partner that serves a historically African American community in the inner northeast, and that has been in the front lines of dealing with gentrification, displacement, and
 and other issues. And I hope that no one who is watching this or in the audience takes our tradition of allowing someone to exercise a First Amendment right as being somehow a tacit support or acknowledgment of some of the underlying claims. And at least one person who regrettably, in his comments, makes outrageous claims, which in any other setting would be called defamatory.
 But in this forum, he has given the privilege of speaking. I just want people to understand that when we receive that information, this council is not ratifying or supporting his view. We are just giving him the privilege of stating his opinion. Thank you. Next, please. Are Michael Colvin, Autumn Arms, and Thomas Edwin Mullen. Thomas Edwin Mullen. Sorry. Thank you.
 Got one of those three. Let's call some more. Mr. Mullins is here. And next we'll go with Melissa, I don't know if she heard me right, Katrina Holland. Is she here, Katrina? Yes, she is. Okay, welcome. Good afternoon. Go ahead, if you'd like. Hi, I'm Autumn Arms, and I just want to briefly state, some people have kind of said what I was going to say, but I'm on Social Security Disability. I have an aneurysm in my heart, and I have a team of cardiologists.
 and surgeons, you know, at my beck and call at Emanuel. And recently I had to move into an apartment from my home that was sold. And in the year that I've lived there, the rent has gone from $895 to $1,295. And right now I'm safe because I have a lease. I have a Section 8 voucher and I have a lease. Okay.
 It just does that. Keep going. Okay. What's going to happen to me, because I really need to stay in Portland for my medical issues, and there's no place. Section 8 allows, in my zip code, 1,050 for a two-bedroom, and they're going up to 1,295, so they're going way above the allowance. That's going to leave me in a very unsafe position, and...
 As you've heard many times, the waiting list for affordable housing is too long, plus my income. If, like that one woman stated, if you need a cosigner, my income is not going to get me into the affordable housing. So although all these amendments are up there, they're great, the 90 days, I agree with all of that. We really need to start moving.
 looking at some kind of rent control, they keep, they're raising it 40%. That's just too much. That's too much for anybody here to handle, even the people who are coming in who are educated with good jobs. And that...
 That's all I have to say. And, ma'am, just so we're clear, under state law, we are not even allowed to have the discussion about rent control, whether it's a good idea or a bad idea, the right solution or not. Just understand that under state law, the city of Portland cannot even entertain that subject matter. Okay. So just so you know. Okay. Thank you very much. Good.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good to see you all. Thank you for the opportunity. I just really – Put your name on the record, Katrina. Yeah, that's right. My name is Katrina Holland. I'm Deputy Director at Community Alliance of Tenants. And I am here today to speak specifically for the anonymous tenants who did not feel comfortable sharing their stories because of the vulnerability that that imposes when –
 impeding on their ability to look for housing. So really quickly, I just wanted to show for everybody in here, within the last two months, these are the number of hotline calls that we have received of people who have received rent hikes that they can't afford and or no-cause evictions. This is just in two months. It really is an emergency and something needs to happen. I personally agree with 120 days, but...
 Hopefully you will make that amendment. So I'm just going to start reading. Tenant number one, 15 to 20 minutes after repair of hot water not working for a month, I received a no-cause eviction. Tenant number two, my rent has gone up three times in 18 months, 5% each time. Tenant number three, I moved in on the 6th of July. On the 31st of July, I received an envelope in the mail, a no-cause termination to our rental agreement.
 Tenant number four, I was paying $810 per month, and I was told today that my rent as of October 10th will be increased to $1,650. I am displaced.
 Tenant number five, I cannot afford medications, food, and necessities. Tenant number six, my working teens are nevertheless concerned that the household rent cannot afford them the time off work to attend school. Tenant number seven, I haven't left because I can only afford to pay my rent. I can't save up for deposits or moving costs. Tenant number eight, my rent is now so high that I'm having to make cuts to my food budget. Tenant number nine, I received a letter...
 From our property manager, stating that we had 90 days to vacate our apartment. Everyone in the 18-unit complex got a similar notice. Tenant number 10, we have always paid a rent on time and never caused trouble. Because they evicted us, our children have to move schools. Tenant number 12, my rent has gone up 15% this year. If I had a car, I would be living in it, despite the fact that I work two jobs, often six days a week.
 Tenant number 13, let's not forget the financial stress of displacement. I was billed $2,200 for cleaning and repairs. We received a 60-day no-cause eviction because the property was being sold. Tenant number 15, I've been there for eight years. My landlord says loyalty means nothing. This is stressing me out, and I feel like I'm a no-cause eviction waiting to happen. They don't care if they have a new tenant every month as long as they get higher rent.
 Please pass this ordinance at 120 days. Thank you very much. Welcome, sir.
 Yes, my name is Thomas Small, and I've came here several times over the last 20 years to address the homelessness in the north and northeast. And at that time, I came here to the city council back in 1986, I believe, and there they gave me some property over on Beach Street that we would have turned into a homeless shelter. As they said, the homeless and the black have raised 44% this year alone because now they're equipped
 couch searching and fighting amongst themselves, they're starting to come out and let the city know that there has been homelessness. Now they want the city to address their homelessness because they see the city is really taking their land from their mothers and their fathers, their uncles and everything. So therefore they can't hide from couch searching anymore because everybody's losing their couches in the houses.
 and so therefore we need to address this problem. We need to take it to our superiors, and that right now is Mr. Barack Obama as our president, and also this problem also goes all the way to Rome, our pope, because it is involved with the churches versus state, and I brought 23 pages that I would like for you to fact to them and let them know as the superiors to address this problem, and it is quoted within our statutes of the
 states, if you turn your flag upside down, or if someone's taking your land or you believe that you're in bodily harm, that the president must send in the federal government. And I am doing this right now, and I want everyone in the state of Oregon to join me in this cause until we do get Mr. Obama here to address this problem, because the problem is, United States, he's already put it on the national
 level crisis. So therefore, we must address it and bring it to him where he can do where your office stops, where he can take over. So please make sure that Mr. Obama and Pope Francis get these papers and we can take the discussion on further at the proper time. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 And I will be leaving these papers with your votes. Thank you. Yeah, just leave that with Carla. Thank you so much. So I think because we may be losing a quorum in a little bit, we ought to go ahead and proceed to take a vote on the –
 On the declaration of emergency. I know. Hang on a second. On the declaration. Hang on. Hang on. I'm going to give you a chance. On the declaration of emergency. And then I think we may have to carry some testimony on the renter protection issues over until next week. Because we're not actually going to vote on that until next week. So if there are folks that are still here who want to speak on the declaration of emergency itself. Yes.
 come on up and let's take that testimony and then give the council a chance to act on the declaration. And then again, we'll go back to the rent or protection issues for the remaining time that we have a quorum today and next week as well. So good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Robert Jackson. I'm a Quinault Indian. I chaired Quinault housing authorities since 1970 when we first got Indian housing. And,
 Housing started in 1938. Indian housing didn't start till the 70s. So I have a little experience. The first thing is that you're dealing with, in California 20 years ago, they adopted an unlawful detainer for mentally ill people. That means that if you're in a transitional housing, a shelter, any type of facility, you fall under the jurisdiction of a judge.
 When I was in Yakima visiting a year ago, the Junior League sponsored a conference to talk about criminal justice. A judge established a mental health court, and she said the first time in my career I spent 20 years as a prosecutor, 20 years as a judge, I have to actually advocate for a client.
 You know, I was taught to be an advocate in law school, but I've never been an advocate as a judge or a prosecutor. And now I have to change my mindset that I'm an advocate for the client. And I have to order agencies of government to do the proper thing. So a couple of other court cases that have come down. Judge Marsha Petchman, I used to drive her to the airport.
 She would call me. We had nice conversations. I reported that my nephew, who was in a group home, went on a field trip to Packwood. They left him there. So he broke into a group grocery store, stole one sandwich and a Coke because he was hungry. He spent six months in Western State for a psych evaluation. Last year ago, Disability Washington filed a lawsuit.
 Judge Petchman, the state of Washington, said, oh, no, we don't have enough time. We want to drag out this case. Judge Petchman's reply is, you're the largest law firm in the state of Washington. I will not change my calendar. He had a trial in March.
 And three days later, she issued an order, every court in Washington state shall do a psych evaluation in seven days or drop the charges. So there are some precedents of law. Thank you very much. One final thing I'd like to give to you is that the banks in Wall Street Journal two weeks ago published that they have 100,000 units that are being held by banks and not delivered to the community.
 If you as the city go to the major banks in Oregon and say, how many units do you have in inventory that you can actually put on the market so we can sell those houses and free up rental property, we might be able to change the rental market in a very short period of time, change from 2% to possibly 5%. Very good point. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon.
 Hey, guys. My name is Jesse Sponberg. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. Real quick, a couple ideas. The landlords keep coming up here, and the people that rent, the people that represent the housing industrial complex, keep coming up here and giving you examples of cause eviction reasons. You know what I'm saying? Yes, sir.
 We're on the declaration. I know. I got that. We're not taking up the renter protection tonight. I just want to get those out of the way real quick. All right. Okay, okay, okay, okay. All right, then I'll cut to the goddamn chase. Hey, nobody here is fooled.
 that in an election year you guys all of a sudden decide you're going to care and then maybe get sued meanwhile there are people literally in the streets every day now this is nice you guys come out you've been on city council damn near 16 18 years man how many years on your watch have these problems been developing these problems developed while you were here while you were here while you were here and now you guys talk to each other like you're some great heroes and like
 to thank the mayor. I'd like to thank the commissioner. No, we're not fooled. This happened on your watch. You guys are throwing water on the fire that you helped start. I saw the newspaper. I know how much money, how many campaign donations you're getting from these same people. You guys let that older gentleman sit here and talk for 20 minutes. I said, he's got to be on the inside. Commissioner Fritz said, oh, it's nice that our families have known each other, but I bet I don't even get two minutes here to talk. I'm telling you, this city is on fire
 And I'm telling you, if you continue to use your police officers to be the strong arm of the banks, and if you have people like Mark Kruger showing up to evict families, I promise this city will go nuts. And if you guys want to sit up here and keep patting yourselves on the back, that's great. But this is a very, very serious warning. We're going to start putting bodies in.
 in front of the problem, sir. So you can throw money at it. You can throw $30 million that you can't find anywhere else to keep working with the poverty pimps and the same red tape and bureaucracy that is creating this problem. Meanwhile, there are people whose only crime is trying not to die on the streets of your city, dude. All you guys are trying to do is keep the pitchforks away and get reelected. And I really hope that not a single person all day is bought into that BS.
 Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good afternoon. You're welcome. I got to go. Yeah, I'll see you. So I'm Brett Rosenthal, and who I represent is in this crisis. I wanted to add an issue that hasn't really been talked about at all, and that's the people that are felons, that are druggies, that are criminals, that are –
 less than perfect that aren't up here saying that I have perfect credit and a kid and all these things in life through shit in my plate. I've created all this. So I've gotten to the point where I'm still a father. I still got a 12-year-old kid. I'm still raising someone else's kid currently. I still pay my bills. I still pay my rent. I still wash my ass. I still brush my teeth. I still call my mom at night. I still call my girlfriend. I still tell my friends I love and care for them. Where do I do that from?
 When all these property management, all these property management, even these, I had to go to a private lender. I don't have a fan in my bathroom. I don't have a washer and dryer in my bathroom. I live in a piece of shit farmhouse converted into 16 apartments from like 1920. And I sit in my apartment, which is on the front, and I look at six houses that are perfect little apartments.
 Pea pod houses probably put together in the 30s or 40s, maybe around wartime or something. They're just so everyone gets a house and a fridge and a stove and four walls and a roof. But they've been sitting there for five years across from my apartment, empty, empty.
 I see a lights on in one. This one's even got power in it for the last nine months I've been there. The house next to me has got bushes growing over the house because it's been empty too for even longer than the ones across the street. There's plenty of opportunity out there. There's plenty of land. There's plenty of four walls and a roof. I mean,
 I understand that I made whatever my choices were in society, and I paid for those sitting in a box somewhere, and I paid for whatever crimes I committed against the rules of society. But there has to be a point where I still have to be –
 contributing part of this. I still have a child to raise. I still have a... So there's all these statistics that says my 12 year old is going to be a criminal and a gang member and shoot guns off and fall out of school and be a piece of shit because his dad was a piece of shit. But if I'm not based on just the decisions that were in my past and I'm making it for the future, then how do you go about...
 go about taking those pieces that you say, the kids of incarcerated parents are going to be shit because their parents are shit. Well, if you don't give the person a chance to get out, to get a job, to get all this stuff together, where do I shower? Where do I clean? Where do I put my slacks and my ties and my shirts that I get from the cleaners? Where do I put all this shit? Do I put it in a cart? Do I put it under a lean-to? Do I go stay in a park because parks are where people can stay? Okay?
 That's kind of bullshit. It's kind of not right. It's not fair. It's not real. And there's human beings here. And the last thing I apologize to go over, but the last thing I want to say is
 You made a mention about money earlier. Where's the money? You all got this big building, and who's making money? Fuck money. There's people here, human beings, flesh and blood, life. It has to have more value than any kind of currency. I don't care what color, what face, what number, what denomination you put on it. It has to be more than that. There's people here. I'm a person. That's it. Okay.
 I'd like to thank those, all who have testified for the record. My name is Charles Johnson, and I believe we were just talking about the emergency state declaration. Yes, please. So I think it would be very good if you would consider, at least in the public remarks, including language, where you say that the situation is such a grave crisis that it is parallel to the situation found in Oregon Statutes 91.225, paragraph 5, where it talks about disasters that impact...
 the rental market and the capacity to house people. And then we can let Ms. Rosenblum decide if she wants to challenge you. No matter how the poverty pimps, the landlords, they can all challenge you in court if they wish. And the courts could say they don't have standing. So act strongly. The situation is analogous to a situation under 91225-5.
 Act strongly. If the wealthy people don't want to see the poor people get helped, let them go into courts and say so. Thank you. Pastor Mark, I think you get the last word before we vote on the – Not quite. On this one, we're going to lose the quorum, so we're going to have to take a vote. We'll hear from you in a little bit.
 I'm Reverend Mark Knudson, pastor of Augustana Lutheran Church in northeast Portland. I came to speak on both, but I'll just speak to one. We are home to the Community Alliance of Tenants as well as five other nonprofits, and we estimate close to 30,000 visits to the church a year outside of worship around issues of justice and social accountability in our city and our state. And this is a major crisis. I didn't come and spend almost three hours here today when there were many other things I could have been doing
 Because this is such a crisis. And as clergy, as rabbis, as imams, as spiritual leaders in the city, we deal with it every day. They're members of our congregations. They're members of the community. And we know we've watched gentrification happen in the city. And this is another major piece that affects the well-being of our citizens. I can speak to one person in the congregation, 80 years old, worked, retired, lived by the Lawyers' Center. Now she's living out beyond 82nd.
 And her biggest fear is if she leaves, she may get moved again. And she spends 80% of her income on her housing. At the expense, and the farther out she has to move, the farther she is from any services, from her community, from the people she knows. That's just one example. You all are people of conscience. I know that. And we have a major, major crisis in our midst. And we know that our cities, our nation, our state, we're measured by how the most vulnerable are doing. Okay.
 And that's our challenge. And I would very strongly support what you're going to do next week, but I think that's just the tip of what needs to be done. So redouble your efforts. Put this to the top of the list. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. So we're going to take a vote now on the declaration, and then we'll take further public testimony while we still have a quorum. I know we're going to lose a couple people, so we have to vote while we still have them. You're going to vote on 1029 first, the code amendment, and then 1030, the declaration? Yes.
 Yes, in that order. Thank you. So 1029 first, please. Novick? Aye. Ritz? We don't do this lightly. This is obviously an emergency and a very significant challenge to our community. So what this ordinance does is amend Title 15 to authorize the council to declare an emergency, which we're going to do in the next session.
 It doesn't specify specifically how we're going to do this. It doesn't specify what we're going to do in particular, other than waive the zoning code for two storage units. So that's only the start of what we need to do. The other challenge is that we don't yet know, and we have only started the discussions of how to find the $20 million that has been pledged by my colleagues. So that...
 It seems unlikely that we're going to have $20 million of additional money in the next budget, so we will be looking at...
 services such as police, fire parks, and others to figure out how can we provide all of the services that people want. There are fewer people living outside in the entire Great Britain, which is the same size as Oregon. There are fewer people living outside there than there are in the city of Portland, and that's because the community in the United Kingdom pays a lot more in taxes to provide the services so that everybody can be inside. Okay.
 So it's very much a matter of not only what are we willing to do, but how are we going to pay for it? And I very much appreciate the Mayor and Commissioner Salston and Commissioner Fish, the triumvirate of the three housing commissioners, bringing this forward and taking some active steps to address this as the crucial issue that it is. Aye.
 Mayor, thank you for scheduling this vote. I have a water users consortium meeting tonight. I'd be happy to actually defer and have you go in my stead, but I am obligated to be there. First of all, I just want to say to the Mayor, thank you for bringing this forward. And to our critics, let's acknowledge that this vote in and of itself solves nothing.
 and and it doesn't solve anything right now but it gives us the flexibility to do some things we couldn't do before and therefore it is a necessary precondition to doing some things we want to do and it is my sense going around the community that the number one issue facing our city and i hear this from everywhere i go in our city is the housing crisis and in my seven years
 I could not have said that before. And as all the housing advocates here know, we fought to get into the arena on housing, but it was never considered a first-tier issue. Today, it is the number one issue facing our city. And so we have to do some different things. Mayor has declared his intent to have an emergency, which gives us flexibility. I support him wholeheartedly in that. Commissioner Saltzman has said we have to make some changes in the law.
 to loosen up some units create some incentives for private development a number of us believe that we need new resources there is a whole package of things we have to do if we're going to tackle this problem and no single action will make a dent i believe all of them are necessary to show that we are up to this emergency so i will support this resolution excuse me i will support this ordinance
 because I think symbolically it's important and it gives us more flexibility. But we will be held accountable in the months ahead for taking other actions, new resources, new homes, new tools, and new protections. That's how we will be judged. And I hope the council is prepared to be as bold in the future as we are today in declaring an emergency. Aye. Saltzman? I appreciate the mayor bringing this before us.
 declaring an emergency, using his powers to do that. This really is, as Commissioner Fish just said, a lot of people don't know what it is we mean when we're talking about this emergency ordinance, but everybody resonates with the idea that this is an emergency housing in Portland.
 So I think it means a lot of different things to different people. It's up to us, the city council, and the county commission to put the flesh on the bones. And I think we've made some good starts in that, both in terms of resources, in terms of some policy provisions. But there's definitely more work to be done. And I'm confident this body is up for it, as I am confident that the county commission will also take bold steps. So I'm very pleased to support this. Bye. Niels.
 I want to thank my colleagues and thank the Portlanders that we've heard from on this issue for focusing on this crisis, because it is a crisis. I was thinking back, hearing some of these stories today, to my story and the story of some of my neighbors. I moved to Portland in an old car with not enough money to go back to Virginia. My wife and I found an apartment. We rented there for a while, and then we were able to buy our first home.
 We raised kids here who love to call Portland home, or at least call home to Portland from where they are now. And that's an ordinary story. And my neighbor across the street, Jonathan Asakis, was an old man who was a member of the Greek Orthodox Church who had an affordable unit that somebody thought to take care of him with.
 That's what we're doing here. We're thinking about our neighbors and trying to take care of each other. And that's something I love about Portland. And we try to do that through law and policy, but we do it even more through partnership. So we need our pastors, we need our nonprofit organizations like PCRI and REACH and all the rest of them to work with us. We need our housing authority.
 Home Forward, who's such a great partner. And we need our county government, who's joined with us in this work through this institution that we've created of a home for everyone. Doesn't sound all that interesting, but it's actually government doing what it should do, which is working together as one.
 and reaching out to partners who will help and solving a problem. And I was really inspired over the course of this year by what we've accomplished with veterans' homelessness. It is proof that we can make change.
 and that we can focus on a problem, bring people together, and make a difference, get people into housing who deserve it. They're not the only ones who deserve it, but they were a good place to start in this focused effort of these multiple organizations working as partners. So, yeah.
 I want to keep thinking about our neighbors as we keep bringing ideas forward. Barry's got one. I know he wants to talk about it. Lots of people in the community have ideas about where we can help solve this problem. I literally had pastors run up to me the morning that the Pope spoke because a bunch of people gathered at St. Andrews and listened to the speech. And they came up and said, we'll put some people in our church if you can just get the bureaucracy out of our way. I'd
 I love that spirit and we need more of that because we'll need a lot of people working together to address this. This is a great moment for Portland because we have focused on a crisis and we have declared it one. And as my colleagues have said, nothing changes instantaneously.
 because of this vote. But what it does is open some doors so that we can invite those partners in to work with us and make a difference. We can go to Salem and say, we need that money, Governor Brown.
 and legislature for the construction of supportive housing for the people who will be served by the Unity Center, and then let's please not turn them out on the street like we did with Norris McClendon so that he goes back into the criminal justice system. Let's instead give them supportive housing and services so they are back in the community like the mental health system is supposed to do. Let's then call on our partners in other agencies to work with us that way.
 And then there will be those who oppose us. So the second thing a declaration of emergency does is give us a legal leg to stand on in pushing forward. And we will need to call on our city attorneys because no good deed goes unpunished, and I'm certain that there will be people who oppose elements of what we will do under this declaration of emergency.
 And then finally, we can, I think, with the support of a lot of people in this community, stop COVID.
 demonizing homelessness and understand its causes while still preserving safe streets. There are a lot of people suffering from compassion fatigue in our city who call on me every day to clean out that mess. And I understand that homelessness causes terrible side effects. And we and my staff in our office and others in this building work every day to try to keep Portland safe and attractive for everybody. But these are our neighbors, and we need to take care of them.
 And at bottom, that's what this declaration is about, a recognition that these people are our neighbors and we must do better. So I want to thank and commend Josh Alpert, first of all, my amazing chief of staff who has worked so hard to bring this declaration before us, and all who have labored so far in this good work and who will now together do more. Thank you very much.
 So we are losing a quorum. I'm sorry? Vote on the other item before Commissioner Fish leaves, and then I think we're going to schedule the next piece of work. What's the other item? The second declaration. Actually doing the... We've now authorized ourselves to make the declaration. We now said we could declare housing authority. How many votes do you intend to take tonight? Two. Just this one. Roll call, please. Novick? A nice thing about...
 Having two things to vote on gives me an opportunity to use points that I used to make before but neglected to. One is Commissioner Fritz was saying that we have limited options in terms of funds. We might, in order to have more money for housing, have to cut police, fire, or parks. We don't have the option the federal government has, which is to cut military spending, where we spend almost as much in our military as the rest of the world combined.
 So that's another reason I'm grumpy about the federal government's lack of initiative on this issue. Another point I think is important to make is that in a normal property tax structure, the fact that the value of housing in Portland is going up, which would mean that we'd have a lot more property tax revenue to spend on things like affordable housing,
 Because of Measure 50 passed in 1996, the value of a property can only go up for tax purposes by 3% a year no matter how much it's going up in actuality.
 So people in recently gentrified areas of largely inter-east Portland are paying really low property taxes on expensive houses. So to a great extent, we in this city are dealing with the problems caused by rising housing prices without getting the kind of tax revenue benefit to help deal with those problems we would have under a normal tax system. So that's my grumpy rant for the afternoon, and I'm pleased about I. Great.
 This is the implementing ordinance and it does actually do something. It waives the zoning code for the placement of the two storage units. I greatly appreciate Mayor Hales and Josh Alpert and Tim Crail on my staff and the city attorneys for working with me on this to craft the amendments that make sure that we are all going to be involved and informed about how we move forward after this.
 We can make decisions with just three of us. We work a lot better on this council when all five of us weigh in and strive together to make something good even better. And I believe that's what's happened here. And I'm grateful for the willingness to do it quickly and also to get it done and done right. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you very much. And I think we are going to have to continue the hearing on the remaining item because, of course, it's not scheduled for a vote today. Do we have some folks that were still signed up? We'll put you first on the list next time. Well, we have just two of you. Is that what we have? Oh, let's take you now. Sorry. We won't make you wait. Thank you. Just give us your name, Barry. Barry Cutts.
 Oh, Carla, turn the microphone on, please. It's very sudden, and I've been interested a long time in what I brought up to you, the area behind Washington High School. In 1998, Catacorner II...
 St. Patrick's Church, I'd come to the service and pick up around the people there. They lived on about a quarter or a third of one of the three blocks there. There were 55 people that would do that. It's easy to put that together and –
 It would take up all the homeless people in Portland, I feel. Well, I'm glad you're considering it as you can, please. And thank you very much, and you'll have a much fuller life, all of you, for taking care of all of this. And then the film, Commissioner Fish isn't here. Where did he go to? He had to leave. Yeah, okay. Well, you could tell him that I brought his name up.
 The film American Winter, those people lived in a very nice home and all, but they had to get onto food stamps. They were crushed. That's how people get into crime. They have so much pressure. This is cruel of people, you know, to charge so much rent. I don't know how to say it anymore. It's very cruel. So rent control is also important, too. This is what I wanted to get across, I hope.
 i wish you all the best please thank you thank you very much you're welcome good afternoon or good evening you get the last word yes um hi my name is sarah long and council i actually thought i would never sit before you again and testify about anything because i am actually one of the priced out renters i've had to leave portland and buy housing elsewhere very far away where it's very very cheap um so there's many things that are to be testified on uh to be dealt with
 One thing I really want to convey to you guys is that it was an absolute revelation when Mayor Hales recently had his constituent coffee. And I was like, wow, I wish all of our commissioners could do this literally five days a week.
 Because I get the sense that there, as I told him at the time, there was, there's a very wide gap between the policy that you each deal with in your own individual offices and what the concerns of the people are and the possible solutions they see out here on the outside. And it absolutely, like.
 I have had one person ever take up my offer to please come with me to your offices to speak to your advisors about potential solutions, about how to fix things, about how to connect with what the city really needs. I'm hoping to do more of that in the future. So I just would like to say regarding solutions that haven't been suggested yet, I would like to see the possibility of
 Being able to, as long as there's legal egress, legal departure from a room, being able to simply add another room by placing a wall right down the middle of a room. If we did things like allow each household with a backyard of a minimum of 400 square feet available to simply allow up to two adult campers, perhaps with children because that's what it's coming to. This emergency is doing nothing but getting worse. Okay.
 then I believe that we could solve that 2,000 unsheltered people almost overnight. So thank you. Thank you, Sarah. Charles, you get the last word. No, I thought Mr. Johnson already testified. I just wanted to respond to Ms. Long, though. I don't believe there's anything that prohibits people from having campers in their backyard. I'm pretty sure the zoning code does.
 We'll check. It's a good point. We will check. Okay. Did Charles already speak? He already spoke. I abbreviated my remarks earlier. Okay. Well, abbreviate them to 30 seconds, please. I think that you see some concern and skepticism on some of the citizens in here, but I really think that what we also need from you is –
 uh a de facto housing czar in periodic weekly or monthly meetings we're actually going to engage with this cat where we're going to actually have chief judge dan waller and the morgan judicial party give us real statistics about exactly how many evictions are being processed so i hope that you'll just consider those things and i know your office is open
 Thank you very much for your update. Thank you, and this is continued until next week. Is that right, Dan? We're going to take this up again next week for today. Thank you all very much, and we're adjourned until tomorrow. No, until tomorrow. Yeah.