Good morning, everyone. This is the Wednesday morning, October 2nd, 2019 session of the Portland City Council. Good morning, Carla. Good morning. Could you please call the roll? Mm-hmm. Udaly, Fritz, Fish, Hardesty, Wheeler. Now we'll hear from legal counsel. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. And just sort of a notice here related to housekeeping. A majority of the council are going to an event this morning, and so we're going to have to wrap up by about 1140. So I'm going to ask people to... Hold testimony today to two minutes just so we don't lose the quorum and can get through the business today. First up is communications. Carl, I believe the first four individuals would like to come up together. Correct. Yes. The first one, 920, request of Peter Forsythe to address council regarding the proposed changes to section 3.96 of the city code relating to the Office of Community and Civic Life. 921, request of Alan Field to address council regarding 3.96 code change. 922. 922. Request of Claire Coleman-Evans to address council regarding 3.96 code changes. And 923, request of Chelsea Powers to address council regarding the proposed changes to 3.96. Very good. Good morning. Commissioner Hardest. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. I'm just curious if I can have all my time. Thank you, Mayor. I'm just curious if the panel knows that the code changes have been slowed down. Yes. Okay, just checking because I thought you made it all the way here. It'd be a shame for you not to start off with that knowledge. And Mayor, can we just clarify because I saw Mary Ann Schwab face light up. The two minute rule applies to testifying on matters on the regular agenda. During communication, everyone gets three minutes. So there's no change in people's testimony. Thank you for that clarification. Yes. Sorry if there was any confusion. You each have three minutes each. And it's fabulous to see you, Ms. Swapp. Thank you for being here. Anyway, I don't want to cut you off. I just wanted to make sure. Good morning. I'll let you go in any order you choose. Okay. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Pete Forsyth. I'm the president of the South Tabor Neighborhood Association, which has published a letter opposing Code Change 3.96, but my comments here go into more detail. These are, I'm speaking for myself. I want to start by observing that we have, I think this process has revealed a really strong consensus across the city. And I think that may seem strange to say, given all the contention, but as Director Sukri said, acknowledged in her Oregonian op-ed and also Commissioner Udeli in her most recent email update there really is a very strong consensus across the city that there are changes needed to address the inability or the the shortcomings of the city in engaging with a diverse collection of group and a diverse collection of Portlanders. So that really, I think that leaves us with an important question. If there's such a strong consensus for the general principles, then why is there not a code change proposed that there's a strong consensus behind? And I want to shed a little bit of light on that and I think my colleagues here will go into more detail. I think there are two possible reasons that really stick out to me. Number one is I don't believe there was ever a public engagement plan crafted for this or publicly presented or referred back to throughout the process. I think it's really critical to engage stakeholders early and often, not just a select group of stakeholders but really everyone that's affected by a change in the code. And I think Alan in particular is going to go into some detail on that. And the other thing, which could be part of that, I'm not really sure how the city works in this way, but I don't see a clear problem statement. It seems to me that from the beginning, maybe from council, maybe from Civic Life, there should be a very clear bullet list. What are the problems that the committee and the code change are intending to address? From my perspective as a citizen, It seems that that list has kind of changed and been a little bit ad hoc as things have been brought up in different discussions at different times, and it makes the process difficult to follow. But I would like to say City Council and Civic Life and the entire community, I think, have invested a great deal in trying to come to a code change. And I think that has really resulted in a lot of very good work. I'd say it's just not complete. I think establishing that consensus and having the language that we have now, which really goes into some detail about what is needed, is a really good starting point. But what I suggest happen now is that I think city council probably needs to resource another phase that would be, I think, probably like a minimum of 18 months. I'm not really an expert on what that is, but there needs to be a new process. I don't think any collection of half measures is going to substitute for not having had that the first time. So just going to a few neighborhood associations and talking to them, it's good stuff, but it needs to be done in a more structured way than that to be effective. Final point, if I may? Very quickly. Very quickly. My reading of the city council resolution is that you wanted a new system to be created in parallel with the system for geographically based groups, not to have the existing system taken away. So it does achieve getting on the same level, but I think not the way that city council intended. Thank you. Appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty, did you have a question? Yes, Mayor. I'm just concerned we're having this conversation when the commissioner in charge isn't here. and it just feels like it's happening in a vacuum. And because there's no communication, I know at I just want that on the record that I just think that it's just not helpful when the commissioner who's put her heart and soul into the changes aren't actually here. So us to be having this conversation. I agree. It would be more helpful if she were here. On the other hand, we require people to sign up a month in advance for communications. So it's hard to coordinate those two things. But I will make sure personally that... since your testimony is on the record that the commissioner in charge does see the testimony. Also, I just want to point out that while Commissioner Udaly has the bureau that has primary jurisdiction over this, let's be very clear, it is the council that will make the decision about how we proceed. And so I, for one, welcome hearing concerns raised now because I – In particular, I have concerns about even the current schedule for accepting a report in November. I don't know what purpose that's going to serve. So I welcome hearing public feedback at this point. So, colleagues, I know this is a hot-button item, but we have a very short time frame to get through today's business. So I would recommend let's hear the testimony, and then we'll have plenty of time to digest it and have the conversation later. Good morning. Do you want to go next? Okay. Good morning. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, thank you for taking the time to listen to my testimony today. My name is Chelsea Powers. I'm the chair of the Brentwood-Darlington Neighborhood Association. Many of you are familiar with Brentwood-Darlington and know our history of being annexed late into the city and the infrastructure and equity issues we struggle with to this day. I'm here today to speak about proposed changes to Portland City Code 3.96. These proposed changes have the potential to severely impact Brentwood-Darlington and other Southeast Neighborhood Association's ability to serve our neighborhoods. While we agree wholeheartedly with needing changes to create a more equitable, inclusive, and accessible system, we feel the languages currently proposed will not actually achieve those goals. Since 2016, BDNA has won three grants, Two directly benefiting city bureaus and infrastructure projects. Currently we host 30 public meetings, an average of four to six free events, and at least four free partnered events per year. This is a fraction of what we do on an annual budget of approximately $5,000, just under $1,500 of which comes from the city grant to our neighborhood coalition, Southeast Uplift. This is important because my board of 12 volunteers provides the city of Portland with an average of over $150,000 in free labor per year. You can imagine our shock when we learned of proposed code 3.96 already months into the process and saw that it removed all references to neighborhood associations and all the responsibilities of the city and the neighborhood coalitions. Reading current code 3.96, we are again shocked to learn how much support had been withheld over the previous years and what a difference it could have made. A small amount of money can make or break many neighborhood associations. Endangering our support through forcing neighborhood coalitions to compete for grants risks our entire being. If neighborhood coalitions are unable to obtain grant funds in the new system, the neighborhood associations they support lose the essential services of insurance and fiscal sponsorship. Changing the code to remove meeting and record standards that protect us all does not feel like a move that's necessary. includes more residents. All recipients of public funds must always be required to be open and transparent. These rules keep neighborhood associations publicly accountable for their actions and allows government at all levels to work with us in good faith. Furthermore, our residents rely on our records to stay informed when they cannot attend meetings and events. We are an integral part of the city framework and the repercussions of neighborhood associations failing would be felt by every resident regardless of their opinions on the current system. It is my hope that Civic Life will present a full communication outreach and project plan to begin a renewed phase of this process. One that brings all stakeholders to the table, both those currently supported and those who aren't. Director Zucree said in a previous meeting that updating the code is a referendum on government, but not a commentary on who was supported in the past. If that is truly the case, stop forcing us to be adversaries in our own communities and give us the opportunity to be allies in this process. There is room for everyone at the table if we all work together. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Sabina Erdes. I serve as the chair of the Lentz Neighborhood Association. I'm here to ask that you take the opportunity of the 3.96 rewrite to bring our communities to work together on these changes instead of dividing us, which has been the approach of the Office of Community and Civic Life so far. Right now, my district coalition in East Portland, which is staff of the city, is being phased out from a part of town where we actually have the highest percentage of refugees, immigrants, and people of color. This choice that the Bureau is making to phase out the staff support we are getting speaks to the fact that they do not have an interest or ability to support bringing more community groups to the table. They haven't even been able to support current ones. East of 82nd Avenue is where ethnic groups and other communities of identity meet to organize festivals such as Tonga Day Festival. There are groups such as Refugees and Immigrants with Disabilities, Somali Women Coalition of Portland, Iraqi Society, and more. Asking them to travel downtown to get one-on-one support on a grant application is a significant barrier to their engagement. But they each belong to a neighborhood. What if neighborhood associations in East Portland had the training and empowerment from the bureau responsible for community and civic life to support these groups, navigate the path to obtaining support and resources from the city? Civic Life claims that neighborhood associations are not representative of the diversity in our city. Yet when Civic Life attempted to engage the community in a survey, they only got about 1,500 responses the first time and around 100 responses or fewer the second time. How come Civic Life's 1,500 responses are representative of everyone in our city but the work of 95 neighborhood associations isn't? What would have been the harm in the Bureau actively and intentionally collaborating with neighborhood associations to reach more people, instead of leaving neighborhood associations out and blaming us for the inequities in civic engagement? Collaborating with neighborhood associations versus blaming them. Do you see the difference? At the July 31st council session, a senior member of our community, Marianne Schwab, who sat where I'm sitting now, was belittled and dismissed by Commissioner Udalli, who accused Marianne of spreading misinformation and then used her position of power to silence Marianne when she tried to reply. This is representative... of how Civic Life have treated community members throughout this process. They have divided us. Their staff has been making the rounds to neighborhood association meetings, but they do not come to listen. They come to tell us that we are wrong. This code change needs oversight from someone who can listen, or just someone who can be receptive to our critical feedback and be serious about ongoing accountability. In my experience, Commissioner Udeli has not been that person. I'm asking all the commissioners today to see the humanity of volunteers doing this work, to see us as people instead of objects. Please support oversight of this code change from someone who can bring us together instead of divide us. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Alan Field. I'm on the Richmond Board. We oppose the proposal, but I'm testifying in my individual capacity. We all agree our civic engagement framework needs to be updated to accommodate our growing and diverse population. The 2008 Community Connect report in your materials provides a roadmap how to do that. It says to strengthen and expand our civic engagement framework by building on the strengths of the neighborhood association system by updating the code and standards to give formal code recognition to other groups alongside NAs so they too can have a code protected seat at the table and get similar benefits. The first recommendation in that report says, quote, create formal recognition and a seat at the table for organizations that represent people of color. immigrants and other underrepresented groups. The auditor's report states, quote, community connect charged only with creating the infrastructure to support the plan's goals and recommendations including providing formal recognition for a range of community organizations, updating the office's structures. None of those steps have been taken. The auditor confirmed the code should be updated to strengthen and expand on the NA system by formally recognizing these other groups. There needs to be, quote, a clear framework defining roles and responsibilities of city and community organizations and a focus on accountability. It was recommended that ONI start with a 2012 draft plan, which is in your materials, for a multi-tiered system with different types of groups, partnerships, benefits, and standards. That draft plan by Paul Leissner is in your materials. The auditor concluded a strong neighborhood system means a stronger and more resilient Portland. As a committee member confirmed to me, none of those documents were even provided to this committee, not even a full copy of the standards. The committee went in the opposite direction by eliminating all sections on NAs and dismantling the NA system. The key components of that system are to be erased. Formal recognition of NAs, a requirement to comply with standards as a condition of recognition of receiving benefits, all mention of benefit standards, the rules of non-discrimination, inclusion, open and transparent process, and accountability, all gone. The code and standards mandate that the civic life oversee NA system, all gone. The committee should have left alone the NA sections but added sections to formally recognize other groups. I provided you in your notebook a sample of a Code 396 update. I kept the NA sections but added in sections defining community-based organizations and put in placeholder spots for this committee to define those roles and responsibilities. That's what this committee should have done. The committee should have focused on lifting up Those are the groups not tearing down neighborhood associations. A new phase two committee should be formed to continue the work of the first committee and draft code to add those groups and revise the standards. There needs to be a public involvement plan vetted by stakeholders, solicit applications of NA's fairly represented. Have a neutral body like PIAC or CIC manage this process, have draft stages. of comment between drafts, set a realistic timeline of 18 to 14 months, and take into account charter review that's going to start next year, which could reshape city government. In the meantime, add the six DCL groups, use community connect as a guide, apply its model of unity and cooperation, and let's take the time to do this right. Thank you. Appreciate it. Commissioner Hardester. So I just want to appreciate you all for coming today. My objections has nothing to do with your message. It just feels disingenuous to be having the conversation when the commissioner is out of the country. I hope you all know that Commissioner Udeli heard you, which is why she decided to slow the process down. It is my hope. that the adversarial nature of this activity will cease, and that people will be respectful of each other in a variety of opinions, and that when we come back to the city council, we'll have something that all communities will be able to get behind. So thank you for being here today. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming in. We appreciate it. Next individual, please, for communication. Good night. Item 924, request of Cheryl Graves to address council regarding mental health and suicide victims. Good morning, thank you for being here. Good morning, Hill House. No worries. My name is Cheryl Graves, I'm a resident of Portland. I'm here today to talk about mental health and suicide. I commend the city of Portland for adopting Eugene's public safety system by gaining momentum with the new service CAHOOTS, a medical and mental public health service. You will be, by default, offer much needed relief to the other two groups of persons on the streets, addicted and homeless. Once you find a solution for addiction crisis, these sufferers will be off the street and into caring rehabilitation facilities. We can address the remainder of the homeless by way of, yes, My Life Matters, the homeless cure. The reason this plan will succeed while others have failed is in part due to its all-inclusive nature. All organizations, public and private, in one place. Now the right hand knows what the left is doing. No more dropping the ball between desks and agencies. A clear communication towards solution. Once the sufferers of mental illness and addiction are well into recovery, they can be moved to the village to work their programs. They will need this village more than ever. If they end up back on the streets, the systems will fail. The Community Village offers exactly what they need to succeed and be able to live, learn, and hopefully even thrive. To gain control of the situation, the YES program plans to build your task force even bigger and stronger. The task force members will gather and deliver the transients to a care center for a meal, a shower, and evaluation. Once evaluated, each person will either be placed in a hospital for physical care, a care facility for the mentally ill, a rehabilitation center for addiction, or the village revitalization community for a home, job, and life skills programs. Only by separating the groups can we go forward with a revitalization plan for Portland. Homeless by choice, mental health sufferers, and addicted. First, mental health and addiction has been and still is today the main reason why homelessness has not been dealt with and must be dealt with separately. If you ask every person who has ever lost a friend or family member to suicide, their comments are nearly all the same. We wished we would have done something sooner. So I'm asking that we as a United City do that something sooner, today. How can we Portland residents help to expedite the program CAHOOTS, helping mental health sufferers towards safe and caring living conditions? Thank you. Thank you for your thoughtful comments. I've delivered copies of this article regarding a plan very similar to this plan here, and it's working. It's in Texas. I brought you a copy. Thank you. I also brought you a copy of my book. Very good. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, then Commissioner Hardest. Ms. Griggs, I just wanted to thank you for the postcard you sent after the last time, and so thank you. Sorry, that's kind of a mess out there. Well, I want to thank you for the work that you're doing, despite having a family member with a serious challenge. So thank you very much for doing this. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I just wanted to correct one misstatement. We have not adopted Eugene's system. We are developing the Portland Street Response, which will be a Portland-specific solution, and only one of the solutions that we need to make sure that people who are suffering on our street are not put in harm's way. Very good. Thank you. Carla, have any items been pulled off the consent agenda? We've had no requests. Please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item number 925. Proclaim October 6, 2019 to be the second annual Salmon in Our City Day. Commissioner Fish. Well, colleagues, today's a big day for salmon, and we have a celebration planned accordingly. Portland is proud to be a city where nature is celebrated and enjoyed. And it's hard to overstate how important salmon are to our region. Salmon are a major part of our history. They are integral to the life and culture of local tribes and urban Indians. And they are part of our collective future, as salmon are a marker for how we treat our environment. Parks, natural areas, and green infrastructure are pivotal for salmon habitat. In 2004, Portland Parks and Recreation was the first city bureau to be salmon safe certified. And in 2016, the rest of our infrastructure and service bureaus followed suit, making Portland the first city in the nation to be certified as salmon safe. A year later, the city, in partnership with many bureaus, community organizations, tribal partners, and urban Indians, and the Army Corps of Engineers, establish our first salmon sanctuary at Crystal Springs. I'm pleased to report that it's being recognized internationally by the coalition of cities that are leading the way to step up to our global climate crisis. We are announcing today the Crystal Springs Restoration Project, one of our premier green infrastructure projects has been recognized by the C40 cities and Bloomberg Philanthropies. as a finalist in its Cities 100 Award for Climate Adaptation and Resilience. The Cities 100 Award recognizes the top 100 of the world's boldest climate action projects. The winner will be announced October 10th in Copenhagen. Mayor Wheeler was originally planning to attend that conference, but I'm going to sub for him. No, the mayor will be attending the conference. The mayor will be attending the conference on behalf of the city. The New York Times just reported on studies that show that salmon and steelhead are at high risk of extinction above the Columbia River and Willamette River dams because of climate change. The City of Portland, I'm proud to report, is doing our best to prevent that from happening. We are applying the same strategies used at Crystal Springs to restore other salmon habitat. For example, we built a salmon subway in Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge. And we are about to start the Boone's Ferry Culvert Removal Project that will unlock habitat on Tryon Creek. And looking forward, we are poised to leverage federal dollars in partnership with the Army Corps of Engineers for additional restoration work. And a special shout out to Senator Jeff Merkley, who's been tracking the budget for that exciting project at the federal level. Today is an exciting day. Our invited testimony will highlight the incredible work that has been done over the last several years in salmon habitat restoration. And with that, I'd like to pass it off to the mayor who has a few words to say and he will then invite our first panel to the dais. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. The City of Portland is a national and an international leader in watershed health, salmon recovery, and climate change resiliency. We restore our rivers, creeks, and natural systems for many reasons. For some, it's to honor salmon as part of their natural and indigenous heritage. For others, because it better prepares our city for climate change. Today, we're first going to learn about an effort to help Portland fulfill its designation as a salmon safe city. After that, I'll read a proclamation declaring October 6th to be Salmon in the City Day. The salmon safe certification acknowledges that we as a city are transforming government facilities and operations programs and activities to support salmon recovery and meet our certification requirements as a salmon safe city. This has been a true cross-bureau effort, which I appreciate. It's relied on the Bureau of Environmental Services, the Transportation Bureau, the Water Bureau, Fire and Rescue, the Office of Management and Finance, Facilities, Fleet Services, and Procurement. So it's truly been a group effort. Today we're going to hear about just a few of these successes from Adina Long, who's the Director for Parks and Recreation, and Caitlin Lavelle, who's the Science Integration Manager for the Bureau of Environmental Services. After they're done, we're going to hear from Dan Kent, who is the Executive Director of Salmon Safe Incorporated, and Judy Bluehorse Skelton, who's an organizer of the second annual Salmon in the City Day. And they'll come up and they'll speak in turn. I would ask that council ask questions or make comments after we've heard the update and after our invited guests have an opportunity to speak. I also just want to note that there is no council action formally required on this because this is a proclamation. So we'll start with Caitlin and Director Long. Welcome. And if you could just share with us a few words about the update on our salmon safe status. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, commissioners. I'll try to catch you up on your time. Thank you for the opportunity to help celebrate Portland salmon by sharing a progress report on the city's biggest interbureau effort, our salmon safe certification. This effort is coordinated by BPS and Debbie Bischoff is ill and regrets that she couldn't be here today. But BPS should also be recognized for the important role that they play. Director Long will be joining me to present on Parks' efforts and I'll be reporting out on the other bureaus. However, In the audience today are some key people who have made this happen. I'd like to recognize Melissa Brown from Bureau of Environmental Services. I don't know if Emily Roth from Parks is in the audience, but she's been an important implementer for Parks. Rich Grant with PBOT, Mike Sailing from the Water Bureau, Shay Davies from City Fleet, and Bill Goforth from Portland Fire and Rescue, and they'll be able to answer questions. We are really excited to partner with Salmon Safe, a homegrown nonprofit that is a leading eco-label organization. And as you mentioned, Dan will be speaking shortly. So I'll jump ahead. Portland Parks, we've been partnering with Salmon Safe since 2004 when Portland Parks first became Salmon Safe certified. And they have been recertified now twice more. That success led Mayor Hales in 2013 to pledge that Portland would become the first Salmon Safe city in the world. Because salmon safe is focused on site development and land management, they really focused on those bureaus that have land management responsibilities, namely BES, water, PBOT, OMF, and fire and rescue. We were conditionally certified in 2016 and what that means is we have conditions that we have to show progress to meeting over our five year certification progress. And so today we are sharing our progress at our three year milestone. A number of the conditions apply across all of the bureaus. And Portland Parks' 2018 recertification had four separate conditions. The cross-bureau conditions really focused on land management, focusing on those areas that are vegetated that each bureau owns, and where we could prioritize habitat and restoration, as well as water conservation programs. And now I'll turn it over to Director Long to talk about Portland Parks' highlights. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler. Again, I'm Adina Long, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation, and we appreciate the opportunity to tell you how we've enhanced and restored salmon habitat in our city. Our Bureau and partner efforts mean that after decades away from their natural habitat in the heart of Portland, we now once again have wild salmon in Westmoreland Park. This stems directly from the Crystal Creek restoration work we completed with BES and the Army Corps of Engineers. Just last year, we enjoyed even more benefits from working with these partners, creating the Salmon Subway at Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge. Portland Parks and Recreation is proudly recognized as a leader in restoring and maintaining salmon habitat. In 2004, we were the first park system in the United States to be certified as salmon safe, and we still are, having been recertified twice. Salmon safe says that Portland Parks and Recreation is a shining example of how a city park system can succeed at environmental restoration. Salmon Safe also recognized that PPNR has moved towards an even greater conservation mindset in the last 15 years that we've engaged with them. Our efforts in protecting and restoring wild salmon are continuing today. We are improving irrigation efficiency and water conservation throughout our entire system. Our science-based integrated pest management program continues to receive accolades for its practices and success. We are proud of our recently created ecologically sustainable landscape program, something Salmon Safe also noted. The initiative brings nature and more natural features into neighborhood parks with benefits to people, plants, and wildlife. Finally, we are happy to report that Portland Parks and Recreation has been successful with restoration efforts in every city park along the Willamette River and on the Columbia Slough. Salmon in the city, we are working to keep them here and to keep them healthy. Thank you. Thank you. For the Bureau of Environmental Services, SAMHSA really challenged us to independently quantify the success of the projects that we've had to date. We went one step further and looked ahead at the projects we're also going to be putting in the ground in the next five years, and we modeled them against climate change to show whether or not we're doing enough to overcome the impacts of climate change. The good news is with some species we are, with others like steelhead, we are going to lose ground, and so we need to be doing more. We also were challenged to monitor our progress, which we have been doing through the Portland Watershed Report Cards. Good news, we're going to be unveiling the next report cards on October 18th with a snazzy new interactive map tracking and linking all of our restoration projects to the overall health of the watershed. Portland Bureau of Transportation had some very simple criteria, such as moving material and storing it differently. And you'll see a theme throughout all of these conditions about how we use chemicals on our lands. Portland Parks has been leading the way with their integrated pest management program. The individual bureaus were challenged to customize that program to their own bureau activities, which PBOT did in addition to a water conservation plan. It's interesting to note that PBOT has actually not irrigated any street landscaping for over 10 years as a water conservation measure. A lot of people don't think about the chemicals that are used on the Benson bubblers, but the Water Bureau did after the Salmon Safe certification and changed the polishing agent to be more salmon friendly. They, too, adopted a water management plan for Mount Tabor as a water conservation measure. The Office of Management of Finance had a number of different conditions related to different activities within OMF, including their procurement practices and ensuring those services that we contract with are in fact using integrated pest management practices and salmon safe procurement requirements. in addition to having sort of end-of-pipe requirements to meet our carbon emissions requirements, also took a look at how they're storing their fuel and how they're managing spills. Fire and Rescue took both an external and an internal-facing look at their practices. They reduced their water consumption by changing their landscaping to be more drought-tolerant and addressed some of their stormwater issues discharges from their fire stations. Inside they really evaluated the chemicals that they use and changed their chemical supply and switched over to a lot of green products. The next steps because we've been on this bifurcated process with parks and the rest of the bureaus, salmon safe has agreed at our next recertification that we're going to bring all of these together onto the same track and we'll be reconsidering we'll be considering recertification for all of the bureaus within two years. At this point, I'd like to turn it over to Commissioner Fish to introduce the next panel. Before we thank this panel, none of this work happens without strong partnerships, both within the city of Portland, with our federal and state partners, with our community partners. I'm very proud of that track record. But colleagues, I will also tell you that without Caitlin's leadership, we would not have made the progress we've made, particularly on salmon sanctuaries. And while I'm biased because I have the Bureau of Environmental Services in my portfolio, I just want to once again recognize her outstanding work. Thank you. And the work that she helps lead at BES because it's literally put us on the map. And to be a finalist for the Bloomberg Philanthropies, a global recognition for a project, and to be so intimately involved as she has been with the development of Crystal Springs and this whole idea of salmon sanctuaries is a credit to the professionals who work for our city. And I just want to give a shout out to her and her team. Thank you. Our next panel, as the mayor previewed, is composed of Dan Kent, the executive director of Salmon Safe, and our friend Judy Bluehorse Skelton, who is a community leader and organizer of Salmon in the City Day. Welcome to both of you. Who would like to start? I'll go first. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and other commissioners. You've heard from Salmon Safe over the years, but as a reminder, again, we are a nonprofit Portland-based environmental certification organization focused on water quality protection and habitat conservation working up and down the West Coast. Three years ago, as you heard, Portland became the first city in the world to join with a third party independent verification organization to complete a comprehensive assessment of its impacts in its watershed. With the goal of becoming a salmon safe city. Today you heard from Caitlin about the outstanding work by each of the bureaus in achieving that ideal. All of these efforts by the bureaus were informed by a site by site assessment across the city by salmon safes independent science team evaluating the operations of the city with respect to impacts on the urban well, the limit river watershed. That meant assessing everything from stormwater management at fire stations, like you saw in the slide, to the performance of the city's fish restoration projects. Of course, we're hearing a lot about that this morning, to evaluating street cleaning practices by PBOT and even the products used in graffiti removal. As you heard, the citywide effort by Portland was itself inspired by years of salmon safe related restoration work by Portland Parks going back to the early 2000s. Much of that early salmon safe work with parks focused on the Johnson Creek watershed and our science team focusing in particular on Crystal Springs. And that of course, that work by the city over the years now being recognized by the C40 cities designation or nomination. Since the City made its Salmon Safe Commitment in 2016, we've seen the leadership of BES and Parks and the other bureaus involved in the Salmon Sanctuaries effort as an example of how the City is building on the recommendations from the Salmon Safe Science Team. And again, an effort being recognized by the C40 Cities Award. We also appreciate the BES Watershed Report Card as an additional step by the City towards greater transparency and accountability in its environmental initiatives. In SalmonSafe's work with cities up and down the West Coast, we see just what a leader Portland is when it comes to environmental issues ranging from climate action to being out front and on the ground in globally significant actions like creating urban sanctuaries for imperiled native salmon. Over more than 15 years, the salmon safe practices that were first pioneered beginning at Portland Parks have been applied at sites up and down the coast, ranging from close to home, the Nike World Headquarters campus, to University of Washington in Seattle, to OHSU's new campus at South Waterfront. And on Earth Day of this year, we were pleased to announce that the city of Shoreline, Washington, just north of Seattle, is following in Portland's footsteps with citywide certification. Congratulations to Portland today on this midstream progress report from the bureaus regarding meeting commitments to being the first salmon safe city. Thank you very much, Dan. Judy, welcome. Tots, may we? Good morning. Welcome. Good to see everybody again. I'm Judy Bluehorse-Skelton, Les Perce, Cherokee, and really honored to be speaking today on behalf of salmon in the city, but also our Native American Community Advisory Council, who has been meeting for almost nine years and helping to partner with Bureau of Environmental Services and parks and other city and local government agencies to ensure that the safety and health of our salmon, recognizing it is intimately linked to the health and safety and resilience of indigenous people, and to bring that forward in a good way. We actually first met, and Commissioner Fish, you were there in 2014 at the Westmoreland Park and celebrated salmon and we had Congressman Blumenauer there and Colonel from the Army Corps of Engineers there and I tell the story that he came to me and he said, Judy, I see salmon this big spawning right behind our little stage at Westmoreland Park. And it was like they were just waiting for all of us to do the right thing. And I think we have, and I think the work continues. We continue to sing and gather at the water's edge to offer thanks, offer prayers, welcoming the salmon home. Their resilience and endurance teach us how to endure and be resilient. The cultural resilience in the city is guided by salmon and what they teach us as our relative to make our presence known. And to not just heal the indigenous community, but recognizing Portland sitting on the confluence of the Michoacana, the Big River, Columbia River, and the Willamette Rivers. has always been a hub of Salmon Nation. And so all Portlanders, all residents, are part of Salmon Nation and have this opportunity to share in that responsibility that salmon need to keep coming home so that we can continue to be here in a good way. This Sunday, October 6th, we will be gathering at the confluence of Crystal Springs and Johnson Creek Park. At Johnson Creek Park, we will be providing salmon tastes and tea from native plants, storytelling, traditional drumming, songs, prayers, and welcoming the salmon back. Welcome to join us between 11 and 4. I'd like to take a moment to recognize, I'm putting them on the spot, Two of our community members who constantly and forever keep that tradition of honoring salmon and preparing them in a traditional way in the city and throughout the region. Christine and Clifton Bruno, would you mind just standing a moment? Without the keepers of tradition, did we lose so much? Our ancestors have been gathering here since time immemorial. We practice the values and the guidance they give us for the 21st century and for the 7th generation. We're excited. Our partnerships will continue. And we're looking forward to what the salmon have to teach us in the future. I want to thank everyone's work, Bureau of Environmental Services and the Parks Bureau, and all of you in your commitment to salmon and the people and the city and recognizing that water is sacred and water is life. Thank you. Judy, thank you for being such a wonderful partner. I have a treatment weekend, so I deeply regret I will not be able to join you. I have, I think, a Santa Lawrence who helped put together this presentation today and another person from my office, I'm hoping one or more of my colleagues are able to stop by because it is a wonderful celebration. And thank you for all that you do. You're always there in spirit, Commissioner Fish, so thank you for all you do. Mayor, the next thing on our run of show is a proclamation. Very good. On behalf of the council, I have this beautiful proclamation, which is in very small type, so I'll read it here in much larger type. Whereas since time immemorial, wild salmon, steelhead, and lamprey have been and continue to be a source of life, food, and ceremony for the indigenous people of this land. And whereas wild salmon, steelhead and lamprey are indicators of clean and healthy rivers and are symbols of a vibrant, resilient and livable city. And whereas wild salmon, steelhead and lamprey in Portland are on the brink of extinction in the face of continued habitat degradation over harvesting, competition from hatchery fish and other invasive fish and climate change, And whereas all salmon, steelhead and lamprey in the Columbia River and the Willamette River rely on Portland's rivers and streams to survive their journeys to and from the oceans. And whereas, the City of Portland has been an urban leader in Oregon's protection and recovery of wild salmon, steelhead and lamprey, by establishing the first endangered species program and becoming the first city in the nation to certify all infrastructure and operations bureaus as salmon-safe. And whereas in 2017, Portland designated Crystal Springs Creek as the first ever urban salmon sanctuary in the country. And whereas Portland will continue improving and restoring salmon sanctuaries across the city's urban watershed to support salmon and lamprey recovery. And whereas, together with partners, tribal governments, and the community, we will celebrate these successes in salmon and lamprey protection and recovery at the Salmon Celebration at Johnson Creek Park on October 6, 2019. Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of Roses, do hereby proclaim October 6th, 2019 to be the second annual Salmon in Our City Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Mayor, they sent a request that we get a group photograph, if we could do that. Great. So we'll take these ropes down and we'll just gather here and we'll have a photo. Thank you. Squeeze in here. Squeeze in here. From photo, turn. From photo, turn. From photo, turn. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you very much for joining us. Thanks a lot.
 Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, thank you. Do you know how often that needs to be updated? Thank you very much. Can we predict, are we able to predict when it needs to be updated? Okay, maybe a few days in advance you could ping me or something. All right, one moment, ladies and gentlemen. One moment. Keelan. Yes. Yes. We're past 10.15. We're pretty much right on time. Can I have my staff come up, please? Carla, could we please turn to the next time certain item, number 926? Yes. Declare support for a robust standard of civil rights, Title VI, ADA Title II compliance throughout city bureaus and offices. And direct the Office of Equity and Human Rights to lead coordination by setting city-wide policies and accountability measures. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. When I helped start the Office of Equity in 2011 with Mayor Sam Adams, the council acknowledged that civil rights compliance is foundational to the work of this office. The Office of Equity has adopted administrative rules implementing that charge and is not required to bring this item to Council. So the purpose of this resolution is to emphasize the city's obligation to follow Civil Rights Title VI and ADA Title II and for Council to pledge to hold ourselves, our bureaus and one another accountable for implementing it. Dr. Markeisha Smith, the Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and her staff have done excellent work in elevating this work on behalf of the Office of Equity and the city as a whole, in partnership with all of the city bureaus. And Dr. Smith will introduce our panel. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, and good morning to everyone. Morning. So as you know, I became the Office of Equity and Human Rights Peer Director in February of this year. Danielle and Nicole made it very clear to me right away the importance of civil rights compliance and some of the hurdles they had been facing with pushing out a strong message from our office specific to civil rights. My work at the Oregon Department of Education prior to coming here makes me no stranger to the work of civil rights. At ODE, we took compliance as a serious part of the overall work of equity. There was a balance between the implementation of law and the understanding that proactive learning about civil rights was critical to preempting compliance issues. There were clear directives that range from meaningful access to a complaint process. The City has unique challenges when it comes to addressing citywide policy, procedure, and practice that will ultimately impact Bureau operations. But these challenges can be effectively addressed through thoughtful, inclusive planning and implementation. The administrative rules that we have recently amended and the meaningful access work to come will soon provide examples of how we are tackling challenges and forging ahead to create access to civil rights education and compliance that is clear, concise, and consistent, and most importantly, user-friendly. As a foundation of equity, civil rights compliance is a core component of operationalizing equity in practice, institutionalizing the work, and designing for and holding ourselves accountable to equitable services and community impacts. Civil rights is more than just access. It's about changing the inputs and processes of decision making, structuring accountability measures, and tackling results. And ultimately, it's about elevating the work of equity from a business as usual model. I'm committed to this work and to making it one of the primary focuses of this Bureau. The Office of Equity and Human Rights recognizes that we cannot do this work in isolation. I've been happy with the receptiveness from commissioners and Bureau directors, and I understand that to simply change administrative rules and provide guidance documents is not enough. We must ensure that those City employees who will be engaged in this work have the tools and professional learning necessary to implement civil rights processes. We are in this together and appreciate your continued support. Danielle and Nicole have worked tirelessly to create policy and guidance for Civil Rights Title VI and Title II. Without their knowledge, expertise, and guidance, we would not be before you today. I want to take the time to publicly acknowledge their hard work and to thank them, and to also thank the other members of our Civil Rights team, Jonathan and Tatiana. I appreciate all of you. And with that, I will turn it over to Danielle and Nicole. And I just want to interject that our presentation is about 20 minutes. If we could hold questions to the end, I think it would flow more understandably for folks at home. Thank you. Thank you. So, good morning. My name is Nicole Sharon. I am the ADA Title II and Disability Equity Manager for the city. I want to acknowledge that it is hard to follow Samming. Samming are awesome. I also want to acknowledge my partner Danielle Brooks who has in her tenure at the city been instrumental in implementing civil rights compliance. I also want to acknowledge Commissioner Foote, Dr. Smith, Lin Vu, and Claire Adamsack, who were really instrumental in both collaborating and supporting and championing this happening. So before I launch into the presentation, I want to clarify something that people sometimes get confused about, which is, When we talk about civil rights compliance, we are talking about both Civil Rights Title VI and ADA Title II. They are both civil rights laws. And I also want to be clear that our goal for this presentation today is to not just make the people watching aware of what these laws are, but to really clarify for everyone what the role is of our office and of you in supporting this resolution, passing this resolution, and moving forward with doing this work. Thank you Nicole. Thank you again, Commissioner's Mayor. My name is Daniel Brooks. I'm with the Office of Equity and Human Rights and I'm the Civil Rights Title VI and Equity Manager at the City. As Nicole spoke to and Marquesha spoke to, our charge is really focused on two different civil rights laws that really work to operationalize equity within the realm of public service and community impacts. Um, civil rights title six or title six of the 1964 civil rights act is a groundbreaking piece of legislation. And I'm going to quote president Kennedy here. That's predicated on the notion that simple justice requires that the work of government that all pay into is not designed or conducted in any fashion, which encourages and trenches subsidizes or results in racial discrimination. And this was established in 1964 and we're clearly not there yet. Um, This law provides protection for non-discrimination on the basis of race, color, and national origin in public programs, services, and activities of entities that receive federal financial assistance. We are one of those entities, so we're obligated to this non-discrimination law. it's crucially and relevant to our work and practice that discrimination is identified in all of those different sub clauses that you see on that slide actually includes both discriminatory treatment as well as disparate impacts and this is really important because it's actions or inactions of government whether intentional or unintentional that will result in disparate adverse impacts on communities on the basis of race color and national origin this is a really important piece of our work and it's crucial to work in public services. It sets this foundation of non-discrimination not only as a goal but as an expectation and assurance of government. Really important to just quickly point out, this work is dynamic and is always changing, and there are two key executive orders that expanded Title VI. There's a lot of laws and regulations that are related, but these ones are crucially important. Executive Order 12898, also known as the Environmental Justice, not only establishes achieving environmental justice as a principle of Title VI work, But it really also identified that the processes and methods of policy making and planning contribute to those public program services and activities. And therefore compliance efforts have to focus upstream on these efforts and change these different procedures. Executive Order 13166, or kind of language access executive order, is one that a lot of people are familiar with when it comes to Title VI work. Within this area there was a recognition that barriers to government experienced by those who are limited English proficient are a part of non-discrimination or a part of discrimination as it relates to national origin discrimination. As part of compliance actions and assurances to non-discrimination, governments have to plan for and take actions to provide meaningful access and remove those barriers in all of their program services and activities. This work is again ever evolving and we see this as we saw it provides a foundation for the Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act. So ADA Title II. It is essentially just like Civil Rights Title VI in that it was enacted to make sure that people with disabilities are not discriminated against in participation with their government. And what that means specifically is that through ADA Title II, we are eliminating both physical barriers and programmatic barriers. So a lot of what we're doing right now comes out of... audit that was done in 2016 on how well the city was doing with implementing ADA Title II. There are three things that came out of that audit which were the impetus for this kind of reboot of how we're doing compliance. One was oh well the bureaus were actually doing their part and What was really clear was that they were unclear on exactly what their roles and responsibilities were and how exactly they should be going about it. The second thing was that the community had no consistency in the way that they were interacting with the city to make sure that their rights were being met. um and then thirdly was resource allocation the idea that um there wasn't enough resources both at the time Danielle was the only person doing it um but also within the bureaus that there weren't people designated really to do the work that actually had that as part of their FTE so um One of the things that came up as we were kind of vetting the amendments to the complaint policy were bureaus asked us, why aren't you doing all the protected classes? Why are you only focusing on these two? In big part that is because that is not the directive of the Office of Equity. It is actually, so Title 23 covers other protected classes. That lives in the Attorney's Office. That is not under our authority, it is under theirs. So let's kind of look at some of the different policies and initiatives. You can see on what you're looking at there are multiple policies and initiatives at the city that have embedded both in principle and value, ADA Title II and Civil Rights Title VI. And Danielle and I actually, because we've both been at the city for a very long time, we're at the table with things like the Portland Plan. I think it's interesting and important to realize that we have been obligated to these laws for a very long time. Nothing that we are doing now is anything new in the fact that we should have been doing this all along. What we are really doing now is creating really strong standards, really strong direction how the city will do it for most of the benefit of the community so they know how to engage. And I think it's important to point out that building in civil rights standards principles and obligations into all of these different various plans and policies that really drive city work is a part, an action of compliance itself. So we've spent a lot of time really trying to build this foundation so we know that these obligations and standards are really coming through in multiple ways and impacting the bureaus and holding bureaus accountable in multiple ways. But I think it's actually... Nicole spoke to, we're really trying to focus on how do we actually do this? And I think that it can be a really challenging thing to see. What is it that it looks like when we know that facially neutral programs and practices, especially in combination, regardless of intent, can lead to disparate impacts? What is it, what does a non-discriminatory agency actually look like? What is it that we're trying to achieve? So in order to do this, we actually had to flip the narrative. And we had to say that our goal, what we're trying to do is to be a equitable agency. That is the opposite of a discriminatory agency. It's one that's equitable, accessible. So we have to take active steps to up assure and demonstrate that for all we're providing inclusive, accessible, meaningful participation and engagement. That we're fostering and promoting equitable benefits of government. And that we're sharing the equitable impacts treatment and non-discrimination in all city decision making and in our public program services and activities. So this is the overall intent of our work. And really again this is about institutionalizing practices across the board that will lead to this. The Title VI and Title II components, which really do align with equity best practices, set up a framework to meet our objectives and build in accountability structures. And we really focus our work in compliance, focuses our work on some key action areas. So let's talk about those key action areas. I'm not going to go through all of them. You can see on your paper there's quite a few. I do want to highlight some. One is meaningful access. You've heard us say that a few times now. And actually, our colleagues will come back to you very soon with a report on that. Meaningful access is really about how do people who... have barriers because of the language they speak, because of their inability to see small print. These are barriers that we need to make sure we are being mindful about in providing that access. Danielle mentioned earlier about policy development, right? So this work isn't just what we do as an afterthought of, okay, now we have this program, let's figure out how you access it. It's really about how do we create programs that are already inclusive? How do we adopt plans that already ask those questions of who was left out? How are people impacted? One of the things I really want to highlight is resource allocation. Right, so you guys have a lot of power over money and budget and that's part of resource allocation. And one of the things we keep kind of pushing is that bureaus really designate money in their budgets to do this work. It doesn't come out of anywhere and as a lot of you know when a complaint comes up it could be a lot of money. But also it's about resource allocation of time and energy. We have to be thoughtful about this work and that does take energy, it takes time and it takes people to actually be thinking about it and doing it. Accountability, let's talk about accountability. So one of the main ways in our modern times that we have accountability is through tracking and data. This is an area that we have not actually done a good job with up until now. So a big part of what we are working on is to come up with citywide tracking so that we can have data, not just for if the DOJ comes in and says, how are you doing? But also for bureaus to look and see where are the gaps? What aren't we doing well? And how does the data prove that? One of the big things that we're doing right now is partnering with the 311 project. And the reason for that is, I talked earlier about how we want to make this as seamless for the community as possible. So with partnering with 311, we are potentially going to have a central point of contact for the community to come and say, I have a complaint or I have a request. And not only will it be more seamless for them, we will then be able to track all that data in a very, it will be each bureau tracking at least the intake. Bureaus will have to track the way that they triage it. But at least we will have this one central intake that will be tracking how many requests do we get, how many complaints do we get. The other big thing is performance measures. And again, this goes back to the budget, but it is a big deal. And so we are working with the budget office to really come up with performance measures that will demonstrate how accountable we're being. And while that's also on us, those performance measures, it's also on the whole city and we hope to come back to you. I heard in the earlier about the salmon, they do a report card. We want to be doing that. We want to be bringing you guys report cards that are showing how your bureaus are actually dealing with compliance. And I think one of the important pieces to remember with accountability, we often talk about, you know, sometimes it's tracked on a self-evaluation level or I think we're doing, you know, a four in this. The part that civil rights adds strength to when it comes to equity work is that we're actually supposed to be accountable to demonstrating our efforts. So it's actually supposed to demonstrate and show and provide evidence of our progress in terms of implementation, but also how we impact communities, so the quality of our work. how those things are actually the results essentially of our actions. So it's kind of a two-tiered accountability system. And we know that that's really critical, especially with all of the work that we're doing, when we know that multiple actions of bureaus are affecting communities in different ways around the same type of issue or same type of problem. So it's really important that we can tie our actions to actual community results. So... The lawsuit piece I think is a big one. All of you were here a year ago when the Creek settlement came up around curb cuts. We should have been doing that work all along, but because we didn't, when the lawsuit came or if the DOJ should come in, we are then put on their timeline. And we are then put on their budget demands. We don't want that to happen. We want to be in front of it. We want to make sure we're doing the work at the beginning so that we don't get put on somebody else's schedule to make our city as it should be. So the drive and foundation from our work really not only just comes from... Department of Justice guidance and those outlines and best practices that we see happening across the country, but also from research from other fields, call from community, input from community and other stakeholders. And then again, as Nicole spoke to, the lawsuits. So we're always kind of trying to watch what's happening in different fields to make sure that we're really focusing our efforts on on important areas that are truly important to the community, that will be most meaningful to the community, but still being able to maintain our own timeline with our own work. And so I think understanding this, we know that this is obviously a huge amount of work and effort, and it takes an entire city to do. Knowing that we each kind of have our own roles, but we all want to work together in partnership. The Office of Equity and Human Rights role is really to be able to identify, develop, and establish citywide policies, establish a framework, establish plans, strategies, in order to meet the goals and intents and our obligations. This includes establishing citywide practice through administrative rulemaking, which we've already spoke to. We just did recently with amendments to our complaint processes. But we also need to be able to create space for bureaus to come together and collaborate and partner with us to kind of establish these policies. As well as support implementation in the bureaus through technical assistance, consulting, training, and being able to uplift the work of the bureaus either to scale or standardize. Again, we really want this to be a partnership effort and it really is important to know that this happens both in a central role as well as happening in the bureaus on the ground level. Also, our role is to monitor, evaluate, and report to city council on citywide compliance and be able to share stories of what's happening in the bureaus as they progress in these efforts. So one of the examples I like to give people about how this should look or how it should function is around how the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management functions, right? So we all know that there are multiple bureaus that have responsibilities in an emergency, both in response, mitigation. PBAM basically coordinates those efforts throughout the bureau. They're not the ones responding, but they're doing the coordinated effort. They also are the ones that do all of the umbrella plans and all of the umbrella policies to which that coordinated effort gets played out. So that's kind of what we're doing as the Office of Equity. We're the umbrella. We're going to set the foundation, but really it's got to be that coordinated effort throughout all the bureaus. What is the role of the bureaus? Well, it's really important that bureaus take on the responsibility of compliance. There's been a lot of question as to why can't we do more? Really, we don't have the authority nor the knowledge of daily operations in bureaus. They have that. So they have to have a strong role in triaging both the requests and complaints. So their role is to do everything that we're going to do as an umbrella citywide implemented at the bureau level. What is your role? You have a role to play in this too, my friend. A big part of your role is that in this structure of government that we have, you are the top of your bureaus. So it is important that you make this important and that when you're having your discussions with your bureau directors, this comes up every once in a while. Another piece of what you can do to help us do this work, passing the resolution of course, Things that are coming out of your offices and out of your bureaus are happening, and they have a big impact. For example, the single straw, the single plastic reduction policy. When the Mayor's office came up with this with planning, I was brought in from the beginning, and I truly believe we had a better policy in the end that really address the needs of people with disabilities in a way that no other city that has put one of these policies into place did. And that is important and we don't always know what your offices are doing. So please remember to say hey contact the Office of Equity with this one because it's a big one. And we want to make sure that it's inclusive of everyone. So civil rights work is really about institutionalizing and standardizing best practice across the institution, which means that in this form of government, the role of counsel is even more important. So it's really critical that we have your leadership and partnership in this effort. Okay. We know that that's really this kind of standardization is going to be the only way that we can make sure that this lives past the people in the room. And that's really what this is about. It has to live beyond the people. It has to be ingrained within the system itself. So next steps. What's next? I think over the next two years... Our office will be coming back to you. You can see on our last slide all of the different things that we are planning on doing. So we're planning on coming back to you with reports on how that's happening. Thank you. We also really hope that as we do that, it's a prompt for you to be talking to your bureaus about how they're doing. And as I said, eventually we will be coming to you with kind of report cards to let you know what that looks like. I know how important this is to all of you. I have sat in council chambers many times, Commissioner Fish, you've talked about your dad being an original signer of the ADA. I am so excited that we have finally gotten to this place. The step of having the Office of Equity take this on as a really key core directive of its mission, is really going to change how everything goes forward from this point on. So thank you all and I think with that. Commissioner Fish. Well thank you for your excellent presentation. You got my full attention when you said you're going to be moving to a report card system. And if I could make a couple of observations about that which I hope will guide your work. First of all, I love the idea of a report card. Second, I hope you will engage the council deeply in how you actually structure the report card. You know, we have some great examples of the equivalent of the report cards, which I think are highly successful. A good example I would use is the way the Technology Oversight Committee does its reports to council and just uses the simplicity of, you know, green, yellow, or red to tell us, you know, where we are in various things. And that, you know, is fantastic. very easy to interpret and the like. The second thing is, I think it's very important that we have a consensus around what it is you're measuring. This is a pet peeve of mine because I still believe at budget time, we have some dashboards that don't make any sense. that don't sort of relate to what I'm hearing from the community or aren't necessarily as helpful as I would like in terms of measuring a bureau's progress. Sometimes these dashboards become really inside baseball things, and I think we lose track. So I encourage you to consult with the council about what a report card would look like. Get some feedback in terms of the kinds of things you're measuring. and then keep it as simple as possible using as a touchstone what technology oversight has done so that it becomes easy for both us and the public to see where there's a significant hole. And I wish you luck with that. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I want to thank you all for your very compelling testimony. When I first saw this on the agenda, I went, gosh, isn't that the law? Thank you. And so I greatly appreciate your work. I would like to invite you to use us, the elected officials, as your guinea pigs so that when you roll out your first training, you do it with us and our staff so that we have a better understanding of what you're asking us to ask our staff to do. So I didn't talk to my colleagues, but I'm seeing some... Sorry. But I think it would be helpful for us to be able to spread this information based on knowledge that we've gotten through a training program. So thank you for your hard work and thank you for the opportunity for us to be a model for how we make sure that everybody's voice is heard in this process. And I know Phil Wolf is probably listening. He's going to really appreciate that because for someone who is deaf, the city of Portland is a very hard place to maneuver. And so he's going to greatly appreciate it and many other people who don't feel that every opportunity is available to them based on who they are. So thanks. Great report. Carla, is there public testimony on this item? Yes, we have four people signed up. Okay, very good. Excellent, excellent presentation. Thank you. We look forward to seeing the progress. The first three, please come on up, are Diana, Jian, and Maggie. Two minutes each, please. I don't know how to do this, but I want to go first. Go for it. My name is Jian Kinnett, and You guys, by law, have to listen to this. By law. But this is what you all want to hear. So let my time run out. Does that complete your testimony? Very good. Next person, please. Mr.
 Wheeler? If you're just going to sit at the microphone and not talk, that is not testimony. Legal counsel, is she entitled to two minutes if she has no testimony? We can't. I would let her take the two minutes. Very good. Thank you. So while we've got this pause, colleagues, you can hear in the distance a leaf blower making an incredible amount of noise. And if we were outside, we'd probably be watching someone move two leaves from the sidewalk onto the street and ultimately into our gutters and clogging the gutters. And ironically, we'd be getting more done. I just want to say relief is on the way, and we'll have more to say about that in December. Very good. Commissioner Fritz, I just want to thank you for your good work on bringing that former panel. I think this is revolutionary work that you've been involved in and look forward to seeing what comes next. Thank you. I really also honor the Mayor Wheeler who had the Bureau before I did and who initiated this work. We took a little bit more time to get it right. But I think, you know, that the presentation really exemplifies this is what we mean by inclusive engagement and meaningful access. As part of the meaningful access, there's going to be more on that coming soon. Yes, I think this is a model and I'm... And a model of when there was pushback, we slowed down, took more input, just how we started this morning. So I feel like we're on a roll. Yep, good. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Diana. I love this so much. I think this is exactly what our city needs. In person, Title VI, Title II, IV... people to not be discriminated against based off of their disability needs, their racial ethnicities, and even going beyond that for Title 23. I just want to say thank you to the presenters for all this information and for speaking up for what is right and laying out the guidelines of what is acceptable and what isn't acceptable. This is such an important thing. It's very, very, very important. So I'm in full support of this. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. First, I would like to note that I don't appreciate being treated unequally by being given two minutes. And next, I would like to say it is so difficult for people with disabilities – when they come to government, which is the land, bureaus and contractors, which is the land of, I will do what I am supposed to do when you, citizen, make me do it. So I'm all for lawsuits, because there are so many civil rights violations on people with disabilities and other people who are marginalized. So I would say that bureaus do need to monitor their contractors and the only way they can do that is to receive complaints. Because you don't want to give the complaints to the contractors because they are terrible at policing themselves, let me tell you. I just, I appreciate that there's going to be an internal advisory body that's going to excellent point Commissioner Hardesty on having you guys being trained as well. Because let me tell you, the employees that the contractors employ at these shelters, often violate the civil rights of people with disabilities. In fact, this has been September. I was involved with two fellow consumers whose civil rights were violated and ended up at Oregon Disability Rights, which, by the way, I think does an abysmal job. And I... I had some contact with the Bureau, and this time they were more helpful, the JOHS. Thank you. Thanks, both of you. The last person who signed up is Courtney. Is Courtney here for the vote? Doesn't look like it. Doesn't look like it. All right. Any further discussion? Please call the roll on the resolution. Fritz? Thank you, colleagues, for your attention to this crucial work. As the Office of Equity engages in its strategic planning process in the coming months, civil rights compliance will continue to be a core focus of the Bureau's work. Thank you very much to Danielle Brooks, Nicole Chiron, and Director Markeisha Smith for your leadership and important work. And it was referenced how long Danielle and Nicole have been at the city. I really appreciate all of your work in setting up the Office of Equity and in making sure that this... compliance work has been a core part of it from the very beginning. Thank you. Thank you to Lynn Vu in the City Attorney's Office, Claire Adamsick in my office, Jonathan Simeone and Tatiana Elihaldi in the Office of Equity, and also our other partners, including Joanne Johnson in the Office of Community and Civic Life. This is work that we all need to be doing. I have found with my bureaus that simply asking... for a quarterly report on how are we doing with our compliance has been very effective in getting progress made. And thank you, colleagues, for your partnership in this. I know, as was mentioned, we all share this passion, and we will make sure that our bureaus do too. Bye. Fish. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your longstanding leadership on this issue. Thank you for an excellent presentation from the panel, a great PowerPoint, and we look forward to working with you to shape the report card and to manage the next steps of implementation. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Once again, I want to be very appreciative of the panelists that spoke so passionately about our need to make sure that we do this right. I want to again appreciate my colleagues, Commissioner Amanda Fritz and Mayor Wheeler for their work in getting us to this place. It's amazing to me sometimes how hard it is to do the right thing. And it just takes people just sticking to it and just reminding people and just being a pest and just, you know, I've been called all those things and it's all good. But this is what happens when you become a pest or a thorn in someone's side. Action actually happens. I vote aye. Wheeler. Again, great presentation. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz and Mr. The measurement aspect of this, the accountability piece, I think are critically important. We have clearly stated values, but without measurement, accountability, and clear progress, they're just words. And so I appreciate the thoughtfulness with which the panel came forward with their recommendations. I look forward to seeing how those next steps unfold in the coming year. Thank you for your presentation. I vote aye. The resolution's adopted. Next item please, time certain 927. except Portland Parks and Recreation Board 2019 annual report. Commissioner Fish. Let's invite our two guests forward, and I have some opening remarks. Mr. Chair and Director. Colleagues, the Portland Parks Board was established in 2001. Their role is to advise the Parks Bureau to advocate for high-quality park and recreation services for all Portlanders. and to provide a forum for discussions about park related issues. The board is an engaged group that brings diverse perspectives and skill sets and shares a passion for parks and recreation opportunities. One of the responsibilities of the board is to prepare and submit an annual report to council. Before I turn it over to Board Chair Paul Agreemas, I'd like to personally thank Paul, Vice Chair Bonnie G. Josick, and all the board members for their service. We appreciate your many important contributions, especially considering the pay isn't so great. Please join me in welcoming Board Chair Paul Agreemas and Parks Director Edina Wong. Paul, welcome. Good morning, thank you very much for inviting me here today. I'm happy to give you a brief overview of our report which we've submitted previously. Portland's in a very fortunate place in terms of the long term leadership that most recently Commissioner Fish and Fritz had brought to our Parks Bureau. We rank nationally fifth, sixth pretty consistently with the Trust for Public Lands Park Score. And that's a legacy going back to the original native people of this area and through the people of vision that have been Portlanders throughout time. But we have some challenges in terms of budget, which you're aware of. We're going to have a work session next month to address that. So just skipping to the highlights here, our mission is to help implement the vision for Portland Parks. And we want to do that on a basis that provides equitably those services across the city. There's one paragraph that I want to highlight, particularly, which is the third paragraph in our memo. And I'm going to read from here. All the board work is driven by the values of equity, inclusion, and accessibility in delivering parks and recreation services and the necessity of extending those services to Portlanders who have been historically underserved. We believe to be a great city, we must have great parks, open spaces, and recreation opportunities, equitably distributed facilities. and accessible to all. And this is really the core. Right now, in the level of service work that's being done, there's some major gaps, particularly in the Far East side, and we want to address those going forward. Our plan from our board retreat earlier this year is to support the vision for Portland Parks and Recreation, contributing to financial stability through the Budget Advisory Committee, And growing advocacy for parks, it's really essential at this point that if we want to fulfill this honor that we've carried so far as a city that's recognized for having a high quality park system, we need to invest more than we're currently able to. And we're investing in partnerships with the Portland Parks Foundation and others to increase our leverage and to fulfill that mission of providing access more equitably throughout Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Director Long, do you have a rebuttal? I really don't have anything to add. I'm just here in solidarity and to support Paul, but I will add that it's been a pleasure working with the Portland Parks Board. They've been wonderful colleagues in our work and very supportive of the difficult times that we've been facing since my tenure began just about over eight months ago. So very grateful to have this as a function in the city. And that's that. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you so much for your presentation. This question may be for Commissioner Fish. What's the difference between the Portland Parks Board and the Portland Parks Foundation? Great question. And I had lunch yesterday with Jim Francisconi, who is the father essentially of both. So in the last big vision document for the Bureau called Portland 2020, There were two principal recommendations that came out of that. One was the creation of a parks board and one was the creation of a parks foundation. The parks board was designed to be not a fiduciary board, but effectively an oversight body. that the Bureau worked with that then in turn reviewed our budget, made comments to council, engaged in advocacy, engaged the community. So the parks board was set up with one mission. The parks foundation was established, initially with the goal of raising private funds to supplement the work of the Bureau. And in the original document, it talks about funding special projects, land acquisition, and scholarships. The Parks Foundation is going through a process now of reimagining what their role could be as the essentially private sector support group for what we do at parks. And the parks board is our sounding board for what we do. And last year, they took on the awesome responsibility of serving as our budget advisory committee and And that was an extremely difficult chapter. I will say that I have made a commitment, which I hope I can get my colleagues to rally around, that we will not go through another budget cycle like we did last year. Among other things, it was brutal for the bureau and for the staff and for everyone involved. But it also had the effect of displacing all the other issues that we as a council need to hear from the public about. We need to hear about housing and homelessness and transportation and equity and police accountability. Unfortunately, the way things unfolded last year was all about the parks budget cuts. I will be making a strong case to my colleagues that we have a status quo budget so that we can have the time to come forward with recommendations for how to put parks on a solid financial footing going forward. That's the basic distinction and it came out of the 2020 plan. And they do fulfill that role in terms of advising us, giving us feedback, and we make regular presentations about bureau initiatives to them. Thank you, that's very helpful. And is there a specific budget advisory committee, or does this board go in and out of that role? So under Commissioner Fritz, there was an ad hoc budget advisory committee made up of various stakeholders. Because of the complexity of the process we inherited last fall and because of the timing, we specifically asked, the board to serve as the budget advisory committee. And we supplemented the board with other community stakeholders, including labor and some folks in East Portland and communities of color, so that we had a well representative group. We intend to engage the board much earlier this year in terms of our budget. And the good news is we actually have now good numbers, hard numbers. that we can share with them about what a potential path to sustainability is. Thank you. May I move the report? We have a motion and a second. Motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner O'Hardesty. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? I truly appreciate the work that the Parks Board does and thank you to you for taking on the chairmanship of it. Thank you to Kendall Clawson and Pat Frobes, the previous co-chairs. I especially appreciate the process we have for selecting members of the Parks Board. It's the most comprehensive I've seen in the city with a matrix of like 16 different demographic groups. characteristics and including different skills and ages and representation from parts of the city so that we have a parks board who truly does reflect the communities that we serve and so it can be relied upon to give us good advice with those communities in life so thank you very much. Hi. Fish? Well I want to thank the chair of the of the parks board for taking time to join us He has made it clear that he wants to have a deeper engagement with the Bureau going forward, and one way we're going to do that is to have more regular check-ins with my office to make sure that we're aligned and sharing information. So I thank you for that, sir, and we look forward to that robust engagement. There is an inherent tension that you identify, call out in your testimony about fulfilling the mandate of providing services to parts of our community that have been left behind, including East Portland, while also figuring out how to maintain what we have. And it is the essential tension and contradiction within our budget model. And we've had to cannibalize services around things that we have in order to advance an agenda that says people in East Portland should have access to parks like folks in Inner Northeast. We cannot solve that problem without creative thinking about a new funding model. And we'll be coming to Council in November with some preliminary ideas. We're not going to come with any recommendation, but we're going to engage the Council in helping us think through some long-term strategies. The other thing I want to preview for my colleagues is as part of the fall bump process, The Bureau is putting forward a proposed budget note, and we do not anticipate it will get traction in this budget. But we are proposing that the fees that we generate to maintain our services be treated like the general fund allocations that other bureaus receive for their services, be built into the CAL targets, and be subject every year to an inflationary bump. Every other bureau starts the budget season knowing that they have locked in general funding from the prior year with inflation and PERS and everything built in. So it's last year plus inflationary factors. That becomes the baseline for having the discussions at budget time. We are unique in that so much of our work is funded by fees, not the general fund. It is unique among the bureaus in terms of a funding model. It's part of the reason we're in the hole that we're in because we can't raise fees fast enough to keep up with our costs. And frankly, it goes against... the desire of this council to make sure that the doors of our community centers are open to all. So it's another fundamental contradiction. But we're going to be floating an idea, again, that we don't expect the council to embrace in the fall bump, but we'll come back in the regular budget and talk about it. We think it's worthy of a deeper dive. So thank you for your leadership, and thank you for your ongoing work. I vote to accept the report. Hardesty? Wheeler. Excellent work. Thanks for your service. I vote aye, the report's accepted. Colleagues, I'm going to move item 935 up next, please. Carla, could you read 935? Proclaim October 2019, Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Colleagues, I'm humbled to bring forward this proclamation in recognition of Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Domestic violence, of course, is an extremely pervasive issue that has devastating impacts throughout our community. The intense discomfort we feel as we consider this issue and its real life consequences highlights the importance of taking time to honor both victims and survivors. It also serves as a reminder of why the city of Portland's role is so critical in the collaborative efforts in our community. One in four women and one in seven men have suffered domestic violence by an intimate partner. and it's estimated that domestic violence makes up about 15% of all violent crimes. Let's take a moment to let those numbers sink in. Because October is Domestic Violence Awareness Month, we wanted to take a moment to recognize and highlight the work being done in our community to connect survivors and their families to safe and reliable services and other needed interventions. This work requires a high level of collaboration with service providers, local agencies, and advocates, all going about their work with a great level of compassion and sensitivity. Several of our panelists invited here today can speak in more detail about the coordination and partnerships it takes to best serve survivors and their families. I'd like to turn it over to the panel. We have the pleasure of being joined by Commissioner Sushila Jayapal who co-chairs the Gateway Center Advisory Council. It's great to see you here again along with representatives from the Gateway Center, Rafael House and the Portland Police Bureau. Thank you for all being here today and Commissioner I believe you're starting it off correct? Thank you. Thank you Mr. Mayor. Thank you Commissioners for giving time on your agenda to this incredibly important issue. I am Sushila Jayapal, Baldama County Commissioner for District 2. As the Mayor mentioned, I also serve as the co-chair of the Gateway Center Advisory Council with the Mayor. I also chair the County's Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team with Circuit Court Judge Patrick Henry. Domestic violence or intimate partner violence, as this form of violence is more accurately described, has long been an issue in our communities but has often been ignored as, quote, unquote, a family issue and because it predominantly affects women. And I'll make a note that I will refer to women in my remarks here, but we know that this issue significantly affects men, affects transgender and non-binary people as well. We often think of intimate partner violence as physical abuse, but this is just one of the forms that it can take. Equally devastating forms include sexual abuse, emotional abuse and control, isolation, and economic abuse. Nationally, almost half of all women have experienced psychological aggression from an intimate partner. One quarter have experienced severe physical violence. and nearly one in ten have been raped by an intimate partner. And domestic violence disproportionately affects women of color. 28% of African American women report experiencing domestic violence, up to 60% of some counts of Asian Pacific Islander women, and about 23% of Hispanic and Latino women. Multnomah County data shows similar trends. One of every seven women aged 18 to 64 was physically abused by an intimate partner during the past year. This means that almost 28,000 women in Multnomah County were physically abused by their partners during the past year. The ripple effects of this violence are widely felt across our community by those who are the immediate victims as well as by family members, including the children who witness it. And these effects include economic impacts that can trap victims in abusive relationships and can continue long after the physical violence has ended, resulting in loss of jobs and housing. In the most recent point in time count for Multnomah County of people experiencing homelessness, more than one-third of those who responded to the question said that they had experienced and were fleeing domestic violence. Supporting the victims of domestic violence requires resources, partnerships, and collaborations across jurisdictions and systems, including the city, the county, law enforcement agencies, and nonprofit partners. It requires a deep understanding of the causes and effects of this form of violence and a response that centers on the experience and needs of the victims. And we are fortunate in Multnomah County to have those partnerships. The Gateway Center, founded and championed by Commissioner Dan Saltzman, run by the city for the past nine years, recently transferred to Multnomah County, is a model of that kind of collaboration. The transfer to the county gives us the opportunity to even better integrate the work of the Gateway Center with the broad spectrum of services provided by the county and to the nonprofit partners with whom we work. And now it's my pleasure and privilege to turn the mic over to Martha Strawn-Morris from the Gateway Center to talk in more detail about that work. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Arzistron Morris, the Director of the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services. And I'm very pleased to be here with you this morning as you recognize October as domestic violence. Awareness Month. As noted, in the world of direct service to domestic violence survivors, we're very lucky here in Portland to have many strong partnerships and collaboration. We have strong partnerships between the police and confidential advocates. We have a Family Violence Coordinating Council that is 50 members strong that meets monthly. And the 12 local domestic violence programs collaborate and share housing resources across agencies to ensure that the survivors that need the most get the services. And it's been my professional pleasure to direct the collaboration known as the Gateway Center, a collaboration between the City of Portland and Multnomah County, as Commissioner noted, The Gateway Center opened in 2010 and represented a departure from previous models of service delivery for domestic violence survivors. Before the Gateway Center, domestic violence services operated almost exclusively from confidential locations. And the Gateway Center's location, in contrast, is public and widely known. Before the Gateway Center, survivors had to travel downtown to get a restraining order. And now, most applicants for restraining orders will get them in the comfort of the Gateway Center. From its inception, the Gateway Center has been a busy and bustling place with representatives from 15 different agencies hoping to meet the needs of each survivor who walks through the door. Today, between 30 and 35 survivors will seek help at the Gateway Center. Most will come to learn about resources and supports that might be available to them. Others will come for restraining orders and safety planning. We have childcare and children's services available, as well as specialized help with housing. For those who want to pursue criminal justice options, we can help with that too. They can file a police report at the center. I meet with a representative from the district attorney's office without leaving the building. We even have an attorney that can represent them as a victim in a criminal case. We have some limited access to immigration legal services, which has been really vital of late. We also have legal aid with us providing civil legal services, that is help with divorce and custody. And I would like to note that the requests for civil legal services far overwhelm our ability to meet that need. The gap between those who need help in family court and those who get help in family court is one of the widest and most painful gaps we experience as a service system. In 2009, 10 years ago, Commissioner Saltzman had a vision about what survivors might need to get safe, to stabilize, and to thrive. And he reached across the river to the county, who agreed to join him in the efforts to open the Gateway Center. And together, we've literally been able to help thousands of adult and child survivors of domestic violence. And on their behalf, I want to thank you deeply for your support of the Gateway Center. I would also like to thank you for your support of the Domestic Violence Reduction Unit of the Portland Police. Their work to hold abusers accountable is extremely valuable and terribly limited. I recognize that PPB resources are stretched all over town, but I urge your support of the Domestic Violence Reduction Unit to keep survivors safe. Finally, recently I've been thinking a great deal about how to participate in wider movements for social change and social justice. For Domestic Violence Awareness Month, I would encourage you to do the same with a focus on the following three truths. First, domestic violence is the number one driver of homelessness for those who identify as women. If we want to end homelessness, we must end domestic violence. Second, Second, domestic violence mirrors institutional violence, and our collective work to end systemic oppressions like racism are deeply linked to the prevention of domestic violence. Third, institutional violence rests on a culture of dominance. We need to rethink the paradigm that seeks winners and losers, creates rich and poor, and divides black and white, and imagine a world where collectivism and partnership are the norms. Dr. Rian Eisler, the founder of the Center for Partnership Studies, has imagined that world. And I urge everybody to explore her work, including her new book, Nurturing Our Humanity, How Domination and Partnership Shape Our Brains, Lives, and Futures. The book shows how to construct a more equitable, sustainable, and less violent world based on partnership rather than domination. I thank you again for recognizing October's Domestic Violence Awareness Month. May your awareness ignite the energy you need to be an even larger transformational force in the world. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Hello. I'm Emmy Ritter. I'm Executive Director of Raphael House of Portland, Commissioner's Mayor. It is a true honor to be part of today's event recognizing October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month. For more than 40 years, our organization has been a safe haven for survivors fleeing abuse, and we proudly help families for the long-term safety, stability, and independence they deserve. We are deeply grateful for working alongside the City of Portland, Multnomah County, and our many collaborative partners to support and uplift domestic violence survivors throughout our community. I thank all these incredible partners for sharing in our commitment to building a future without abuse. Sadly, we know that domestic violence affects far too many people in our community, people from all walks of life. Across our state, one in three women experience intimate partner violence. That's more than 700,000 Oregonians. And for women and girls of color and members of our LGBTQIA plus community, the prevalence of being targeted for abuse and violence is even higher. This is unacceptable. Thank you. is also why it's so critical for all survivors to have access to inclusive and culturally responsive services they deserve. Services that honor their unique experience and help them overcome barriers to safety and stability. We and our partners across the community are dedicated to providing these services and creating spaces where survivors can feel safe to reach out for that support. Together, we are helping individuals and their families thrive after abuse. And we're empowering survivors to shape their own futures and end the cycle of violence. Raphael House of Portland has been committed to this life-saving and life-changing work since 1977. For more than four decades, we have offered a safe haven to individuals and families fleeing domestic violence. Our confidential emergency shelter is a critical resource for seeking safety, providing one quarter of the available beds for survivors in Multnomah County. We know that access to shelter and housing are essential to breaking the cycle of violence, because when survivors have safety and stability, they can begin to rebuild their lives. As a community, we have created a coordinated response that streamlines the domestic violence shelter and housing process in Portland to ensure that all survivors have an equitable access to shelter and housing in all of our services. Thanks to these collaborative efforts and our wraparound supports, more than 90% of survivor families in Rafael House move directly from our emergency shelter into housing. But the journey doesn't stop there. At Rafael House, we continue to walk alongside families as they grow into new homes and new lives. Each year, more than 380 adults and children stay connected to a supportive community of staff and fellow survivors through our advocacy center. In this space, we have created a safe and secure environment where all of our community partners can join us in working closely with survivors, providing specialized supports and services, including culturally specific co-advocacy. This programming helps families maintain their housing, achieve their long-term goals, and thrive. This is how we're all helping survivors make lasting change in their families, change that will have an impact for generations to come. Rafael House, our mission is to not only support in the aftermath of abuse, but to build a future without violence and oppression. Each day we work towards this as we help families and the cycle of violence for themselves and their children through a prevention education program, also a collaborative effort. We're working upstream to change hearts and minds. Each year we teach thousands of young people and adults about healthy relationships and consent so that one day no one's going to need our services. Thankfully, we're not alone. We're honored to be part of a wide collaborative of incredible agencies all working tirelessly to support survivors and make change in this community. I believe the collective impact and importance of these programs is being reflected in the words of those we serve. So I'd like to read this note from an amazing survivor who we've all worked with. I will not cry. Because of the support I received, I'm able to show my daughter's love. and provide them with safety every day. I'm teaching them and others about healthy relationships so no one thinks that violence is normal, so that abuse will never be part of their future. I have learned so much at Rafael House. I want to share these lessons and make a difference. I know that there are many women out there like me who need help and are afraid to ask for it because of where they're from, or the language they speak, or how they've been treated by others. I want to say to them, you're not alone. Help is out there for you. Because of this help, I've had the opportunity to build a loving, beautiful life for my family. Everyone deserves this. Everyone deserves to feel safe and loved. Again, thank you, Mayor Ted Wheeler, commissioners, and the city of Portland. And thanks to all our wonderful partners at Multnomah County. Together, we are building a brighter future for survivors of domestic violence and for our whole community. Thanks for being part of this. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you, for your testimony. We appreciate it very much. Thanks for the great work and the hard work. that you do in the community. And Commissioner, thank you for being here again. We appreciate it. We have one more individual. Captain Rodriguez. Two. Two. And colleagues, just by way of maintenance here, what I'm going to propose is we have one more emergency item. I propose we do that this morning and get through the second readings. We've got guests here for that. and if we can do it 934. And I realize people have to leave and then we'll move the rest onto the afternoon agenda. Good morning. Good morning. I'll be very brief. My name is Derek Rodriguez and I'm the Captain of the Family Services Division. And as Martha Strong alluded to earlier, I don't want to sit here talking about resources. But it's very, very important that let everyone know that the number of domestic violence occurrences are not going down. And we can only triage so many cases. And unfortunately, we aren't able to investigate all of them. And it's horrendous stuff. And nobody should. So we just ask for your continued support. Budget time is coming up. The relationship that we have with Martha and Rafael House and the Gateway Center, we do the best we can. The county has three contracted domestic violence advocates with the county. So there's a commitment that has been there, and we're asked for continued commitment. So thank you. Thank you, Captain. We appreciate your hard work. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Ron Mason. I'm a sergeant with the Police Bureau's Domestic Violence Unit. I just wanted to say thank you for your support of this proclamation. We have more cases than we can work. It has continued to go up as resources have went down. However, we do have some amazing partnerships with both... criminal justice agencies, county and state agencies, as well as our community partners that help us all to be more effective. So I just would like to highlight that it would be a disservice to go through all of them and leave somebody out, but there are some amazing people, some amazing agencies, and some amazing work that's going on, and we thank you for your support. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Thanks for the great work you do in the partnerships and community. Colleagues, next I'm going to read the proclamation. It's beautifully done. I hope I can do it justice. Whereas domestic violence is a crime that touches the lives of Portlanders of all ages, leaving a devastating impact on women, men, and children of every background and circumstance... And whereas domestic violence accounts for a significant number of assaults committed in the city of Portland, and nearly one-third of Oregon women reported experiencing domestic violence, stalking, sexual or physical assault. And whereas Portland has demonstrated a long-standing commitment to addressing this problem in partnership with Multnomah County, the District Attorney's Office, and many community providers, And whereas 10 years ago, the city of Portland in cooperation with Multnomah County, the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office, the Multnomah County Circuit Court and community partners opened the area's first one stop center for domestic violence survivors. The Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services. And whereas last year, more than 3,000 survivors of intimate partner violence found support at the Gateway Center, and more than 1,500 survivors were able to apply for a restraining order using the center's satellite courtroom. And whereas children who are exposed to domestic violence experience higher levels of adult depression and trauma symptoms, and are much more likely than children not exposed to violence to use and or tolerate violence in their adult relationships. And whereas, despite this commitment, far too many women, men, families, and children in our communities are affected by domestic violence. Whereas the city of Portland recognizes and thanks all of the organizations and groups that are committed to address, prevent and heal from domestic violence. Often working directly with survivors to ensure that they have access to employment opportunities, housing, legal resources and other services. Now therefore, I Ted Wheeler, the mayor of the city of Portland, the city of Roses, October 2019 to be Domestic Violence Awareness Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month by gaining awareness of these issues and supporting organizations that work to address, prevent, help, and heal those affected by domestic violence. And if we could just gather for a quick photo here. Again, thank you to our panel. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate being here. Thank you. Nice to see you. Okay, we'll... Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It doesn't start until noon and it's at the Hilton. I thought it was the art museum. It used to be the art museum. Are you sure it's at the home? Yeah. Okay, very good. All right, so colleagues, let's do this. Let's do the appointment person 934. appoint Yesenia Delgado to the Home Forward Board of Commissioners for a term to expire January 1, 2021. Colleagues, Home Forward is the federal housing agency serving all of Multnomah County since 1992. The agency, of course, develops, owns, and operates a broad range of affordable housing throughout the region. The Home Forward Board of Commissioners is the primary oversight body for the agency and is responsible for establishing policy and approving its annual budget. Home Forward commissioners must have the knowledge and skills to take a comprehensive approach to housing policy and strategy to support the unmet housing needs of Portlanders and families across the county. Yesenia Delgado for her willingness to serve on the home forward board of commissioners. It's my understanding that Yesenia could not be here today and I do not see her. And I do believe Michael Buonacore is here, the executive director, to answer any questions that we may have. Thank you again for being here and all of your fantastic leadership and I don't know if you have anything you'd like to add to that question. I don't want to tee that up beautifully, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. My name is Michael Bonacore. I'm the Executive Director of Home Forward. I want to thank the Mayor's Office for recommending Yesenia to fill this vacant seat for us. Her skills and experience and background are a terrific match, and we are thrilled to welcome her onto the board. Very good. Thank you, colleagues. Any questions of Michael? Is there any public testimony on this item? How many people? Yes, we have three people. One minute each, please. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Maggie? And is it Courtney? I don't know if she's... One minute, narrowly tailored, please, to the issue at hand, which is the appointment of Yesenia Delgado. Okay. Who is she and what are her qualifications? That would be my question. It's part of the packet that was published. Pardon? It's in the record and it's part of the council agenda that was published. And is there any, are there any homeless people on the board? No. I don't know. This is about the appointment of this particular individual. Okay. Do you support her or not? I would suggest, you know, adding some marginalized disenfranchised people. Not a bad idea, Maggie. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next.
 Okay. Let's go to a vote. They're not here. Call the roll. Fritz. Thanks to Yesenia Degarde for being willing to serve. And thank you again, Michael, for being here all morning. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Appointments approved to second readings 938, please. Authorize a lease extension with 2020 Portland owner LLC for office space at Jacobs Center 2020 Southwest 4th Avenue, expiring October 31, 2022 and October 31, 2024 at an average annual estimated cost of $1.3 million. Any further business on this item? Seeing none, call the roll. Thank you, sir. Fritz Aye Fish Aye Hardesty No Wheeler The motion carries 940 second reading Amend Portland renter additional protections code to add an accessory dwelling unit exemption to mandatory relocation assistance Second reading any further business on this item please call the roll Fritz Aye Fish Aye Hardesty Aye Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 941, also a second reading. Extend subrecipient contract with Metropolitan Public Defenders by $100,000 in recreational cannabis tax funding to support the expungement pilot program to June 30, 2020. Any further discussion of this item? Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 942, second reading. Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of Shryon Creek at Boone's Ferry Culver Replacement Project number E08682 for an estimated cost of $5,360,000. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty.
 Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. Aye, the ordinance is adopted. So colleagues, here's what I'm moving to the beginning of the afternoon schedule. I believe these are all relatively short items. I would propose we move 936, which is a procurement report. Item number 937, which was continued. That is a report that we continued, so we've already had the presentation. We've already had discussion on that. And item number 939, which is a multi. So I believe all of those could be done fairly quickly. Very good. We're adjourned. I confess. They know how slippery you are. I got to go. They came for me the other day. It was only because I didn't know we were having a meeting. Good afternoon, everyone. This is the Wednesday, October 2nd, 2019 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, good afternoon. Please call the roll. Good afternoon. Udailey? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Wheeler? Here. Now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and conduct. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you're a lobbyist. If you're representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. And just a housekeeping item. There were three items that I believe are relatively quick that we had to bring from the morning agenda to the beginning of the afternoon agenda, but I think we can dispose of these relatively quickly. Quickly, Carla, could you please call 936? Accept bid of Cascade Bridge LLC for the North Rivergate Overcrossing Project for $15,891,102. And this is a procurement report. We have Lester Spittler. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, City Council. I'm Lester Spittler, the city's Chief Procurement Officer. This is a PBOT project and PBOT obtained an authorizing ordinance on April 3rd, ordinance number 189441. It's important to note that this is a federal aid project. PBOT was successful obtaining certification from ODOT in 2011 to participate in their local public agency certification program for delivery of federal aid projects. The engineer's estimate for this project before we solicited the invitation to bid was $17,712,521. The level of confidence in the estimate was moderate. We issued the invitation to bid in July. Bids were due on August 13th and the city received eight responsive bids. Cascade Bridge LLC is the apparent low bidder and is recommended awardee in the amount of $15,891,102, a little less than $2 million below the estimate. As I mentioned initially, this is a federal aid transportation project under the ODOT Federal Aid Highway Program. Because of that, the City is required to apply ODOT's Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Program goal to this project. ODOT set the goal at 13%. Cascade Bridge is responsive to the goal and has committed to utilizing 13.06% by using McDonald Excavation, a Native American mail-in firm. It's also important to note that the city's compliance team will not be performing compliance on this project because it's an ODOT federal aid project. ODOT will administer their DBE program, their on-the-job site training program, as well as the Equal Employment Opportunity Program for the city. Cascade Bridge is located in Vancouver, Washington. They're in compliance with all of the city's contractual requirements. And with that, it is recommended that you accept this report and authorize execution of the contract. I have the PBOT project manager in the audience if you have any questions about the project itself. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Lester. I appreciate the information. I noticed that the goal of this project for minority women emerging small businesses was 13%, and this contract, they were up one contract, alleges they were coming at 13.06. Yes. How do we get a goal of 13%, one? And two, how do all these, and does the federal government have a different goal process for their dollars? They do. As a recipient of Federal Highway Administration funds, ODOT is required to have a DB program in place. So they have conducted a disparity study and have hard goals that apply to their projects. Because this is an ODOT funded project, their goal flows down to the city. and becomes the only goal that we can include in the solicitation. The federal government only recognizes disadvantaged business enterprises. They do not recognize minority-owned business enterprises or women on business enterprises. So the disadvantaged business program is a federal program, and they only focus on that certification. And so are we putting PBOT dollars into this program? I'm going to ask Dan to come up and I don't know exactly what the funding split is. I'm sorry. Dan, could you also state your name for the record, please? Thanks, Dan. Dan Layden, Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'm the project manager. There are PBI dollars in this project. The way federal projects work is once you have federal dollars in a project, all of the dollars are considered under the federal rules. Okay. So we do have about $7 million in system development charge funds in this project. However, the rules that they have set up are that all dollars fall under that same category. I find that problematic, let me just say. Because as you know, we have some goals of making sure that women, minorities, and emerging small businesses receive their fair share of federal dollars. So I'm just seeing way too many of these that are just woefully inadequate and so I'm done. I guess you've answered the question that I had. I appreciate that. I understand the firm is located in Vancouver, which would have been another question. Why are we using a Vancouver firm? Well, the project is in Vancouver. But maybe I should know why we're putting Portland Transportation dollars into a Vancouver project. Commissioner Hartsey, the project is not in Vancouver. The project is in Rivergate Industrial District, which is in North Portland. Okay. The contractor is based in Vancouver? The contractor is based in Vancouver. And is that normal for a federal contract for us to be contracting with people out of the state of Oregon if we're trying to achieve goals with Oregon small businesses? How about Les to answer that question? Yeah, the federal regulations don't allow you to give preference to – Companies located in your state or outside of your state. You're not allowed to provide any preference in your solicitation so if anybody could bid on a federal aid project and And I can say that the city, I believe in 2016, signed a certification agreement with ODOT and the Federal Highway Administration that said that for all projects that we bid through our certification process, we would use the federal disadvantaged business enterprise practice and also that that would be administered by the Office of Civil Rights, and that is a requirement of their program. And thank you for that. I appreciate that. So does that mean we get an annual report on how our dollars are being spent as they are merged with federal dollars and whether or not we're reaching the goals of making sure that Oregon small businesses that are owned by women and people of color are actually getting their fair shot? How do we find out whether or not we're getting any bang for our investment? With the federal program, I'm not sure what the answer to that question is. I know that the federal program is a mandatory program. The contractors are required to meet that goal, and if they don't meet that goal, they face an actual penalty, a fiscal penalty. But our money- I wish we would do that for the contractors that we contracted with, that there was a fiscal penalty for not reaching the goal. Maybe that should be something we consider. Thank you very much. I appreciate your straightforwardness about the federal limitations. But let me be clear, we shouldn't have those limitations at the city of Portland. Aaron, move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Thank you for the conversation. Are there people signed up to testify? This is a procurement report. This is a report. Please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. I appreciate the conversation we just had about federal law. And I seem to remember from my days of practicing law that the federal government applies the commerce clause, which prohibits discrimination based on state borders, which is why there's open competition for these contracts. If we are bound as a matter of law to follow the federal rules, then we can complain all we want, but the only way to change that is to change the law in Washington, D.C., which I think should maybe be part of our legislative agenda. But for purposes of this procurement, you've satisfied me that we are following the rules, and I'll vote aye. Hardesty. Thank you so much for the information. I am not satisfied that the City of Portland does its fair share of making sure that contracting opportunities are available for all. I can appreciate that there are some federal regulations that are required when we are partnering with the federal government. However, that's not a good excuse to actually not focus on the goals that we have as a city which is to ensure that we're creating opportunities for people who have not had those opportunities I vote no. Wheeler? So this is an area first of all Commissioner Hardesty thank you for raising the questions because I learned something there as well and this isn't an area I'm entirely familiar with federal contracting standards and requirements Philosophically, I agree with the commissioner that this probably should be something that we explore in our legislative agenda. Because there does seem to be a disconnect between our local standards and what the federal standards are. And I agree with Commissioner Fish, it is a tall order for the city of Portland to be able to change federal policy. But we do have some stalwart leaders from the state of Oregon in Congress. And this is probably a worthwhile conversation for us to have. I agree that Portland is in a position where we can lead here on ultimately changing some of those policies. I vote aye on the procurement report. The report is approved. Thank you. Next item is 937. accept bid of Stellar J Corporation for the Dam 1 Needle Valve Replacement Project for $1,499,000. Now, just to remind our colleagues where we were on this, so we actually had this conversation, but we kept it open because we knew that Commissioner Fritz had had some questions, and we wanted to honor that. So, Commissioner Fritz? Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, colleagues, for the discussion, which I'm aware of. I was away at the League of Oregon Cities conference last week touring a filtration plant in Bend on this very day. I know, it was really interesting. So the issue is about the amount of subcontracting and also the amount of... the complexity of this project. And so I wanted first to ask staff to talk about the complexity of the project because we're talking about concrete work on the dam, which is Portland's drinking water source. So if you'd like to introduce yourselves and just give us a brief summary of why there aren't the usual subcontracting opportunities like for flagging and landscaping and other such things that we often see in subcontracts. I'm Teresa Elliott, chief engineer, Portland Water Bureau. I'm going to do a high level on the technical and then I'm going to let Jody and then the design manager explain a little further. From my perspective, working on the needle valves is complex special work. There's not that many people in the country that do work on that. Doing work for us up in the watershed, we always have a much smaller pool of contractors that are interested in doing it because if they do work up there, they can't do work in town at the same time. And contractors have a tendency of wanting to do multiple projects concurrent. So we just don't get as many contractors willing to take that on. This project has a time sensitiveness on it in that we have to start work in November in order to be complete by April. And I'll let Jody talk more specifically. Hello Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm Jody Inman with the Portland Water Bureau. You are right Commissioner Fritz, this is a very complex project and one we consider a very high risk project to the Water Bureau. For one, this work is work that is being done on our dam, the face of our dam, an integral to our dam which holds back 9 billion gallons of water. So we're very interested in making sure that we have a qualified contractor that's going to be touching such a valuable asset. Another very critical component and concern and risk for the Water Bureau on this project is a water quality concern. This project involves demolition and construction work directly over our reservoir, too, on the face of the dam. So one of the key components of this project and a lot of the work has to do with being able to ensure that we receive isolation for that demolition work from the reservoir to protect any debris or hazardous substances such as asbestos and lead. which we will be dealing with on the existing valve structure as we demolish it from getting into the reservoir. So that's very critical for us. Access has to be over Reservoir 2. So you have to be having a barge bring materials to and from the shore to the dam face to do the work. So again needing somebody very specialized and experienced with being able to provide the disinfection and protections we require to our active water supply is critical. As Teresa mentioned, schedule is also very critical for this project. The needle valves are our primary component for being able to do temperature management in order to comply with our habitat conservation plan. What the needle valves allow us to do is to take water off of the top of the reservoir early in the year instead of the bottom. That allows us to reserve cold water in the reservoir to be able to send downstream later in the summer when the lower Bowen River begins to heat up. Without that cold water, it is very likely that we would not be able to meet our obligations, having violations and potential danger to existing fish downstream. So a very critical piece of getting this work done. Thank you. And so that kind of explains why 87% was being self- being done by the one contractor. Then so the goal is 20% of the subcontracted money. And so there's 13% subcontracted. Of those 13%, 2.2% is going to a minority emerging small business, which is 22% of the subcontracted. So it does actually meet the goal for over 20% of the subcontracted work going to a minority emerging small business. I'm sorry, Commissioner. How did you get to 22%? Because the 2.2 of the whole contract is certified COBID businesses, which are minority women and emerging small businesses. Right, so that's about a fifth of 13%. So 2.2, so of the 13 It's 2.2 certified and then the other we don't know who they are. They're non-certified. They're non-certified. Right. So, again, I mean, I appreciate your questions. But, yeah, it is still we have barely over 2% minority contractors for this project. Right. And I think we all agree that that's not what we want to see. On the other hand, as we say, this is an emergency. This is a project that needs to be done in the time frame, and this is the low bid of the people that bid on it. Mr. Spurlow, do you have some task? Well, I just want to say to our chief engineer, when I had the bureau, I remember getting a briefing once about the pipe that we're going to build under the Willamette River, which is a resilient pipe, ensure water supply to the west side. And one of the things that I learned in the briefing is that that kind of work underwater, under extreme conditions, is highly specialized, that it doesn't lend itself to a lot of subcontracting opportunities. There's a handful of companies that do it. and are good at it, and we're going to have this conversation again. The difference is that's a big number contract when we get around to bidding that out. So I would urge you, in anticipation of that discussion, that we get some council briefings on, you know, when we get some numbers because I think we're going to have the same conversation except with a bigger ticket item. And I think this question about who can do the work and are there subcontracting opportunities for certain highly specialized work, particularly for the water bureaus I learned over time. It's something the council is going to have to be informed about. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Lester, can you tell me how many contracts Dollar J Corporation has had with the city of Portland? I can get back to you. I don't know offhand. Any estimate? Well, I know that last week during the discussion I highlighted the existing contracts that they had, and there were five contracts. I think they were all pump station projects with environmental services. I can follow up with the total number of contracts that they've had. And the total dollar amount would be very helpful because, again, if we've got big-ticket items coming up and we know we're going to be hiring the same company and we're going to come back with the same reason for why there are no minorities or women working on the project, we have a great opportunity to actually help that company identify opportunities for them to build a workforce that's diverse or to build partnerships with other companies to help them get built. And you're right, we will have this conversation over and over and over again until I'm satisfied that we're actually making progress. Thank you. Can I just speak to the good faith effort made by Stellar J to obtain utilization? I think it's important to know that they did go in our opinion above and beyond, and I want to put that on the record. We reviewed their efforts to obtain utilization. I had our compliance supervisor review that personally, and she has 10 years as a professional doing this work. So the 20% aspirational goal is a part of the city's subcontractor equity program. That program has been authorized by council. It has admin rules. There's a clear definition on what we consider a good faith effort. So the compliance supervisor, she attended the pre-bid, she attended the bid opening, she saw the, you know, the job is an hour and a half away. There was a confidentiality requirement just in order to obtain the specs because of the nature of the work. And Stellar J provided the minimum three written bids in response to each of their subcontractable trades that they weren't going to self-perform. Oftentimes, primes cannot provide three written bids from subcontractors, but they were able to provide that, which means that they did intentionally engage with those firms and try to get them to perform on the contract. The responses to those were that they were rejecting the opportunity because of the risk, the nature of the work and the fact that it was so far out and it required a lot of risk. So, you know, I did just want to say that we feel like they've gone above and beyond. We closely reviewed their good faith effort, and I just wanted to put that on the record. Mayor, I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fritz. These are important conversations. Thank you very much to everybody who presented, Lester Spittler, and Teresa Elliott and Jody Inman, I really appreciate your coming and being here all morning as well. Perhaps part of the solution is to do another disparity study specifically on this kind of work. And thank you to my colleagues for delaying the vote until today, as well as my Chief of Staff, Tim Crail, and Senior Policy Advisor, Christina Nieves. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. No. Wheeler. One other issue, and I realize this is a procurement report, so it's somewhat specific in its intentions. But the description last week of city employees jumping up and down on a valve in order to try and get it unstuck, that's an image that left me. indelible impression in my mind and it strikes me as being an incredibly unsafe working condition. And so I would hope if there are other circumstances throughout our city's infrastructure or things like that are taking place, that we prioritize those issues for the safety and benefit of our employees. I vote aye. Procurement report is adopted. And last but not least, from this morning's agenda, 939. And I believe Dori Van Bockel is here. Approve application. Under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program, 4 18th Avenue Apartments located at 5205 SE 18th Avenue. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Dori VanBockel. I'm with the Portland Housing Bureau and I manage the development incentives team. We have a multiple unit limited tax exemption application before you from the Incenting the Pipeline program. which is a version of the program requiring 20% of units affordable at 60% of area median income or below for 10 years in exchange for 10 years of affordability. This particular use of the program was approved by you in late 2018 as a means to capture affordability in the large number of units – that were vested in through permitting or land use action ahead of the inclusionary housing program going into place. And so this project is voluntarily providing affordability in exchange for this tax exemption. In doing so, the apartment building named 18th Avenue Apartments, which is at Southeast 18th and McLaughlin, They would be required to provide 12 of the 56 units, however they have opted to, or 59 units, excuse me, they have opted to use the reconfiguration option and provide larger unit sizes, but still the same number of total bedrooms, meaning that they'll provide one two-bedroom and five three-bedroom units in the building as affordable for that 10-year period. This is the first project for this particular developer within this program, and only the second developer wanting to take advantage of this in sending the pipeline version of the multi-program. I'm happy to answer your questions. Commissioner Fish. Would you remind us... By virtue of the agreement we made with the county, what's the annual cap on this program? So the annual cap of the multi-program total was at $3 million. However, we also approved a rolling cap over five years, so $15 million over five years, so $15 million. And this is only the second time it's been used or the second time this year? Well, for the multi-program, that would include any of the approvals that come before council also in conjunction with inclusionary housing program. Right. So we have, you know, been bringing a handful of those. With the inclusionary housing. Under that same cap. I see, under the same cap. But we're obviously well under the cap, right? Yes, we are. And for this particular version of the program, it's being offered for a limited time. We have approval for applications to come in through June 30 of 2020. And my second question and final question is, we obviously have a shortage of the larger apartments. Yes. So it's something to celebrate that they're going to leverage some family-sized apartments. Yes. What is the explanation for why the developer chose to go this route? They can provide fewer units this way, which is probably easier in a regulatory component. I see. That's the tradeoff. Fewer units, but bigger units. Yes. And for this particular project, the benefit of the tax exemption that we're estimating at around $14,000 per unit a year is actually roughly the difference between the rent of a market rate unit and the affordable unit. And it's a 10-year exemption? Yes. Okay. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Very good. Any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? Carla? I'm not sure if Jeanne, Maggie, and Courtney came back from this morning. We do have Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. Come on up. Thank you. Thank you, Dori. Appreciate it. It's hard for me to say good afternoon, Commissioners. Good afternoon. Thank you. When we look at the limited application of this program, I'm not familiar enough with it to know why. It's at that shorter frame of 10 years, but obviously, I don't think we can look at a longer scope if only twice in the program's history has it been used. One thing that isn't clear and I think that we might all want to continue to talk about is will these set aside units be connected with tenants. Different agencies have different waiting lists and all those waiting lists are good, all those people are in need but I think that the city should have through the Housing Bureau or in partnership with Home Forward or in partnership with Aging and Disability Services a consistent plan to triage and prioritize getting needy people into these apartments. I know there's a number of programs that are administered, but the need is obvious everywhere around us. The other thing that occurred to me, I was very glad that the presenter specifically mentioned McLaughlin when the printout only says 50. Where's the 5200 block of South East 18th? Well, now we know it's McLaughlin. I don't know the demographics of the whole city, but if the people that get this place happen to be people of color... How white of a neighborhood are they going into and what sort of supports or having their back will either the housing provider or the people making the connection do? So when we talk about gentrification, some families are happy to move into areas where they're very much in the minority and take a chance. But as a city, I hope that whether it's through the Portland Human Rights Commission, through equity officials in Home Forward or the Housing Bureau. Minority tenants always know that they can look to the City of Portland and make sure that if they go into an area where their minority status is maybe more obvious than it is in some other neighborhoods, this city has their back. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fritz?
 Aye.
 Fish?
 Aye.
 Aye.
 Hardesty?
 Aye.
 Wheeler?
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next items are time certain items from this afternoon's agenda 943 and 944 read together please. 943 accept the 2018 annual report of the Portland Police Bureau and 944 adopt Portland Police Bureau's fiscal year 1920 community engagement plan. Colleagues, the city in the United States Department of Justice entered into a settlement agreement in 2012 to make reforms to the way the city provides policing services, particularly as those services related to people with mental illness or experiencing mental health crisis. Let me just say that it has always been our goal to decrease and de-escalate interactions between police and those experiencing mental health crisis, and we continue to work towards that end. One of the many requirements of the agreement calls for the police bureau to prepare an annual report and present it to the council. That's the first item that we'll be hearing today. Another major focus of the agreement is to enhance the police bureau's engagement with the community. The city has made significant efforts to engage the community and has benefited from dedicated volunteers in this regard. Both on the Community Oversight Advisory Board and on the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing, or PSAP. The work of the PSAP is governed by a plan developed with robust feedback from the community, particularly the Albina Ministerial Alliance for Justice and Police Reform. We're grateful for their continuing dedication and advocacy on these critical issues. The settlement agreement and the PSAP plan both require that the PSAP and the police bureau collaborate on a community engagement plan. And that the council approve that plan. That is the second item that we'll be taking up today. You will find that the 2018 annual report is much different than previous reports, in that it incorporates feedback received from the PSAP. In the past, annual reports were statistically heavy and didn't provide as much context. This report is more interactive and features links to other relevant documents and to the bureau's open data page for those who wanted to do a deeper dive into crimes and data. In addition, Chief Outlaw has asked each division manager to submit information on that division's challenges and accomplishments, which provides a much fuller picture of bureau activities. Turning to the community engagement plan, it represents a step forward for the Bureau. It builds on existing community engagement efforts and it's intended to be a living document that will evolve over time. The plan was created in collaboration with the PSAP and with feedback from numerous public forums. The Bureau's Equity and Inclusion Office and Community Engagement Units also contributed to the plan. This plan contains goals and action items in four specific areas. Public involvement, communications, access, and training. This plan identifies new outreach and engagement efforts that will be undertaken in the coming year, in addition to the many existing outreach activities being done every day. The Bureau will report back to the PSAP on its work over the first year of the plan, and will collaborate with the PSAP to make the changes going forward. These changes will foster deeper and more meaningful engagement with the community. This is a key component of the Bureau's commitment to 21st century policing. My thanks to the PSAP and the Chief Outlaw and to our team for continuing work on the community engagement plan. Today our presenters include Chief Danielle Outlaw, Lachiana Drury who is the PSAP co-chair. And Vadim Mozerski, who is the Settlement Agreement Subcommittee. Are you the chair or a member? Member. Member of the Settlement Agreement Subcommittee. Thank you for being here today. We appreciate it. Thank you for having us. Peace out. Chief. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm Danielle Outlaw, Chief of Portland Police Bureau. And again, I'd like to thank Laquiana and the team for being here with me. It's my pleasure to be here today to present the 2018... annual report and the community engagement plan. But before doing so, I'd like to reiterate the mayor's comments. We had a great deal of input into both of these documents. My thanks to the members of the Portland Committee on Community Engagement Policing, as well as the members of the Albina Ministerial Alliance for Justice and Police Reform. I'm also grateful to all the community members who took the time and effort to come to our strategic planning public forums and provided insight. Thank you. And finally, thank you to the many Bureau members who helped develop and craft these documents. I'll start with the Annual Report. The Police Bureau has always published an Annual Report, but it was a document that mainly sat on our website and was a report of crime statistics and PPB general information. This year, Well, for 2018, based on the feedback from the PSAP's review of the 2017 report, I asked each of our RU managers to detail their division's respective accomplishments and challenges. We took additional recommendations from the PSAP on what they wanted to see the annual report look like, and we implemented them. These included preparing a first draft of the report by June of 2019 to allow PSAP members to be able to comment. Also, they recommended that we add information on annual challenges and areas of improvement. This includes hyperlinks to applicable information found elsewhere, such as statistical data, data analysis directives and more. Also presented and presenting this annual report to City Council as required in the settlement agreement with the DOJ. The only recommendation that we did not complete was listed in our annual goals and priorities, was listing our annual goals and priorities, and including assessment of the progress toward meeting them. That is because the Bureau's goals and priorities will be set by our forthcoming strategic plan, which we anticipate to be completed by the end of this year. So with the recommendation made regarding tracking our improvement metrics and self-assessing how we compared to those goals and priorities. We believe we'll be able to do that once the strategic plan is implemented in our future annual reports. For some reason, I can't say strategic plan today, amongst other things. After receiving these recommendations, we wrote the report outlining the accomplishments and challenges that fell in the goals I established when I became the chief. These are organizational excellence, crime prevention and reduction, and community engagement and inclusion. Therefore, the 2018 report is far more interactive and better tells the story of what PPB was working on in 2018. In regards to crime, the Department of Justice settlement agreement, and the use of force, we had several accomplishments as well as challenges. We'll start with crime. As outlined on page two of the report, crime remained stable compared to the prior year. The majority of offenses experienced slight changes, while a few had larger increases or decreases. As stated previously, we provided a link to our open data page on our website at portlandpolice.com on page 24 of the report, which gives users the opportunity to look at all crime statistics and refine them to their own neighborhood or specific geographical areas. In the report, we also included our significant progress on the DOJ settlement agreement and the numerous policies that were reviewed. A specific challenge that we faced was that our policy development team spent a large part of the year conducting the DOJ requirement of an initial review six months after DOJ related directives had been enacted. Therefore, that limited the team's ability to address other policies. It is hoped now that they can turn toward the 100 directives that need addressing. It should be noted that the six-month review schedule changes to annually now, which will help the team's ability to work on additional directives. We also continue to still be challenged in meeting our 180-day timeline for the completion of internal affairs investigations. We recognize the procedural justice implications inherent in these delays and the toll it takes on all of those involved, and we continue to work to reduce this timeline. And I'm actually... optimistic that that has since been resolved or will be resolved by the end of this year. Also last year we had six officer-involved shootings. We understand the use of deadly force impacted our efforts to build and maintain trust in the community. We will continue to focus on our robust review process, communications, training, and policies to further improve trust and legitimacy in our communities. In regards to staffing and our personnel, Staffing remained our biggest significant issue, with each division citing it as a challenge. That, combined with special events, planned or unplanned, greatly impacted and affected our personnel. For example, during some of these events, there was a delay in responding to Priority 1 emergency calls. Because responding to emergency calls for service is the number one priority, specialty units like the Traffic Division continue to provide rotational support 25% of the time. This impacts their ability to address their workload in their respective divisions. As we continue to hire and train new officers, we know staffing issues are going to remain for some time. And because of that, we realize the Bureau has to be far more innovative and embrace technology to use our resources most effectively and efficiently. As an example, the Bureau implemented the beginning of a more collaborative policing model where divisions come together to combine resources to focus on significant crimes and livability issues. The Gun Violence Reduction Team is an example of this. Also, PPV made great strides in data-driven policing, rolling out Tableau software to assist precinct and division leadership in fulfilling my request to use data to inform resource deployment. As it relates to recruitment and hiring, the Bureau continued to be challenged with the length of time it took to process applications. However, to address this, Bureau personnel spent considerable time reviewing our hiring processes to look for efficiencies and enhancements. This included incorporating new technology, implementing timelines for various stages, and evaluating factors that can reduce this timeline without sacrificing the integrity of the system. Another challenge remains... in recruiting diversity for the PPP, and it's also a priority. We began to look at our recruitment and hiring efforts through an equity lens to better understand any barriers for hiring diverse candidates. Also along the lines of equity, the Bureau continued with our implicit bias training, which every sworn member went through. We implemented procedural justice training, which is now, I'm proud to say, incorporated into every aspect of the Bureau's policies and training. And finally, the Bureau embarked on the strategic planning process, which will focus PPB's direction for five years. The many public forums and listening sessions provided great feedback and insight. We participated in numerous events as well as hosting open houses at each precinct and the traffic division. We also created new barbershop and salon forums to better engage the community in smaller groups to have productive discussions and receive feedback. We're also keeping better track of these activities through our new community engagement app that officers use. All of this is just a snapshot of what's in the report, but once again, I want to thank everyone who was involved, who had input in this particular document. Shall I go on to the community engagement plan? Are there any questions so far about the annual report, Commissioner Hardesty? I have a lot of questions about the annual report, so can we just do one at a time? Sure. Okay. Did you want us to continue through the community engagement plan first? What's your preference, Chief? It's up to you. That was all I had to state for the annual report. I mean, why don't you go ahead and ask your questions now? Thank you, Chief. Thanks, Mayor. And thank you for a report that's easy to follow, that's easy to read, and has real numbers in it. I am greatly appreciative of the improvement in the annual report. Having said that... I have a couple of questions. Many of these I spoke to you about, Chief, when you met with me in my office, so it won't be a surprise to you that I'm asking these questions. My first question actually has to do with one that I didn't ask you, which is what is the difference between the Metro Gun Task Force and the Gun Violence Reduction Team? So the Metro Task Force is a— smaller facet that works under the umbrella of the Tactical Operations Division. So those are officers that are assigned to a task force with other officers from the agency, and together they conduct criminal investigations throughout the region. The Gun Violence Reduction Team is responsible for now investigating all shootings that occur here in the city. So does that mean the Metro Gun Task Force is a subset of the Gun Violence Reduction Team? It means it's a subset within the division itself. So no, not necessarily. They may work together, but it's not a subset specifically of the GBRT. Thank you. So one of the questions I asked you when you were in my office was my concern that I can no longer track down whether or not the same people are being targeted for gun violence reduction that were being targeted for gang enforcement. I've noticed in your annual report that there are places that you talk about gang activity, yet because of the new way that you're counting, I can't hold you accountable for what you told me last year about the gang enforcement unit. How internally are you tracking that data to determine that these now gun violence reduction officers, which there's 24, 26, something like that, Are these officers doing the exact same thing they were doing when they were part of the gang enforcement unit? And if they're not, what is the difference between what the gun violence reduction team does and what the gang enforcement team used to do? So when you and I talked, I think, I believe, and correct me if I'm wrong, you were talking about or asking how are we going to continue to track stop data? Yeah. Yes, and how do we actually hold you accountable from one year to the next? Because when you change the name, all of a sudden we're tracking something different than what we were tracking the year before. So we'll continue to track the same information. However, given that we now send the gun violence reduction team officers to respond to additional types of calls, the types of statistics have changed. So it doesn't mean that it's going to be apples to oranges. It just means now that the GVRT, with the additional types of crimes that they respond to, are now tracking in a different way. So we expect to have the GVRT stats, I hope, all inputted either the end of this month or early November. So then that way we can include their stop data results with the rest of the reports that we have. Thank you. I also mentioned that I was surprised that in your annual report that I didn't see any mention of hate crimes reported. because I've been told that Portland Police Bureau actually investigates hate crimes. Is there a plan to add that? And you mentioned that trafficking also was not part of this annual report. Are there other parts that I didn't mention that also are missing and that will be part of updates? So I think, and for both of us, and I misspoke when I shared that, so if you go to page 14 under the investigations branch, It talks about how many biased crimes were investigated. It says 14 potential biased crimes were investigated, and of those, eight biased crimes were investigated. identified. So it does touch base on how many we received and accepted, but I don't know how much further detail you want as it relates to that. Yeah, I'm not quite sure what that means. I mean, bias crimes could cover a whole range of activity. I would be very interested in more demographic data around what does that mean, who is being impacted. about hate crimes in the community and really what hate crimes is Portland Police Bureau investigating? Because there seems to be a conflict between what the DOJ investigates, what the state of Oregon investigates, and what Portland Police Bureau investigates. So I need to be clearer about what's Portland Police Bureau's responsibility in that. And last but not least, because I'm sure that there's a couple of other things that we have, that we need to talk about. So tell me a little bit about air support. That's something new that I've not seen in a report before. Do we have a plane? We do. And we used it 387 times last year? Yeah, I mean, if you want further detail about the air support, I'd have to come back and report out to you. But, yes, we do have a plane. It's a very – most cities have helicopters. We have a plane. It's very intensive as far as the amount of training that it goes into getting the flight officers up to speed and ready to go. But we use them a lot for providing overhead or overwatch for whether it's crowd control or crowd management or – assisting on pursuits. It gives us an opportunity to pull back when we need to on the ground level so we have a bird's eye view. And we have that expertise in-house to be able to fly a plane? Yes, we do. Excellent. My last question, at least for the moment. My question has to do with... I just lost my train of thought. I'll jump in and you want to come back? Okay, please. Yes, I'll come back. Commissioner Fish. I missed my last one. I want to echo what my colleague said. Thank you for a very readable annual report. I'd like to turn to page 12, which has to do with traffic division. And I'm sorry that Commissioner Udaly is not here because I think she would echo a number of the things that I'm going to say and questions I'm going to raise. The first question I have is, would it be possible to pull some data from the traffic division? and to show over the last 10 years what the staffing level has been in the traffic division. So as I'd like to see over a 10-year period, I mean, I keep hearing that we have significantly reduced the number of people in the traffic division, but I'd like to see a 10-year trend if I could. Second, there is a data point in this report that jumped out at me that, frankly, it just was astonishing. Okay. which is almost 6,000 hit-and-run offenses. Could you tell us just... And I think I know what a hit-and-run is sort of generically, but because you're the police chief, how do you describe hit-and-run offenses? How do you describe that category? A hit-and-run would be when there's a collision that takes place and either the responsible party or one of the parties does not stay on scene until the police respond. Okay, and so if... And there could be a myriad of reasons, but is it possible that one of the reasons is that one of the parties involved in the hitting, if you will, the person responsible for the injury is impaired? It could be. So that's an enormous number. I think people would be surprised to hear almost 6,000 hit and run offenses. I would also like to ask for a 10-year data set on traffic citations. It's difficult for me to put in context the 12,303 traffic citations issued. Again, but if the staffing has been significantly reduced, my guess is we're going to see a significant reduction in traffic citations. The report also says that you conducted approximately 55 Vision Zero missions. What's an example of a Vision Zero mission? An example would be, again, we're talking about data-driven deployment. So working with our partners with PBOT and other agencies, depending on where the data shows us, if a specific intersection shows that it's a problem area, we work with our partner agencies to work on enforcement and education and engineering. But on our end, the enforcement piece, the mission specifically, would be traffic enforcement in those areas. Okay. I'll close just with a very brief story. Several months ago, at my request, PBOT leadership took me on a tour of East Portland hotspots, and I wanted to see firsthand what some of these high-crash corridors look like, and I wanted to understand what were the... physical barriers, what were the infrastructure deficits, what were the, you know, the kind obvious deficiencies of key intersections and roads where we were seeing some of the highest concentrations of both fatalities and serious injuries. So it was a fascinating trip and I recommend to all my colleagues, we talk about high crash corridors, but there's nothing like actually seeing them. And frankly, one of the things that surprised me is the number of the high crash intersections were intersections that had lights, that had plenty of infrastructure, had sidewalks, had striping. The problem wasn't with investment in infrastructure. The problem was with behavior and how we got people, for example, making a left turn to be more aware of pedestrians, how we got to slow people down coming through the intersection. There were other things, but it wasn't necessarily because there had been a, quote, deficit of infrastructure. The point I want to make, though, is that... We were out there for several hours hitting all the sort of, I'm going to call them high points or low points of such a tour. And not once did we see a police officer. So there were no officers that we saw cruising in their cars. We saw no one walking a beat. In fact, the only time we saw a police officer was when we stopped for lunch at a sub shop and an officer came in. And officers are entitled to have lunch, so we had a chance to visit with a police. one of your employees, but there was no visibility. And now I realize this is in the realm of anecdote, and it's not like we covered every inch of East Portland, but I was struck by the fact that there was no, how limited the police presence was. And I just want to put down a marker off this data because I know that This is 2018 data. I know that our fatalities are up over even, you know, at this point, even what we had total last year. Right. And we're going backwards in some areas. And we're even seeing, you know, fatalities in places where we've done road diets and made other improvements. And we're still seeing bad behavior on the street. Right. I intend to work with my colleague, Commissioner Udaile, during the budget to talk about what is the right sizing of the police bureau in terms of traffic enforcement if we're going to meet our vision zero goals. And that's a conversation that I want to start by getting the right data on it. But if we're not enforcing the law or if we're not present so that the presence of a police officer discourages someone from doing something reckless. I think it's just more likely that we're going to continue to see a bad trend line. I'm pleased that you've committed to work closely with PBOT on Vision Zero enforcement missions, but again, the data is discouraging right now, and I am personally interested in knowing how much of this can be attributed to inadequate enforcement. Thank you. and what it would look like to have the right sizing at the Bureau, what it would cost. So thank you in advance for getting me that data, and I look forward to having a follow-up conversation with you about costs and priorities. Thank you. Commissioner Hurst. I have two more questions. One has to do with... It's seizures. Your report says that there was $2 million seized in cash and $360,000 in non-cash assets and 27 guns. What happens to that $2 million that is seized? Well, most of it goes into our asset forfeiture fund, and I'm not the expert to speak on this, but we are allowed to use that by law within certain parameters, but we use a lot of that for internal needs, whether it's training or infrastructure. Okay. So that's considered money that the police bureau has available for whatever it is they think they need to use it for. The Sunshine Division is listed, and it lists as... The data that's listed is 21,000 families were served. And I get very confused. My understanding is Sunshine Division is not a Portland Police Bureau organization anymore. That sometimes the police partner with Sunshine Division to deliver food. What's the percentage of what Sunshine Division does that's actually really Portland Police Bureau? I get concerned when the police takes credit for work that other people in the community are doing. And so because I know there's a partnership, it would be better to know this is what the police has done and this is kind of what the community as a whole has done. Because I've seen that a couple of times, and it gives us a misperception of the role that police are playing out in our community. Okay. I don't have an answer to the question as far as the percentage goes. We do have an officer assigned to the Sunshine Division. That is correct. There's one officer that's assigned. And as you know, it is a partnership. So we refer a lot of the families to the Sunshine Division. But I understand the question. But you understand if you just put data to say we gave away this much food, somebody will read that report and assume that Portland Police Bureau gave that much food to families. And that would not be an accurate statement. So, and I do want to say to my colleague, I live in East Portland. We're just starting to get infrastructure like streets and lights and sidewalks and yellow lines. But if you go off the main street, you will find that there's still gravel roads and we do not have the infrastructure. the problem is partly not having the appropriate infrastructure. But I did want to ask one more question. Just to be clear, and I appreciate that comment, I'm talking about identified high-crash corridor networks, and we visited all the hotspots, and I had expected to find an infrastructure deficit at a number of those intersections. What I learned was they were intersections like any other intersection built out, but because of the... the number of lanes because of some bad habits, because of inadequate barriers in terms of people making turns. People were dying in those intersections but it wasn't the result of an inadequate investment in basic infrastructure. I will have to agree to disagree on that but thank you. One last question has to do with As we talk about really the needs of law enforcement and where we need law enforcement to be, we still will need to talk about school resource officers and whether that's the most appropriate place for them to be, or whether they should be actually on the street patrolling our neighborhood. We should also be talking about whether or not paying to have Portland police officers provide transit security for TriMet in the three-county area is something we should be doing under these current conditions because I am also troubled that we have officers, but we have them doing things that may or may not be the priorities for the city of Portland today. So again, thank you for your hard work. I greatly appreciate the report, but I look forward to having more additional information as we continue on. Thank you. I just want to acknowledge a couple of things. I want to ask questions. As the police commissioner, I'm familiar with what's in the report. But I also want to give the bigger picture again. Remember, we are understaffed in the police bureau. And so part of the reason that over a period of many, many years, the traffic enforcement division has been reduced is we have prioritized other areas over that function. And it's a legitimate question as to whether or not. It should be reprioritized, but I also want to give this chief credit for making some very difficult decisions in order to improve recruitment for the Portland Police Bureau. And so far, at least one of the major changes that Chief Outlaw has made, at least in the near term, seems to be generating considerably positive results in terms of the number of new recruits that we are seeing after a period where those recruits, new recruits seem to have plateaued. We seem to see a regeneration of interest. I also want to thank my colleagues when a year and a half ago the chief and I asked for additional policing resources. You'll recall it was a very controversial question. The council supported that, but I want to remind people that there are training and certification standards that take almost two years between the time that we make a decision to fund and the time that people actually come on board. And we've been more flexible in terms of how we deploy resources. For example, the public safety specialist program is another example of how we have sought to change things. With regard to traffic enforcement, I want to remind everybody that there is another option that isn't just about deploying more police officers to traffic enforcement, although personally I support that. I want to know what the tradeoff is in terms of what we are then reducing support for. But we as a city, prior to my getting here, made a commitment to cameras. Okay. And that commitment really wasn't lived up to because it turned out that in many regards, state policies, practices, and regulations thwart us. In other words, a police officer has to be, a certified police officer has to be the one reviewing that video and making sure that at the end of the day, what's on the camera is a legitimate citation. And it's my understanding that other states have different ways of organizing that, different ways of arranging it. I believe there were conversations with the legislature this year that ultimately were not fruitful, but that's a conversation I think we can continue to have with the legislature. And, Chief, one area where I expect to see improved results in large measure because of your leadership was on auto theft. Okay. We'll all recall that a year and a half ago, auto theft was the issue to sure. It was on the front page of every newspaper. People were outraged to learn that you could literally just tell a police officer, my friend Joe lent me the keys to the car, and I have no idea who Joe is or where he is or anything about this car, and you could effectively avoid prosecution. We went to the legislature. We changed that law, and it would be my expectation that the 7,000 or so that are reported in the 2018 report, we'll start to see that go down as enforcement goes up. That would be just a couple of my expectations. I also want to thank you, Chief. The goal here isn't to write a report that only data analysts can love and appreciate. Really, we want it to be accessible to the community, and while this will be an evolving document with time, I think this is a really, really big step in the right direction, and I appreciate the hard work you and your team put into it. Thank you. Any further questions on the report before we move into the community engagement plan? Very good. La Chiana, you're up next. I don't think so. We can go at the end. Okay. However you guys want to do it. Yeah, yeah. So turning to the community engagement plan, I think it's monumental for us at the Portland Police Bureau, as this was our very first plan, and it's a living document, and it will continue to evolve. It was created in collaboration, again, with the PSAP and from feedback from the strategic plan public forums. During its development, members of the PSIP made three recommendations and PPB adopted all of those. The first one was to change the mission statement of the Office of Community Engagement. And then they also asked that PPB demystify the policy process. I think that's rather fair. And then we also agreed to work with the mayor and city council and relevant bureaus to create a truth and reconciliation workgroup based on the recommendations made. This plan identifies new outreach and engagement efforts that the Bureau will be undertaking in the coming year, in addition to the many existing activities Bureau members already undertake. There are four key areas outlined in the plan. The first is increasing public involvement with ongoing opportunities for meaningful community engagement and inclusion. Next is expanding and improving existing communication strategies and techniques. Then ensuring accessibility to the Bureau for all communities, including those with limited English proficiency or physical challenges. And then enhancing the knowledge base of both PPB and the public to better serve the diverse communities in our city. PPV, as shared before, will report back to the PSAP on its work over the first year of the plan and will collaborate with PSAP to make changes going forward to foster deeper and more meaningful engagement with our community. This is a key component of the Bureau's commitment to 21st century policing, and it's a great start. As I said, this will continue to evolve and develop. I think even over the last couple of weeks, we've seen some areas where we could be more engaging, specifically as it relates to our young people in the community as well. Thank you again to everyone who contributed, as well as Bureau members, but specifically our Community Engagement Unit and our Equity and Inclusion Office, who were committed to working on this plan from the start and will continue to move it forward. I'll turn it over to you. Okay, great. Thank you Mayor Wheeler for having us and City Council and Chief Outlaw also for inviting us to be a part of this. I'm really proud of the PCEP committee for being able to take on these issues in our first year and be able to give input on both of these plans. I think that was really important and went through a number of processes to engage the community and provide a public platform for them to be a part of this as well. It's positive to see that PBB took a lot of these recommendations and incorporated them into their plan. I think that's really important and as the Chief had mentioned, that more time in the future for these plans will allow us to even further provide feedback. had our meeting last Tuesday and heard a lot of... Lockheed, I'm sorry to interrupt. Could you do me a favor? Could you introduce yourself for the record and just for the benefit of council and maybe some of the folks here, could you give us a few sentences about yourself? You're a volunteer. You've stepped forward. I personally really appreciate your leadership. Tell us a little bit about yourself and your name for the record. Yeah, Lockheed Andruri, co-chair of PSAP, And what does that mean? Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing. Thank you, Commissioner. I sit on the steering committee, just really passionate about engaging the community, making sure that we're holding the police bureau accountable, and also, you know, finding this fine line of being a bridge for the police and the community to engage. And that's really what we've worked on in this first year is a lot of tasks that we've had to take on. And that's just what I said, I was really proud of us that we were able to get to this in addition to all the other things that we're trying to doing. Some of which I can address in a little bit. Thank you. Yes, and thank you for that. As far as the community engagement plan, We had a meeting last week and were able to get additional feedback from the community on that. But it was great to see that platform. A couple of things that they had mentioned. Just making sure that all PPB facilitated boards are public. It was brought to our attention last week that the Behavioral Health Unit Advisory Committee does not hold public meetings as the other PPB facilitated boards do. So I think that's something that we can continue to work on and make sure that people have access to them. The accountability was in the annual report, but wasn't mentioned in the community engagement plan from what we saw. So just making sure that that's a number one priority for us as well. I'm glad Commissioner Hardesty brought up the GVRT. This is the exact kind of information the community has been wondering too, is like what was that transition from the gang enforcement team to GVRT? And so tomorrow we're going to be holding a public meeting. on gun violence in Portland. It's at 5 p.m. at Highland Church and we'll be hearing from the GVRT about that specific issue or how what that transitions look like, allow the community to have their questions answered and then make recommendations for how GVRT can better serve the community. Um, and yeah, we want to do similar things on that with, uh, in regards to the upcoming PPA, uh, Portland Police Association, collective bargaining, um, agreement and make sure that there's a space in there for the community to have a voice heard. I know you guys had a work session on it yesterday, and it sounded very positive, and we look forward to working with PPA to create more spaces, inform the community, and really foster that community engagement. Thanks, Lockheed. Anything you want to add, Vadim? Yes, hello. My name is Vadim Mazursky. I'm familiar with several people here, but I... Personally, I bring to this table advocacy for disability rights and inclusion of people with disabilities and policy making, especially with the police department and the history that's involved there. From a personal standpoint, I want to thank the mayor as well as the commissioners here for bringing together diverse constituency of PCIP. I think we have varied backgrounds and various philosophies on PCIP. how to communicate with the police department and the way going forward. glad in my time with PSAP to learn is how open everybody is to input from the public, input from the police bureau, as well as input from city employees and the Justice Department. I think PSAP has been doing a great job in bringing all those inputs together and formulating recommendations to the police bureau on ways to integrate those recommendations. So with respect to that, I want to echo what's been said today. There is a need to have more data. One of the recommendations made by PSAP in the past has been to have a trend as to how the data has changed over time, and that's been reflected today with Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Hardesty asking for that kind of data. As Commissioner Hardesty is fond of saying, we need a data-driven approach to decision-making, and I think that's absolutely correct. And... And so that's what we're looking for and for accountability as well. The Police Bureau has done an admirable job of providing representatives at our meetings who can answer questions. The police chief has been there on several occasions as well as the assistant police chiefs. And we do appreciate that. Sometimes questions are asked by the public, which we don't have the answers to. But we do have people at these meetings attending that have those answers. And I think that is very important. And I hope that presence continues. So thank you, Barry. Thank you. We appreciate your service. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Chief, I asked when you were in my office of all the organizations listed that the police spend time with. My question was, what are the hardest meetings that Portland police officers go to in an effort to build community? That's a new question. That's the same one. No, that's a new question. I just expanded it a little. You know what, I won't be able to... I'm going to ask Officer Hansberger to come up here since you would know more about the advisory committee. Well, the reason I ask is because, as you know, we talked. I know the African American Advisory Committee has been dysfunctional for almost two decades. and that it is really well attended. People don't know it happens. I'm sure that there are other committees that operate the exact same way. And so I get concerned when I see them listed as, oh, this is all the part of what we do. I understand the youth stuff, right? Because who wouldn't want to hang out with cute little kids and play sports stuff, right? But the hard work isn't the work hanging out with kids playing basketball. The hard work is really dealing with the racial history of policing in the city of Portland. And so when I look at where police are communicating being paid overtime to invest time in the community. I'm very concerned that that doesn't match up to what we say our goal is, which is to build deeper relationships. I mean, playing ball with kids is fine, but that's not where the problems are. The problems are in how do we engage people who are adults. And so I would love to have a priority list, knowing that you can't do all these volunteer fun activities because you have limited staff. What are the priorities for this year? And how are you going to make sure that the light officers are at those events? Okay. So that's a little bit of a different question. That is a different question now. And yes, you did ask me that. So I won't have to call on you, Officer House. I did ask you about what is the hardest meetings you go to. So acknowledging that some of these advisory committees do need revamping because some are more well attended than others, but I also want to point out that there is, there there is cross representation in some of these other groups as well. So just because one particular advisory committee is poorly attended does not mean that issues pertaining to that one particular demographic don't get raised at other meetings. But I will also acknowledge that, yes, we do need to go back, and I would like to go through all of them. And also, I mean, we have a lot of advisory committees, as do other bureaus as well. I'd also like to see how we can leverage – our partnerships with the Office of Community and Civic Life as well, who also maintains advisory committees to see if we could address all angles. I wanted to remind the listeners that this community engagement plan comes out of the 2012 settlement agreement, which was supposed to be done what, 160 days after the settlement agreement was affirmed. We are now in October of 2019. And it was supposed to be a plan that was led by the community with input from the police, with input from community organizations that actually engage with the police. And so this plan was put together. And, Chief, I stopped it before you came because they were trying to do it before we hired you, which I thought was stupid, and the mayor agreed, so we stopped it. So I just want the community to understand that this is not – a Portland Police Bureau vision. This is something that was mandated by the DOJ, and it took us a very, very, very long time to even get to a draft. My concern is that once again this is led by the police and not led by the community. I went to one of the earlier community meetings that was supposed to be gathering community input into a community engagement plan and I wasn't the only, everybody at that meeting was really ticked off because the way the information was presented made it sound like the facilitators had an outcome that they already had predetermined. And so all the people in East Portland who came to that particular meeting to actually have input into the community engagement plan left very frustrated. We were all promised that people would get back to us and we would actually have an opportunity to re-engage and that did not happen. And so I just want that to be on the public record that while I appreciate the beginning of a community engagement plan, It is not the plan that was envisioned by the Department of Justice or the community back in December of 2012. Thank you. Anything else? I think one more thing I forgot to mention that I think would be great to just highlight in the annual report, I think it was the annual report, anyway, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission that PSAP had proposed, I think this is a great way to address the historical legacy of racism in Portland, especially around policing in all institutions here in Portland, and it's something that we look forward to helping work on in the future. Thank you. I hope that's going to be led by a community effort and not being led by the police. Absolutely. No. Thank you. I hope to. Great. Does that finish your presentation? I just want to say this, first of all, Chief, thank you. And Lachiana and Vadim, I want to thank you. In large measure, you are the community representatives helping to drive that process, and I thank you for it. I do have sort of one surprise question for both of you. Sure. The last time we were in front of Judge Simon, He gave you accolades for the good work that you're doing on PSAF. He indicated that he thought you were demonstrating independence from myself as Mayor, from Chief Outlaw on the Police Bureau, but he also indicated that he was somewhat concerned, and other members of the community indicated they were concerned that there wasn't more community involvement. People weren't showing up in the kinds of numbers that one would expect and I know you've done things to try and encourage that. Where are you with that and how can people get involved if they want to come and participate and hear what you guys are doing? Yeah, we hold our meetings the last Tuesday of every month. Community engagement is a challenge. You know, ongoing is something we're working to do. Meetings like we're having tomorrow night where we're engaging on topics that the community's interested in are our way of doing that. And it's going to take some time. I think there's a lot of apprehension about where PSIP is going. I think the best way we can do it is by producing results that the community is looking for. I think There could definitely be some support in the form of possibly a staff member. I know that it was part of some plan to maybe have a community organizer. Just in the work that we're doing every month, we're spending at least 20 hours of volunteer time, close to 20 hours depending on the month and the member. And that's at that level, just to bring everything together. Now to go out and do community engagement is, in addition to what we're already doing, is challenging. So I think a staff support or something like that would be helpful. But in addition to that, what we're already doing is working on the issues that the community cares about, and I think that will address some of it as well. Yeah, good, and I'll make this commitment again. I've already made it to you a couple of times, but I'll make it again again. And I know Nicole Grant from my team who's been heavily engaged in this, we want you to be successful for a lot of reasons. You establish your own agenda, which is something that people may not understand, so it really is a community-driven agenda. But we would like to see more active participation from the public at large. And I know you guys are really working hard and busting your chops on your own dime. as citizen volunteers. So I want to thank you for that. And if you have proposals that you'd like to give to me that you think might further community engagement or community involvement, I will absolutely carry that to this council. And I think you would find a receptive audience. Thank you. Anything you want to add, Vadim? No, definitely in my time, I've seen more people involved in the last meeting, probably had about 50 community members. It comes and goes with respect to what's on the agenda. But for anybody out there listening, the website describes all of our meetings. If you just Google PSAP, it will come up. And it's not just the people on the committee that are making these decisions and helping out. gladly offer and accept or accept the help of community members to sit on our subcommittees to hear their voice and their participation and to bring their background and knowledge to the table as well. And before I get to Commissioner Hardesty, could you give us some idea what some of those subcommittees might be just to potentially pike some people's interest? Yeah, so we have the policy agreement subcommittee. We have the youth subcommittee, which focuses on engaging youth, which by the way, we have two youth members that sit on the committee, race, ethnicity committee. And then a committee for persons with mental illness. And so between the four of those, there's a lot of opportunity to get involved and for community members to sit on them, which they already do. Thank you, appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty. I actually did not have an additional question. Thank you all, appreciate it. You bet. Thank you. Great. Thank you for your time. So we'll take testimony on the resolution. How many people do we have signed up? Possibly six. Very good. Three minutes each name for the record, please. Are Jan and Maggie here? They signed up. Okay, then we'll go with Dan Handelman, Debbie Iona, and Robert West. Good afternoon, and thank you for your patience. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler. I'm hoping since we have so few people testifying, that maybe I can get four minutes to testify this afternoon. Three minutes, please. Three minutes. All right. Thank you. I'm Dan Haneman with Portland Copwatch and we appreciate the opportunity to testify about these important items. The 2018 Annual Report reads a little less like a public relations document than the eight-page infographic reports that came out in past years. To the Bureau's credit, they note the impact of six officer-involved shootings on the community, but they ignore the death in custody of Richard Berry. There are also no statistics about use of force, the main focus of the DOJ agreement. There were multiple mentions of policing protests, but none about PPB's use of force at those events. Unlike the IPR report, the Bureau does reference the OIR Group's 2018 report on deadly force incidents, but there are no specifics about the changes made to PPB practices as a result of that report. There are also no statistics on discipline. Even when those numbers appear in the IPR's report, the Bureau should put in those data and reference IPR for more details. PCCEP recommended this change as well. This is the first presentation of a PPP annual report to City Council since the DLG agreement was finalized in 2014, even though it's been required by the agreement all of these five years. The precinct presentations were poorly promoted, poorly attended, and from what we heard, poorly run. As for the community engagement plan, another requirement of the DOJ agreement, we hope the City doesn't feel the meager efforts listed in the resolution today are sufficient community outreach to finalize the plan. It lists the specific days the Bureau engaged with PCCP at a few subcommittee meetings, which don't even have more than one PCCP member at them sometimes, and portions of the two full membership meetings, including one that took place six days after the resolution was drafted. We do appreciate though that resolution recognizes city council has to approve the plan, which is important since all of you are responsible for what the police bureau, how the police bureau functions. It is also good that the text leaves open the idea of modifying and updating the plan on an annual basis. It will be argued that PCCP meetings were the bureau's public input efforts. However, generally speaking, they're about equal numbers of community members and PCCP members at these meetings, about a dozen of each. It's indicative of the Bureau's poor understanding of community engagement that today's hearing was announced with eight days notice, which is not enough time to get more people here. The key recommendation that was mentioned is the plan for a truth and reconciliation program. What it actually says in the plan is they will actively engage with the mayor and city council, relevant bureaus, and other civic leaders to develop a work group to explore the creation of a truth and reconciliation program. So that's three layers deep into the goal. And it doesn't acknowledge that truth and reconciliation can't come without the end of the behavior that leads to the process. In South Africa, apartheid fell, but no part of the community engagement plan promises to end police use of deadly force. racial and economic profiling, violent crowd control tactics, or other issues that are causing the rift between community members and the police. And I guess the last thing I want to add is that the plan calls for the creation of a Hispanic advisory council. The old one disbanded after the officers who killed Jose Mejia Pote in a mental hospital in 2001 were given medals. And I think until that is reconciled, you should not reconsider. We've got a new board to get out. Yeah, thank you Dan. Good afternoon. I'm Debbie Iona representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. The league shares the aspiration stated in the resolution that quote, meaningful public engagement involves the ability of community members to affect policies, practices and PPB culture, thereby improving outcomes and eliminating unconstitutional actions, end quote. We believe, however, that the Bureau could be doing more to connect to the public through its communication practices. The League has already shared with the DOJ, PPB staff, and the PCCEP our concerns about the methods the Bureau uses to inform the public. We believe there is room for improvement in the PPB's communications about important policy considerations, events, and opportunities for participation. As an example, when the annual report was scheduled for precinct presentations, a good place to start would have been reaching out through the email lists for the many PPP-facilitated and participatory advisory committees listed in Appendix A. Connecting with these groups might have drawn a larger audience. After all, the annual report is meant to provide an overview of the bureau's accomplishments and challenges. So it should be of interest to community members already associated with these advisory groups. The PPB also should consider adopting some of the techniques used by other city bureaus. Many provide sign-up sheets at community meetings where they gather contact information for future notifications. In addition, there are links on project websites where the public can sign up to receive information. When we shared our disappointment about the lack of notification for the precinct meetings, Bureau staff responded that the information was on the website and recommended signing up for the media alert system. The alert system requires creation of a password, a barrier for some, Furthermore, we understand that the alerts include media notices about criminal activity and are not necessarily devoted to the types of policy issues that interest members of the public who might want to provide feedback. We recommend that the Bureau build email distribution lists and use them in a tailored fashion to get the word out when there are opportunities to engage in policy discussions. Thank you. It should be more proactive and intentional in its communication techniques rather than relying on members of the public to come to them to find opportunities to learn and participate. And at the last PCCP meeting, I noticed that the two staff people from the bureau are foreign police officers who are doing this work. And I wonder if the community engagement team would benefit from having somebody who is trained in public outreach and communications in their office. Thank you.
 Great. And, Debbie, if I could just respond, because I think you've given us a very clear roadmap here and some great suggestions. First of all, I want to thank you as being one of the people who does show up on a regular basis, and you do participate. And I want to thank you for that engagement. I never want to speak for the chief. Her job is hard enough without me speaking for her. But I do know that they've made substantial changes to the PIO function recently in order to better engage with the community and provide additional information. And I think you have offered some very, very good suggestions here with regard to being proactive, being intentional, and building on the relationships we already have in advisory groups. And so I will take the notes you've written, and if you want to give me your written testimony, I'll make sure that we get that to the PIO because I think they're good suggestions. Sure. Well, thank you. Yeah, thank you. Appreciate it, Debbie. Good afternoon. Yes, my name is Robert West. I'm from the police. And I hope John Harvesty pays really close attention to what I have to say. This thing about the gun violence protection team that I keep hearing about is actually gang squad. I see them going out every night and pulling over people of color, searching their cars. There was a shooting in southeast Portland on Thursday. like 50th, where it was a white shooting a white. There was no gun violence reduction team. The only detectives that showed up was people from the robbery division. And I still find the gun violence reduction team slash gang squads still patrolling the same areas that they do when they're looking for gang members. I asked one of the officers... what's the difference between your job now and then? And he goes, just the name. They switched it just because of the name. They're doing the same thing out there as they've been doing. And it's pretty sad when they sit there and they switch names so that they can get people to sit there and say, hey, we got this nice new name, now will you support us? And it makes me mad when I sit there and I see a car pulled over and they want to search it because it's blacks. And then, you know, I see cops pull over a white vehicle and it's like, well, you're speeding. You got your driver's license. Go back to the car and then they go back, give them their driver's license and send them on their way. I've seen several times where they've sent them and said, we want to search for weapons, you know. That's typically amongst the blacks and the Hispanics. You don't see that with the brew. I've very seldom seen the brew or EK that were stopped when their vehicles were searched. And gang task force doesn't even usually show up on those. But like I said, in southeast Portland, a white guy shot a white guy in a robbery, and there was no gun violence reduction team that showed up. And that literally shocked me because, you know, one of the detectives told me they show up on everything and they're not. They're showing up in areas of color. So that's what I wanted to bring up. The last person who signed up is Charles Bridgetrain Johnson. And is Charles the last? Yes, he is. Okay, very good. Good afternoon. Amazing. Good afternoon. Thanks, y'all. And especially thanks to Clerk Carla or whoever, Chief Outlaw and her staff, who made this PDF look great even on the tiny screen of my phone. So it was good to hear that we've grown, that we respect the public enough to do a 20-some page PDF instead of, as was previously cited in the earlier testimony, an eight-page thing that seemed a little bit hackneyed to some people. This is important work and one of the ways we know that it's important work is because one of the people that was killed by Portland Police, Qantas Moose Hayes, has a family member here. I'd like to thank her for her diligence in working with the community and, for lack of a better phrase, working with the police department towards improvement and better accountability, and especially the prevention of violence and death from the hands of the people trained to protect and serve us. One thing that would be interesting, it's not necessarily the role of the police, maybe some of the organizations, whether it's League of Women Voters or Copwatch, that maintain records about those people who have been killed by police, is to have the timeline. Because I don't even recall if Chief Outlaw came in before or after any particular shooting, say the Qantas Moose Hayes shootings or others. as we sit here in a city that may be going on its third or fourth one-time white bro mayor we've had a single-term mayor with sam adams we had a single-term mayor with uh charlie hales you know depending on what people believe about the ability of this town to have the police preferably live in this town and also live up to the community values may determine whether we finally get a two-term mayor after however long it's been since we had one before. I especially appreciate Chief Outlaw's candor and directness in acknowledging that six of our neighbors died from shots fired by police. I'll have to talk with Mr. Handelman more about the other type of death in custody I don't have the cop watch experience that Mr. West has to talk fully about his situation, but when I think about a Metro Guns Task Force... the first thing that comes to mind is that in this metro area, we had guns on the roof of a parking garage that were going to be aimed at me, and I don't know if any police officer identified and recorded the serial number of those guns, tracked their trafficking, knows if they were involved in other crimes. There was certainly probable cause to do so, to at least record the identity of those weapons, if not seize them. I hope that when we look at... equity and racial considerations will know how many guns were seized and tracked from people of color versus how many were seized and tracked from people that were not people of color. Thank you very much. I'm sorry my time's expired. PIO milkshake, really the PIO and the milkshake, there's definitely room for improvement there. Thanks very much. Thank you, Chief. Did you have any other closing thoughts? Very good. I'll entertain a motion on the report. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second by Commissioner Fritz. Please. This is the accepting the 2018 annual report of the Portland Police Bureau, item number 943. Please call the roll. Fritz. It's really great to get the report. I like its new format. It's very clear, and I particularly appreciate the reference in the report to a 2019 report coming fairly shortly. So, yeah. I know that your intent is to get them back onto an annual basis in a timely manner. Thank you very much. Thank you for all the comments. Aye.
 Hardesty? I also want to add my thanks to the Chief and her staff for actually developing a report that gives us an opportunity to really get an insight into the work and the day-to-day operations of Portland Police Bureau. I couldn't help but look at the annual report and have that open while I was reading the auditor's report about police overtime. And so as I look at both the the gang violence because the auditor's report is actually tracking gang violence that is being um that Portland Police Bureau is responding to. And so I look at the over 50,000 in overtime that was spent around cases involving quote-unquote gang violence. And I also have to acknowledge the fact that if 58% of the arrests are of people who are houseless, We really need to change our priorities as far as a police force and actually focus on solving crime and actually not make people criminals who are suffering because they can't afford to live in our city. And so I vote aye, and I look forward to working with the chief to make this report better and to have it really reflect what's happening on the ground in our community. Wheeler. Well, I want to thank everybody in the police bureau who was responsible for collecting this data, for presenting it in a way that I think is fairly easy for people to digest. Again, this is a baseline. It will continue to improve with time and If there's one disappointing thing, Chief, it's that you have to start somewhere. And so we don't have a lot of longitudinal data, particularly for areas where we're starting to collect data in a different way, or in some cases maybe collecting data for the first time. And this certainly came out in the response from the police bureau to the overtime audit that we have actually engaged and started to do many of the data collection procedures that were actually identified as potential strategies in the audit. And so I want to applaud you and your command staff for being data driven. And with time, what we will have is longitudinal data and we'll be able to determine whether or not the investments we're making, the strategies we're pursuing are actually the best and highest use to the limited resources, both dollars and cents and human resources that we have. and we'll see what results we are getting with those dollars. And so I appreciate your efforts there. I vote aye. The report's adopted. Next item is the Resolution 944 for the Community Engagement Plan. Please call the roll. Fritz.
 Fritz. So Mayor Wheeler alluded to getting kudos from Judge Simon about the independence of the community oversight body. Some people don't know that part of the reason for that is that the staffing of that body is not only with assistance from his office, but also through the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Our work in that office is mostly internally focused and we've greatly appreciated working with Elle Weatheroy, the equity manager in the Portland Police Bureau and the work that she's done with the Community Engagement Office. I think there's a great opportunity for more partnership between the Police Bureau and the Office of Community and Civic Life. Once they have reorganized their community safety program, we have lost a lot of the experienced people working in that capacity. And so... That is an obvious opportunity for more collaboration. The community engagement plan is a framework. It's not a this and only this. It's a starting point. And essentially, I think we all agree that we want more people participating in every realm of city government, including police oversight. So thank you very much for the report and the plan. Aye. Hardesty? Aye. I thank Chief Outlaw and her team for putting together this community engagement program, even though it was supposed to be done in 2012. It is important to acknowledge that some of these community engagement activities are merely having ice cream or hanging out at a sports event with young people. Some are meaningful conversations that went through either race talks or some other formal process where we're actually really building really deep relationships. honest relationships. It is my hope that the Bureau will prioritize where they will spend their time next year, because I don't believe you will be able to do everything that's in your community engagement plan. So the question is, what will benefit the community most, and how do you prioritize that over the year? I will vote to support this plan, but I will be monitoring it throughout the year to ensure that we're just not putting down numbers because Sunshine Division gives out X number of tons of food. That we're actually putting down work that we're actually involved in and responsible for. I vote aye. Wheeler? There is no bureau that receives more scrutiny than the Portland Police Bureau. And in order to rebuild the trust and expand the trust that already exists between the police bureau and the community, it requires the community to be actively involved. And I want to particularly applaud the individuals who have volunteered on the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing, Lachiana, who is here, Arim, who is here, and many others who've participated in that process and volunteered their time and their energy and commitment. to what is mostly a thankless but extremely important process. And so I want to acknowledge that and thank you. I think this plan is a good start, but as with the annual report we saw, it's a beginning step. It's the beginning. It's the base foundation of what I hope will be an evolving process, and it will become richer, it will become deeper, and it will become more meaningful as the community engages further and as that trust continues. continues to build because that's really the important thing here is trust. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted, and I thank everyone for their hard work on that. Next item, Commissioner Fritz. Have we lost Commissioner Fritz for good? You know, we have. So why don't we do this? Before we jump into 945, because it says that it's two hours, why don't we take five minutes? Let's break in the middle of the next item as well, just so we all don't blow up. So we are in recess. All right. Good afternoon, everyone. We're back in session. And. Carla, could you please read item number 945? Yes. And then the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan map, zoning map, Title 33, planning and zoning, Title 18, noise control, Title 32, signs and related regulations to revise the multi-dwelling residential designations and base zones. All right. So I'm going to break the good news and the bad news. The good news is you're all here and you look great. The bad news is we have 47 people who would like to testify, which is fantastic. We like to have that kind of community engagement. But realistically, we're not going to get through all of the testimony today. And I just want you to be aware of that possibility. My colleagues and I have said we will stay until 6 p.m. tonight. Then we have other commitments, but it's possible we won't be able to get everybody in today. And if that is the case, what we'll do is we'll set aside another time when those who have signed up, who didn't get to testify, get to go to the front of the line and testify first, so everybody, will have that opportunity. If people decide they can't come back and they'd still like to submit testimony, we'll, of course, take written testimony if you don't get to speak today. But we've decided it's better to let everybody speak for three minutes, have their full say on this, than cut everybody short and try to cram it in, because even if we cut it short, I don't think we're going to be able to finish it today. So with that, Item number 945. This afternoon we're holding a public hearing on the Better Housing by Design Recommended Draft. Better Housing by Design is a key element of the Housing Opportunity Initiative, which is a suite of proposed actions to allow more types of housing that more people can afford to live in here in Portland. To help reorient everybody to the proposal, Better Housing by Design applies to land zone for multi-dwelling. That's everything from two story townhouses to ten story high rises outside of the central city area. And while only about 8% of the city is zoned for multi-dwelling, this zoning is in locations close to services and it's close to transit. And it plays an important role in meeting our climate action plan goals. Better housing by design is intended to create climate smart communities by enabling more people who can live within walking distance of commercial services and transit. Better housing by design is also intended to benefit working Portlanders, families, and people of color. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff is going to start us off today by providing a short presentation on Better Housing by Design. We'll then hear from the Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, Catherine Schultz. I want to recognize, first of all, the great work that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has been doing, and the staff, especially our Better Housing by Design Project Manager, Bill Cunningham, and our Planning and Sustainability Commission. We thank them. I commend the bureau's work in gathering feedback from our community in order to develop and update this important proposal. The proposals help accelerate the construction of more affordable housing by offering incentives and bonuses so that different housing options are available for more Portlanders at all income levels. Director Durbin, I'll ask you to come up now. I'll turn it over to you and your staff before we open it up to public testimony. And just by way of housekeeping, since there are only three of us, none of us can leave the room. And so what we're going to do in order to maintain the quorum is in about an hour or so, we'll take a brief break and then we'll come back and everybody will have a chance to stand up and stretch a bit. Unless nature requires it earlier in time. In which case, just raise your hand. Director Durbin, welcome. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mayor, members of the City Council. My name is Andrea Durbin, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We appreciate being here today and having an opportunity to hear public testimony. Over the last few years, we have rewritten the zoning codes for the full spectrum of Portland's residential development. We started with our fast-growing mixed-use centers and corridors and then addressed central city housing. Now, through the Housing Opportunities Initiative, we are rewriting the rest, the multifamily housing and later this year, single-family dwelling zones. The goal of the zoning code changes is one, to encourage the production of more and better housing. Two, to increase the range of housing choices, sizes, prices, and locations. Three, to encourage more housing in places that already have the services and amenities that benefit households, including long transit corridors. Fourth, to increase through bonuses the supply of affordable housing produced with new development. And lastly, to the best of our ability, to manage the risk of displacement from new development and growth by developing proactive strategies to support people staying in their neighborhoods. Better Housing by Design does this for multifamily housing, and this is where we will see most of our growth now through 2035. So with that, I am going to introduce Bill Cunningham, who is the BPS lead for this, and he will give a quick recap of this proposal. Thank you, Andrea. I'm Bill Cunningham, project manager for the Better Housing by Design project. We will give a very brief presentation on the proposal so we can have time for the testimony. I wanted to first start out by providing some context for the code amendments that we're that are before you. One issue we need to be aware of is that Portland is a growing city. We anticipate around 100,000 more households between now and 2035. And Portland's households have changed over the years. Back in 1920 when our inner neighborhoods were in the midst of being built, The average household size is about four and a half people. Now it's about two and a half people. So smaller households, in fact, about 68% of our households are just one and two people. We also have an increasing income gap. We have increases in high paying jobs, increases in low paying jobs. So that creates critical issues related to housing affordability. We have an aging population and that raises new issues in terms of the accessibility of our neighborhoods and our housing so that people can stay in their communities as they age. I'm not going to get into a whole lot of detail about income issues. I provided a handout that has some more information, but we wanted to give people some sense as to what we mean when we talk about affordable housing or what's affordable to people at various incomes. On the screen, we have a number of income ranges from very low income, up to 30 percent of the area median income. That includes a lot of retirees and fixed retirement incomes. An area of affordability that we're particularly focusing on is up to 60% of area median income. And for a single person, that's someone earning around $37,000 a year. It's about $17 or $18 an hour. And the people who are earning that include Preschool teachers, nursing assistants, groundskeepers. One moment. Commissioner Harstein. I just can't help but say thank you, thank you, thank you for this. I ask for this all the time because you're right. We throw around this term affordable housing as if affordable housing is the same for everybody, right? So thank you, thank you, thank you. This is a clear picture that helps me decide what's affordable for me. And if I could just add, the thanks goes to the Housing Bureau who provided this graphic for us. Thank them for me, too. I always want this. I'm going to put this on my wall. Maybe I'll find it because it's a good model. And the thing we wanted to highlight for that 60% of area median income, when people talk about low income, what does it mean? And it's people pretty critical to our city. Again, the preschool teachers, nurses, assistants. many working class people. 80% AMI, what area of median income, it varies depending on household size, but you're in that income level if you have two minimum wage income earners paying together into housing. So that's something to be aware of. One issue too is that what's considered affordable for that nursing assistant or preschool teacher is about $945 a month, but the average one-bedroom rent in Portland now is over $1,300 a month. So for these working class people, increasingly we don't have housing that's affordable to them. And that's something to bear in mind when we're talking about our proposals. Another dimension of affordability is looking at the cost of houses. The images in the left is showing in blue dots what house sales were affordable to the average Portlander back in 2000. And back then, all those blue dots represent houses that were affordable to a median income household. today, looking over to the right, the brown orange dot show was not affordable. So you can see that much of the houses that have been sold are not affordable to your average Portlander. You have bits and pieces in East Portland, but not many. Thank you. You know, we trade terms like on this handout is AMI, on this one it is MFI, and And it's really hard for the public to understand what the heck we're talking about when we switch back and forwards. And so I know median family income. And is that specifically in the city of Portland? Or what is MFI? The area median income is based on regional. So it's not specific just to Portland, it's for the Portland region. And the federal government HUD sets some of those numbers. Let me just recommend that you either use one or the other rather than interchanging them going back and forwards. MR. I apologize about that. We are more frequently calling it area median income and this is an old diagram. But the basic message is houses are out of reach for the majority of Portlanders now. And knowing that we have a broad range of household types, we know we need a broader range of homes. housing opportunities for people. One thing we also know is that housing production hasn't kept up with the growth in the numbers of households in Portland. So more people vying for not enough housing does drive prices up. I just wanted to make a comment. I couldn't Google it quite so fast because I was really surprised to see that the example for $74,000 was an elementary school teacher because my daughter-in-law is one and she doesn't make sense. So the range for Portland public schools teacher is 49,000 to 72,000. So depending on your age, and I think this is part of what you at the point you're making as well, that we've got an aging population but then on the other hand we've got young people who are just starting in their careers who maybe are just starting families as well. So we need a whole range of different kinds of options. Yes, it's a danger of having a simple diagram because disclosure my wife is a school teacher and i know that if you're starting out as an elementary school teacher you're probably not earning that much but moving on so that's some of the context the lack of affordability smaller households one issue to be aware of is this project's focusing on the multi-dwelling zones in portland it's only eight percent of the city's land area And in this diagram, it's showing in blue where the multifamily zones are. Red is showing where our commercial zones are. So it's a tiny part of the city, but you can kind of see it's coursing along our corridors. So 86% of our multi-dwelling zoning is within... a quarter mile of transit streets and much of it is also close to our commercial services. So it's pretty key to our climate action plan goals for allowing more people to be living within walking distance of where services are, where transit is, so you have more options for getting around with not necessarily being dependent on driving. I want to highlight the general approach of the project. There are two major approaches that are part of this proposal. One is really about expanding housing options for all sorts of households. It's about expanding the diversity of our housing types in the multi-dwelling zones. And a key part is addressing affordability, knowing that that's a critical issue at this time. We're not only thinking about numbers in terms of numbers of units, it's about improving the design, making sure that when we have housing it supports the livability of people living there and it also supports our community objectives for integrating development with the neighborhoods, providing walkable neighborhoods where it's easy to walk around. So that's something to bear in mind. A general approach is we're providing more flexibility for more units on our typical multi-dwelling sites, but there's a big focus on the way that's designed. One example of what we're doing related to housing diversity is these sets of images are showing some pre-1950s multifamily in Portland. housing and Portland had a pretty diverse array of housing back before modern zoning came in. And these are the predominantly fairly low rise. One issue though is in our most common zone, the current R2 zone, only the duplex could be built. It's a zone intended for low rise development but the 8 plex and the courtyard apartments can only be built in about a small minority, about 8% of our multifamily zoning. We're proposing to bring back some of those possibilities to regulate by the scale. So for having a low-rise zone intended to be about a fairly neighborhood scale, all these would typically be allowed. I don't understand that Bill. Could you just explain that more? Because you can do, if you've got big enough sites in the R2 zone, you can have as many units as you've got site area for. Yes, that's true, but the densities we have here, which are fairly small lots, could not be built in our multi-dwelling zones. So that's what you're proposing to change is the density rather than necessarily the housing type? Right, the scale stays the same, but there's more flexibility for the housing types. And this does relate to affordability. The next slide is highlighting what's typically built in our closer neighborhoods in our most common zone, the R2 zone. And on a 5,000 square foot lot, for example, your maximum density is a pair of units. And typically you're getting a pair of attached houses, row houses. You know, they're an important urban housing type, but they become very inexpensive and very expensive in Portland. You're talking five, six hundred thousand, sometimes seven hundred thousand depending on how large they are. And so that's really serving a pretty small span of our community in terms of who benefits from that zoning. You're going to have to have a lot of money. It's probably at least 150 percent of AMI. Now the amendments would in these lower zones allow more units. And the example on the right is showing six. 1,000 square foot units on the same size site as others. It's a corner lot, 5,000 square feet. And these are $380,000 compared to the $600,000 or so. And this becomes affordable to an average income or slightly below average income 2% working household. That square footage actually happens to be about the same size as the Cape Cods that were built after World War II that actually did accommodate families. So that's the critical piece here. The idea is we're opening things up for other mixes of low-rise housing. Just for just a sec. Commissioner Fritz. Twice per square foot is more on the townhouses. And I agree because my first home here was about that size of square foot. And we grew out of it as our family expanded. Right. So I think that's really important. I want to make sure that we're going to have family housing in Portland as well as affordable housing. I don't think the two should be exclusive. The key thing about the proposals to bear in mind is you would still be able to do these smaller numbers of attached housing development, but we would be opening up allowances so you could do other types as well. So that's something and we did some economic analysis. Basically both smaller unit types and larger unit types would be economically feasible. So with the changes we'd probably see a mix of both these types. But the main move is opening up opportunities so you could have greater numbers of smaller units. along with the large townhouse development that typically gets built today. Well, if I'm a developer, I'm going to go for six at $380,000 because that gets me nearly $2 million, whereas the two of the larger ones gets me half that. There's a lot of money to be made for expensive attached housing. In terms of the square foot cost of construction and profit, they're not that different. It starts getting different when you do have more studio or very small units. But what we've seen up to now in the zones that allow this broad range, we get a mix of all the types. Just one issue is those townhouses, they're in the RH zone. Those six units on that 5,000-square-foot site could only be built in that highest-density RH zone. That could not currently be built in our low-rise multifamily zones. So this would change things and open up basically the spectrum of people who could benefit from new housing in those zones. Commissioner Hardesty. Yes. Thank you, Mayor. So I have seen houses in the Northeast that are these teeny tiny townhouses that start between $600,000 and $800,000. And that's before we make any changes to zone. What's to prevent, I think, as Commissioner Fritz alluded to, that all of these six units would end up being $800,000 or more? What would prevent that? They're... Based on the economics, it simply pencils out to do less expensive units. All the analysis we've done in terms of how much do smaller units cost in the same area convert to larger units. But you're missing my question. So if I'm a developer, it may make sense for me to build cheaper units, but it may not make sense for me to sell cheaper units. So again, I could build it cheaper because I can now build six where I was only building two units. but what's to prevent me from charging as much money as I think I could possibly get from that unit? What's, what, what, who would stop me from doing that? Because again, I see these sizes right now in the inner northeast and they are on the market for $800,000. And I don't know who these people are, but people are buying them. Right. That's a good question. We can't entirely control what the market might do. We've heard from some builders is that because of land costs and the limited number of units you could do they have very little choice but to do very expensive units having a broader range of units does create a situation where a broader range of potential buyers could be customers for that housing I do want to highlight that one thing that this project does too is related to development bonuses In all the zones, there's a constraint on what you could do in terms of buy rate base scale allowances. And what this project... I'm sorry, would you repeat, did you say something about developer bonuses? Yes, I was about to talk about some of the bonuses that are more directly tied to providing affordable units. We have basically a base entitlement where in any of our zones there's a limitation for what scale you could provide. And if you want to go to a larger scale, and for example, in our corridors, you could not really get to a full four-story scale unless you use development bonuses. And those development bonuses are tied to basically outcomes that implement our policy objectives. And the primary way you get to a bigger scale is providing affordable units. We're increasing... inclusionary housing, bonuses for affordable housing, which is, which provides housing affordable at 60 to 80 percent of area median income, but the greatest bonuses, the biggest priority bonuses are really aiming at that 60 percent of area median income. So these are things that more directly get beyond just what the private sector might do, but but link to ensuring that affordable units are included when you go bigger with development. And we did some economic analysis about this too and it indicated that if you're going bigger and you're including inclusionary housing, even at 60% of area median income, it pencils out at these low rise densities. It's economically feasible. Also with the highlight that we know that it could be difficult to fit three-bedroom family housing bonuses in these compact sites. So there is a bonus, too, that's oriented towards housing. three bedrooms that are affordable at moderate incomes. So that would be something where we're prioritizing development outcomes that are more affordable. We also have an allowance where if you commit to preserving existing affordable housing, sometimes what people call naturally occurring housing, you could transfer development rights to another site, go bigger elsewhere. So there's a linkage to preserving affordable housing. Another thing that we have is a bonus through which if you're providing accessible units and of course helping to meet the needs of our our aging population, our disabled population, you would get some bonus to help encourage that. Most of our permits and our multi-dwelling zones don't require accessibility. So we're looking at some tools that can increase the physical accessibility. But the biggest priority is getting affordable housing in. So generally, Commissioners, there's allowance for a broad range of unit configurations without strings attached, but if you want to go bigger, it's tied to delivering on affordability, accessibility, key priorities like that. I'm going to move on to the components that are more about the design side of things. One thing we're doing is expanding some of our outdoor space requirements, including requiring common areas, courtyards for large sites. And this really relates to things we heard in terms of outreach that had happened with tenants, with residents of multifamily. These are important things. for especially families. One thing we've been trying to address is a lot of people assume that apartments only have single people living in them. East Portland especially, there are a lot of families with kids The numbers we have show that about half of our Hispanic and African American communities have families living in apartments. So, can't assume that apartments don't have families. And one of the ideas as more people live in multi-family with houses being out of reach, the thought is everyone should have access to outdoor space. You shouldn't have to afford a house to be able to have access to outdoor space. There's also a new flexibility for parking. It's optional in more cases. Building design and scale is another thing that's being paid attention to. There's greater limits on front garages and tying in the design of buildings to typical neighborhood context. So part of the idea is we'll be getting more development in these areas, but we want them to contribute to our design goals for pedestrian-oriented neighborhoods. And there also are transitions when you have the higher density zones and excess single family zones. Another key component is related to East Portland where we had a particular focus. It's an area of town that hasn't always had a lot of focus, and we're really trying to have regulations that responded to some of the the strengths of the area. And one proposal is to keep the centers of their areas, large blocks, more open. That's often where the Douglas fir groves are. There's also regulations intended to facilitate street connections which are sorely lacking in that part of town. So as development happens in the multi-dwelling zones, we'd be expanding options for getting street or pedestrian connections in there. We also have several changes related to historic districts and right-sizing the zoning so that the base and bonus scale is roughly in alignment with the scale of larger historic buildings in the area. There's some changes to our zoning mapping to achieve this as well as other regulations. In some cases, we're reducing the scale somewhat. Other cases, we're actually increasing the allowed scale. In fact, that historic building on the right is an area where the multi-dwelling zoning only allowed buildings of about half that scale. So there's a right sizing that happened here in the highest density multi-dwelling zones in historic districts. Just to wrap up here, again, the two major things we're doing is expanding housing options, greater diversity of unit types, focus on affordability, but also focusing on design. And that's what we have. And I'll turn it over to Andrea. Great. Thank you, Bill. And next I want to introduce Daisy Quinonez, who's the commissioner from the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Thank you. Hello. Hi. All right. Dear City Commissioners, Mayor Wheeler, again, my name is Daisy Quinones. I'm the Youth Commissioner appointed to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Thank you for having me today to speak on Better Housing by Design. Just a little heads up, I'm feeling a little under the weather, so if you hear some sniffles, I apologize. The Planning and Sustainability Commission is pleased to forward our Better Housing by Design recommended draft. The Better Housing by Design zoning code amendments make fundamental changes to Portland's multi-dwelling zones that will help our city meet its future housing needs, including new incentives that prioritize affordable housing. Better Housing by Design works together with Residential Infill Project as part of a broader housing opportunities initiative to update the zoning code to expand housing options and address housing affordability while developing strategies to minimize displacement. We at the Planning and Sustainability Commission believe that development in multi-dwelling zones is important for allowing more people to live close to services and transit. And the proposals included, excuse me, and the proposals include appropriate mitigation measures that will help address Portland's need for affordable housing. Especially for low income households here in Portland who face the greatest challenges finding housing that they can afford. As someone who grew up living in apartment complexes in East Portland, I'm really excited about the changes Better Housing by Design aims to bring. I'll speak to two today really briefly. First, Better Housing by Design, as mentioned, will increase the diversity of housing options in our multi-dwelling zones through incentivizing the development of affordable units. This will help create housing and keep housing affordable for families such as my own growing up. Secondly, I'd like to share, as a kid growing up, my friends and I often found ourselves playing in the parking area of our apartment complexes, which was quite dangerous if you think about it. There was little recreational space either within our unit or in the complex. And also our parents were often really hesitant to let us walk to the park, either because we would have to cross major roads like 122nd Avenue, or we would have to walk along roads that lacked sidewalks. Unfortunately, there's still quite a lack of sidewalks in East Portland today, but that's a topic for another day. Better Housing by Design's outdoor space and green element standards will create spaces for play, recreation, fresh air, and outdoor enjoyment to the many current and future Portland families who choose to or have no option other than to live in our multifamily dwelling zones. The Planning and Sustainability Commission recommends the Better Housing by Design zoning code and map up amendments to help meet the housing needs of Portlanders. And will advance our city's equity objectives. These amendments provide new regulatory tools that will help expand our housing options, facilitate the development of affordable housing, foster design in outdoor spaces that support quality living environments for residents, and provide new tools for creating needed street connections in areas that lack them, such as East Portland. Thank you for the opportunity to participate as part of the review of this project and for considering our recommendations. Thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate it. Next up, we and I sort of got it wrong on the logistics of today's run of show. So I indicated there were 47 people signed up. Quite a few of them are actually on invited panels. So there was some overlap here and I apologize for that. Excuse me, Mayor. Commissioner Hardesty. Just before you call the next panel up, I just want to appreciate our youth representative on the commission. I wish I had been that poised and that knowledgeable when I was a young person. It just absolutely fascinates me, your grasp of what the issue is and how it's going to impact folks in our community. I live in East Portland as well. And so I just couldn't let you leave without saying thank you so much for your willingness to serve and for your clarity. clear understanding of what the issues are and what the challenges are. Appreciate that. Thank you. And the rest of you were great, too, but I just had to. Yes. Thank you. Thanks, Commissioner. We appreciate it. Next up, we're going to hear from some other city commissions, Daniel Newberry from the Urban Forestry Commission and Kristen Miner from the Historic Landmarks Commission. You're our next panel. Thanks for being here. I'm curious if we're going to hear about the report that was done. I kind of feel like we're doing this backwards. There was a excellent study done by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability on a historic context of racist planning in the city of Portland. So I'm just kind of wondering where that is on the agenda. Director German? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner. Our plan is actually to bring that report when we bring residential infill and the discussions which will start in December because the report that we just issued, Racist History of Zoning in Portland, really looks at the single-family dwelling zones. And so that's That would be the conversation we will start when we bring that code package up, zoning package change in December. That's unfortunate because I actually think that your report is an excellent report. My first question was, did you tell the truth? And when you read the report, it is clear you did. I think that report actually is the frame under which all the actions that were taken around housing over the next few months. This is actually the frame as to why we're doing all the stuff that we're doing. So I think it may be a missed opportunity for those who are here today that we're not setting the context for why are we doing this. Yes, well we certainly through Better Housing by Design, we are addressing some of the inequities that we're seeing in the city from this history, particularly looking at affordable housing option and providing more opportunities and different additional units and developments in the multifamily zones. And really, I appreciate that. We appreciate your recognition of this report. Our staff did a great job of working on this. We do want to have that conversation with the council when we talk about residential infill because it really provides kind of the basis for the history of the single-family dwelling zones and how they were established and how they've been spread across the city and why we need to make changes to them today. Thank you. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Could I ask just a procedural question? You mentioned three minutes per testimony on the website, it said two minutes. I'm not sure why that would be. Historically what we do is we offer people three minutes and if we don't have time we'll cut it to two. And if we're really desperate we'll cut it down to one. But this is such an important issue and we're not particularly rushed in terms of needing to get these plans approved anytime soon. And so on balance, we just think it would be better to give people a little extra time, that three minutes. We can talk more slowly. Yes, yes. But I will say this. If somebody says something you've already said, you don't need to go into depth. You can just say, like whoever said, I agree on X and move to the next point. Yep. You bet. Let's begin. Thanks, Commissioner. Thank you, members of the Portland City Council. My name is Daniel Newberry, Policy Committee Chair for the City's Urban Forestry Commission, and I also live in East Portland like many of the other people here today. First, we'd like to thank Bureau of Planning Sustainability and planner Bill Cunningham in particular for including many of our requests for changes into the current draft. As affordable housing is a major goal of this plan, it's important that low income residents enjoy the health and heat island reduction benefits trees provide at home, as do Portland's wealthier residents, many of whom live in tree rich neighborhoods. We can have both affordable housing and large trees in our city. Please do not approve additional exemptions from tree planting and preservation requirements for affordable housing reasons. Title 11 exempts affordable housing projects from the tree preservation and planning standards that most other development projects must meet. These exemptions further exacerbate the inequities associated with tree deficient neighborhoods. This really is an issue of equity. Limiting impervious area in development situations is important for preserving future space for large form trees and for protecting existing trees. We like the provision of limited asphalted parking area to 15% of the site, and we urge the City Council more broadly to enact impervious surface limitations that would apply to future developments in all zones and plans. We are concerned about the proposed flexible landscaping provisions with the requirement that at least 50% of the landscaping be in ground. We fear that these provisions will further encourage the payment of fees in lieu of tree preservation and planning that are allowed by Title 11. However, we could support the proposal with an additional requirement that Title 11 tree density standards are met by planting trees rather than simply just paying in lieu fees. of tree planting. We support the proposal to allow transfer development rights to protect trees. This mechanism does have the potential to save existing large trees. So the Urban Forestry Commission supports these development rights as long as they do not otherwise limit space for large form trees. Thank you for the opportunity to comment on better housing by design and for adding elements to the plan to promote green spaces. Thanks Commissioner Newberry. Commissioner Fritz. Have you sent in your testimony please? I can leave this. Yeah, if somebody could send it to the clerk or she can. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you very much. I appreciate everything you had. I took some notes. Great. Commissioner Minor, welcome. Thank you so much for allowing me to come as invited testimony. My name is Kristen Minor. I'm the chair of the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission. And I'm here to present a letter from my commission about this project. We have definitely been working on this for some time, just hearing different briefings. And I have to say this project has come a long way and I want to commend the work that Bill Cunningham and that the PSC has done on this. And the PSC is the Planning and Sustainability- Excuse me. Thank you so much, Commissioner. I do have a couple of extra copies if any of you would like to follow along, but I'm not going to quote or read from my letter today. I hope that you do take the time to actually read it. Thank you. In the interest of time, I am going to skip over quite a number of actually what I consider to be hurrah moments. These are things that are really worth calling out and that are significant and that we support. So my apologies. I am going to skip over to covering a couple of issues that we'd like to raise today. One of those issues is, it's kind of in three parts and on page two and three I have our, I guess our concerns listed as bullet points. So starting with bullet point two, three and four, I'm going to cover those together as the first issue and those all relate to how the Land Works Commission does its work in historic districts. What we do there is assess a new project in terms of its compatibility with the existing historic pattern, height and scale, and then the finer level details. Regarding that, first, the code does not currently do a very good job of alerting applicants that some projects might not reach their maximum height or bulk if they're not compatible. And so our first point is really that changing terms that are currently maximums in the code to by right or base makes that even less clear for applicants. And so I think what we're asking for is that in historic districts that there be more alerts or or more kind of provisions in the code that actually specifically mention that you have to meet those compatibility standards. Next, that extra FAR, which is the bulk of a building, earned by affordable housing projects, right? I would say that this is not the right incentive to use within historic districts for that very reason, that sometimes it's hard for a project even to meet the maximums, let alone extra that's earned for a project. And so what I would suggest and what the Landmarks Commission would suggest, that if we have to say no to some incentive extra earned area of bulk that at least that developer could then incentivize it and transfer it out of the district. I don't want to see us in the position of having to say no to a developer of an affordable housing project and leave them with nothing. So at least that would give them some monetary incentive to transfer out. And then finally, there's a recently added provision in this. Yeah. Sorry, what's it called? Excuse me. So is your recommendation that basically historic districts stay the same and every other part of the city changes? Is that what you're recommending to us? Not at all. We support increased density in historic districts. The problem is that We look at case-by-case basis. So when we're assessing whether something is going to fit in, we really do have to look at the historic buildings there. And so not every project is going to fit in. We do our best to approve as much bulk and height as we can, but there are going to be projects that just won't fit into a historic district. Which is why I really wish we'd had the other report first, right? Because I mean, if you're talking about the context of how we develop land use policy, who benefited from that land use policy? and where we're moving in the future. I am very concerned that we are just solidifying the racially segregated housing policy first, and then we go and talk about, now let's figure out how to not displace people after we've already confirmed that the racist policy is fine and we're just going to keep its status quo. So that's what I'm hearing. And if I'm mishearing, then please... share with me what it is I'm missing? Because that's what I'm hearing sitting here. Well, Commissioner, I would suggest that some of our historic districts and conservation districts are exactly those areas where low-income people live. So I'm going to point to... The Chinatown, Japantown, for instance, which historically has always been an area where low-income people, immigrants, first landed in our city. And that has quite a few old buildings that are protected because they're in a historic district. Okay, that's one. Okay, Elliott is a conservation district. That's part of the core of Albina that has multiple conservation districts. And so all of those protect buildings that in many cases have nothing to do with white ownership or wealth. Of course there are wealthy historic districts. We agree with that, but... This is kind of across the board. Preservation is not just about being white or wealthy. Well, but I live in East Portland, right? We're not talking about preserving anything in East Portland. We're seeing it as an area of economic opportunity for developers. And so I'm just trying to, and I support a lot of the work that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is doing, so this is not a criticism of the work. But I feel like this conversation is not happening in the context of how public policy around land use planning has detrimentally impacted communities of color. And so when I hear about less preserved land, these historic districts, all I hear is, let's just keep status quo in place, and oh, we got a plan for East Portland, which says to me that 10 years from now, people of color will no longer be in East Portland, right? If that's the only place that we're talking about major development taking place. So I'm just concerned about, Voting on whether or not the status quo makes sense based on the new vision that we have about how we're moving land use plan and I do understand the difference between residential and multifamily housing and how few zone how small that is so unless we're doing something else fundamentally different and and which would mean historic districts would look different than they look today. I don't see how we ever get to the housing goals that we say we have. So if I might just interject that the percentage of Portland's total land area in historical conservation districts is 3% and the percentage of multi-family zoning in historical conservation districts is 4%. Commissioner gave us a couple of examples of areas If we destroy the Elliott district, for example, if we destroy the Lear Hill district, which is also from immigrant and low-income families, if we provide incentives to get rid of those structures, we're not getting any more of those structures. That's the nature of a historic district, is you cannot replicate this. It's no longer historic if it just looks like what was there before. So I think it's, and I know actually I was telling myself I would stop commenting because I know we've got a lot of people who want to testify and I'm here to listen to you. So I will stop commenting, but I just wanted to put that in. I appreciate the complexities that we have to deal with. But I just wanted to just make sure that the record reflected that that's what I hear. So unless I'm missing something, then we're still going to have inequalities built into our land use system at the end of the day. And that troubles me. Okay, the last thing I wanted to say about the kind of FAR and height issue that is currently proposed in the code or the BHBD is that there's a recently added provision that transfers can be allowed into historic districts. And again, we do... see that as increasing confusion, especially when there are going to be those inevitable cases where it's not going to be compatible and we have to say no and it'll increase the numbers of appeals. So we would like to limit that to not allowing transfers into historic districts. My second sort of overall or major point is that... It's really a, I guess, a plea to take sustainability seriously. It is our responsibility to push more adaptive reuse and allow less demolition, especially of older buildings that were constructed of materials made to last over 100 years. So we seek at a minimum a penalty for demolishing a contributing building in a historic or conservation district. And I know that this has been talked about as part of both Better Housing and the residential infill. And it's not currently in Better Housing. I think this is something that could easily be included and it would overall cause demolitions to decrease and for us to push more towards adaptive reuse. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you. Thank you both. All right. I have to play microphone cop because I want to get ‑‑ we have three invited panels that are mostly a subset of the 47 people who signed up. But I want to be respectful of the fact that there's a lot of people who are here who are not on the panels. So I'm going to ask panelists, we really want to hear your input, but can you keep your testimony to three minutes? Can you try to ‑‑ to make your case as strongly as possible in three minutes or less. So we now have invited testimony from people and groups who've been involved in the Better Housing by Design planning process, some people from the very beginning, and many of whom who know what successful implementation looks like. The first group involves people who are involved in building the housing we need. So we have Julie Livingston from Home Forward, Mike Beamer from Green Hammer, and Nick Sobby from Rose Community Development Corporation. Nick Sobby had a meeting. He did. Okay, that doesn't surprise me knowing Nick. He's got 25 irons in the fire. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Thank you very much, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners Fritz and Hardesty. It's very nice to be with you this afternoon. I am representing Home Forward today. I'm a project manager at Home Forward and am a developer of affordable housing. As Bill explained in his presentation, the multi-dwelling zones are well connected to schools, parks, job centers, commercial centers, and multimodal transit. As a result, they are great locations for households of all sizes, all incomes, all phases of life, and And Better Housing by Design is a game changer for affordable housing developers. To illustrate the significance of the impacts of Better Housing by Design, I analyzed the before and after capacity of a five-acre parcel that Home Forward owns in northeast Portland. And five acres is a lot of land. There aren't many parcels of this size in these zones, but this is in fact seven lots that have been aggregated into a single site. The site is currently zoned R2. It will transition to the RM1 when Better Housing by Design is adopted. If this site were to be redeveloped, the base zone density calculation would change. The existing R2 allows a maximum of 115 housing units. The proposed RM1 raises that to 220. And because the new calculation methodology is flexible, this number can be finessed by changing assumptions about unit sizes. Thank you. A density bonus for inclusionary housing would be available, and Home Forward would certainly provide housing units for households at or below 80% of area median income. The existing R2 bonus allows for a boost to 144 housing units. The proposed RM1 bonus takes that number to 330 housing units. The RM1 offers an additional bonus for deep affordability that isn't available in the R2 bonus. Deeply affordable units serve households at or below 60% of area median income. These are units that are largely financed with low-income housing tax credits, and they are the bread and butter of Portland's affordable housing development community. Home Forward would be able to increase density on this site by a further 50% to 440 units if we were to redevelop it. So I've represented Home Forward on the Technical Advisory Committee for the past three years, and I'm excited that Better Housing by Design is about to go live. Bill Cunningham has done an excellent job of soliciting and responding to feedback from a great variety of stakeholders. Cultivating affordability and livability have been front and center in his work, and he's been thoughtful and thorough in his evaluation of the galaxy of standards that impact housing development. In addition to density, standards for parking, building height, setbacks, and outdoor and community spaces have been simplified and right sized. Better housing by design is a milestone in the development of prosperous, healthy, equitable, and resilient Portland we all want. A city truly designed for people. And I hope that you are able to support it. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you so much for your testimony. I'm trying to follow you when you say that you could increase housing if RM1 zoning by 50%. Why would you be able to do that just because of the zone change? The calculation for density changes significantly when we transition from the existing code to the new code. So right now, density is described as the number of housing units allowed per square footage of site area. In the future, it's a totally different calculation that is based solely on the site area and how it is extruded. And how tall it is? Yeah, so the amount of square footage that we can put on the site in the future increases dramatically. How we spend it is up to us. We can build studios, ones, twos, threes. It's just square footage. And so building at 60% means a family of four would have to make $52,000 a year around that in order to be able to afford a property. An individual would have to make $37,000 a year at 60% of area median income. Yes, or have a voucher to assist. And are you anticipating? If that unit is at 60%, it is possible to build units for lower than 60% of area median income. If you have vouchers or some other financial assistance? Some other subsidy that supports units at, say, 30% of area median income. Everything Home Forward does is below 60%. Thank you. That's helpful. You bet. Thank you. Hey, Mike. Hello. My name is Mike Beamer. I'm an architect with Green Hammer, a local design-build firm focused on zero energy buildings and missing middle housing. We followed the development of Better Housing by Design proposal through its evolution and support the proposal. We have analyzed the proposal through multiple case studies and have found the proposed changes have a positive impact. The shift to an FAR based system allows greater flexibility in the type and number of housing units developed, which will allow for a greater variety of the housing options in these zones while maintaining an appropriate scale. The properties we have studied would be more likely to be developed and would include more housing units, including regulated affordable units if the proposal is adopted. We support the restructured bonuses, which prioritize affordable housing and family-sized units. We also support the addition of small-scale commercial use on major corridors. We find the overall package of proposals to be well considered and represent a significant improvement to the zoning code and encourage the council to adopt the package. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate you both. Thank you. Next group are community partners. We have Doug Armstrong from the East Portland Action Plan, Alan Delatorre, Vivek Chandas, and Danny Ledesma from the Portland Public Schools. Welcome. Thanks for being here. Sir, would you like to go ahead and start? Certainly. Thank you. Good afternoon, I'm Doug Armstrong and I'm testifying on behalf of the East Portland Action Plan. As you know, the East Portland Action Plan represents a comprehensive, community-driven effort to promote livability, improve the built environment, and stabilize low-income communities in East Portland. Staff from the BPS have met with EPAP and its committees at every stage of development of Better Housing by Design to ensure that the proposal you're now considering supports your goals and ours for East Portland. BHBD requires new affordable homes for low income and incentives for very low income families. Incentivizes the preservation of existing affordable homes and encourages the creation of more intentionally affordable for sale housing than is typically available in our city. The proposal measures new buildings by FAR, which is something EPAP supports, because it encourages development of housing units appropriate to larger families, which is an area of significant unmet need in East Portland. The proposal also supports East Portland families by retaining the current outdoor space requirements. We would like to see a requirement for common areas in all zones in new multi-unit developments. Under BHPD, new apartment projects will include rare setbacks. we would ask that 25% of the rear setback not be allowed to be paved and that 50% of the rear setback should not be allowed to be used as a vehicle use area. The proposal would also support our struggling families by allowing daycares in all multi-dwelling zones. The proposal incentivizes accessibility for residents and visitors, helping seniors and people with disabilities to live independently within the community they currently call home. BHPD includes a number of new design standards that recognize the unique built environment in East Portland. Another key piece of the mandate that underlies the East Portland action plan. Every element I've mentioned is specifically called out in the East Portland Action Plan, approved by this council more than a decade ago. I have provided you with a matrix, page two, that shows the relevant sections of the EPAP plan. And it's great to see that the goals identified by our community a decade ago will be given life in the form of new code language. BHPD is not a panacea, and we all know that zoning and design standards can't do everything we want for our community. They won't solve our affordability crisis. Still, these code changes move the needle substantially for East Portland, and we urge your support. Thank you. Thank you, Doug. And I have to say, bravo on the matrix. Somebody put a lot of time and energy into that. We sat down with all the paperwork, as Joanne, I'm sure, is well aware of. We've got a lot of it. And we found many, many points that... with what we were trying to do in East County. Thank you, and thanks for the community barbecue a few weeks ago. That was fantastic. You're welcome. Next year will be better. Excellent. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Vivek Chandas. I'm a professor of urban studies and planning at Portland State University, and I direct the Sustaining Urban Places Research Lab. We've been involved with Better Housing by Design from the beginning when we were asked to participate in a project that looked at it scientifically, trying to bring a data lens to it. And so what we did essentially was we started with this idea that the building stock in the city is one of the most essential components for dealing with climate stressors that communities face. And one of the biggest climate stressors that I've been looking at is urban heat in the region. And we found that East Portland gets the double whammy. Summertime heat, wintertime floods, and especially communities that have been historically underserved are those – that are most disproportionately impacted. And so what we did with Bill Cunningham and the team early on was to essentially use a computational fluid dynamics model. Say that three times. Yeah, there you go. Which is an off-the-shelf model designed in Germany and has rarely been applied to any urban environment. developments, particularly in the policy realm. So we really broke some pretty serious research ground in taking the scenarios that Bill and the design team had put together. We digitized those and we are running these models to basically see what would be the impact on communities in terms of their experience of the temperature during heat waves that are increasing in intensity, frequency, and duration. And what we are finding is that there are several design considerations that would be very beneficial to keeping the temperature, in fact, at or below the higher density levels. This was a breakthrough for not only the field, but it was a real breakthrough for the design team at BPS to see that, yes, we can increase density and also keep temperatures at or even below what it was prior to the development. And so part of what we're seeing in terms of the reduction in surface parking, what we're seeing in terms of the front setbacks, what we're seeing in terms of the preservation of trees on the site is largely based on some of the outputs from these models. And so early on, those discussions were seeded. Those were then taken and taken out to the community. They're in Appendix C, I believe, of the overall Better Housing by Design document. I want to just, I would be remiss if I didn't say this based on the questions that came up earlier from Commissioner Hardesty, was as part of a different project we looked at 108 cities across the country, looked at historic redlining maps that were part, that were digitized. And we wanted to see what the temperatures were of those areas that were historically redlined. This is over 80 years ago, to what the current temperatures are in those areas in comparison to the areas that weren't redlined. And of the 108 cities, I was absolutely flabbergasted when I found that Portland was number one on that list. The hottest areas of Portland are those areas... that were historically redlined. And so not only did the services not make their way into those areas at that time, they're now disproportionately affecting the communities. And with this project, I would like to at least plea to you not only to support it, but to – take into consideration climate in all future development projects. Because once these things go in, they're going to be there for 50, 80, 100 years. And what happens to the planet and what happens to the city in 50, 80 to 100 years is going to hit those communities with the least access to the resources. the hardest. And so not only did our historical policies affect this, but now what we do going forward will affect this. So I'll stop there and my time's up. Great points. Thank you. We appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, City Council, the two commissioners that are here. I want to first commend my colleague at Portland State for great empirical work. I'm going to put on my age-friendly coordinator hat today and not the research hat. I served in the project work group and I'm really excited to see what's come forward, although I do have some recommendations and a couple criticisms or maybe even suggestions for moving forward. First and foremost, I do feel that the Better Housing by Design project is positioned to move forward equitable and age-friendly policies in the city of Portland. And I do want to note that I'm talking about equity really from this disability accessibility perspective and not the affordability perspective. And to just underscore some of the racial equity kind of lens that's been applied here as well, it's important to note that communities of color and older adults of color in particular have the highest rates of disability. And so when we think about that, the accessible, visitable component is really important. Some aspects of this that's furthered the comprehensive plan include equitable housing, accessible centers, physically accessible housing, accessible design for all, and aging in place. And importantly, reducing social isolation, which is an issue that I think we don't always talk about. Also, this is furthering the action plan for an age-friendly Portland and improving accessible housing, advancing opportunities for aging and community, creating accessible social spaces, again, reducing social isolation, and improving the age-friendliness of neighborhood centers. I think that it's very important though to think about the residential outdoor areas as part of the solution, but uncovered and inaccessible outdoor spaces don't work for everyone. So I just want to encourage us to think about things like covered courtyards and other places for people to convene in the rainy seasons of our kind of region. Because the truth is that there are a lot of people who don't want to go out, you know, from about November to February in an outdoor space. We need places that we can recreate. And I'm going to get to the last point and try to keep this short. While I support this concept of visitable housing and the bonus provision for accessible and visitable housing, it's an incentive-based approach that's not perfect. And so while it is the best tool that we have currently, we as a city need to advance a legislative agenda at the state to address issues of the Oregon Building Code Division and its minimum and maximum codes or mini-max code standard that does not allow us here in the city of Portland to think innovatively outside of that box. It's important for us to move forward with the state to say we want a pilot project or some exemption that would allow us to move beyond the constrictions of state code and moving that forward. I hope to be involved with that legislative push in the next year in 2020, and thank you for getting me here. I've got kids I've got to pick up, so this is good, well-timed, and I'm going to run out the door after this, so thank you. Very good. We appreciate your being here, and thanks to East Portland Action Plan, Portland State, we appreciate all your hard work. Commissioner Hardesty, did you have a comment? And there was one more person on this panel. Yes. Great. Come on up. Thanks, gentlemen. It's good to see you. Hi. Hi, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Schwartz and Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you so much for allowing me to share Portland Public Schools' perspective on this. I think a lot of our educators, our administrators, our families, our parents know instinctively that housing matters to education. I'm sorry to have to do this, but can you put your name into the record? Oh, I apologize. I should know better. Danny Ledesma. I'm with Portland Public Schools. Thanks. Sorry about that. Sure. That's okay. Okay. We understand that housing matters to education. Not only do we know this instinctively and do our parents and families know this, but the preponderance of the research also talks about how beyond location and proximity to schools, the quality of housing, the affordability of housing, the stability of housing plays a significant part of educational performance. Yes. Having a safe, stable, affordable home means that students are having to move less often, which not only has an impact on individual students in a classroom, but also on the classroom community where there's less mobility. Students who live in safe and quality housing are less likely to suffer from health hazards. They're able to be more healthy and to be able to participate in school activities. Students who live closer to their neighborhood schools have a shorter commute time, if you will. They're able to walk to their schools in a safe way and they'll be able to spend more time on their homework. So we know all these things about the connection between housing and education and health. And we also really appreciate the myriad of ways in which Portland, the City of Portland and Portland Public Schools partner. Over the last 10 months, Portland Public Schools engaged in a significant visioning process. And during our visioning process, we're very proud of the fact that not only do we have a sort of future-focused graduate portrait that we're looking at. We're the first education district that also has a list of educator essentials as well as system shifts that are needed to achieve the vision that we have for our students. And one of the system shifts that we talk about and one of the ways that we think that we're sisters in arms with our city of Portland partners is that one of the items that came out is that we really need to provide flexible future focused environments and plans and decisions about physical environments should be informed by two key perspectives Equity and a focus on the future and together these perspectives promote the development of healthy flexible inclusive places of learning So like you were really concerned about how the physical environment the built environment impacts learning And so we're really supportive of the better housing by design and because of all the reasons that have been listed before, but I think the two that really sort of stand out to us is the ability and the flexibility to have more outdoor space so that children can play safely. They can sort of be able to... encourage and develop all parts of their selves so that they're thinking about not only their learning and emotional but their physical parts and then I think the other piece that we're really supportive of is the East Portland standards and the better connectivity we know that our historically underserved students or students of color primarily are are disproportionately impacted by displacement, by gentrification, and a lack of affordability in terms of housing. And so the more that we can support students where they're living. We also heard earlier about how students of color primarily live in multifamily dwellings. And so any enhancements to design to make that more livable for our families and to support the different housing types for the families that are there and to support their learning. We're very supportive. So thank you for your time. Thanks, Dani. Appreciate your testimony. Thanks to PPS for all their work on this. Our final panel today is the Rosewood Initiative in East Portland. We have Jenny Glass, Ken Marks, and Ioana Molina-Marcio. Okay, can we do this? We've had a request for how many minute break? Three minute break. We're in recess. All right, we are back in session and we have the Rosewood Initiative representatives here. Jenny, do you want to kick it off for us? Sure, sure. Good afternoon. My name is Jenny Glass. I'm the executive director of the Rosewood Initiative. I'm not going to take a ton of time. But last year, members of our staff and community participated with Bill Cunningham and others from BPS for the Better Housing by Design listening sessions and workshops at Rosewood. Through this process and through lots and lots of other community engagement throughout the years, we have heard loud and clear from our neighbors that multifamily housing in East Portland is not currently meeting the needs of our community for a variety of reasons. So I think you're all aware of multi-family development in the East has not been designed or regulated in a way that creates safe and healthy living environment for residents. These East Portland Code Amendments presented in this draft are a critical start to changing that trend. Much of the existing multi-family housing in East was really not built to support people with children. And has not done enough to help catalyze healthy whole neighborhoods. And because of the lack of connected street grid and lack of amenities like commercial districts and parks in East County. We need multi-family housing to provide at least some of that on-site, outdoor and community and even small business spaces. Even with the recent investments in parks in East Portland, we still have a really long way to go before all people can access, safely access, public open spaces with their families. Also, the commercial development pattern in East really reflects an era of suburbia that's just no longer relevant to how a lot of folks in East Portland actually live. People currently have to travel several miles to do their basic shopping and meet their basic needs. New multifamily housing in East Portland has the opportunity to change this by requiring outdoor space and creating ground floor community and even commercial space for organizations and local businesses to serve the community. We're hopeful that you'll approve these amendments and continue to do more to make all of the neighborhoods in East Portland great communities to live, work, and play. Thanks, Jenny. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Is this working? Yes. My name is Cal Marx. I'm the Director of Transportation Equity at the Rosewood Initiative. As you know, my area of interest is transportation, so I'm going to come at this from that perspective. East Portland development, as Jenny just mentioned, is from a bygone day where the auto was the preeminent means of transportation. Thus, the street network does not support alternative modes like walking, biking, or accessing transit. This plan goes a long way towards doing that in many ways. One is creating a better connectivity network for pedestrians so that they can get from the inner part of the mega blocks to the corridors where the transit exists. That's a major thing and we really push that when we're going through this process and we thank BPS for being open to ensuring that connectivity for pedestrians was a major part of this for the East Portland segment. Another aspect of... why this has been official to East Portlanders is just the way that the apartments will, or multifamily housing will be oriented towards the street. The way currently that they are oriented is way off of the streets where people have to go through parking lots. where people are at risk, especially children and people with disabilities, seniors. This reorients the housing to the corridors and makes the access to transit much easier. It makes just the walkability much easier for people. The addition of, you know, businesses on the ground floor increases people's ability to walk to places as opposed to driving to meet their needs. I want to also touch on something that the professor from PSU had highlighted. East Portland is a heat island in the summer and it is essentially an iceberg in the winter. This plan will address those problems and those problems create barriers to people walking and people getting to transit. If it's 90 degrees outside or 100 degrees outside and you're walking along asphalt with no shade then and you've got a health issue, then you're probably not going out. You're not going to that doctor's appointment. You're not going to meet with your friends. You're not doing those things because it is unbearable. You are risking your life when you do that, and that is not hyperbole. That is a real fact. If you have children, you are less likely to walk along in those conditions. There's another thing that the professor didn't mention that you should also be aware of. The environment, the built environment, has psychological impacts on people as well as physical impacts. If you don't have greenery and you don't have those things that make you... want to be out and walking, that increases your stress. Portland State has done numerous studies on this. That stress has physiological impacts on you, and not just adults but children. Again, this plan will go to our – work towards addressing those problems and in so doing it will make accessing or using alternative means other than a car much easier for people and that has many impacts or benefits including climate crisis. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. All right, that concludes our panel discussion. So now we're going to open up the floor for public testimony. Carla is going to read the names, three minutes each, please. And if you could just state your name for the record. We don't need to know your street address or anything like that unless you'd like everybody in the city to know. I show 32 people left on the list. All right, we'll just get through as many as we can. I have to leave at about 10 till, but we'll get us through as many as we can today. First three please come on up are Terry Parker, Fred Leeson, and Lawrence Kujaku. Thank you and welcome for your, welcome and thank you for your patience. I guess I need more coffee. Terry, do you want to start for us, please? Yeah. Terry Parker, Northeast Portland, fourth generation Portlander. Close to 89% of households in the Portland metro area have one or more cars. 72% of households living in apartment complexes with no off street parking. have one or more cars. Between 2010 and 2035, Portland's growth rate is projected to include 260,000 more people, which equates to 123,000 more households. Included with the majority of these households is approximately 100,000 more cars. Car trips are expected to increase by 49% regardless of how much mass transit is added. Adequate off-street parking needs to be required with all new residential development, be it close to transit or not. For people with electric cars, adequate means on-site overnight charging access with no need to run long extension cords across sidewalks or down the block. While 59% of low-income people drive to their place of employment, for people who use alternative modes to commute, adequate off-street parking means a safe place to store their cars possibly for days at a time. Moreover, adequate parking requires no less than three spaces for every four units. with one space per unit preferred. For both TriMet and Metro surveys, congestion, road maintenance and the need to increase motor vehicle capacity and infrastructure were among the top transportation related priorities. Instead of engaging in failed social engineering car heater policies that include a lack of parking and creating more congestion with road diets, the role of the survey respondents needs to be applied. No democratic city or be denying residents the freedom of mobility a car provides, either by dictatorial deterrent taxation or lack of infrastructure. A reality check is needed. Requiring off-street parking is both an equity and livability issue that needs to be one of the design components of better housing. The streets should not be utilized for 24-7 car storage, which in turn generates negative impacts. for residential neighborhoods. Such impacts include drivers circling to find a parking place. A PBOT employee recently told me the expectation is that people moving to Portland will not have cars. That's a sheer fantasy. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Hi. Hi, my name is Fred Leeson. I'm a board member of the Architectural Heritage Center that I'm representing today. We've been following better housing by design from the outset, hoping to find ways to achieve greater density without denigrating the scale and context of our historic districts, notably the Alphabet District, Kings Hill, and Irvington. For Commissioner Hardesty, I will say that the minority percentage of residents in Irvington and Alphabet districts exceed the average throughout the city. Half of the kids at Irvington school are on free lunch. We're not all wealthy, we're not all white. We've collaborated repeatedly with the neighborhood associations involved. We're appreciative of the time Bill Cunningham took to meet with us and to hear our ideas and discuss potential outcomes. Personally, I believe his attitude has helped restore the concept of citizen planning that many of us feel has been greatly devalued in Portland in recent years. I'll touch briefly on three elements currently in the plan that we support and encourage you to adopt. Our first is the rearrangement of zones in the alphabet district that is intended to make the new buildings more compatible with the scale of the historic buildings. Second, the largest scale zone, RM4, is defined differently in historic districts than elsewhere. The base floor area ratio is somewhat lower, again to make the buildings more compatible with the scale of the largest historic apartment buildings. This is somewhat the issue that Kristen Miner was addressing and I endorse her testimony. Third, the plan expands opportunities for floor area ratios to be transferred from historic buildings to other buildings in all multi-family zones. If proceeds from the transfers are used to help finance the cost of seismic bracing of the historic buildings, that's just one approach that can help the seismic issue. Of course, the preservation community so far has not achieved all that we might want to wish, that we would wish for. Imagine that. Our President, Steve Dauderer, submitted a detailed written testimony, although he could not be here today. Larry Kojak, who sits beside me, is a member of our planning committee, and he will summarize key elements that remain on our wish list. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Hersky, one moment. Excuse me for just a sec. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to say I used to have a house in Irvington and I'm not rich or white. So my implication was not that everybody in historic districts are rich. However, I want to be very clear. The way we've done land use planning has benefited some communities at the expense of others. No, no problem. And also I can say as an Irvington resident that Irvington was also a victim of redlining for many, many years. Well, we could talk about that. Thank you. It depends on what side of the street you were on and whether or not you were. Which side of 15th, yeah. Which side of 15th. I was on the other side, so I know what you're talking about. Good afternoon. I'm Larry Kujaku from the Advocacy Committee of the Architectural Heritage Center. We are requesting three changes to the recommended draft, as you can see on the second page of our handout. Okay. First, we ask that the zoning map of the Kings Hill Historic District be further revised by assigning the RM3 zone to a few blocks containing mostly historic houses, as shown on the map attached to your handout. We are asking for the same rationale, the pattern of scale of historic buildings, that was correctly applied to rearranging the zones in the Alphabet District to be applied to Kings Hill. This would have little effect on housing capacity since immediately outside the historic district boundary, the recommended draft up zones the equivalent of over three blocks. Second, we ask that historic districts be excluded from the 100-foot height allowance within 1,000 feet of a max station as was done in the original proposed draft. Restoring this exclusion would be consistent with the exclusion of historic districts from 100 foot heights near streets with frequent bus service. In the few blocks of the alphabet district affected by this 10 story height allowance, there are no buildings even half as tall. So required approval by the Landmarks Commission would be very unlikely. Please note that this height allowance does not require affordable units beyond the citywide minimum. while the default RM4 zone would require increasing proportions of affordable units to gain additional size and height. Finally, we ask that a provision be added that denies bonuses and transfers to sites in historic districts where a historic building is demolished. Because the recommended draft not only applies all development incentives to historic districts, but greatly increases them, a higher threat of demolition is inevitable, since historic districts are largely built out. We have no objection to the demolition of non-contributing buildings, but the demolition of historic buildings should not be rewarded with additional allowances. These changes are minor in the context of citywide zoning, but would have a huge impact on fragile historic districts with vulnerable historic buildings. I'd like to mention that just as national parks belong to all Americans, historic districts that are listed in the National Register of Historic Places belong to all of us, and we really need to protect them. Thank you. Thank you, and thank you for your handout as well. Appreciate it. Next three, please, Carla. Doug Klotz, Michael Anderson, and Tony Jordan. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Thanks for your patience. Thank you. Do you want to go ahead and start? Hi. I'm Doug Klotz. There's a handout. But I'm here representing, it looks like this, I'm here representing Inner Southeast Action, which is a community group embracing change to promote livability and inclusivity, sustainability, and climate projection, and we also support housing affordability. Better housing by design, will increase the number of units that can be built near jobs, transit and shopping, which will result in less driving, less carbon emissions. As reached, CDC said it will promote affordable housing and better housing across the city. We support all the changes proposed, especially the change from unit count to FAR and calculations. This will allow more units and there's also inclusionary zoning and additionally the deep affordability bonus in CM2 that Bill told you about. We do support FAR transfers to preserve affordable housing and to preserve trees. And we also support transferring it into historic districts as the Planning and Sustainability Commission supported. Along with Portland Irrigation Parking Reform, we support elimination of parking requirements in all multifamily zones, including more than 500 feet from transit where demand is less and transit is still an easy walk. And 500 feet is like two blocks. We support reduction of side setbacks to five feet and reduced front setbacks which will give you more flexibility. If there's a tree in the backyard, you can slide the building toward the street. If the tree's in front, you can slide the building back. But with a built-in, a required setback in front, you sometimes are not given that flexibility. The other thing I want to mention in regard to trees and heat islands is we need to get more street trees, and we're getting less and less with every new building. There's P-BOT initiative, I'll call it Streets 2035, which is private meetings that I can't go to, but the vaults and the sidewalk are precluding street trees. Look at the new buildings around downtown. There's like blank sidewalks with no trees. So that needs to be addressed everywhere. We support P-BOT's Connected Sandwich Project in East Portland. And we do have some concerns about the FAR. I am in corners like Belmont and Division, which is, we think, too low to take full advantage of the good transit service there. It could be that we may need to talk about changing the zoning, just moving some of the Better Housing by Design zones move them around a little to get a higher rate in there. So, but otherwise we support that. I wanted to talk a little about the Alphabet District and especially what Ms. Miner said. I think that in a historic district, you look at Europe, they build new big buildings right next to 300-year-old buildings. But as Landmarks Commission's testimony, the PLAC strongly opposes opportunity to earn more bulk in these areas, in other words, get more FAR for having affordable housing, even for deeply needed affordable housing. That's their words. So I think we need to have some re-look at how we treat historic districts. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Afternoon, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. My name is Michael Anderson. I live near the 60th Avenue max stop. I'm a senior researcher at Sightline Institute. It's a sustainability think tank for the Pacific Northwest. I think of myself as an analyst more than an advocate, but I'm speaking today on behalf of my colleague, Madeline Kovacs, who's unable to attend. Thank you. She'll be submitting Sidelines' generally supportive letter to the record. Better housing by design, she says, has improved in many ways in the last four years. Sidelines' analysis is that this reform will improve affordability and reduce aggregate displacement while legalizing greener housing amid our climate crisis. She also wanted me to say that site line disagrees strongly with the recommendation to push front setbacks from 3 to 10 feet. Sidewalk stoops are perfectly suited to a vibrant urban environment, and hundreds if not thousands of homes might be lost over a 20-year period if all new buildings have to give up that space. It's not just about those 7 feet. It's about the fact that they make possible the entire project and pay for the good things like inclusionary housing and other costs that are carried along with the project. I'm also here to briefly present research on one particular aspect of the proposal before you, the effect of parking on affordability. The following numbers don't come from us, they come from the city's website inside the modeling that the city contracted. So here are the city's own findings. What the analysis found was that on a 10,000 square foot lot in the new RM2 zone in a relatively close in Portland neighborhood, like the one I personally rent in, Two scenarios are the most likely. Scenario one is a row of 10 townhomes that sell for $730,000 each with zero below-market homes. Scenario 2 is a mixed income condo building including four privately financed community land trust homes that are affordable to those preschool teachers and nursing assistants. And 28 brand new market rate units that cost just $280,000. That comes to a monthly mortgage payment of $1,400, so affordable to the second year elementary school teacher PPS or two retail workers who make $12 an hour. There's no question which of those two scenarios is better for affordability and for the climate. There's one thing that makes a difference between those two scenarios, and that is whether or not off-street parking is required. If the homes are required to have garages, either by the government or by the bank that writes the construction loan, then townhomes are the likeliest option. If no parking is required, then the mixed-income condo will be the likeliest option. You can see that in the slides here. These bars basically show the probability of different projects happening. The first shows that with parking, the likeliest project is the $703,000 townhomes. The second chart shows a world without on-site parking where the likeliest project becomes the mixed-income flats where even the market rate homes are just $280,000. Removing the city parking requirement will not guarantee mixed income condos are built. Lenders may require the building to have that anyway. But given these city findings, it would seem very, very strange for the city to require parking anywhere in this zone. Most Portland households own cars and will continue to, and building practices will reflect this. But there's nowhere in Portland that auto storage is more important than housing, and the city's laws should reflect that too. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Tony Jordan and I'm going to follow up and talk a little bit more about parking. as you might expect. I agree with everything Michael just said. I strongly encourage reading his post that went out on Siteline today. It's very informative and well researched. And I'm going to speak specifically, add a little bit more about these parking requirements. So, so Better Housing by Design, anything that's already exempted from parking, which is near transit, is exempted from further parking requirements. And Also lots that are smaller than 10,000 square feet are exempted. So actually most of the zones that are affected by Better Housing Design don't have parking requirements already. I believe it's only like a thousand lots in the city that would be impacted by these parking requirements. And most of them are just outside of the border. So this is, I don't know if you can see this, this is like just an example of where the parking is required near Ladd's Addition. And you have these little pockets that are just, you know, like no one would say that this street, which is Salmon Street, is a bad place to live without a car. But our current requirements, because they're just as arbitrary based on 500 square feet from a transit stop, leave little places out. We have an example of this at the Sunshine Dairy over by 20th and the Banfield. It's 70 feet too far and as a result they have to seek a variance to have no parking. I just wonder what is really the big danger to eliminating these requirements that only really apply to a thousand spaces anyway. There's another wrinkle which is Better Housing by Design smartly makes parking somewhat more environmental. I don't believe you can actually have environmentally friendly parking, but it does require more permeability in covered parking spaces. that makes parking that you do have to build more expensive. So if we are requiring parking on some lots, even a small amount, but we're making them more expensive, we're kind of at cross purposes to our goals. We want affordable housing and green development. So I just think that, you know, in light of our, for climate purposes, there are other ways to manage the concerns that could come from adding, housing without parking. As Michael mentioned, there will still be parking. There is a lot of structured parking that is going to be here forever. But we can advance our already developed permitting processes and neighborhood parking management toolkits in order to alleviate any problems that might pop up. Someone earlier, I think from PSU, said these structures will be here for a long, long time. We need to be looking towards a future where if everyone is still owning a car, we've messed up really badly. So I suggest cutting those thousand lots out of this and just getting rid of the parking requirements altogether. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three, please. Are Leran Murphy, Ron Chandler, and Charles Bridgecrane? I think Charles might have left. They've got it. He had enough of it. Looks like Charles is gone. We'll go with Alan Kessler. Good afternoon. Would you like to go ahead and start, please? Sure. Thank you. Nelson? Mayor, commissioners, my name is Lirian Murphy, and I am here today to address a specific property and ask for a small technical fix to Better Housing by Design that would otherwise be an extremely lengthy and potentially cost-prohibitive process for us. We purchased the Jacob H. Cook House on Southeast Belmont in Mount Tabor out of auction in 2018. And we have spent the past 14 months restoring the house. The house had been abandoned for eight years. Yeah. The house had been abandoned for eight years and had been badly vandalized. And it had been a target for a lot of illicit activity. The house was also identified as a significant historic resource in a project that the city did in the late 80s. And the neighbors and the community have just been so involved in this process and they've been so excited and they're really engaged and they reach out to us daily in social media and online and they come by the property and they're just really excited about the project. Anyway, we are currently looking for creative and economically viable opportunities to open this house up to the community and allow folks to be a part of this. We are running into a significant challenge in being able to get the permitting to be able to find an adaptive reuse for this project. If you look at the second page of the handout that I've given you, it shows the zoning map for this project. And you can see where that thick black line runs across the middle of the page. That's the zoning line. Everything below that is zoned R2. Everything above that line is zoned R5. And you can see where I've drawn that little circle there. Six feet of this house sits in that R5 zone. That six feet represents an enclosed back porch and a small room off the kitchen. And... Because of that mixed zoning, we are not allowed to apply for any sort of alternative uses for the property right now. We don't have an option to share it with the community. And so what we're asking for today as part of this project is... and as part of our ability to be able to do adaptive reuse, is to move that line back the six feet where you see I've drawn in that dotted line that would allow us to go and apply for different permits and give us the opportunity to open up the house to the community. Additionally, what does that mean when you say open the house to the community? I believe that the house should be shared, small events, rehearsal dinners, community engagements. So it would be a place that people could rent for community events? That's not quite the same as... you know, being open to the community. So I'm glad we have that clarification. Thank you. I actually, our plan was to open the, we did extensive gardens around the property, and our plan was to open up those gardens to the community. And we have invited the community in-house frequently. We bring people through all the time. And so while, yes, it would be a place for small events, it's also a place that I want to open up to organizations like the Architectural Heritage Center, to different community gatherings that aren't part of a paying event option. I do believe this house should be shared and that's why I've spent my whole life restoring it for the past 14 months. So I want it to be a part of the community. Additionally, we have been approved for a state incentive program that obligates us to apply for national and state historic designation, and we are pursuing that direction. Great. Commissioner Fritz? And I believe, because thank you for sending in your testimony by email in advance, you've also applied to be on the National Historic Register. We're working on that. Working on that. And I'm assuming that usually we don't have lots that have got one zoning on one side and two different zones. So I'm assuming it would be all right with you if it was just all rezoned to R2? rather than just moving that line? Absolutely. That doesn't change how anyone else would use the property. It doesn't change if a developer were to come in and decide to tear the house down. It doesn't change how they would be able to use the property either. Thank you. Let me just congratulate you. I think this is fantastic what you've done here. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Ron Chandler. I've also been a longtime East Portland resident for 40 years. I submitted arguments in favor of increased density, so I will just jump over reading this. I'll just read the seven highlights. Thanks. Also, I wanted to take a moment to commend Bill Cunningham. He has been a terrific resource and extraordinarily available. I mean, somehow or another I got his phone number. I couldn't believe every time I called he picked up the phone. I mean, and he responded to emails. If he didn't answer the phone, he responded to emails quickly. So anyway, reasons why high density is a good idea for our city. First of all, it's geographically easier to manage school districts. It's lower cost to maintain infrastructure for governments. SPRAL doesn't pay the bills. More details on that. Low-density developments often do not provide a large enough tax base to cover the cost of public services. Mixed-use developments with retail and apartments tend to pay a higher commercial tax rate and provide more services privately than communities made up of single-family homes. Higher-density development helps attract new employers. Higher-density development can increase property values. Believe it or not, higher density development generates less traffic than low density development per unit. While residents of low density single family communities often have two or more cars per household, residents of high density apartments and condominiums tend to have only one car per household. When public transportation is readily available, people in walkable communities will often opt to use it. And finally, it gets rid of urban blight. I did submit this document on the testimony web page, so it's available and complete, and I'll yield the rest of my time. Thank you, sir. Thank you both. Next three, please, Carla. Was Alan Kessler here, Bruce Nelson, John Gibbon, Tracy Prince, and Daniel Solomon? And then can I see a show of hands how many people have not testified yet? I'm so sorry. Okay. Yeah, unfortunately we will not be able to finish it today, but I want to promise you, if you're not testifying today, that you will be at the top of the list when we reconvene. And of course, we will take written testimony if you'd prefer. And I appreciate your patience and your forbearance. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon and almost good evening. I want to congratulate the Mayor and the Commissioners for your stamina. Congratulations. My name is Bruce Nelson. I'm here this evening to speak on behalf of Trees for Life. My comments will specifically pertain to trees that relate to this particular document. One very petty suggestion is in the portion that deals with the floor area ratio standard. In regards to trees, there is reference to dead, dying, and dangerous. Later on in that section, the terms that are used are dead, diseased, and dangerous. Dying and diseased are not synonymous. It would behoove the city to delete the word diseased and only use dying. Otherwise, you open up a can of worms later on. Now, on to some more specific concerns I have. I am specifically addressing the East Portland standard. The high-density housing is going to go along highly traveled roads. There will be more housing going in there that will lead to the removal of a number of trees for these development projects. The... These particular neighborhoods in East County currently have an average tree canopy of 23%. The goal for the city is 30%. The current canopy level in Eastmoreland is 42%, and Laurelhurst is 38%. The results with this increased high density housing, the removal of trees for this, and probably lack of guidance in how you include space for trees in these developments, we're going to lead to, in East Portland in particular, we're not going to meet the Comp 35 standards principles that talk about environmental health and equity. These are not going to, I'll say they're inadequately met because trees are not being taken into account. I would suggest that one way to improve this would be somehow we need a comprehensive and coordinated long-term plan to improve the canopy in East Portland. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. My name is John Gibbon. I'm a... First Vice President of Sweeney, transportation representative for the Markham neighborhood, which is one of the... what I want to say, Portland south of 5, south of 99W neighborhoods. In that area I'm speaking today related to transportation issues that this project raises in the Markham neighborhood. We only have two pieces of property in Markham that are affected by this. One is an existing apartment complex on the off ramp at 35th and Taylor's Ferry Road. And the other one is a piece of single fan, developed as a single family parcel, but R2 zone property at the on-ramp at Spring Garden. And it's actually between, at the intersection of Southwest 20th and 21st, which really does exist in Southwest Portland. There's an intersection where two numbered streets come together, and it's right in front of this piece of property. In both those cases, the problem we have is not with the zoning. Obviously, it's already been zoned that way, and this upgrade is good. But in both cases, we don't have safe... pedestrian and bicycle access from either of those properties. It's a situation where the city is going to have to take a serious look at getting us that last two or three blocks over to Spring Gardens so people can walk across and get to the Barber Transit Corridor or At 35th, they're going to have to do vegetation management so the kids that live in the apartment complex on the east side of 35th Avenue across from the state highway yards have an ability to walk the four blocks it takes to get up to Jackson Middle School. And I know Commissioner Fritz has worked with our neighborhoods over a long period of time in trying to get sidewalks along 35th. And we understand they're expensive, difficult kind of things. But if you're going to do this upzoning, which it essentially is, and you're going to say this is where we want people to live in multifamily, we've got to come to grips with the transportation issues. The existing apartment complex sees a bus for about, 10 hours, 12 hours a day on the weekdays, not on the weekends. So that's the issue for Southwest. Thank you. Appreciate your coming in, sir. Good afternoon. Yes, my name is Daniel Salomon and I am a disabled Section 8 renter in Goose Hollow. I'm very lucky to live in a neighborhood where the neighborhood association fights so hard to protect its low income renters. People seem to have the wrong idea about the Kings Hill Historic District, which is in the Goose Hollow neighborhood. In fact, Kings Hill is not a high-income area. The medium household income for Kings Hill is more than 9% lower than in the rest of Portland. Many people also seem to have the wrong idea about Goose Hollow. In fact, Goose Hollow residents are 80% renters, and half of those are low-income. Our neighborhood association has worked to make sure that our board members represent our diverse demographics. Half of our neighborhood association boards are renters and half are low income. All of our low income board members live in Kings Hill in the naturally occurring affordable housing of mid-rise apartment buildings and big old houses that have been converted to apartments. 20% of our board are people of color, We joined the Architectural Heritage Center and the Northwest District Association in asking you to right-size the zoning to RM free for Kings Hill and to lower height limits within 1,000 feet of the Goose Hollow MAC Station, which touches part of Kings Hill and would cause demolitions. When we ask for these things, we are asking you to protect the most affordable housing in our neighborhood. Thanks very much. Thank you for being here. You're welcome. Good evening, and I'm sorry you're going to be the last person to testify. I made it. I apologize to those of you who didn't. So I'm Tracy Prince. I'm on the board of the Architectural Heritage Center, but I'm here as the president of the Goose Hollow Neighborhood Association. And we represent Kings Hill Historic District. It's predominantly mid-rise apartments that have our most affordable housing in Goose Hollow. We've done a Craigslist rental search, and we found that... The apartments in Kings Hill are half the price per square foot of outside of Kings Hill. So it is a dramatically affordable area with naturally occurring affordable housing. More than half of our board are low-income residents and we have many families who live with several children living in one-bedroom apartments. This is very common on Kings Hill. And so we want to make sure everybody understands the demographic we're dealing with because I think they see the big old houses and that's what they think is the predominant demographic. We support subdividing those big old houses and putting two historically appropriate ADUs in the backyard. We just don't want the big old houses demolished. So that's all we're asking for. The current RM4 zoning, as proposed in this draft, incentivizes the demolition of eight buildings on Kings Hill. And if these eight buildings were demolished, then that would cause the entire district to be delisted. When Kings Hill was created, the zoning was never changed. So we're asking to right-size the zoning at this point. Although Kings Hill is a smaller historic district than Alphabet, it was listed a decade earlier and should receive the same consideration in the zoning as the Alphabet Historic District. So we're asking for a small section to be looked at for RM3. The neighboring Kings Hill and Alphabet Historic Districts have mirror images of each other with the larger RM4 mostly up against Burnside. The alphabet district map was changed in this process with the support of the Northwest District Association with a really fine grain analysis. And so we're asking for a little bit more fine grain analysis on ours with just the eight spots. We want to set fair expectations. We have developers come to our planning committee and they think that because it says 100 foot here that they can get it. And then we have to tell them, no you can't. And then Landmarks has to tell them, no you can't. So we think with the right size zoning that it just sets all the expectations from the beginning. It makes it much easier for everyone to understand. what they can achieve in a historic district. And we are pro-density. We are the densest neighborhood in all of Oregon. Very good. Well, first of all, thank you, everyone, who did testify today. For those of you who did not and want to testify at the next hearing, we will still entertain your written testimony. So if you want to get that to us, like, tonight, we will read that, and we will have it, and you can still come in and testify in person. So that concludes today's. The council's acceptance of oral testimony for today, this public hearing is continued to Wednesday, November 6th at 2 p.m. Time certain, at which time we will continue to hear additional oral testimony, starting with the people who've signed up today but did not get the opportunity to testify. The written record will remain open until November 6th. So again, please feel free to send us your emails. We will read them. When council reconvenes, we may introduce amendments. If at that time council determines additional public testimony is warranted for any proposed amendments, the council may reopen the record for the limited purpose of testimony on those amendments. Did I get everything, legal counsel? Yes. Very good. And I'll just say this. This was some of the best public testimony I've heard in a long time. People spent a ton of time preparing for this, and it showed. And I want to thank you, and I look forward to reading and or hearing the testimony from those of you who did not get a chance to testify today. So with that, we are adjourned. And what's your evening event? Oh, my goodness. Well, I have the regional water consortium board tonight. No, mine's for us. Mine and your fund. You lose. And Bob Cossey. Oh, okay. I have a dinner with him. He's a great guy. He is a great guy. I apologize.