Good afternoon. We have a very special pre-GAVL presentation today and proclamation reading. I would like to start by reading our proclamation. We have some very special guests here today. We have Sherry Scott, Bow and Arrow Board Treasurer and respected community elder, is here with us today. Thank you.
 We have Isha Pertle-Boise, who is the Miss City of Roses. And we have Jennifer Pertle, who is Miss City of Roses' mother. So we're very excited. And if the three of you would like to come up and sit in these chairs here, we'd be honored to have you. Welcome to the Portland City Hall, to the City Council Chambers. We're delighted to see you.
 Colleagues, I have a proclamation I'd like to read. It is Indigenous Peoples Day on October 10th, and I'd like to read the proclamation if I could. And I'm noticing that the proclamations, the point type is getting smaller and smaller. I feel like this is a secret eye test at some point. So whereas...
 The City of Portland recognizes that indigenous people of the lands that would later become known as the Americas have occupied these lands since time immemorial. And whereas the City recognizes the fact that Portland is built upon the homelands and villages and traditional use areas of the Multnomah and Clackamas, Chinookan of this region, without whom the building of the City would not be possible.
 And whereas indigenous people hand down oral histories, science, governance, a distinct relationship with water, land, rocks, native plants, birds, fish, and animals, and invaluable cultural knowledge and rich traditions that continue to thrive in Portland today.
 And whereas Indigenous people who've been here since time immemorial continue to contribute immeasurably to our community, state and city's heritage, distinguishing themselves as scholars, veterans, teachers, athletes, artists, entrepreneurs and leaders. Whereas the Indigenous population of the Portland metro area is over 40,000 people.
 descended from more than 380 tribes, bands from across the nation, and whereas the city of Portland has a responsibility to oppose the systematic racism towards indigenous peoples of the United States, and which perpetrates high rates of poverty and income inequality, exacerbating disproportionate health, education, and social crises.
 Whereas the city promotes the closing of the equity gap for Indigenous peoples through policies, practices and investments that reflect the experiences of Indigenous peoples, ensuring greater access and opportunity and honouring our nation's Indigenous history and contributions.
 And whereas the City of Portland continues to promote the prosperity and well-being of the American Indian, Alaska Native, and Indigenous community. And whereas on October 7, 2015, Portland City Council passed a resolution resolving that the City of Portland shall recognize Indigenous Peoples Day on the second Monday of October.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim October 10, 2017 to be Indigenous Peoples Day in Portland and encourage all residents, businesses, organizations, and public institutions to observe this day by reflecting upon the ongoing struggles of Indigenous peoples on this land
 and to celebrate the thriving culture and value that Indigenous people add to our city. I'd like to ask Sherry and Alicia and Jennifer, if they are here, would you like to make a few comments? And I believe the mics are on. Carla, can you see from there? Great. Good afternoon. Hello. I guess thank you, everyone, for allowing me to be here as my second year of being royalty for the City of Roses.
 My name is Isha Shoshani Pertle-Boise. My mother is Jennifer Pertle, and my father is Robert Boise. I'm enrolled in the Tribes of Warm Springs in Wasco, and I'm also a SLETS member. But I would just like to, again, thank you guys for allowing me to be here and for thanking you for taking me from school to be here. Because, well, you know, school's...
 school. But I guess how I should put this is I'm really proud to be here to see all this. I've never been to a big, fancy place like this, but I guess I was told to say that I was kind of why I am happy to be Native, I guess in a way. But to me, my culture is my life, something that I'm proud of being because...
 I've been taught that I can help the seventh generation and continue on our heritage and our traditions, our songs, our dancing, our ceremonies. That's a really proud thing, I guess, to me. But I guess that's all I practically have to say on behalf of me right now. Very good. Thank you and welcome. And we're very, very honored to have you here today. Thank you. Also, on the behalf of the indigenous people here in Portland, Oregon, and also the Bonero Culture Club,
 We have something to give you as half of us. So I'll just put this here. Would you like to do a picture with all of us? Yes. Why don't you come forward? We'll make an exception today so you can talk to the mayor. Oh, that's wonderful. Thank you. I appreciate it. And I have to note this. Somebody knows me well. I've been told I need more red ties. That's fabulous. I think that was meant for me. That's beautiful.
 Oh, that's fantastic. You do know me well. This is a beautiful Pendleton mug, and it's gorgeous. And I promise I will drink no less than five cups of coffee per day from this mug. Very good. And, Michelle, are you taking the... Two good photographers here. One moment. I, of course, forgot the proclamation. Let me grab that. Did you want to come in here? Sure. Okay.
 Come on up, please. We'll put you two in the middle. Why don't you come in the middle? And if you want to hold that with me. And that gets one of the sides. Ma'am, why don't you come down here next to the mirror? At the end. There we go. All right. This one, one, two, three. Cool. Got it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Congratulations. Thank you so much. We appreciate it. Great questions tonight. Congratulations. It'll be very easy in my office.
 Thank you. Can I go ahead and give you that? Thank you very much. We appreciate you being here. Yeah, thanks again. Congratulations. All right. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the October 5th, 2017 meeting of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Are you Daly? I am here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Wheeler? Here. Please read the first item. Thank you.
 Item 1103, declare support for Dreamers and urge Congress to continue the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and to pass the DREAM Act. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues, for co-sponsoring this resolution today. Today, the city of Portland, a proud sanctuary city, stands with our immigrant communities and especially with our Dreamers.
 Two months ago, our president made good on one of his campaign promises by rescinding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program known as DACA. It was a cruel action that removed protection from deportation for 800,000 people living here in the United States who call this country their home. There are 11,000 DACA recipients in Oregon, many of which call Portland their home.
 Dreamers attend school, they work hard and they pay taxes, and they serve with honor in our military. They are people like Mariana Medina, the newest member of my staff who helped write this resolution. And thank you. Dreamers in our community and around the country were immediately affected by the administration's action, as were their families, their colleagues, their employers, and their communities. Their dreams are now in jeopardy, and they all face imminent deportation.
 This resolution formally opposes the administration's action to rescind DACA, which goes against the values of our nation, and affirms that Portland proudly stands with all Dreamers. This resolution also proposes to reimburse COUSA, which acts as the fiscal agent of the Oregon DACA Coalition, for up to $50,000. These funds would be used to help local Dreamers with their application fees and with legal assistance.
 And, Mayor and colleagues, I should note that today is the last day to submit applications for DACA renewals. The administration was asked for a reasonable extension, which under any other circumstance would be granted, and it was denied, another shameful act. We call upon the Trump administration to keep the DACA program in place until a permanent solution is formalized. And we call upon Congress to take swift action to pass the DREAM Act,
 to settle this issue once and for all. It's an honor to be a co-sponsor of this resolution, and now I'd like to recognize my colleague, Commissioner Frist. Thank you, Commissioner Frist. It's been a great honor to work with you on this resolution. Too often in the past year especially, we have seen tragedy after tragedy unfold, tragedies that affect the lives of everyone and which disproportionately impact immigrants and people of color.
 I am proud to serve on a council that has denounced the tragedies manufactured at the federal level through political and policy decisions that include the recent suspension of the DACA program, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, targeting immigrants, especially in sanctuary cities. We have affirmed that our city is welcoming, inclusive, and a sanctuary for everyone.
 I recognize that some of our actions are symbolic and do little to empower and uplift communities that have been historically marginalized. And that is why today I'm especially proud to co-sponsor this resolution to declare support for the contributions that DREAMers have and will continue to make to our city and country, to urge the Congress to continue the DACA program, and to reimburse Kausa up to $5.
 $50,000 as has been said. They leapt into action. Goldan Salazar on my staff took the lead of making sure that we could understand what exactly we're going to be doing to help in a practical way and so with this resolution today we are going to commit to providing that funding in the full budget monitoring and adjustment process. We are committed to assisting Dreamers with their application fees, legal assistance and ongoing need for support. Commissioner Udali. Thank you Mayor.
 Many of us can't imagine living with the imminent threat of being criminalized and expelled from our own country for no other reason than our very existence here. The federal administration's decision to rescind DACA is a betrayal of our promise to DREAMers and will ultimately harm all of us.
 When our core values are consistently under attack at the federal level, it's imperative that we recognize the importance of local power. I'm proud of our Attorney General, Ellen Rosenblum, who has reaffirmed Oregon's commitment to DREAMers by joining other states in suing the Trump administration. I'm proud of our council for upholding our resolve to be a sanctuary city by using our resources to defend our values.
 I support the work of CASA, the Oregon DACA Coalition, and many others who continue to organize and fight back. Most importantly, however, I'm proud of dreamers who continue to speak out and make their voices heard, as well as the original dreamers, their parents, who dared to dream of a better life.
 I will remain committed to protecting all Portlanders' right to live and thrive in the communities they call home. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. I know that this has been a very difficult year, a difficult year for immigrants in our community in particular. I was, along with my colleagues, deeply disappointed by the action taken at the federal level to rescind the DACA program. I want to state again, unequivocally, for the record...
 that under my leadership as mayor, the city of Portland will remain a welcoming and safe place for all people. The city of Portland stands with all Portlanders, refugees, immigrants, people of color, the disability community, and all those who are made to suffer, as Commissioner Fritz said, for no other reason than because of who they are.
 All of us who call this country home feel a responsibility to live these values and overtly condemn racism, intolerance, and hatred, the goal of which is to divide and to oppress. Many people in our community, not just immigrants,
 But people of color, religious minority community members, and LGBTQ community members have legitimate fears that the new administration in Washington will marginalize them and rip their families apart. And we know that fear is also true for the 11,000 Dreamers that call Oregon home. DACA has allowed Dreamers to keep their families together, has provided stability to communities,
 and has allowed recipients to apply for and achieve a lawful education and lawful employment. Without DACA, Oregon's Dreamers would be subject to deportation.
 That's why my colleagues and I approved an allocation of $350,000 for the Portland United Against Hate Coalition to support culturally specific initiatives across the city that are standing up to hate and creating a more welcome space for all of us who call Portland home.
 We also secured $50,000 in funding for the Multnomah County Public Defenders to help immigrants fight deportation. And I'd like to thank Commissioner Fritz in particular for her leadership on that initiative. The City of Portland also recently signed on to the Center for Popular Democracy and National Partnership for New Americans Joint Initiative Cities for Citizenship.
 We join other major U.S. cities like Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York City in supporting citizenship programs and making the path towards citizenship easier and more accessible.
 This resolution, funding organizations like CASA who are working with DACA recipients to renew their applications, is critical to ensuring DACA recipients are not torn away from their families and their livelihood. As leaders, one of our most important roles is to advocate for all Portlanders, and that's exactly what we did last month.
 The Portland City Council requested that Oregon's congressional delegation pass the DREAM Act and support DACA recipients. Dreamers are woven into the fabric of our community. They're our neighbors. They are our coworkers. They're students. They are community leaders. They're our newest college graduates. They teach our children. They care for us in hospital.
 and they defend our liberties on battlefields. We're doing what we can, and we'll continue to work together to ensure that everyone is safe in our city, in our state, and in our country. This work is complex. We're working hard together to figure it out, and we need to have urgency in doing so. We cannot remain silent. We must trust our voice.
 I want you to know that I see you and I stand with you and that we as a city stand with you. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. I want to thank all my colleagues for their beautiful statements. So we have some very special guests that we've invited today, and I'd like to begin by welcoming the two city staff members who spearheaded this resolution, Mariana Garcia-Medina from my team and Goldan Salazar from Commissioner Fritz's office. If both of you would please come forward. Thank you.
 and accept our thanks. And I also want to acknowledge that Asena Lawrence also had a role in this, and she's sitting in the audience. And thank you, Asena, for your leadership. And both Asena, well, a number of the young women here today are also alumni from the Center for Women's Leadership that a number of us attended the luncheon today. So congratulations. Mariana, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Mayor, Commissioners, thank you for sponsoring this resolution. My name is Mariana and I'm a new staffer for Commissioner Nick Fish, a recent graduate and a DACA recipient who had the opportunity to work on this resolution. On June 15, 2012, my dad called me in tears and full of excitement to tell me President Obama was announcing on live television his executive action of DACA.
 President Obama did this following the failure of the Dream Act of 2010. DACA was meant to be a temporary measure until Congress could pass a permanent position and a permanent solution for DREAMers. It gave hope and some relief to the DREAMers that had continuously been fighting for the Dream Act. DACA does not grant a pathway to citizenship. It offers protection from deportation and a work permit.
 every two years. DACA recipients have to renew their DACA every two years and pay an anticipation fee of $495 and plus their legal expenses. On September 5th, 2017 my dad called me again, this time with sadness and a hopeless tone. The repeal of DACA was if the little bit of hope and security we were given was ripped away from us.
 It was a hard reminder of the uncertainty of my future and it revived anxiety and fear for my family and for me. This resolution asks for the program to continue and urges Congress to pass the DREAM Act. The DREAM Act would grant the same privileges as DACA, but would offer a pathway to citizenship.
 It would also allow more DREAMers to benefit from it since the requirements of DACA were much narrower and DREAMers were left out because of their age, year of entrance to the United States, and also many who did not apply because they had fear to give information to the government for a program that was meant to be temporary. A fear many DREAMers had but still took the risk, came out of the shadows, and trusted the government.
 The DREAM Act will allow many DREAMers like me to have that security to stay in their home and be able to fulfill our aspirations and dreams. The DREAM Act would be one step forward for the immigration movement. However, it is important to not forget about all 11 million undocumented immigrants who are also part of our community. Many who are parents of the DREAMers, such as mine.
 and in truth are the original dreamers. Again, thank you. I urge you all to pass the resolution and hope to see continued support and effort from council for the immigrant community. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mariana. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for the opportunity to present today.
 Young people who have depended on the DACA program took a risk by giving the government sensitive information that could now be used against them as they face imminent threat of deportation. After our office learned that DACA would be suspended, we reached out to COUSA, Oregon's immigrant rights organization, to see what we could do to support communities that are most brutally impacted by Trump's decision.
 Working with CALSA, we identified the importance of addressing not only the $495 application fee for those renewing their statuses, but also of the associated cost of immigration lawyers' advice navigating a complicated legal process.
 Accredited organizations that are a part of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, such as Catholic Charities, Ecumenical Ministries, SOAR Immigration Services, and Immigration Counseling Services are providing assistance to DACA renewals through weekend clinics and appointments at no cost to those receiving benefits. Many lawyers have volunteered their time to meet the overwhelming need. These services can only be sustained with additional support.
 President Trump's decision to suspend DACA triggered a quick timeline that requires applications to be received for federal review by today. Due to this timeline, the quickest way to support application assistance for those in need was to partner with CALSA, which generously used their operating funds to cover this urgent need.
 The city will reimburse COUSA for services completed up to $50,000 and will provide a report that will include a budget and data about how many individuals the funds have helped. This will fund DACA-eligible applicants who are currently living in Portland. This resolution is co-sponsored by all five council members and funding up to $50,000 will be allocated from the general funds fall bump.
 Back in March, I spoke at Council when we passed the Sanctuary Inclusive Welcoming City Resolution. It was one of the most contentious Council sessions I have ever attended. Me too. I witnessed so much pain from the community pleading for more protections, more safeguards, and more safety for their communities. As I sit here today, I'm proud that what we're achieving today is beyond symbolism.
 that this grant holds weight and holds us to affirm our highest values to continue to protect our community. Thank you. Thank you. All set. Thank you both for your great work. Mayor, we've invited two panels to join us this afternoon. I'd like to welcome to the dais the first table, the first panel, Andrea Williams, Executive Director of CALSA Oregon.
 Leonardo Reyes, founder of the Oregon DACA Coalition, and the distinguished county commissioner from Multnomah, Jessica Vega-Peterson. Welcome all. Andrea, would you like to go first? Oh, I'm going first? Okay. All right. Mayor, commissioners, thank you so much for putting forward this resolution in support of Portland's undocumented young people. As you know, I'm Andrea Williams. I'm the executive director of COUSA, Oregon's immigrant rights organization.
 You know, at the beginning of this year, we had major concerns that the Trump administration would make changes to the DACA program. We saw early signs that the program was in trouble from a leaked executive order indicating that Trump would take DACA away to the arrest of several Portland area DACA recipients over spring break.
 Since that time, COUSA has worked hand-in-hand with organizations led by DACA recipients like the Oregon DACA Coalition in order to advocate with and support Oregon's undocumented young people. This included the establishment of a scholarship fund in May founded by the Oregon DACA Coalition in order to cover the $495 USCIS fee.
 ODC's volunteers set up the application process and have conducted the applicant screenings, while Kausa supported with the behind-the-scenes operations as a fiscal sponsor. It's been a really great partnership. Unfortunately, our nightmare came true on September 5th, when the Trump administration announced the end of DACA and giving 2,000 Oregonians who are still eligible to apply only one month to get their renewals in.
 I don't know about you, but scraping together $1,000 within the month to cover these fees would be hard for me. So these scholarship funds and nonprofit legal services supporting low-income individuals became especially critical over these last four weeks. And I'll tell you that community organizations and volunteers went above and beyond to respond to the need without guaranteed funding to support it.
 But we made this sacrifice because we knew that this could potentially be the last chance in the foreseeable future to provide real protection from deportation and a work permit for DACA recipients who are students, young professionals, parents. So I'm thankful that the city of Portland is considering this allocation towards supporting DACA renewal scholarships and nonprofit immigration legal services.
 Leo, my colleague here, will tell you more about the scholarship functions and how they screen and how we've been processing these. But I want to let you know that from the operations side, we've been cutting the checks directly to USCIS so that we can ensure the money is indeed going to its intended purpose. Each DACA scholarship is sent with the applicant and they send it with their packet of their application to USCIS.
 For the legal services, CALSA partners really closely with Immigration Counseling Services, SOAR, and Catholic Charities. They served dozens of low-income DACA recipients when there was this rush to renew. They served, for those that needed it, agencies provided fee waivers, providing their services at no cost. Because, again, their interest was getting as many people to apply as possible.
 These legal services are critical. Having legal support and renewing DACA can be the difference between being denied or approved. Because the timeline was so short, there really was no time to revise your application if there was even a small mistake. So having an attorney to review the application ensures accuracy and increases chances of approval. Okay.
 In addition to that, nonprofit legal services and community organizations held DACA educational forums to inform the community about changes to DACA, which was an essential outreach effort to refer eligible people to the free legal services that were being provided and the scholarships. It was really important to get the word out, and I'll tell you it wasn't easy because of the fear, because of various barriers. Okay.
 But so far we estimate, and we're still calculating final numbers because today was the last day and there will be some more numbers that come in. But so far we estimate that way over 650 Portland residents received educational information via the forums. 30 Portland DACA recipients received a full renewal scholarship and 36 DACA recipients from Portland received free legal services through a nonprofit immigration legal provider.
 So this is the kind of work that the city's funding will support. And finally, as you heard, unfortunately, today is the last day to submit your DACA renewal. And after today, it is likely that no one will be able to apply for DACA ever again, unless there are changes that the Trump administration makes, or unless we pass the DREAM Act. And so I'll just really quickly say that I was in D.C. last week. I talked to all of our members of Congress.
 And they say they haven't heard much from us here locally. So I'm really happy to see that you all are making a public statement. Hopefully our members of Congress hear it. And in particular, our member of Congress, Congressman Greg Walden, who is the only representative to not co-sponsor the DREAM Act at this point.
 So in closing, I just want to say thank you so much for putting forward this resolution and especially to Goldan and Mariana for working with me in putting together this proposal. First of all, thank you very much. I wish I had the document we could resubmit for the record. Not only did the council send a letter to each senator and member of Congress urging action and very specific action, but we asked our federal lobbyists to follow up. Thank you.
 And tomorrow there's a forum co-hosted by both of our United States senators, to which a number of people here have been invited, including Mariana, where they're going to be talking about next steps in terms of legislative fixes. I don't know where Representative Walden is. I have not seen any comments from him. But the council before this resolution took what for us is a,
 not a routine action, otherwise we'd be signing letters every day, sent a very strong letter of support on this issue to the delegation. So we'll make sure we pump up the volume. Thank you. Mayor? I'd just like to add that I'm headed to D.C. in a few weeks, and I'll be lobbying our representatives and a couple of our federal legislative priorities, and I'd be happy to add this to my personal list at least, but perhaps we can...
 get that on the official list as well. Thank you.
 I want to welcome our distinguished county commissioner and welcome her and thank her for being here. Thank you so much. Good afternoon, Mayor and commissioners. For the record, my name is Jessica Vega-Peterson. I am the Multnomah County Commissioner for District 3, which includes most of southeast and east Portland. Thank you for inviting me to testify here today in support of DACA recipients, the DACA program, and the DREAM Act. I want to thank Commissioners Fish and Fritz.
 for bringing forward this important resolution today. But I want to thank all of you for your ongoing, steadfast leadership on this issue. It's wonderful to have all of you as sponsors of this resolution. It is also a pleasure to be here with Andrea today. We have worked together on issues like this for a long time, tuition equity, driver's card, and the fight keeps on going, and we're here today in support of our dreamers.
 We know that members of our community have been demonized and threatened by those wielding immense power and influence. The highest reaches of our government are actively trying to divide us and cast blame on the weakest and most vulnerable among us for the many problems that plague our society. These efforts are wrong, misguided, and politically motivated. They are frankly disgusting.
 But you and many others in our community have stood fast in the face of political pressure and threats of federal funding. So thank you. Thank you for your courage. The Trump administration's decision to end DACA jeopardizes the status of 11,000 Oregonians, creating fear and uncertainty for families, clients, employees, and our communities.
 At Multnomah County, we're committed to doing everything we can to support our own employees' right to work and contribute to the well-being of our community. At the county, we do not collect information on who is and who is not working with DACA authorization, but we do know we have DACA recipients on our workforce. We stand with DREAMers in our community and look to Congress for quick, urgently needed legislative action.
 Dreamers formed their identity here. They came to this country not of their own choosing, but they now call it home just as we do. Deporting them to countries they don't know is foolish, cruel, and short-sighted. The threat of detention and deportation is hitting close to home as reports of increased local ICE enforcement activity continue to surface.
 Take the example of a well-respected community member, an employee of a nonprofit organization serving the East Portland and Gresham communities. On the morning of September 27th, he was awoken by ICE agents knocking at his family's door.
 Because he had benefited from Know Your Rights trainings and legal assistant opportunities, which are partially founded by both the city and the county, he was able to keep his family safe. However, we know that not everyone has access to information that can keep their family safe. And that's why it's important for leaders like us to take strong stances like this one.
 Dreamers are our co-workers, friends, and family. They are enterprising small business owners, volunteers, and neighbors who help make this county the amazing place that it is. We need their energy, their talents, and their skills.
 We stand with immigrant and refugee communities in denouncing government action like Operation Mega and the mass deportation efforts that led to a Washington County employee being stopped and harassed, an action of gross ineptitude which was caught all on video. Thank you.
 Arrests and detention, as well as the threats of enforcement activity, can tear families apart, cause people to move into the shadows, and compromise the emotional and mental well-being of many of our friends, families, and neighbors. We stand for fair and just treatment of immigrants and refugees, so that those who came to this country to create a better and safer life for themselves and their children no longer have to live in fear.
 Thank you for taking the leadership at the City of Portland to stand with our community and make this meaningful resolution today. Commissioner, thank you very much for joining us. And Mr. Reyes, we welcome you to our band. Thank you for joining us. Hi, my name is Leonardo Reyes. I am a...
 founder of the Oregon DACA Coalition and co-founder of the Oregon DACA Coalition. I am an undocumented Oregonian and I am a DACA recipient. I just want to start off by saying that I am very moved to be here today and to hear you all speak. I
 And all the years that I've lived in Oregon, I've never felt so welcome and so accepted and so valuable in my own home. And it's very moving to be here and to hear everyone speak on this subject that tended to be very invisible. And by extension made my struggle and my journey as an Oregonian, as an undocumented Oregonian, also invisible. And so I'm glad that we're taking the opportunity to talk about this.
 The Oregon DACA Coalition started right after the results of the election, literally on November 9th, where we met with close friends and my sister. I remember driving home that day crying because I understood what that meant.
 the results of the election could potentially mean for me at that time. And so I really wanted to get in touch with my sister who was in college and my close friend who's a co-worker of mine. We both work in helping people access Medicaid and food stamps for our elderly and our adult disabled communities. And so I didn't want my sister to feel discouraged from continuing her education. And I didn't want my friend to feel alone
 and isolated and her struggle of also realizing that everything that we have worked for, everything that we have built for ourselves and everything that had changed over the past five years was very suddenly very fragile.
 So we started doing a lot of advocacy work. We started organizing our community. We started really having a conversation about what it meant to be undocumented in Oregon. And through that advocacy effort, we started a scholarship fund that started in May where we were able to help some DACA recipients pay their renewal fee. We started with two applications per month in May. And we were going along with that process of
 basically a scholarship where we had people apply and submit some essays where we can then assess basis of need and also get a better understanding of the individuals that were receiving these scholarships and how they were contributing back to their communities. As of September...
 Fifth, and the announcement that was made on that date, we really switched gears into trying to get any funds that we had available out to the community as quickly as possible. 30 days is not a whole lot of time for anyone to submit a legal application, especially if you don't feel comfortable with filling out legal paperwork on your own. I know...
 Myself, I took that risk because I couldn't afford a lawyer. I couldn't afford someone to help me look over the application. I just didn't have the money for that, so I had to take the risk of doing that application on my own. And so...
 We switched it to be a very quick process where we're collecting DACA recipients' information. We were following up with them to make sure they actually qualified for renewal because there was a lot of misunderstanding as to who could and who couldn't reapply at this point. And so it took us being very aware of what those requirements were to be able to have a conversation with each of the applicants as to whether or not they qualified for renewal.
 and be able to screen them to then award the award
 the scholarship so they could submit their application as well as being able to provide some support for those who needed help actually filling out applications. And so it was a very strenuous process. It was a lot of hours. We all worked full time on top of doing this work as volunteers. And so we got together every day after work for, you know, basically two weeks making calls to people, making sure there was a good understanding of
 who could still benefit from this program and really being able to extend that process. It was both a rewarding and a heartbreaking journey. I remember speaking to a few DACA recipients, a mom of three who was in need of the funds.
 because it was very difficult for her to save money with three children and to be able or to have to explain to her that the process was no longer available to her because of the guidelines that were set by the administration. They're definitely difficult conversations to be in a position to be having those and to be breaking those news to members of our community.
 At the same time, we've seen strong support from a lot of members of our community that has enabled us to issue 54 scholarships to more than...
 Well, 54 scholarships just in the last 30 days. It's actually been more since we started in May. But in the last 30 days, we had 74 applicants, which we were able to screen all of them. We were able to get and find funds for each of the people who qualified. And that was a really, it was an amazing experience. And I was very happy to have been able to be a part of that. We obviously need to
 continue our advocacy work for a long-term solution. DACA is only a very temporary fix, and so we really need to continue the advocacy for legislation through advocating through our Congress and specifically, you know, urging our representative, Greg Walden, to sponsor the DREAM Act and to sponsor a clean DREAM Act that's not going to come at the expense of our communities. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for your service.
 Thank you all. We have one more panel. I'd like to invite up Jimmy Dogo from the New Portlanders Commission and Daniel Franco-Nunez from the Human Rights Commission. Thank you both for joining us. Jimmy, you want to kick off? Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner. And for the record, my name is Jimmy Dogo. Everything that I want to say, I think that
 County Commissioner Jessica said it already, but I'm going to also bring to your attention
 When we talk about DACA or undocumented, all often what we see is Latinos. The media portray Latinos as the face of undocumented, but this resolution is not just helping the Latino. It's helping all the undocumented people who live here in the United States or in Portland, Oregon.
 According to the alliance for, I mean, the Black Alliance for Just Immigration, we have about 565,000 black undocumented. Out of this, 13% are coming from Africa and 16% from the Caribbean. Some of those DACA recipients are here in Portland. They're so scared to come out because...
 Even for African immigrant and refugee documented were almost invisible.
 let alone those who are undocumented or DACA recipients. So with this resolution, it will help a lot of our community members to get support, to get help, to renew their applications, and also not only black DACA recipients, but we have also a lot of DACA recipients from the Middle East, from Asia, from all over the world that are here in Portland.
 And with this resolution, it's again like all the speakers who went before me said, even if it's not enough, but it's a step in the right direction that will help people to fill out their application.
 And to conclude, I want to take this opportunity to thank you city leaders and also county commission leaders for supporting us, for supporting all the immigrant and refugee community, for supporting undocumented. This is our city. Some of our children were born here. Some of them were brought here at a very young age, 20.
 by undocumented parents, but they're here. We have, for instance, I have a case of West African family who came here
 They brought their child because the child has some rare disease they cannot treat it in Nigeria and they brought this child here, thinking that it's just going to take a couple of weeks or a month for the treatment. They end up staying here, staying over their visa. They cannot go back, they cannot take a chance to go back because there is no treatment back home. So they stay. While staying here for four years, they have two more kids who are born here.
 And then some of those kids who they brought with them from Nigeria grew up and started going to school here. They are DACA recipients. So those are the cases that we don't see in the media, we don't see in the public, but often we just think that DACA recipient is all Latino. But there are also a lot of people here who are going to benefit from this resolution and from your support. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir, very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Daniel Franco from the Portland Human Rights Commission. Thank you, commissioners and mayor, for coming to our last meeting. I would like to formally invite all commissioners to come to our future meetings. We meet the first Wednesday of every month in the Office of Human Rights and Equity just up the street. You're all invited. We'll save you a seat. I don't think there's really much left for me to say. I think all of you recognize that this resolution puts you on the side of a decent human being.
 against an administration that is bent on opening up the gates of hell. I am a DACA recipient myself. I renewed it three times, so power to the people. But we appreciate that you guys see us. It was great to hear you say that our parents were the original Dreamers because they're really the ones that took the risk. Coming across international waters, borders where...
 Oftentimes, you're treated worse than animals. Just for your kids to have a better future is not a choice that anybody makes likely. There's no reason why anybody would choose to leave their home and be treated like a second-class citizen unless it was better than their daily lives.
 Nobody comes to the U.S. to experience the immigrant lifestyle just for kicks. As it pertains to DACA specifically, you guys know the numbers, 11,000 here in Oregon, close to 800,000 across the U.S. Your resolution states how many billions of dollars DACA recipients contribute to the economy via taxes alone.
 But the whole immigrant community contributes billions more, never being eligible to receive unemployment, Medicare, welfare, or any of those social services that they pay into on an annual basis. But I think it would be important to give you guys a little bit of understanding of what it's like to actually live this application process. As I said, I had to do it three times.
 The government knows where I've lived. They know what cell phone number I've had since the age of 16. They know my past employers. They know my ministers, their phone numbers, their addresses, my coworkers, till now. Part of the DACA process is that every two years you had to go renew it and renew.
 the thing about it was that you'd go to the federal building where Jeff Sessions was a few weeks ago and they take your fingerprints and they make sure that you're not a criminal or have committed any felonies or anything like that. And that type of scrutiny is something that I doubt the majority of natural born us citizens would ever stand for, uh, in a country where your privacy and your individual rights are so cherished, cherished, uh,
 Dreamers gladly put themselves in that situation just for the right to legally work and contribute, go to school, join the military.
 So, again, I think that what you're doing is great. I would just encourage you guys to also encourage your attorneys to push forward any other kind of lawsuits, programs, or legislation that actually helps have a real-life impact in the lives of our community. Because it's great to know that you guys see us, that we matter to you, but...
 It won't make up for families that are torn apart or families that are deported back to their home country that they don't even know. But knowing that there's people out there actually willing to get down and, you know, have a street fight with this administration would really mean a lot to our community. But thank you for your efforts here today. Thank you.
 Thank you both. May I just... So, thank you, and I know that I speak for all of us that we are willing to continue doing the lawsuits and such. One of the most encouraging things about this whole process for me was that Goldan has a relationship with CALSA, and so she was able to reach out and say, what can we do? If you see things as a human rights commissioner that you would like us to do, if you see something we should be suing that we're not suing, please let us know, because maybe we can't...
 respond to all requests, but that's what a real partnership is, is when the community trusts us. And we recognize that for many immigrant communities, it's been very difficult in their own country to trust the government. And yet we are wanting that to happen, and we will look after folks to the best of our abilities. Gladly. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, gentlemen. I understand, Carly, we have one individual signed up for public testimony. Correct. Don Baldwin. Don Baldwin.
 Mr. Baldwin, come on up. Three minutes, sir, if you could state your name for the record. For the record, my name is Don Baldwin. Thank you. Oh, yeah, sorry. Go ahead. Thank you. Thank you again, Mayor and Commissioners, for this opportunity to speak before the City Council. My name is Don J. Baldwin. I'm an EMS professional, a student, a voter, and a resident of this county.
 I'm very proud to be here in front of you, and I was here in front of you on August 23rd to urge you to adopt fully the ACLU 9 model policies. This is not why I'm in front of you today. I'll cut to the chase. Portland faces an intimate danger, which you can easily rectify by making a decision to take action here today. You see, whether or not we adopt the exact language of the Model 9 is irrelevant in this context.
 If the population that those policies protect do not know they exist or what they mean, then they are nothing more than a symbolic gesture. This is essentially doing all of the homework and then not turning it in.
 It doesn't take rocket science to reason that the undocumented immigrant population is afraid to call the police or to access EMS for fear of detection and deportation. There is numerous research available out there just simply by Googling it. The numbers out of Los Angeles are staggering about the numbers that have dropped in the communities because of people not calling EMS for this exact same reason.
 So this mistrust also prevents our undocumented immigrants from seeking other medical services such as flu shots and other vaccines. A severe outbreak of flu this year could be very harmful to our community and with our infants and elderly taking the brunt of that hit.
 Additionally, gangs and drug dealers know about the reluctance of undocumented immigrants to call for, to access help and take advantage and exploit this, creating crime pockets in our neighborhoods, creating the kinds of crime increase that AG Sessions spoke about. We simply do not want this to happen here in Portland.
 So what I'm asking for is that the city of Portland would engage. If we're going to spend $50,000 on Dreamers, which I think is a great idea and I'm all for that, we need to spend some time and money educating this population so that they understand that the laws that are out there to protect them and take care of them. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Very good. Colleagues, any further discussion? Please call the roll. Udailey. Thank you.
 Well, thank you everyone for being here today and for your work on this resolution. I'm looking forward to assembling a task force for the city that will be devoted to strengthening our sanctuary city policies. So that is one of the next steps the city can take. And I'm very pleased to vote aye. Fritz. Yes.
 Thank you, everybody, for being here. And again, Goldan and all the team that have done this. One of the things I learned today is that our U.S. representatives and senators have not been hearing from Oregonians.
 So I'm going to read the Senator's numbers now, and I'm going to say it again at the end, so that if you're watching at home, go get a piece of paper, or take out your phone and put it straight in. So Senator Jeff Merkley's number is 202-224-3753. Senator Wyden's number is 202-224-5244.
 And I was actually at an event with a member of one of these senator's staff, and actually phoning is the best way to make your voice heard. They will tabulate how many people call, and at the end of the day they tell their senators, this is what the topic of conversation is and this is what people are asking you to do.
 It's also really helpful if you can call your United States representative. There are five districts in Oregon, of course, and as was mentioned, Greg Walden is the lone Republican. The Senate representatives,
 listen to most of their constituents so you can find out which constituency you live in certainly in the city of Portland and then if you know somebody who lives east of the Cascades who would be willing to call Greg Walden call your friends call your family tell them call this person and tell him this matters to people in your district. One of the statistics I saw is that
 The DACA program generates $800 million for the economy. And that's beyond, as was mentioned, the application fees. That's the taxes and the other things and the productivity that certainly Eastern Oregon depends on a number of folks being able to do that work.
 I think also one of the most, well, a lot of this is very depressing. The reason that the Attorney General gave for why they were giving a month was that it would be too cumbersome to not process the applications or to figure out which ones they were going to process and which ones not. I think it's rare that government red tape is something that has at least the outcome that we did have 30 days to get this going.
 As the President continues to undermine and circumvent constitutional protections and previous federal policy decisions, I recognize this $50,000 contribution is a relatively small portion of the city's budget that will do little to stem the trauma that families who are under constant threat of deportation face.
 and government can't do it all, government shouldn't do it all. So CALSA and the other organisations who are working on this, they are going to need your ongoing contributions. Just because the city's covered this particular application fee and legal services, we know this is not the last salvo in this long battle, and we need the community of Portland to give whatever you can to one of these organisations so that...
 There'll be something else that we need to spring into action for. There'll be individual cases that are going to need attorneys. So let's all pull together like we did after some of the other horrible things that have happened this year and make sure that those most in need have the resources to be able to get the help that they need.
 I'm grateful that although it won't protect all families at risk of deportation, it's a cost burden for many families, and it serves as a reminder to us that the symbolic gestures are something, the practical means are others. And maybe we haven't been able to protect everybody, but for the 50-plus DACA students that this is covered by, it means the world to them. It means their future here for the next two years, which hopefully we all survive the next two years.
 We'll continue, I think, to look at ways to support our communities and support the wonderful work that's been done and publicizing it. In these dark times, I just feel very grateful that you co-founded the organization on November 9th. I was in tears on November 9th, too, and it seems like a very long time since then.
 So please, everyone make a contribution, whether it's financial, whether it's making a phone call. Senator Merkley is 202-224-3753. Senator Wyden is 202-224-5244. And I thank each of my colleagues for your unanimous support for the principles that we hold dear. It's not a lot, but this is what we could do today, and I'm very grateful for it. Aye. Fish?
 Well, I'm very proud to co-sponsor this resolution. I want to thank everyone who took time to join us today. Commissioner Vega-Peterson, I took down a note. She said that the administration's action was foolish, cruel, and short-sighted. I don't think I can improve on that. I also made a note as we were listening to testimony about some of the people and groups that this administration has targeted, DACA recipients, Muslim Americans.
 Transgender students, transgender service people, undocumented families, low-income Americans who rely on federally subsidized food stamps, legal services, and health insurance. The list goes on and on, and there's a common thread. The administration has targeted people in a fight that's not a fair fight because none of these groups have the power of organizations like the National Rifle Association or the lobbyists of K Street.
 or everyone else who has a very loud voice in Washington. And it says something about the approach of this administration, that they have targeted people that they know really can't fight back fairly or at a disadvantage, and that's bullying behavior. My mother is from Montreal, Canada, and if she had not made the trek to this country, I wouldn't be here. My wife's mother is from Cordoba in the south of Spain, grew up with nothing, and if she had not made this journey for a better life, my wife would not be here.
 I am currently receiving treatment at OHSU, and it struck me that my doctors are Philippine American, Korean American, and Nigerian American. So let's make sure that we bar people like that from coming to our country because, God forbid, they actually save a life or help provide health care to our community. So we've got everything upside down. It's either a Lewis Carroll story or a Wellian or some combination.
 And today's action is somewhat symbolic, although I thank Commissioner Fritz and Goldin for the suggestion of the 50,000. I think that made it better. But when we're in leadership, it's important that we do speak out in these public forums and state our values and encourage others to join us. And finally, I just want to say how proud I am of Mariana. She is sort of, I think, exhibit A in what we're fighting about. She came to this country when she was three years old.
 She is a distinguished alumna of Portland State University. She is a leader out of the women's leadership program at PSU. But she came to this country at age three. If she is deported, where is she deported to and to what? She's known no other life than America, this country. This is her home. This is where she plans to make her mark. And she's already a leader in our community.
 How on earth can we have a policy that even suggests that someone like this, this high-achieving, this deeply committed person, is at risk of being deported back to a place she never knew and where she has no ties? What kind of country would even consider such an action? And that's what we're talking about. So, Mariana, Galdan, Senator Lawrence, thank you for your work, and I'm very proud to support this resolution. Hi. Wheeler. Thank you.
 I don't think I can add much to what my colleagues have already said. And I want to, you know, I'm usually the pessimist in the crowd, so I want to say something hopeful. I actually think that this debate, the debate around DACA, the debate around Sanctuary City, the debate around immigration, is actually, on the whole, from the perspective of the lens of the future looking backwards,
 will be seen as a time of reformation, and it will be seen as a time of renewal, and it will be seen as a time of evolution for this country. We would not be having this conversation. We would be talking about why aren't the potholes all filled, or what are we going to do about the humanitarian crisis on our streets, or what are we going to do about water or sewer or public safety. That's what we would be talking about.
 And this is actually what we should be talking about. Quite frankly, these are things we should have been talking about 30 years ago but didn't because it was easy for us to escape the difficult conversations around race, around diversity, around immigration. And as a mayor who is the mayor of a progressive West Coast city in a time of Trump, my administration has been anything other than filling potholes.
 It's been about very core questions about who are we and whose interests do we represent and what of human rights and what does it say about our country and where do we want to go and who's in and who's out and how we decide. And it has been a difficult conversation, to say the least. It has challenged all of us.
 And we're a long way from the done, from the end of this conversation. But I'm actually really proud to serve on this city council. And, you know, I understand the city council doesn't poll well. We all get it. And I understand that it's easy to say, oh, city council, they don't get it. This city council gets it. And this city council has stood up time and time and time again this year to say we stand.
 with vulnerable communities. We stand with communities of color. We stand with immigrants. And yes, it is largely symbolic, but it must be said. And the more we say it, I'm convinced the more people we convert. We had the United States Attorney General in our community two weeks ago, apparently for the purpose of
 of coming to beat us, to beat the city council, to beat our county commissioners, to beat our county sheriff and law enforcement over the head with our sanctuary city status. Why is it important for us to speak out? Because if we didn't, nobody else would be pointing out the fact that the Attorney General for the United States of America
 was speaking about values that are already demonstrably contrary to the United States Constitution. Well, what do you know about the U.S. Constitution, Ted? It seems like you've gotten into a few scrapes on that issue yourself. I don't have to know anything. All I know is a federal judge appointed by Ronald Reagan, who serves in Chicago, said we are right with regard to sanctuary status.
 and that our sanctuary status is protected by the United States Constitution, and that we are doing the right thing. And I think it's important for us every once in a while just to be heard on that subject. Is it symbolic? Yes, it is symbolic. But it is what we do. We don't control immigration policy for the time being.
 For the United States, we're local elected officials. But the more we talk and the more you come here, the more we have these conversations together, the more we come up with concrete policies, concrete resolutions, support for local organizations who support those without the same voice that many of us enjoy in this community. The more that happens, the more progress we make.
 And so my suspicion is some of these young folks here, Commissioner Fish and colleagues, and their kids, they'll wonder what was the fuss all about? And we're having the fuss so that they don't have to. And so as complex as it is being here at this time in history, I think we were made for this time in history. And I think the people here today who testified were made for this time in history. And so we're going to do it right.
 And this resolution is just one more brick in a very long path to the future. So I vote aye, and the resolution is adopted, and we'll continue this fight. Thank you all for being here. We're going to take a five-minute compassion break, and then we're coming back for the 2017 Hispanic Heritage Month Proclamation. Thank you for those who are waiting patiently. We'll continue in five minutes. We are in recess.
 Session, this is a continuation of the October 5th, 2017 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please read the next item. Item 1104, proclaim September 15 to October 15, 2017 to be Hispanic Heritage Month. Colleagues, I'm going to read...
 the English version of the Hispanic Heritage Month Proclamation, and then Victor Salinas is going to help me out by reading the Spanish version, which hopefully I have right here. Excellent, I do. Let me just give a handoff here, if I could. Sorry about that. Thank you. Colleagues, whereas Hispanic heritage of the United States extends historically over five centuries and has been a consistent tradition
 and vital influence in our country's growth and prosperity. And whereas Hispanic or Latino culture is tied to Iberian ancestry, the rich tapestry of our culture recognizes that Hispanics or Latinos are multiracial and multicultural and also trace their historical roots to indigenous and African ancestry.
 Hispanics represent people with origins from 24 different countries, including the United States, Mexico, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Colombia, Peru, Mexico,
 Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brazil, Venezuela, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, and Spain. They reflect an array of distinct and vibrant cultures that have enriched our community in valuable ways. And whereas Oregon's Latino population is growing at a rate faster than the national rate.
 Twelve percent of the state's population is now Latino, representing 72 percent growth since the year 2000. In Portland, there are over 60,974 people of Hispanic descent, making up 10 percent of our city's population.
 While Portland's overall population for 2013 grew by 1.2%, the rate of growth for the city's Hispanic population in 2013 was 6.9%. And whereas the number of U.S.-born Latino Oregonians has increased 21% compared to 1% growth in the number of foreign-born Latino Oregonians,
 The median age for Latinos is 24 years, and whereas Hispanics have supported Portland's economy with myriad of contributions in the fields of commerce, science, technology, public service, health, and more, today their purchasing power in Portland is nearly $4 billion.
 Whereas Portland recognizes the many organizations, institutions, and people helping Hispanics overcome disparities such as poor health outcomes and low educational attainment, working tirelessly to ensure they remain a flourishing community. And whereas continued access to jobs and livable wages for Oregon Latinos is essential for our state to thrive,
 Hispanics currently make up 5.91% of the City of Portland's workforce. To help connect more Hispanics to city jobs and to support them throughout their careers with the city, the Unidos Latinos Americanos ULA City Employee Affinity Group was re-established in 2014.
 ULA has reached over 60 members and continues to grow. Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim the week of September 15th to October 15th, 2017, to be Hispanic Heritage Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week.
 For the record, my name is Victor Salinas, reading the Spanish version of the Hispanic Proclamation for the Hispanic Heritage Month for the City of Portland. Excuse me, back off the microphone a little bit, like about six inches. Yeah, that's good. Perfect. Yeah, they're touchy. Thank you. Thanks, Victor. Por cuanto?
 Por cuanto a la herencia hispana en los Estados Unidos se extiende histricamente ms de cinco siglos y ha sido una influencia constante y vital en el crecimiento y prosperidad de nuestro pas, y por cuanto la cultura hispana o latina est ligada a races ibricas a las que se supan la gran riqueza y diversidad multicultural y multiracial de nuestras culturas indgenas y africanas,
 Los hispanos representan ms de 24 diferentes pases de origen, incluyendo Estados Unidos, Mxico, Puerto Rico, Repblica Dominicana, Cuba, Guatemala, Belice, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panam, Colombia, Per, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brasil,
 Venezuela, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile y Espaa reflejan una variedad de culturas distintas y valiosas que han enriquecido nuestra comunidad en forma notable. Y por cuanto la poblacin latina de Oregon est creciendo a una tasa ms rpido que la tasa nacional...
 Latinos represent 12% of the state population, with a growth rate of 72% since 2000. In Portland, there are more than 60,974 Hispanic people, representing 10% of the population. While the general population of Portland grew by 1.2% in 2013,
 La tasa de crecimiento de la poblacin hispana de la ciudad fue del 6.9% en el mismo ao. Y por cunto la tasa de latinos nacidos en los Estados Unidos viviendo en Oregon ha crecido en un 21% comparado al 1% de latinos nacidos en el extranjero que viven en este estado? La edad media de los latinos en Oregon es de 24 aos de edad.
 Y por cuanto la poblacin hispana ha contribuido a la economa de Portland con un sinnmero de aportaciones en el reas de comercio, ciencia, tecnologa, servicio pblico, salud y salud entre otras, actualmente su poder de adquisicin en Portland es de casi cuatro mil millones.
 Y por cuanto la ciudad de Portland reconoce la multitud de organizaciones, instituciones y gente ayudando a la poblacin hispana a superar disparidades tales como los indicadores rasgados de la salud y nivel de logro acadmico, trabajando incansablemente para asegurar que sigan siendo una comunidad prspera.
 y por cuanto el acceso a puestos de trabajo y sueldos dignos para los latinos en oregn es fundamental para la propia prosperidad de nuestro estado la poblacin hispana forma el cinco punto noventa y un por ciento de la fuerza laboral de la ayuda ayuntamiento de la ciudad de portland
 La Asociacin de Empleados Unidos Latinoamericanos, ULA por sus siglas, fue restablecida en el 2014 con el propsito de reconectar a hispanos con puestos de trabajo en el ayuntamiento de la ciudad de Portland y apoyarlos a lo largo de sus carreras. Actualmente, ULA cuenta con ms de 60 miembros y sigue creciendo. Y, por lo tanto, yo, Ted Wheeler...
 alcalde de la ciudad de Portland, Oregon, proclamo que el 15 de septiembre al 15 de octubre del 2007 sea reconocido como el mes de la herencia hispana en Portland e invito a todos los habitantes a celebrar este mes. Gracias, Vctor. Agradecemos eso. Y no estoy seguro del exacto run of show aqu. Eso muestra que Romeo Sosa gustara hacer algunos arcos?
 En realidad, seor Wheeler, empezamos con Rubn. Vamos a empezar con algunas reacciones. Perfecto. Este es su programa, as que, como quiera. Gracias, gracias.
 Buenas tardes, seor Wheeler, comisioner Udaly, comisioner Fritz. Gracias por tenerme aqu esta tarde. De nuevo, mi nombre es Vctor Salinas y soy el director ejecutivo del Oficio de la Alianza de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la Provincia de la
 Los miembros de ULA son orgullosos de representar a los diferentes bureos de nuestra ciudad y estn comprometidos a reclutar a ms talentos latinos y latinas a la fuerza de trabajo de la ciudad y a apoyar su mantenimiento y avanzamiento.
 En solo un par de aos, nuestra base de miembros ha crecido de un 10% a cerca de 60%. Creemos que esto refleja los esfuerzos de la ciudad para diversificar su trabajo y el crecimiento de los latinos en nuestra comunidad, pero tambin el trabajo que ULA ha hecho para crear un ambiente seguro y soportable para los empleados de la ciudad latinoamericana. Solo quiero conocer a dos de mis trabajadores que estn corriendo por la costa de la ciudad.
 When we learn a new Latino has joined the city, we serve as an unofficial welcome committee. An email or phone call goes a long way, as well as an invitation for a walk or coffee. For some, just knowing that there are other Latinos who work for the city is a comfort. Thank you.
 Upon being reestablished in 2014, we took ownership of the coordinating of the city's Hispanic Heritage Month Proclamation corresponding activities. We went to make sure that Latinos in the city and community are visible, feel supported, and that we celebrate our vast contributions. Last year, we formed a partnership with the City African American Network and Women's Empowerment Affinity Group to develop and implement a pilot deep leadership development program.
 We are fortunate to receive support from DEEP and grant from the Office of Equity and Human Rights to make it happen. We were excited to see relationships that were formed to see participants become more engaged and confident in the and gain their confidence that participants and coordinators gained through the experience. The Leadership Development Program is a proactive approach to help groom future city leaders.
 We also encourage you all, City Council, to be intentional about the advancement of Latinos and Latinas into leadership positions because through the diversification, we can only become enriched in the diversity and perspectives to make sure that the voices that help inform the decisions that you all make are also representative of the community that we serve in the City of Portland.
 We are going through tumultuous times and have leaned on each other more and more over the last few months to be able to cope. ULA members have mobilized to support our community outside of the city as well. ULA members have been coordinating with community partners to assist in creating support for DACA recipients who face considerable uncertainty with the changes to the DACA program.
 Thank you for passing the important resolution to declare the city's support to continue the DACA program and pass the DREAM Act and provide financial support to cover DACA application fees. Thank you so much for doing that. That is a huge support to our community. Lastly, I want to mention that...
 As a queer immigrant Latino with a disability, I want to thank my commissioner, Commissioner Udaly, for my advancement and the advancement of other Latinas and Latinos within the Office of Neighborhood Involvement into leadership positions.
 My mom, Luz, who is at home, she wanted me to say, she worked, who's at home, who has worked in the fields of Yamhill County for most of her life, to be able to provide better opportunities for me and my siblings. Ask that I thank you for this opportunity. Thank you so, so much. Thank you.
 Victor, we'll report that to your mother that you did what she asked. She'll appreciate that. Thank you, thank you. I do what my mom tells me to do because, you know, I'm a good Latino son and we listen to our mom. Will you talk to my son about that? And now I'd like to introduce...
 An amazing community leader, Romel Sosa, the Executive Director of VOS, serving day laborers in Portland and throughout the metropolitan area, to share a few words. Bienvenido. Gracias. Good afternoon. I'm going to speak in Spanish because I have problems speaking English, explain myself. So me vas a traducir por partes, verdad? Yes. I'm going to serve as Romel's interpreter today.
 As I stated, my name is Romeo Sosa. I'm the Executive Director of VOS, the Program for Day Laborers and Education Project. Firstly, I'd like to thank those that organized our event today.
 For me, it is a special month of the celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month. And thank you to Mayor Wheeler for dedicating an entire month to our Latinos here in our city. It is a month of recognition and celebration.
 It is a month of recognition and celebration. But I would also like to recognize all of the Latinos and Latinas that are here that work for the city of Portland. If you would raise your hand, please. They are the living example of what we are speaking about today.
 I also dedicate this day and this month to the day laborers and workers that dedicate their lives to working and finding work to survive. Y a los que llegan tambin al centro de trabajadores que con la ayuda de la ciudad abrimos.
 and that also those day laborers that find work at our MLK work location, which was thanks to the City of Portland. I also want to thank Jose Luis, who is over there. And he helped me write some of what I will be saying today.
 Primero quiero decir que VOZ es una organizacin dirigida por trabajadores First I want to say that VOZ is an organization that is led by workers que promueve el ejercicio de poder de diversos jornaleros e inmigrantes para mejorar sus condiciones de trabajo that is led by workers of diverse backgrounds that seek work here in the city.
 Y proteger sus derechos civiles a travs del desarrollo de liderazgo. Y proteger sus derechos civiles y mejorar sus oportunidades de liderazgo. La educacin y oportunidades econmicas.
 y la educacin y las oportunidades econmicas. Voy a hablar un poco sobre el pasado para que podamos hablar sobre el futuro que queremos. Vos has jugado un papel muy importante dentro del movimiento de los inmigrantes aqu en la ciudad de Portland.
 La organizacin empez a trabajar con jornaleros en el ao 2000. En las esquinas de Portland. Los jornaleros en su mayora son hombres y tambin algunas mujeres.
 Algunos de los trabajadores son hombres y mujeres. Vienen de Latinoamrica. Son ciudadanos de Amrica. Algunos son afroamericanos, asianos y nativos. Todos tienen un objetivo comn.
 Encontrar un trabajo para el da, para poder mantener a sus familias y tener las necesidades bsicas como pagar renta, comida y transporte. Todos tienen un objetivo comn de querer encontrar trabajo para alimentar a sus familias, para cubrir las necesidades bsicas como pagar renta, comida y transporte. Todos los jornaleros salieron por una causa por desastres naturales.
 por las guerras que pasan en nuestros pases y por la violencia poltica sobre esas desnaturales alcalde aster cancha y es que casa a extreme para ti natural desastres en plena covalente la vida de un jornalero son la vida incierta la ley a la tele pero es bueno para ser gente su da comienza desde las seis de la maana al congelarse en la esquina de poland
 Algunos toman el autobs, algunos vienen en bicicleta, otros caminando. Algunos vienen caminando. Algunos duermen en los shelters o bajo los puentes.
 Algunos duermen en asientos o bajo puentes. Y algunos tienen sus propios apartamentos. En el ao 2006, fui parte de un equipo que se llama SAFE. Que es Street Access for Everyone. Que fue creado por el Concilio de la Ciudad en donde
 which was created by city council and Commissioner Fish was a part of the council at that time. And it was created with a focus on providing recommendations for those that were gathering in the streets.
 Una de las recomendaciones es dejar 200,000 dlares para establecer el primer centro de jornaleros aqu en Portland. And one of the first recommendations was to provide $200,000 in order to open a center for day laborers and workers. Se identificaron varias propiedades de PDC que ahora es Prosper Portland.
 There were different properties that were identified by PDC, which is now Prosper Portland. Y Voss recomend que no fuera lejos de las esquinas para que este proyecto funcionara. And Voss recommended that the location was not far from the street corners where the laborers gathered.
 and on the 16th of June, 2008, we opened the first center for day laborers in the city of Portland, for which we are profoundly thankful. The Center for Workers on MLK
 is presently a trailer and we have a waiting room made of temporary structures and temporary bathroom facilities. The Center for Workers on Martin Luther King Jr.
 It is a safer and more dignified space for the jurnalists who meet their bosses. It is a space that is more secure and dignified for the workers to be able to reunite and meet with their prospective bosses.
 And for them to be able to organize with them and negotiate with them away from the streets. And avoiding conflicts with the owners of businesses. And their clients as well. It also helps avoid conflict.
 labor abuse by those bosses that would seek to abuse the workers. Desde que abrimos el centro han salido 27,000 trabajos temporales. Since we've opened the center, we have produced 27,000 temporary jobs. Y algunos de ellos han llegado a ser permanentes. And some of them have been able to turn into permanent employment. Hemos recuperado cerca de 600,000 dlares permanentes.
 De parte de patrones que al principio no queran pagar. Estos casos vienen de las esquinas y otros grupos que no son jornaleros.
 Estos casos vienen de algunos trabajadores diarios y tambin de otras situaciones que fueron de otros trabajadores. En 2016, el ao pasado, 450 jornaleros participaron en talleres.
 Hemos conectado ms de 500 jornaleros con 4,000 patrones. Hemos podido conectar a 500 trabajadores con 4,000 empleados. 4,000 dlares en salarios a travs de empleos encontrados a travs del Centro de Trabajadores. 400,000 dlares de salarios por medio de empleo encontrado por el Centro de Trabajadores.
 Esto quiere decir que por cada dlar gastado en el centro de jornaleros, se produce dos dlares con cincuenta centavos en ganancias para los jornaleros. Esto es una muestra...
 que somos un motor econmico eficaz para las comunidades de color de bajo ingreso. Esto muestra que somos una fuerza, una fuerza eficiente para la prosperidad econmica para las comunidades de color y comunidades de bajo ingreso. El prximo ao nuestro plan es expandir nuestra fuerza laboral
 plan for next year is to expand our labor force including jobs in ecology so ecological jobs construction deconstruction deconstruction sorry green jobs
 Tambin proveemos entrenamientos de salud y seguridad para que los jornaleros puedan protegerse de qumicos que les afecta la salud a la larga. Tambin ofrecemos entrenamiento para que la salud y la seguridad de los trabajadores puedan ser protegidos de cosas como los qumicos que afectan su vida. Estos entrenamientos han integrado a los jornaleros en la Fuerza Laboral de Portland.
 Estos trabajos y entrenamientos han integrado a los trabajadores en la fuerza laboral de Portland. Con su trabajo, han hecho la ciudad de Portland hermosa. Gracias por pasar la resolucin que hace de Portland una ciudad de santuario.
 The Center for Day Laborers is also a sanctuary place for the community of day laborers. It is a sanctuary because it helps avoid labor abuses. Like those who seek to...
 take salaries from them unfairly, which are things that they face when seeking work on the street corner. It is a sanctuary because those bosses, employers that are anti-immigrant and seek to discriminate against people of color cannot come in.
 It is sanctuary because it gives shelter from rain, from the heat, from snow. It is sanctuary because it has become a second home for the jornalers, where among people who
 It is a sanctuary because it has become like a second home to the workers, where they are among others who understand them, and they are in community. It is a sanctuary because it stands against the gentrification of the Central East Side area. It is a sanctuary because it stands against the gentrification of the Central East Side area.
 From the construction of large buildings. And from luxury businesses that are opening every day. The day labor...
 It is the only building that has a temporary structure for people of low income on the Central East Side, and we need to protect it. Our future is still uncertain. We are currently in a land that is not ours.
 Presently, we are still on land that is not our own. And we are on a rental contract, which is month to month. We are presently in a process of negotiation with Prosper Portland. Sobre una carta de intencin.
 regarding a letter of intention in order for us to gain control of the land and be able to build a permanent building. We have the opportunity to work with the Latinos in this city
 We have the opportunity to work together in conjunction with the Latinos of this city. And with elected officials, so that the dream of the day laborer, to have a permanent building, can be made a reality. Because in order to create these bridges of collaboration,
 It needs to be permanent because the Latino community will be here for a long time. I invite you all to join in part of these efforts so that we can try to
 To together make Portland become and have a permanent sanctuary for the laborers. Because I believe that love is greater than hate. Standing in solidarity and fighting is very important during these moments under this new administration. Our struggle...
 Siempre ser el defender a los ms pobres y marginados de nuestra sociedad. Our fight will always be to defend the poorest and the most marginalized of our society. A esas voces que nunca han tenido la oportunidad de expresarse.
 and to give voice to the voices that have never been able to have the opportunity to express themselves. Thank you very much, and I hope you have a very happy Latino Heritage Month. Excellent. Thank you, Romana. Thank you, Victor. Thank you very much for the excellent translation.
 Very good. Well, the council, if you'd be willing, would like to have a photo up front. Would that be good? Awesome. Awesome. Thank you. And I'd be remiss if I didn't take the opportunity to give Tatiana, Cynthia, who am I missing also? Christina. Christina. Yeah, Christina.
 I want to give you all a shout out for putting this together. Your tremendous effort brought us here together to be able to have this proclamation. So thank you. Thank you. Excellent. Well done. Fantastic presentation. And we're obviously proud to support this proclamation.
 and we'd like to go ahead, and if we could have a photo up front. I'll go ahead and adjourn us. This is our last bit of business today, so we are adjourned. But if we could gather here for a photo, that would be fantastic. Thank you.
 You're going to have to squeeze in, please. All relative, I guess. Yeah. I'm sorry. Okay. How do we look? No, put it in the chair. We still need to squeeze in, though. Should we do the thing for the hippie pose, the claws thing? Yeah, but there's no room for polo. Just pop it. Oh, okay. All right, great. All right. Let's see. One, two, three.
 Oh, let's do this. Can we do one with the Fortnite little sign where they're on the street? Oh, okay, great, yeah. Go ahead. One, two, three. And then we'll get one of those with my camera. Okay, one, two. Alright, good job, everybody. Here you go. Yeah, thank you. Thank you.
 We're going to have to clean this classroom here.