Please. Good morning, and welcome to the October 5th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Novick?
 Ritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone, and welcome. We have some important and historic things to celebrate this morning, and that's what we're going to be doing first. So without objection, we're going to take the calendar in a slightly different order. That is, we're going to do our presentation, proclamation, and discussion about Indigenous Peoples Day right out of the gate.
 then we'll do our second time certain, then we'll move to council communications. I understand that we've got a full agenda today, so I want to make sure we get everything done, but we're going to have to do things slightly differently. So if there's no objection, I'm going to move consent agenda to this afternoon.
 So that's how we're going to roll. Welcome, everyone, and we're looking forward to this presentation and discussion this morning very much. It's not in my official script, but I just right out of the gate want to thank Pat Gibson, our city's tribal liaison, for her work in building these relationships and partnerships with the tribal governments and sovereign nations today.
 that surround us. It is a wonderful thing that the city of Portland is among the few cities that has a tribal liaison, and I hope she doesn't mind me embarrassing her by starting this morning's meeting by saying we're glad you're here, Pat. Thank you very much. So, with no further ado, would you please read the item 1096? 1096, proclaim October 10, 2016, to be Indigenous Peoples Day in Portland. Excellent. Thank you.
 good morning i know you have some folks that are here that are going to begin the presentation we'll wait for that oh no you're out it's all right if we stand over here it certainly is good morning john that's wonderful thank you
 Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
 Thank you very much. So I'm going to ask this man of many talents, John George, to begin the presentation this morning, please.
 Yes, please pull the microphone up a little bit there, John, or sit down, whichever you prefer. So, Mayor and City Council, we thank you today for this. And so, in our language, I will say, John George, Riggs, and the Norwest.
 My name is John George, and I'm a Grand Ronde Tribal Council member, secretary, and I come from the Rigs in the Northwest, and I'm from the Rogue and the Umpqua people.
 here in Oregon and today that my heart is good. So I thank you for that today.
 So I want to thank you for our drummers and stuff too, and our song is called The New Beginnings also, and so we thank you for this and the relationship we have with Portland today. And so it was an honor today for us to sing our song today, to stand upon our ceded lands, you know, and to honor our ancestors of the Willamette Valley Treaty of 1855, the Multnomahs and the Clackamas here in this area.
 So from here, we were moved to the reservation in 18-
 the reservation in 1857 in Grand Ronde, but we call our home today in Satu. And so I want to thank you today for this resolution that you are doing today to honor our Native people in Satu and also with our relationship that we have with the city of Portland in Satu. And we look forward for this relationship today, but for many generations to come.
 So I thank you for this and your service and stuff, and to honor our people of this area of Oregon as a two, and so that they come here and to live in this beautiful city. It's up to you. So I thank you for that. Hayumasi. As many thanks in our language. Thank you. Thank you, John. Thank you very much.
 We have some other tribal representatives here this morning, I believe. Jordan Mercier and Brian Crabill and Stacy Martin and Rob Green. So please come forward, those that are here, and we appreciate hearing from you. Have a seat if you'd like.
 Good morning. Hello there, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Greg Archuleta, and I'm a member of the Confederated Tribes Grand Round, and I think our other crew is hiding here somewhere. Okay. They've asked me to come forward. And first I'd like to say, Mayor, Commissioners, I'd like to say, Mayor, Commissioners,
 I just wanted to say a few words in our Chinook language as our Council Member John George did.
 And just let you know that on behalf of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Round, we're grateful for this day today and the proclamation.
 that the land here is part of the Chinookan people that went to the Grand Ronde Reservation. I myself am a direct descendant from Oregon City John, Chief, who was one of the treaty signers of 1855, and also on the Clackamas side, John Wachino, who signed on behalf of the Clackamas.
 And then also have family that are related to all our Cascades that came down from the Cascade Rapids, where Bonneville Dam is now, down to the Portland area by where the airport was, resided in the wintertime that we had our villages in the Cascade Rapids area also. These were all tightly knitted families that lived here in this region.
 And our tribes, our Chinookan people, are those that resided from the Cascade Rapids downriver to just below Rainier, Oregon, included the Portland area up to the Oregon City area. And so those were the Chinookan people that were under the Treaty of the Kalapuya, et cetera, also known as the Willamette Valley Treaty of 1855, then were...
 moved to the Grand Ronde Reservation, along with many of our other tribes from western Oregon, including the Kalapuyas tribes throughout the Willamette Valley, the Malalas from the Cascade Foothills, the Umpquas, the Rogue Rivers, the Tekelmas and Shastas from southern Oregon and northern California, and the Tolomac people also became part of the reservation.
 But since time immemorial, our people have lived here. At one time, this place was a lot of sloughs. There was a lot of islands, ponds, and one of our important food resources was the wapato that grew very heavily in this area. And so that was a primary plant food for us.
 And then it was so plentiful here that we could trade it to other tribes up and down the river. And, of course, we had the great salmon steelhead runs here and the sturgeon fishing. We had sturgeon fishing places here along the lower Willamette. And then the smelt runs that would actually come on the lower reaches of the Willamette as well as into the Sandy River. So we're grateful for this acknowledgement and recognition today. Thank you.
 And so, again, on behalf of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde, Hayumaisi. Thank you. Well, allow me to read the proclamation, and then we'll invite others from our tribal governments that are here. And I know we have someone here from the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe as well.
 This is what the proclamation says. It says, whereas the city of Portland recognizes that the indigenous people of the lands that would later become known as the Americas have occupied these lands since time immemorial, and whereas the city recognizes the fact that Portland is built upon the homelands and villages and traditional use areas of the Multnomah and Clackamas Chinookan of this region, without whom the building of the city would not have been possible.
 And whereas indigenous people hand down oral histories, science, governance, a distinct relationship with water, land, rocks, native plants, birds, fish, and animals, and invaluable cultural knowledge and rich traditions that continue to thrive in Portland.
 And whereas Indigenous people who have been here since time immemorial continue to contribute immeasurably to our country, state, and city's heritage, distinguishing themselves as scholars, veterans, teachers, athletes, artists, entrepreneurs, and leaders. Whereas the Indigenous population of the Portland metro area is over 40,000 people, descended from more than 380 tribes and bands from across the nation.
 And whereas the city of Portland has a responsibility to oppose the systematic racism towards indigenous peoples of the United States, which perpetuates high rates of poverty and income inequality, exacerbating disproportionate health, education, and social crises.
 And whereas the city promotes the closing of the equity gap for Indigenous peoples through policies, practices, and investments that reflect the experience of Indigenous people, ensuring greater access and opportunity, and honoring our nation's Indigenous history and contributions.
 Whereas the City of Portland continues to promote the prosperity and well-being of American Indian, Alaska Native, and Indigenous communities, and whereas on October 7, 2015, the Portland City Council passed a resolution resolving that the City of Portland shall recognize Indigenous Peoples Day each year on the second Monday of October,
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, of the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim October 10, 2016, to be Indigenous Peoples Day in Portland and encourage all residents, businesses, organizations, and public institutions to observe this day by reflecting on the ongoing struggles of Indigenous peoples on this land and to celebrate the thriving culture and value that Indigenous peoples add to our city. Thank you so much for being part of our community. Thank you.
 So I want to invite those other presenters that I mentioned earlier, and I know also we have representatives of the Confederated Tribes of the Salets here, and please come forward and welcome. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I want to commend the City of Portland for proclaiming October 10th as Indigenous Day. Sherry, tell us your name, please.
 Sherry Addis with the Confederated Tribes of Select Indians, and I manage the Portland area office here that provides services to Native Americans, Alaskan Natives, and Hawaiian Natives. To quote a good movie, it's a good day to be Indigenous. Sadly, it has not always been good to be Indigenous. I think many of the people here, if we had the time, could tell you a story about
 of how their families, their ancestors suffered post-contact. I think that by making this proclamation, one of the things that stands out to me is that the city of Portland is acknowledging that history in Portland did not begin in 1851 when this city was established. I think by making this proclamation, you acknowledge that the Native people
 from all the nearly 400 tribes that make up the city of Portland's indigenous population, contribute positively to this society, to our city, and it's something we should celebrate. And so I want to commend you for making this proclamation. Many of us, if we had the time to tell you a story, could tell you how we made the choice for our families to live here in Portland. Sadly, many of those stories...
 you would learn that it was not their choice to leave their reservations, to leave their homeland and live here. It was a choice imposed upon them by the federal policies of assimilation and termination. My own tribe in 1956 was one. We have about 17 tribes. People argue what the exact number is. The low number is 17. 17 different tribes and bands make up our tribe.
 Our 17 tribes and bands were one of 60 tribes that with one piece of legislation, with one stroke of the pen, were terminated in 1956 and told they were no longer Native American. As a result of that, it caused a mass migration away from the reservation so that when we fought, and we were the first tribe in Oregon to be restored to federal status,
 When we fought, and in 1977, the legislation was passed that restored us, we made a commitment to be good city partners wherever our people lived. By that, I meant we made a determination to provide services, whether they lived on the reservation or off. And from that day forward, we have done our best to serve and build and strengthen the Native community within each community since 1978.
 In fact, in June of this year, we celebrated the opening and establishment of an area office here in the city of Portland in 1986 and providing 30 years of services right here from the Portland city. We could tell you myriad stories of tribal members who have made decisions to better their situations, to make best choices for their health.
 that really uplift us. This work is so rewarding to do. But I'd like to focus a little bit about the services that we've been providing. We provide self-sufficiency programs for tribal members, Alaska Natives and Hawaiian Natives. We have a full comprehensive health program that focuses on reducing the occurrence of diabetes and severity of it, which is a plague on our people.
 We also have a healthy traditions program that works to incorporate the best of modern medicine and knowledge with traditional ways that are healing for our people. We have a housing program that provides emergency housing, rental assistance, and energy assistance for our tribal members. One of the programs that I love best is our Selects Tribal Portland Area Head Start program.
 It is the longest-running Head Start program, native-centered, in the city of Portland, housed out of Whitman Elementary, for 15 years. We see our young ones who attended that first year who have now gone on to college, and one is in a master's program. And it's just so encouraging to see the emphasis our tribe and many others put on education as a path forward to the best future for our tribal members. Thank you.
 We also have an education and culture program that provides support to students in school from K through college. And they also support a youth council, college funding, summer youth employment. We also have an elders program because we know that when we become elders, if we're not active in our communities anymore,
 we can tend to get sick and die if we're just staying home. So we have an active program that brings our elders out into the community to socialize, regular monthly events, even shopping trips for those who have no vehicle to make their lives as viable as possible. So at this time, and I've certainly shortened the list of what we do because we don't have time to list it all, but at this time,
 I wanted to tell you how impressed I was with one of the ideas that's in your proclamation. It has a phrase where it says, I better put my glasses on, where it says that natives have a distinct relationship with water, land, rocks, etc. And that's very true. That relationship can be difficult for some to understand. But I'd like to share with you a story about our Courtyard Native Plant Garden.
 and the impact it's had on people who visit our garden and visit our place. When we first moved into our building, the courtyard had traditional urban plantings. And one of our employees, Lori Johnson, who has since passed, was sick with cancer then. And she opened the courtyard door and said to me, wouldn't it be wonderful if we could pull all this out and replace it with all native plants used by our ancestors?
 So our young ones who have been separated from the reservation for three or more generations would have an opportunity to know their plants. Well, after she lost her battle with cancer, our community joined together with other community members within and outside of our tribe. PSU and other organizations helped fund her idea, and we were able, with their assistance, to plant our native plant garden.
 Fast forward a few years, the garden is thriving, and a woman I'd never met before from another tribe came to seek assistance. And I helped her and got her connected up with the staff who would really do the work if she's ready to do the work. Later on, I was leaving the building when I see her standing outside the garden. And I apologize if I tear up because I do that over commercials. I see her standing beside the garden.
 clearly thinking deeply. And I asked her, is there anything I could do or explain to you about the garden? And she said, I'm here. When I was a young woman, I left the reservation up in Washington. I went, she named a university that she went to and studied native plants. She studied their uses. She learned their medicine value. And she graduated from that university. But then later, her path got derailed. Alcohol,
 had taken her down a path she never thought she would go. And so she was back at our office to recenter her life. And she said, when I exited this building and saw these plants, that I know my friends, be able to see them, touch them, and commune with them. It is healing my soul. So for us Native people, I hope that helps people who aren't familiar with
 with how powerful our plans are, why they're important to sustain to this day. And that leads me to another commendation I'd like to do for the Parks Bureau. I have seen the Parks Bureau, since the initiation of the city having this annual proclamation, go from just words on a page to finding ways to implement this in practical ways to serve our people and the greater community.
 One of the ways they did this was by establishing a Native American Advisory Committee. Many organizations, government, education, PSU, and a myriad of Native organizations, including my own, have represented us on that committee and have done many years of work to help advise the Parks Bureau where our areas overlap, where our wisdom might help them, to assist them with ceremony when it's appropriate.
 But in addition, this group has created a welcoming environment for natives at cultural events. They've established their own native plant gardens. They have used native names to introduce into the community at some of these gardens. They've created activities in the park, including Native Family Day, which is coming up soon. And I just want to give a special thanks to them.
 for the commitment they have that our parks reflect all segments of our communities and serve us all. There is more work to be done. Our statistics clearly show that there continues to be great disparity of economic opportunity, affordable housing, education gap, over-representation of Native Americans in our justice system, and much more. But it's the tribal way.
 to come together as a community to accomplish our goals. Therefore, the Confederated Tribes of Select Indians of Oregon, one of the nine federally recognized tribes in Oregon, endorses this proclamation and is thanking you for proclaiming October 10, 2016, to be Indigenous Peoples' Day. And we commit to standing shoulder to shoulder with the City of Portland to accomplish that work going forward. Thank you. At this time...
 I'd like to let my nephew speak for a moment, but thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Fish Martinez, and like my auntie said, she asked me to come here and say a few words. I love to sing, but I'm going to share a few words. This is just a little spoken word. It's called The Healing Way. From the northern hemisphere where civilizations fear apocalyptic change, still the natives that remain...
 Stand up, voices up in the face of a nation. What's worse than when Mother Earth hurts, putting scars on her back, digging up Apache sacred lands, poisoning the rivers, state funds from the government to eliminate eel runs, nuclear waste zones, winds of change bringing it home, sweet home. Now we need more vaccines, pills and radiation schemes instead of remembering, planting and harvesting our nature's medicines.
 Lies and excuses, political agendas so they lock us up in prisons and institutions. Don't ever call us terrorists for putting up our fists to fight for what we believe in. Spiritually weaving, cedar bark, watertight, ignite the flame within. Warrior shed, blood sacrifice, one love for everyone within the sound of my voice. Word, sound, power, be the choice.
 Running with the Eagle staff, retracing them forcibly march paths, bringing the healing back. Watching them dams fall down, it's got me feeling like I'm at a pow hour ceremony. Singing for all things, dancing for the healing way. The fight in us still remains, and the warrior bloodlines still sustain in the memories of families' bloodstains. That's why we unify. Just keep this fight alive, worldwide. Freedom for all, every day, always. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Are there other tribal representatives that would like to come speak to us this morning? And I know, again, we have a representative of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe as well. So please come forward. Please. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Philip Oshambo, and my Indian name is Uxler Tetonka, Dakota. I was born and raised on the Standing Rock Reservation in North Dakota.
 I lived there in Tahoe. I lived there in 57, never went back. I go back for business, but nothing else. But again, I just want to come as a Lakota from my home country and give appreciation and thank you people for writing the document that you did to our people, supporting our goal that we have going back there. We have a lot of people show up there.
 I was up there a couple weeks ago, you know, and there's a lot of different tribes, nations, and we had a lot of people from all over. My cousin Dave O'Sham was a tribal chairman over there, was involved in dealing with Iran and everything, you know. So we're just trying to save our land, we're trying to save the water for our people, for the people all over.
 I think it's kind of woken up a lot of people throughout the country, throughout this world, how important water is to us. Our people a long time ago lived in harmony with Mother Earth. We lived in harmony with everything that Mother Earth had. We had a lot of respect for the water, for the Earth itself, the plant life, the animal life. It was all part of our lifestyle.
 You know, and we survived with it, you know. And it's part of the respect, the respect of it, you know. And I kind of feel sad, you know, but I felt good inside when I was over there to see all these people from all the different tribes that were there. We had 130-some tribal flags, from logo flags, flying over there with all the different tribes. Big camp. There was 3,000 people in the camp itself.
 All there. I can understand how this government would let these kind of people that have money and power come in here and think they can just take over the land and do what they want to do. They didn't even discuss anything or say what they want to do. Well, it's a proven fact that wherever they went, they always polluted the water. Southwest had their water polluted. So up in Canada, they had their water polluted too because of the oil.
 Once that water is polluted, we can't drink it. We can't use it no more. And that's what we're fighting for. It's kind of interesting how we're not there. We had ranchers from all over there too. We had 300 saddle riders, horseback, come to support us. A couple days ago we had a bunch of young people come, run all the way from the Pine Ridge Reservation, South Dakota,
 Young kids come up there, run all the way up there to help support us. And this makes me feel good and sad how the support that we are getting, you know, we're just trying to save things. We're trying to save the water. We're trying to save Mother Earth. But the greed that people have, it's sad. It's sad how people have that power to be able to be greedy like that. Not just, you know, not think of what they're doing to this earth, you know.
 And so it's been foretold in our history that things are going to be rough for us. It's time for us to do different things. And we're doing it now in peace. We're not in arms. None of us are in arms. All we do is pray.
 We pray hard and we use our pipes and other ceremonies that we can have to pray that the Great Spirit God will help us to maintain and keep our Mother Earth clean, our water clean. You know, that's what it's all about. I brought some sage I'd like to give to each one of you here. I love my wife, Kathy. I got some necklaces our daughter-in-law made for her.
 Just to give to you people. And if we'll give that to you, then I'd like to have my friend Leroy here. And I'll let him introduce himself. I'd like to have him sing a Lakota song to you guys in honor of you giving us that support from the City of Portland and your commissioners. Thank you. Thank you very much. My name is Leroy Big Boy. Thank you.
 I'm a Lakota Sioux from the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. I came to Portland 32 years ago, and I got a job with NARA, Native American Rehab Association. And I've been with them for 23 years. And there's a lot of Native Americans who came through and
 a lot of them finished and they're no longer here with us. So I wanted to sing a song thanking God for the medicine that he gave us, which is sobriety. Thank you. . .
 Thank you.
 I really appreciate, I know we all do, that these leaders of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe came to our city to express your thanks for our support. I hope you know, and I hope you've felt it while you've been here this time, that it's not just the five of us, but the people of this city who are with you. And we know this struggle is hard, but we are with you, and we will continue to be with you. And so thank you for being here today.
 I'm not sure if I can talk right now. Excuse me. I know we have some folks here from NEA who would like to speak this morning as well. So do we have representatives of NEA here? Maybe not. Okay. And then I know we do have some students from the Chimawa School this morning. So before they come forward, are there any other tribal representatives who would like to speak this morning?
 Again, thank you all for being here, and we will turn the chambers over to the students from the Chimawa School. Please come forward, and thank you for coming. Yes, anywhere you'd like. Do you want to come speak to us first, and then, yes, please have a seat, and good morning. So glad you're here. Good morning. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Antoinette Tamina-Peters. I am from the Coeur d'Alene Tribe. I am from Idaho, Coeur d'Alene Reservation. Also, I'm from Chimau Indian School. I've been there for four years, so I'm a senior this year. So...
 I came here to perform and pray for you lovely people today. Well, what do you hope to do next now that you're going to be graduating from high school? I decided to go to college and bring something back to my tribe. So museum studies and go work at the cultural department. And then something that can help with our tribal youth. Wish you well. Thank you.
 Good morning. Welcome. Just pull that microphone down. Good morning. My name is River Works with Chimawa. I'm a freshman, and I came with them to help perform and speak. We're really glad you're here. We appreciate it. We always love having students here, but particularly for Indigenous Peoples Day. And I think this might be the first time that Chimawa Indian School has come to our chambers and performed. So this is a blessing. Thank you.
 Thank you. Yes. Family as well. Welcome. Yeah. Let's hear it for students. Good morning. Bonjour, . My Anglo name is Warner Austin. I give a name in the Ojibwe way is . My Cherokee name is . I've been at Chimawa about 15 years.
 but uh i'd like to ask for uh one thing before we uh go further stand up and stretch everybody please okay stretch stand up and stretch thank you and we aim to share happiness that's what we're about good this uh this uh this dance is uh called a fancy shawl dance
 And it's kind of new to Indian country. They said that in the old days, the ladies would just kind of dance in place. And among the different Plains tribes and all, the young ladies, they would watch their dads, their uncles, their older brothers, and other male relatives.
 go out and just really dance up a storm, so to speak. And the progression of things there, some of them would borrow their older brother's outfits, their dad's and their uncle's outfits, and they'd go out and dance as men. And some of them began to win contests. And this made the guys mad. Go get your own dance.
 And so they came up with this fancy shawl dance, and their movements are much like that of a butterfly. Thank you. Thank you.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 hey oh
 We're really proud of our young people. They said to us 500 years ago that soon our songs and our dances would disappear. But you'll hear with your own ears and see with your own eyes.
 that our ways are very much alive. With some of our tribal students at the school, their native language is their first language, and they have to learn English later. After this next dance, which is a crow hop, we'd like to have our Hopi dancers also share with you. Thank you.
 Heya! Heya!
 Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
 uh uh
 Our school has many different tribes.
 And a lot are from the state of Arizona. Arizona itself has a lot of different tribes. Our next dancers and singers will be from the Hopis from Arizona. And I'll let them introduce themselves and explain their own dances. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Welcome. Welcome.
 Good morning. My Hopi name is Sialma. My English name is Melvin Sisto. I'm from the village of Pakavi, located on Third Mesa in Arizona, and I'm Coyote Clan. Good morning.
 um good morning everyone um my my given name is hoiti matalayam tua and that's also a hopi name but that's my english name so it's kind of hard for me to get through school and stuff my hospitals and stuff everyone has a hard time saying my name but um
 Yeah, well, we're usually loud, but this is a whole new environment to us. So, you know, we're just trying to, you know, but we feel welcome, you know. Yeah, thank you for having us. It's a big pleasure to be here with you guys. We're part of the Hopi tribe and our whole tribe together has been around for as long as I can remember, you know, because I'm not that old either. So, yeah.
 Yeah, so the dance that we're doing today is called the corn dance. And most of our tribe, well, our tribe is based around corn because that's the only thing that's been there for us, especially in Arizona. Dry farming is something that's famous within our reservation. And to hear about, you know, the pipeline and everything, we actually had a group set out from Hopi all the way in Arizona to make it to Standing Rock, right? Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah, and they had a whole dance group up there, too, for those guys. And, you know, we're supporting everything that's going on today, you know, not only here but everywhere else. And, you know, that's all we really want to do is just be there to help, you know. And we even actually had a food drive sent up to Standing Rock, too, within our tribe. And, you know, it's a big pleasure, like I said, to be in front of the mayor, you know. Thank you.
 Yeah, kind of shy, so I'm talking too much. Anyway, the dance, like I said, is the corn dance. And there's two different aspects of this dance. The first one would be, you know, our tribe is famous for cochinas. And, you know, that's the first aspect. And the second would be, you know, the social aspect where it's boys and girls. And, you know...
 Melvin, he'll be portraying the dance as an Avatsoya, and that's one of our corn dancers. That's the name of the Avatsoya and Hopi. Yeah. And so he'll basically be telling the story with his hands. I'll tell you guys a little bit more about that.
 So yeah, while I'm dancing, you'll see me moving my hands almost like sign language. And I'll be doing a lot of this, which means in all the directions, means the clouds. Means the rain. So basically in all our songs, we're asking for all the clouds from all different directions to come in and rain on our crops. Because like he said, we do dry farm out there. We do have a hard life.
 But not only out there, but everywhere around the world. Because we don't pray for ourselves, we pray for everyone around the world. So, hope you enjoy. Thank you. Thank you.
 Chant.
 Ya yo, eh yo, yo, ya yo Ya yo, eh yo, yo, ya yo Ah, ah, ah, eh, eh, eh, eh
 Thank you.
 Oh, yeah.
 Satsang with Mooji
 Satsang with Mooji
 yamaya yot, yamaya yot, ayo che mawantye yamaya ve, ave tam te ke vanjo, yaya yaya, yaya yaya, yaya yaya, yaya yaya,
 There's like four other songs that we perform, so yeah. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
 Chanting
 Thank you.
 hey
 oh oh
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Yai yoh yoh yoh, yai yoh yoh, yai yoh yoh yai yoh, yai yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh yoh
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 .
 Thank you.
 ah
 Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
 Thank you.
 oh
 . . .
 Oh, my God.
 We are in the way of the Lord.
 Chanting
 Thank you.
 Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
 Oh, yeah.
 Thank you.
 Oh, yeah.
 Yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-ho-ho-ho-ya, yai-
 Siddhāmo bhavata yodānā-kutaṇi Upāyāvīnāṁ yaukīnāyaṇi Yāyō Yāyō Yāyō Yāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāyāy
 Satsang with Mooji
 Ya yo ya yo Ya yo ya Ya yo ya Ya ya Hey hey hey hey Ya yo yo ya Ya yo ya Ya yo ya Ya yo yo ya
 Ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya
 Thank you very much. I want to just, on behalf of the council, thank all the tribal representatives who are here today. So, oh, please, come back. Thank you. One thing I'd like to explain further is that our tribal dancers, whenever they do dances away from home that are of their own tribe, they have to ask permission.
 from their elders back home if they can actually do these dances. And so these young people, they actually get the permission to have that happen. One other thing I'd like to add is this. I noticed that in the proclamation, it talked about indigenous peoples of the Americas, right?
 A lot of people don't consider the so-called Hispanic people to be indigenous, while in fact they are. In my own family, we acknowledge that. My wife, her mother was from Great Lakes area. Her father was Aztec and Maya.
 The Aztec and Maya people recognize our children, our grandchildren, to be the same as they are. And so I'd like to thank you for that proclamation. We'd like to acknowledge each and every person that's here and the family circles that you represent. And I have only one last request.
 And that's that you shake the hand of the person next to you, please. And we wish everybody a good and blessed day. Thank you very much. Thank you all. We'll take a brief break here and return to council business in a couple of minutes. But I want to thank all of our guests so much for being here. Thank you. Thank you.
 Council of Business here. We're going to take the more brief time certain item and then move to communications. So let's take item 1097. 1097, presentation from a home for everyone on scaling response to need early wins in expanding to scale. Thank you.
 Thank you. So just a couple words of introduction while our presenters come up. It was a year ago that this council declared a state of housing emergency, a year ago this week. And we saw this presentation at the Home for Everyone Executive Committee last week, and I thought it was so, one, full of information, and two, clear that it would be good for the council and the community to hear it. So I appreciate Mark and Ryan being here to present it this morning.
 Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Mark Jolin. I'm the Director of the Joint Office of Homeless Services, and with me today is Ryan Divert. He is a Senior Program Specialist in the Joint Office, formerly is from the Portland Housing Bureau's Homeless Team. So he is one of the folks who's joined forces with the county staff to constitute the office and
 and do this work in as collaborative a way as we can. As the Mayor said, we gave this presentation to the Executive Committee of A Home for Everyone last week. It represents the system-level outcomes, the work of a community of nonprofit providers that are dedicated to helping people hopefully avoid becoming homeless at all.
 If not that, then they're helping them move out of homelessness and back into permanent housing, and where neither of those are an option, providing access to a safe place to sleep and a shelter bed at night. This is a crisis time. We do have a state of emergency in our community. There's more need out there than ever.
 But because you and your colleagues at the county and our friends at Home Forward and in the philanthropic community really stepped up at the beginning of last fiscal year, we were actually able to help more people than ever as well. So that's what we want to share with you in a little more detail today. And I'm going to turn it over to Ryan, who has taken the lead on the data analysis work in our office.
 with the help of the data team at the Portland Housing Bureau and at the Department of County Human Services. So with that, Ryan. Ryan Dibart, City of Portland, Thank you. Ryan Dibart, City of Portland, Good morning. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. Again, my name is Ryan Dibart. I work at the City and County's Joint Office for Homeless Services. This morning, I think just to remind folks, just over two years ago, Council entered into an IGA with our multiple partners with the Home for Everyone, the county Home Forward, the City of Gresham.
 to bring together a wide base of community partners who could work together on our collective goals to end homelessness in Multnomah County. With the leadership of this council and your colleagues at Multnomah County, you've charged this group with answering a central question, what would it take?
 Just asking that question in that way has in and of itself been transformative. It's brought our partners to the table over the last two years and bringing some of the most creative, collaborative work that our community has put to addressing homelessness in years. And it's been in the face of, as Mark talked about, one of the most challenging housing markets we've ever experienced.
 So through that work, we've developed shared strategies and priorities for additional investment that begin to bring our community's response to the kind of scale that it would require to actually make a meaningful difference. And this council's support for and direct involvement in that process has been crucial. So today we'll report...
 our outcomes from the first year of implementing those new strategies with the additional investments. Lest we bury the lead, on the first slide here in your packet, we were able to increase our overall service investments by more than $7 million last year with a focus on placing people into housing from homelessness, preventing people from becoming homeless in the first place,
 expanding our shelter capacity, and focusing very clearly on racial equity in homelessness. And across all of those goals, we were able to exceed our initial goals for services.
 placing more than 4,600 people from homelessness into housing over the course of the last year, preventing more than 9,300 people from becoming homeless in the first place, and helping more than 6,600 people access emergency overnight shelter.
 So today we'll go into detail on some of those outcomes. And, you know, today is really a summary report of these key system performance measures. It's in a comparison to some of our prior year's goals and efforts. It's not, though, an updated answer to is it enough.
 Again, that central question that you've charged our group with. From the beginning, we've acknowledged a need for better data collection across our systems and come to this with a commitment that we would continue to revise our
 and refine our system level needs and goals and correct as we go. So we're in the process right now of updating our previous modeling to account for improvements in data collection and reporting and begin to replace our assumptions with actual data so that we can start to answer the question, not only how did we do, but was it enough?
 So just to remind you of some of the work that we did to model out that question of what would it take, in this graph, the orange line is the key line. It's a look at our estimated unmet need for people experiencing homelessness, unmet housing need among people experiencing homelessness in Multnomah County, starting in 2015 with more than 4,000 people at the end of the year who still had an unmet housing need.
 And your overall charge to our collective effort was to reduce that unmet need by half over the course of two years. In answering then what would it take, we looked at the green line, which is how many additional people would we have to begin to place from homelessness into housing, as well as the blue line.
 which is how much would we have to begin to increase our homelessness prevention efforts in order to reduce that unmet need by half over that time. And during 15-16, the answer to that question, what would it take, was at a minimum beginning by starting to place 750 additional people into permanent housing above what we had done in the prior year.
 And this is what we were actually able to do. So in fiscal year 15-16, we were able to place more than 4,600 people into permanent housing from homelessness. Again, the goal had been to increase by 750 over our prior year, over our prior baseline, sorry. And that 4,600 actually represents an increase of 1,200 people.
 So it's a significant improvement on our original goal. And LEST, it looks like we did just a phenomenal job of knocking that goal out of the park. And to be clear, our nonprofit providers who do this work of placing people into housing every day did an amazing job. I think one caveat to put to this number on the 4600 is that our system was –
 did a lot of that placement in the very last quarter of that fiscal year, largely because of additional investments that council and the Board of County Commissioners, an additional $2 million, put to increased rent assistance to help to respond to the realities
 on the street. So many of our providers were able to place a lot of these 4,600 people into housing in that last quarter of the year, knowing that we were continuing to expand system capacity going into this current fiscal year, 16-17. So in some ways, our exceeding the goals in 15-16 was a down payment on beginning the system expansion that we're in the midst of in this fiscal year.
 But our overall system goals are very much in the context of existing and persistent racial disparities in homelessness. Most significantly here, you see that African Americans make up about 7% of the population in Multnomah County, but make up about 24% of people experiencing homelessness in Multnomah County. So with these persistent and real disparities in homelessness, we're
 It's important not just to ask how many people did we place into housing, but to ask specifically who was that that was placed into housing. Here is a system we closely monitor the placements by race and ethnicity, and that's what's represented here. The gray bars are outcomes from fiscal year 14-15, the blue bars from 15-16.
 And across the bottom in orange, you see the percent of people experiencing homelessness in Multnomah County who are of that racial group. So in general, what you want to see for our communities of color is that the percent of people placed into housing should be higher than their percent of people experiencing homelessness in order for us to begin to address the racial disparities that are there.
 And there, what you see nearly across the board is that in fiscal year 15-16, we were able to increase the number of people of color who were placed into permanent housing, as well as either maintaining or increasing the percentage of people who are placed into housing.
 And, of course, we don't want to just know how many people were placed, but we importantly want to know whether people were able to retain their housing over time. This represents our retention rates for fiscal year 15-16, looking at people whose assistance had ended three months, six months, and 12 months prior. And here what you see is as a system we're maintaining high retention rates
 A year after people's assistance end, more than 74% of people remain in the housing that they were assisted to get into. We were also able in the last fiscal year to maintain our overall prevention effort. We newly served 4,100, more than 4,100 people with additional assistance to prevent them from becoming homeless.
 And we were able, both newly served and people who had been served in prior years, able to serve 9,300 people total with prevention assistance. And just to be clear, the tool we use there mostly is the short-term rent assistance? Correct. And that's why consistently we hear from you that's one of the best investments we can make to prevent people from falling into homelessness, rapidly rehouse. And so that dollar is really one of our best tools. Is that right, Mark?
 That dollar plus some of the staffing capacity at organizations that can engage with the families, negotiate challenges that are going on in their tenancies with landlords to avoid receiving evictions. So it's a combination of the short-term assistance dollars and also that housing retention or homelessness prevention staffing capacity that our organizations have. Thank you.
 And again, to look briefly at the prevention outcomes by race and ethnicity, recently at a Board of County Commissioners meeting, we heard testimony from several of our culturally specific providers who talked about significant differences in how communities of color experience homelessness.
 Many are doubled or tripled up rather than accessing emergency shelter. And so our prevention resources are incredibly important for these communities of color, especially when they're delivered in alignment with our anti-poverty systems. So here the increases in the number and percent of African Americans and Latinos that were served with prevention is really helping to stem the inflow that's driving so much of the persistent racial disparities in homelessness. Thank you.
 And now to talk a little bit about safety off the streets or shelter options, I want to orient you just a little bit to this slide. The dashed line in sort of the yellow color is the baseline capacity going into fiscal year 14-15, the number of shelter beds and transitional housing beds that we had available in our community.
 The blue line up at the top represents our estimate of the number of people who would be experiencing homelessness in Multnomah County on a given night. To the degree that the blue line is above the dashed line, you'll see street homelessness in Multnomah County. There isn't a shelter bed for every person. So we'll get the AV worked out. Thank you.
 So the orange line is our estimate of what that point in time number looks like if we make the investments in prevention and placement that we said it would take to reduce unmet need by half. So importantly, over during 15-16...
 Council declared the housing state of emergency and began with partners an aggressive expansion of shelter capacity. We moved our seasonal family shelter to year-round and expanded beds. We added additional beds for veterans' shelter, opened the Sears shelter, then the Peace, and later expanded the Peace shelter when the Sears shelter closed. So now, within our current fiscal year,
 The dashed line for our overall shelter capacity has moved up significantly because of those expanded efforts. So we're continuing with our current expansion of shelter beds with 545 beds that are up and running, ready to go, and an additional 650 or up to a total of 650 additional beds by the end of this fiscal year.
 That expansion in overall shelter capacity led to a significant increase in the number of people that we were able to serve in shelter. So in 2014-15, we served 4,700, more than 4,700 people in emergency shelter, and in the last fiscal year, more than 6,600. So that's a 40% increase overall in the number of people that we were able to serve through emergency shelter.
 And just the last number that I'll leave you with is, I think, a critical number and one to let soak in for a little bit. This is the overall number of people who were served across our entire system of homeless services, both people who were newly served and who continued to receive services who begun in services in prior years. And in fiscal year 15-16-11,
 alone last year, our system positively touched the lives of more than 25,000 people in Multnomah County. That's an incredible number. It is in the face of very significant and ongoing need, but impressive nonetheless.
 So one additional piece of information to make sure you have is that when we're identifying these numbers, these are just the organizations that put their data into our homeless management information system. That means they typically receive some kind of public funding. There are also many other organizations that don't receive public funding doing work with people experiencing homelessness.
 whose data is not represented here. So the actual community engagement level of service being provided is higher when we include all of those organizations that are working in the community without the public dollars. So I know there are some additional slides and materials we've provided, but that's where we'll end for our time here today.
 And we're happy to answer any questions. Thank you. That was really great. Could you make sure that the mayor has the entire presentation on his website and a link sent to all of us, please?
 so we can get the information out. Thank you. Dan and I will probably both be doing that since we both serve on the executive committee, but we thought this information was so fresh and weighty that it was good for the council and the community to see it. Obviously, if we're going to make this kind of an effort, we need to report back to the council and to the community. So just appreciate knowing how we're doing. Absolutely. We're glad to come back at any time. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you both.
 okay let's move to council communications items next I believe we're going to speak on it no this is a presentation not a presentation it's a presentation so we're gonna take communications items
 Read your third page. It says communications and second readings are excluded by charter. Thank you. I have a right to say that. I have read it. I've read the charter, too. So I'm going to rule that out of order, and we're going to proceed and hear from public. Thank you.
 Go ahead. Call the first one, please. Item 1091, request of Michael Withey to address counsel regarding homelessness. He had to leave. Okay. So let's take item 1092, please. Request of Lightning Watchdog PDX to address counsel regarding evict the Clinton Foundation from the White House. Come on up, Lightning. Okay.
 okay folks might as well get the ground rules out now so we get testimony we get we get testimony in this folks if you interrupt you will be asked to be stopped if you don't stop you will be excluded mr. Walsh you need to stop interrupting people otherwise you'll be excluded from the chambers
 You are interrupting the process. Okay, we're recessed. Mr. Walsh, you're excluded. I don't ask for peace. You guys are good, but... I'm sitting in charge of you. You met up with a child-raping pastor last week instead of the Don't Shoot Portland. Yay! Matthew, I know you. I don't think that's in our own order. Matthew, you know about him. You know about him.
 You know about Matthew and Hennessey, right? What do you think you're doing? Come on, Mr. Saucer. You know about the child rape and pastorate? You guys are violating the city charter. And then you're shutting down the dude to get away with it. This is what happens when they have to do something. We're on recess. We're on recess.
 Recessing above the fence. If you're going to arrest Mr. Walsh, I'm not leaving. I'm going to document, I'm going to film, so I guess you're arresting me too. Okay, I'll stand right here. You're not arresting me in the document. I'm getting arrested with you because I'm going to stand here and film.
 I'm not going to get it off. Oh, okay, right. His luck is too shit. We can't do this. We've got to get him out of here safely. I'm going to document and tell you to leave, Mr. Walsh. Oh, no. That's all I want. I didn't even think I knew that song. Ain't nobody here. Oh, man. Black lives matter.
 Thank you.
 I'm going to go ahead and get my glasses.
 I'm not sure. I'm not sure.
 Trans lives matter! Trans lives matter! Trans lives matter! Trans lives matter! Trans lives matter! Trans lives matter!
 Trans lives matter! I think the mayor doesn't want to hear my speech, so I'll try to skip it.
 Trans lives matter. Trans lives matter. Trans lives matter. Trans lives matter. Trans lives matter. Trans lives matter. Trans lives matter. Trans lives matter. Trans lives matter. Trans lives matter. Trans lives matter.
 He's not telling cops, like, no. He's telling cops. Point him. . . . . . . . . . .
 I'm ready to get started. Go ahead, Jesse. Go ahead. Not now.
 We want to drag arrests where people want to petition their government. The House rule, right? I'll go to the House. The House rule rules the border. That's right. Folks, as soon as we can get the council back, we can get started. Thank you. This is what happens when you have a mayor that's a police commissioner. How does it come to be a big authoritarian? This is what we call a conflict of interest. The mayor and the police commissioner sitting in the same chair. That's a bullshit. No, that's all right.
 Okay, folks. The mayor and the police commissioner sit in the same chair. It's called a conflict of interest. Are we? That's how you keep... Yeah. Yeah. Only city in America. Same chair. We should know better. From whom? Yeah.
 I was impressed that, uh, everyone in class was more than you. So how? All right. It's not a good idea because he's not married. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner. He's not a police commissioner.
 Also the only mayor in the country that has, that the mayor is a member of the Joint Terrorist Task Force. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
 Who's using it to criminalize you? Is it G for S, security game? As soon as we get it right. Heads on sticks party. Palestinian... Heads on sticks. We need pages like that. When we're back in.
 Oh, so today is for everybody to testify about why we should fast track the CBA contract. Is that why you sent all those letters out with all those community groups? With the Department of Neighborhood and Environment? Rachel? Why would you have the game task force sending out letters and recommendations that people tell us not to follow the contract? And collect parties to talk about it? Okay, because Celia Heron came down. She's the first one to break the agenda. So if you could just kind of let her know already.
 Why wouldn't police activists have anything to do with collective bargaining agreement? We've been talking about it since the beginning. So why would your office send that information out? Why would Tom Levy send that information out? Why would you guys have organizations and bureaus thinking that we should not have anything to do with collective bargaining agreement conversations, discussions, dialogues, and testimonials? Why would you send that information out? That's desperate.
 Okay, I'm not sure if we've got Carly here or not, but I'll start with this. Folks, council is returning to order. Okay, here are the rules for how things work in this chamber. If you shout me down while I'm telling you the rules, the rules still apply. So the rules are that people get to speak...
 And we get to listen. If you interrupt the process or if you use profanity in this room, you will be asked to leave. If you don't leave, you will be excluded. And if you don't leave, then you'll be arrested. It's how it works. So I'm going to restart the council meeting. And if you're not allowing people to speak, we'll go through that process. Okay?
 I'm starting the council meeting as soon as the clerk gets here, and we'll follow those rules, okay? Take another recess. Please let me test the people. As soon as the clerk gets here, we'll get going. I don't know where Carla is. Call your own charter board. Let's talk about you having the child sex. I am going to follow the rules as soon as the clerk gets here. So does anybody know where Carla is? Why would you want us to meet with a molester? That's very good for you.
 But we haven't got the lights on, so we don't want to talk about how the cameras work. Can we get the cameras and the lights on so we can start the meeting? Oh, these cameras for the public. Oh, it is on. Okay, but they can't see us because we're here for 12 years, too. Darla, here she comes. You know about all this stuff. All you guys do.
 Okay. You guys know about the child sex abuse. So you'd rather go meet up with a child sex abusing pastor that works for the police instead of the community. That's nice. And then you expect us to trust you on a police contract when you're leaving office in three months. That's kind of a lot to ask.
 Isn't trust supposed to be earned, not given, Mr. Mack? Let us testify. You don't know what the hell you're talking about. You are an idiot. Ready, Carla? Okay, the light's on. Okay, counsel, return to order, please.
 Folks, anyone who interrupts will be asked to leave. You're asked to leave if you interrupt. Ma'am, you're asked to leave. If you don't leave, you'll be excluded. Ms. Rayford, you need to leave the chambers or be excluded. We're going to have a council meeting with you or without you, so we've got to just figure that out here. Mr. Davis, you're excluded. No. All right, we're recessed. Those two folks are excluded. No, I'm not. I'm scheduled to speak.
 I'm scheduled to speak. Well, I guess I'm going to get a turd on my floor when I go home tonight. Excluded? Yeah, right. For what? I'm going to go to Canada.
 once again the man excluded because he doesn't want to talk about a child sex abuser pastor that he met up with in the community so Charlie Hale shut down Portland City Hall on the 29th right no I'm not leaving I'm not leaving I'm scheduled to speak I'm scheduled to speak
 I'm confused over who you're speaking to. You need to leave. I can't do it this way. I have not disrupted you. I'm not leaving. You need to leave. No, I'm not leaving. No, I'm not leaving. You need to leave. I need to speak. I want to speak. I want to speak. Ms. Vanderlinde was not asking you to leave.
 You fascist goon, keep your hands off her too. Come arrest me. I don't care. It'll just be another lawsuit against you guys and show that you guys don't want to talk about child sex abuse and how I meet up with a child rapist pastor, Matthew Hennessy, instead of actually meeting up with Don't Shoot Portland. He'd rather meet up with a child sex offender instead of this guy and Teresa Rayford and Don't Shoot Portland. Only city in the country.
 And then he doesn't want me to speak, so he just excludes me. I see how this... Sorry, it's not going on like that. I'll go out and fucking beat the charges in a fucking two weeks. And then file another fucking court claim against me. That is the rule of fucking all three of us. No one's got to go in there. I'll walk up and...
 going down the way of Charlie. I was just planning on saying right three minutes. If I can't in my three minutes, then I'll go out there and tell you that you've been the right for black people standing up against people that have violated our continuity.
 D.O.J. and all the rest of them, but their police department, of course they would have done it for them. They probably had to have a couple of records left on all of them.
 I want to deal with those afflictions. Since y'all organized with them to do marches, and at those marches you guys have officers that have killed people. So remember when you guys had that protest or that march after the verdict? You didn't have officers that had been involved in there. What are the facts? You have to be questioning me. You know how to reach me. Shut up! You know how to reach me.
 No! You gotta be shy! Don't try bullshit!
 I feel like I'm in the top 10 in my check. You want to tell me that we'll do that next time? See, Mikey, you know this is bullshit. The mayor didn't want to hear me talk about all this stuff, so he just preemptively pulled a bunch of bullshit. That's reality. That's all. You're a new kid on the block. You're a new kid on the block. I was just talking about it. I was just talking about it.
 I want to get a chance to go. How are you doing? How are you doing, Mom? Oh. I'm on time. OK, I'm going to change. Whoa. This is not happening. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.
 Portland Police Bureau's union contract where we have the mayor and the police commissioner as the same person and he's sitting in his little foot soffers and he's got to shut people up. That's what we got going on here. Tyranny in America. I'm scheduled to speak in three minutes and I'm not leaving. All these officers are here. All these officers are here. All right, let's go.
 to use force, physical force and violence to kill. Now they're killed in this built-in conflict of interest. No justice, no peace through racist police. No justice, no peace through racist police. No justice, no peace through racist police. No justice, no peace
 No racist, please. No justice, no peace. No racist, please. No justice, no peace. No racist, please. No justice, no peace. No racist, no peace. No justice, no peace. No racist, please. No justice, no peace. No racist, please. No justice, no peace. No racism, please. No justice, no peace.
 Police Commissioner, that's not going to happen. These guys are willing to use fire. Protect. The major is going to have to have it all. This is all up to Sarah. The news is watching. Come on, man. He's fine. He's not doing much. I'll do it all nice and slow, and my backpack's right behind me. We got it. I know. It's a cool deal. Sarah! What the fuck are you doing? Get your hair off! Why are you being aggressive? Do you know why?
 I am God. But you can just miss my life and make me move out of the chair. Or you know I could fall and hurt myself. Or you can just shut me out of your house. Get out of my goddamn way. I'm going to be with everybody else.
 This is a public hearing. Freedom of speech is in effect. It is a right that Doresa is exercising. She has not broken any law. The last you said was that. No law has been broken. My slip's right there. Hi, Malcolm. Yeah, I got the bike tacked on the chair. I'd like to know your name as well, off-camera. Laura, also. Oh, Ben, I'll write that. I'll write that.
 Right. Right. Folks, we're clearing the chamber. Everyone, there's a lead. Right now, we're clearing the chamber. Back in order, we'll let you back in. What's going to take for it to be back in order to let us back in if we have to? Put it down? It's not really a public hearing. It's a public meeting. I need that statement in writing. We can't watch Jurassic and Reinvestment. So if we all sit down, you guys are going to...
 Yeah, go on. Yeah, so if we sit down, we'll continue. So he just said, this is about money, everybody. I want to ask all of us to arrest Baratza. About $10 million.
 No, if Teresa won't be arrested... If I walk away from him, Lenny? They just tried to arrest Teresa. We're not going to let that happen. Did she? Are they going to arrest her? No, they're going to arrest her. Don't trust them. Don't trust them.
 They're trying to make deals with us. Don't ever make a deal with them. When you make deals with them, that's how they get you later. They're like, oh, you didn't uphold the deal, so shut the fuck up. So, all right, time to arrest you. Yeah, that's how they play that. Don't make deals with them. Don't agree to nothing. We can sit down and continue this if you put it in writing that we are not under arrest. If you can put it in writing that no one's under arrest and we can sit down and continue this, then that's cool.
 I don't think any of them are. I think they're going to deny it. Were you protecting the city right now? Yeah. The citizens are over here. Yeah, I don't feel very protected. For sure. The citizens are over here. These people are over here. Right? Yeah. Yeah, exactly. It's us. We learned how to answer that.
 It's going to be an issue. Yeah, yeah. It's going to be an issue. Especially because I heard this. What did you say? Do you have my camera? Do you want me to grab it like this? Yeah, right there. Get out of here. Don't chase your money. He's here for a room.
 um yeah
 You don't want to be alone. You don't want to be alone.
 King David? David? King David? His name already is David. I'm sorry. Come on up there. Laura. Laura, thanks. Thank you. Just a question. Laura, what did she do? I don't even know. Oh, man. She was outside the chamber. Shit. Yeah, it's not just me. I mean, they took her from the chamber. Oh, she got big chunk of money out of this.
 Laura was just forcibly removed from the building and placed under arrest. So we know that they arrested her. With Oliver's son. With Oliver's son. Wow. That is crazy. Yeah. Laura just got arrested and forced out the building. The Homeland Security just called us. Should we call him? No. There's a leader. So they said no. Oh, shit. Here we go. Excellent. So, um...
 We just want to continue, but we can't have... We don't want that, so we won't. She's gone. We're blocking off the doorways, so if you grab her and leave, it's a good idea. Get her to some free sex.
 Did it on video. You guys tried to arrest us. You guys tried to arrest us. Well, when we get in writing, we'll see it. I had no attempt to see the council. We can't really trust that if they just kind of blow it with all my stuff. I mean, you lie to me. Everyone gets reported. Oh, boy. Oh, boy.
 We don't want anything to see.
 Why do you still have this job, man? It's gotta be bad for the rest of keeping Laura. You seem like a friendly guy. I really like Laura. She's my first time here. I go 9-5. Which is still a problem. They go 9-5. So, I mean, this is trespassing. In a public building. Okay, trespassing, you can give somebody a ticket for that. You don't have to take notes. I appreciate your... I see this meeting. I appreciate your stance on those issues.
 exactly got I am I'm modern a yes I'm a guy home I'm I'm I'm
 They said they're getting it in writing. They're not doing it in the place that we all are listening to. So we're going to have to wait and see. Mike, you're putting it in writing? Yeah. Wow. Basically what happened was
 Thank you.
 because they gave him a copy of the writing that he knew the way to the translation and he was like when I go over like that he had to hear he had to get rid of it for five minutes that's why he's missing he's embarrassed he's chewing at his purse he's like you need to be a pastor he's like I'm like trying to speak
 I need to pee. ...
 I don't know.
 Hey, just so you guys know, this stuff is going flat. They do? Yeah. I got it right here. All right. Well, we are being kidnapped right now, I guess. Hey, at least we're not voting in the country. Yeah, not voting in the country. Do you have a Sharpie? I don't know.
 um um
 Thank you.
 It's hard to get through.
 Excuse me, up there with the blinds, those things are super sensitive. Please do not raise them. All right, I won't touch the guitar building. Raise them and look at the light. I just might see the natural light. Yeah.
 I'm waiting for it in writing that we here I'll I'll I'll yeah
 actually in DC they address you very well they just come to you and they give you the ticket of the spot you know what it is all right
 Oh yeah, everybody, left that NLT number on your arm. 902-5340. Anyone want to use a pen? We have another marker. 902-5340. 503-40. 902-5340. 5340.
 902-5084 You don't want to use your phone because everybody's taking your phone. You have to write that in. Yeah, remember that. 902-5084 I didn't do it. Let them know the sunshine is here. Sunlight is a natural disinfectant. This is a company that has to build it. Open the lights. By 300. Oh, by the way, it just cost $9,000 to raise that white one.
 Oh, shit. I don't know. You got it right. You got it right, and I got it wrong. Okay. Okay. Does anyone need the numbers? What does it say? Are they giving us the numbers? What do you say, James? Okay.
 If decorum can be restored within council chambers, including sitting down and not interrupting from the audience, we will resume the meeting without further arrest. If decorum cannot be continued, then the mayor as presiding officer will take further action to restore order, which may include exclusions and arrests for failure to comply. This is a threat. Oh no, I added that line.
 Yeah, that's a great guy. Yeah, uh, have they gone through with, have they gone through with the people challenging Bobby's case? No. It's a continuation of a hearing. Another made amendment. No, I understand. We took both testimony on the amendment and the entirety last week, and if the amendment has been passed, there are no new amendments. The amendment, the mayor introduced it at the afternoon session last week. Today they're both
 the amendment, the only vote they're taking. So the contract is not under vote today? Correct. That is next week. The continuation of the first hearing will vote on the amendment and will vote on the contract next week. Are we... Rachel, one more thing. Are we going to allow other people outside that want to come in? I mean...
 If I can follow these rules. I'm going to have to take that question to security, so I'll come back to you. All right. Should we use real democracy and take a vote as to whether or not we're going to control the land? For the council meeting? Yeah, I can grab you one. That would be great. Yeah, I'll grab that. Okay, thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like a copy of this? I'll take a copy. Here, it would be great. Thank you.
 I get it now.
 you're gonna lock me out if i can't get one
 Is there a commanding officer that we can speak to about this?
 Okay. So everyone can go here and... Hey, Rachel? We would like a release. We'd like a police commissioner to... If you'd like the meeting to start again, this is what we've got. If you'd like the meeting to start again... I wonder why you would say that.
 All right. She's going to go home. Keep Davis also. All people arrested. That's all. You guys should not arrest him. He's such a liar. He doesn't care who it was. He arrested him. He doesn't negotiate with parents. Yeah, we don't negotiate with parents. There he goes. All right. Do it. All right.
 All right. Are you guys ready to do that? Sure. Are you guys ready to do that? Do I have to sit here and tell the other two? They have to release the other two, and then we'll have the rules. Then it's our turn. All right.
 It might be contained when we go. So I guess the plan is we're going to stay here now until the other two activists are released from custody. Otherwise the meeting doesn't resume. Okay.
 The mayor has a power to construct offices. And you know what's so shameful about them? Like, you know, I'm not... They really want that. That's a lot of people. They don't want to. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready
 Is there anybody to talk to you about? Hey, Jesse. Jesse. Plumber. Plumber. So I'm not going to allow them to resume the meeting until the other track, unless they're released to bus seat. So he does not have to be there.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Our command is changed. Those are the commandments. I don't know if you want to do it for us. No, we stopped doing it. We missed it. We missed it. All right. Our command is changed. Our command is changed. We released it. Yeah, man.
 I'm reporting to Interjectionist to be released on their life. We need to talk to Rizzo. So if they do arrest us, because of that, we'll demand justice. We need to make sure they arrest us. Do you have your gun? Do they want me to? Yeah, yeah. It's right here. Next to Tracy. Next to John. Both of them. So we need to look at them. Yeah. Here's a trap. I'm going to see them. That'd be cute. Where's your seat? Seat? Really? Seat? Seat?
 Maybe they'll let us. They won't let us back in. Right. No, it's okay. Yeah. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine
 Thank you.
 I'm not anymore.
 so here here
 Thank you.
 Yes.
 What about Laura? We're not going to let them continue without Laura. Yeah, we're not. Hey, in fact, we're not going to let them continue without Laura. No, we're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're not. We're
 I tell you, Jimmy, you're welcome to like. People want to be in the first row. You want to be right here? There's a video. I'm just grabbing the waist. Are you done? Yeah. Are you going to fight him? That's funny. She does that all the time. Sorry. Chloe! I didn't mean to freak you out. Go for Chloe! Chloe!
 Let's run these greedy fushions right out of town! Looks like they're gonna cancel the rest of the hearing. They just wanna gather their personal belongings. Okay. Uh... Alright, so... You been outside like this? Huh? What's it look like out there? There's like 40 cops or so. 40? Yeah, 34. There's a lot.
 we have ok up
 Thank you.
 So we're going to have everyone sit down so that we can have people come back in.
 I'm going to take that. How much do you think that table is? I'm really talking about the table. Hey, Greg, you're sitting like no one else. That's how I sit, yo. Quit persecuting me.
 He did. Desi's old, yo. That's making up for all the other new spreaders. The media will be all like perfectly positioned. What it takes. Desi, look at them from outside. Look at them on the door. They're a block. They're a plane close to us.
 I mean, it's kind of like we're even being held hostage because they're like American- No, we're totally being held hostage. How are you gonna leave? We could leave and then not come back. But can we come back if we leave now?
 Hey, the Portland Mercury has said that they're locked in there. Hey, the Portland Mercury has reported that they've locked us in city council chambers right now. Yes, they said they've locked down our facility. Well, we have the laziest press. The chairs will go through the window, right? You're not locked in here. You're more than welcome to leave.
 I don't know about that. That looks like they're taking a walk outside. I do not trust walking out that door. If they come to me, I'm eating the mayor's candy. Bring our buddies back. They got candy? Yeah, they got candy right there. Bring our buddies back. I don't know about that.
 I guarantee they would arrest me for that.
 yes yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
 That's right. All the fast food. All the fast food. The scrub. The black cow. Why are they even talking to each other? They're like, shut it down. They literally do have a TV set out there. I know. They have the feds out there and everything.
 I'm scared. Hey, they don't kill us at all. They're about to kill us. Hey, you guys, get off the furniture, though. Let's get off the furniture on the chair. Yeah. We're just getting up. We're scared. For our own safety. For our own safety. They don't kill us at all. Y'all, we need you to consider it. They don't firebind us. Go check it out. They don't firebind us. They don't firebind us. They don't firebind us. They don't firebind us. They don't firebind us. They don't firebind us. They don't firebind us.
 I'm going crazy, why? Why? No, we don't know. . . . . . . . . . . . .
 Yeah. Please put your phone display with the lawyer's name number on your card. I have Sharpies without your card. I have one on the street, 26. Can I have it? No, it's not the place. I have one on the street, 29. I have one on the street, 29. They're outside. They're on the fence.
 Just feel like they already done storming the building. Folks, grab a seat so we can get started here. As soon as you sit down, the lights go on and we can get started. Is it comfortable? We're starting to get comfortable. We're starting to get comfortable.
 Anybody need some right to message?
 uh... uh... uh...
 yeah me I the yeah
 here it's a lot of you it uh... more than
 um I hate it um also um they said that if we cannot maintain one um
 I'm just messing with you. But if we can't meet in the world, then they're going to reject the meeting over this, and they will have it in the world's room without us. So they can either be still in here, and they'll come back in and have the meeting here, or they will reject it over the state, and we will sit here. So I hope they don't know. I got this person. I would be a little bit more of a
 I
 I mean, that wasn't very well reacted to. Right. So you can tell from the street side, that's the message. All the sidewalks are blocked. You got a lot of people sleeping on the street. Yeah. We're going to work on the whole thing. This is racism. This is racism. This is racism. They're fucked up. I hate this.
 Get your bags. Fuck those. That one's called SWAT. Really? SWAT. SWAT. SWAT. Y'all see how much money on this? We're unarmed. We're unthreatening. Like, what the fuck?
 What's wrong with you people? Are we serious? That's why they shoot us. That's why they kill us. That's why they beat us up. Because y'all make it seem like spring speech is something to get beat the fuck up for. To be killed over. To be murdered for. When you guys are wrong. This is so cold-blooded. This is so cold-blooded. This is so cold-blooded. SWAT, the Department of Homeland Security, they done shut down the whole city. They done shut down the whole... We're locked in.
 We're having free speech. Yeah, they're going to say that they need to monitor us. She went out there and called my lawyer and they arrested her. That's a sign on our civil liberties.
 He already put up a campaign on the last 24 hours sending out very slanderous emails to different boards of sections and bureaus saying that our community advocacy should not have any necessary protective arguments. That was a clear anti-protester campaign. And then to bring us in here and say that nobody could sign up for testimony and that it was insinuating. Are you back here? Yes.
 Y'all know who Mark Rainer is? No. Yeah. I do. That guy does. He's a marker. He's got the back off. Yeah, Mark, you heard him. Is he here? Yeah, sir. He's on. I'm sure he's on. Yeah.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 okay or
 Oh, God. Horrible stuff. I'm not an abortionist. I'm just going to make them all agree with me. All my words are priceless, and if we haven't had fun, we've got this city. How about Rachel? No.
 His mom was here and she left because of their fucking bullshit. Like... Has anyone ever brought in SWAT and the Department of Homeland Security to help exorcise the capabilities of the Florida Supreme Court?
 uh... the that uh... uh... uh...
 Thank you.
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
 Next week, I don't know if you need to leave, but let me know on social media what's going on. They have the whole street called Outsiders. Teresa?
 Thank you.
 See that form? Yeah.
 Who has the right way to get out? Wait, I've got it. Hey, take your phone out. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on it. Get on
 That would be the right answer. Yeah, it was. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it was more like that. Yeah. Yeah, it was more like that. Yeah.
 Thank you.
 So.
 Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 I here are here
 So they're not having it in here anymore. They're going to do it in the road. And anyone who wants to watch can sit in here and watch it over the project. Yeah.
 They never planned on hearing this. But however, we also, like we've been told that the contract is not being voted in sign-on. So the discussion is basically going to be about how to say the end. So we're not like going all in on all this. It's kind of a bit of a split goal.
 Thank you.
 Fuckin' fucks, man! ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
 Social media and media outlets, be sure to comment on what happened here today. We did not get a chance to give testimony on this contract or the amendments. And even though they're going to do the meeting in the Rose Lane and still continue it to vote on the amendments, we are still not getting a chance to give testimony on the amendments, which is an insult.
 yeah and yeah room up
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
 Well, of course. No, the process of there's no charges. We'll never get into the car tax. Yeah. You know, the police, they're stuck. They're putting loads of bags. They have whatever. They have to work. They need to be given an exclusion order. They just arrest her when she walked out.
 They never said she'd be the lawyer. She walked out with our stuff, got on the phone with the lawyer, and they arrested her. Outside? How do you know? Exactly! I'd rather see her in the car. I'm like, I'm like,
 There are... An entire campaign. ... ... ... ... ... ...
 Thank you.
 So, update, Homeland Security is left. Oh, the parents are here.
 and that we don't have another problem here.
 Hey, there's lots of people outside. They want to see you guys. Wait for the people that are pumping their fists outside. Just put it right here. Pull it up. Pull it up. Yeah, you're going to be very pulled up by this great thing.
 Thank you.
 This shit just got real. Y'all know the national headlines. Occupy City Hall. K-A-T-U. Hashtag Occupy City Hall. Hashtag Occupy City Hall. No, we ain't on the furniture. The place is on you. Hashtag Occupy City Hall. Hashtag Occupy City Hall.
 I'm going to try.
 all of you leave me outside the door right here
 uh... also
 You mentioned Charlie Hales. You do not negotiate with terrorists. Please stop this.
 I don't know. We've heard that shit before. They arrested that lady when she walked out. Yeah, where's Laura? We're here with National Lawyers Guild. We're safer in here than when we walk out by ourselves. We're scared to walk out. We're traumatized by the assault and brutality that's been reported here in the city. Yeah, one person walked out and she got arrested. So we're not saying that. Yeah. Yeah, maybe once. Maybe twice. Yeah.
 That was the guy with the red suit for us. It's like, we learned our lesson. It's gonna never get better. It's gonna never stop last year. Oh my god. We're gonna be good. Hey ladies, we have 40 people there. They know them like 6. Where they going? So, how am I gonna learn from the rest of us? We're gonna be fucking easy. So, it looks like we live here. Hey, it's our new Airbnb guys.
 Nice high ceiling. Real high ceiling. Hey, you're a good ceiling. You're a good ceiling. We got two. No, that's right. We got three. That's over. That's over. I mean, this is going to show the extent of the means to go to protect the money.
 What are you doing in your mouth? We just said, hey, that sucks. Oh, that's great. Oh, it's cool. Right on, Greg. You leaving, Greg? I gotta go sneak in and talk to the kids. I'll be back. All right, go get them. Bring them here. I'll come back with you, Greg. Yeah, bring them all here. Man, that was a big goal. Let's go in there. Let's put this shoe on the other foot.
 Mr. Davis, it ought to be really clear after yesterday. You need to sit down and be quiet until you have a chance to testify. That's it. It will be in a moment, and that's why you need to go ahead and sit down, please. So can I testify first and say I support it at 145 or not? No.
 Not first, but we'll get you in early, as long as we can get started. So please have a seat so we can do that. Are we ready to get going? Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the October 6th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Novick. Fritz. Yes. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here.
 Here. Welcome, everyone. I'm very sorry that the City Council meeting was interrupted yesterday, and we have made extraordinary efforts today to make sure that people are heard and that the Council can conduct the City's business. We're going to take first a couple of regular agenda items that we need to address right away, and then we're going to move to public communications and other business leftover from yesterday. Okay.
 Then we will move on to the afternoon agenda from yesterday. No, sorry, yesterday. The afternoon item has been postponed, and the item for today is still on the schedule. Mayor Hales, do we have two other colleagues who are going to be joining us this afternoon? I believe so. I don't – okay. Okay. I have an excused absence at 4. I just want to make sure you're excused at 4. All right. I think we're going to be okay. Okay.
 Crown Rules. We'll take testimony today from people who were signed up to speak on council calendar items. We're going to take some folks on item number 1109 who were previously scheduled to speak.
 We will also be taking council testimony on other items on the agenda today. Here are some ground rules. If you're here to speak on a council calendar item as opposed to a communications item, you need to speak on that topic. If you're not speaking on that topic, you'll be ruled out of order and asked to sit down. If you don't sit down, you will be asked to leave the chambers, and if you don't do that, you'll be excluded. If you're disruptive in this meeting, I
 either by shouting or interrupting people or using profanity, you will be asked to leave the chambers. And again, if you do not discontinue that behavior that stops the public process, as yesterday's public process was stopped, you will be excluded from the chambers. It shouldn't be necessary to reiterate these basic courtesies, but I need to do so because unfortunately yesterday we saw the opposite. So with that, I believe we're going to take up questions
 our continuation of item number 1109 and we have some folks that signed up to speak on that item at the previous hearing and who did not get to speak is that right
 Could you read the item first, Carla? Yes, 1109. Ratify a successor collective bargaining agreement between the city and the Portland Police Association relating to the terms and conditions of employment of represented employees in the Portland Police Association bargaining unit. Okay. And who do we have signed up from the previous hearing that needs to –
 dr haynes are you here karen mitzner mitzner are you here uh v perez rivera i know she said she's here come on come on up please come on up and then the other last two i have are katie lege home and dan lukin welcome good afternoon thank you mayor commissioners
 So what's the process? Oh, sorry. You just need to give us your name. You don't need to give us your address. And we typically allow people three minutes to testify. So please. So wrong. I'm at that age. I am. Go ahead. Now I forgot which is which. I think that's fine. Anyway, my name is Mila Vianney Perez-Revere. I serve currently on the Community Oversight Advisory Board. I'm the founder of Oregon Institute for Restorative Practices.
 and I'm applying to the Portland Commission on Disabilities. I'd like to believe that I represent some part of the Portland community. My father started the Oregon Chicano Concilio in 1974. My parents were responsible for supporting the process of starting the Colegio Cesar Chavez College just outside of Woodburn, and I consider myself
 highly representative. So I appreciate, number one, the Hispanic month being declared. I saw that on the video the other day. I appreciate that, and I appreciate you all's commitment and service to the community. I'm going to apologize, sort of a pre-apology, because I don't like to speak this way normally. Given the circumstances, I hope that you understand that. Sure, please go ahead. Okay, I also like to assume people have the best of intentions.
 These are bullet points. Community oversight of the Portland Police Bureau contract is a public policy issue. Where is a social equity lens being utilized? And who is benefiting from the currently proposed contract? The mayor decided to negotiate this contract in the middle of the existing contract. The CBA does not include the accountability and oversight issues the community has expressed as a concern, or concerns rather, and the settlement agreement clearly identifies those.
 Where is the reform agenda? The CBA provisions need to include the role of the IPR in investigating in custody deaths. The CBA contract needs to include the IPR having the power to compel officer testimony. Where is the accountability agenda? Remove the prohibitive provisions which inhibit meaningful accountability mechanisms for the IPR, CRC, and the community in the current proposed CBA.
 Crime is down, statistically speaking. I don't like where crime is because I'm from Portland. I was born and raised here. It's terrible. Yesterday, there were some unnumbered amount of police officers that I saw here in the city council. I'm sad about that on all ends and for everybody that was affected that way.
 Further, let's take the SROs out of the schools and put them in the streets. They have no business being in public schools without, at the same time, having a meaningful restorative practices element and mechanisms where the teachers and the administrators get to communicate and talk in a restorative fashion. Okay? What we're lacking here is sufficient leadership in the right places at the right time. Okay.
 We don't need a 9% across-the-board pay raise to hire new officers. Thank you for the extra time. Just one second. No, because he's a member of the – so I think we're both saying please continue. Yes, please. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. You used up time, but you're in an important community role, so go ahead, please. I appreciate that. Oh, gosh. So, please.
 For the sake of the community and for the legacy that we sow now in this garden of community and our harvest that we and our children and our community members are going to feel the effect of in the future, please table the ratification of this contract until the next mayor takes office. You've done great work, and I appreciate your service. Thank you.
 Allow the community to speak and substantively participate in this decision-making process. It's critical. In the Communities of Color report that came out, oh gosh, 2010? I can't remember it right off the top of my head. Some 40% of the members here in Portland are communities of color. How do we make that space, that social space that includes them in the substantive decision-making process
 elements that reflect on our community if we don't have clear processes which include them that needs to happen it needs to come out behind the doors and be shown just like we have it here on the video i appreciate all of yours uh commitment your continued vision and i look forward to hopefully working with you all in the future thank you thank you very much thank you
 Hey, Carla, what other names did you have? I'm sorry. Mr. Mayor, Dr. Haynes is traveling, and I would like to speak on behalf of him. Certainly. Come on up. I only had Dick Springer was the last name I had. Okay. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council members. For the record, I am Joanne Hardesty, and I'm speaking on behalf of the AMA Coalition for Justice and Police Reform.
 Because of public input, the accountability measures Portlanders currently enjoy in the police contract, I'm sorry, in the current contract, the public continues to push for more accountability from policing from our elected leaders. Under previous police commissioners, we the public got evaluations.
 It was amazing to believe an organization with over 1,000 employees didn't do annual evaluations of their employees to determine whether or not they were fit for promotion, special assignments, etc. But because we, the public, fought for it, we now have evaluations in the union contract. In addition...
 We fought for well over a decade to have drug testing included in Portland Police Association contract. And guess what? The public won that. That is now a part of the Portland Police Association contract. Just this year, Mayor Hales negotiated the removal of the 48-hour rule. That's because that's what the people wanted.
 The people advocated for the removal of that rule for over a decade. If you were going to vote for an accountable police contract, it would include some criteria. It would have criteria on who are the best officers to be invited back to Portland Police Force after retirement. We wouldn't just take anybody. We would take only the best officers.
 If we had a true accountability system, we'd be investing in high schools and colleges so that we could grow the kind of community police officers that we want. In addition, we'd be giving stipends to cadets and police volunteers that are young people so that they could get a sense of whether or not this was a good career move for them.
 In this contract, we would limit acting coaches to people with a record of excellence rather than any police officer who wants to act as an acting coach being able to do that. If we were looking for accountability, we would strengthen the drug policy to ensure that after a use of force incident, police would be drug tested to make sure that they were not on steroids or other enhanced. Please continue. Thank you.
 The last thing is I don't know if the other commissioners are aware that if you ratify this contract, you are ratifying a body cam policy. Because if you look in the resolution under Section 5, what it states is that police will be able to review. We've already negotiated. The mayor has already negotiated that police will have the opportunity to review the,
 body cam footage before they're investigated, that's already, if you approve and ratify the contract, that's already in there. Which means, why would we put together a task force or a work group or a stakeholders group if we've already negotiated that into the contract? And so I'm very concerned that we're being told that body cams is off the table and we'll talk about that later. But if you ratify this contract, you are ratifying a policy
 that actually says that the only people who will be beneficiaries of that video will be police officers. The public will never see it. I appreciate you greatly, Mayor, for giving me this additional time. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. So does that conclude our sign-up sheet then?
 Okay, so this completes the public hearing on that item. I want to move to council discussion and action on the amendment that we have on the table. I have some language clarification to that amendment that I'll go through in a moment, but first I just want to reset some of the basics of why we're here. Many in the community have asked for a delay in council approval of this union contract, arguing that Mayor-elect Wheeler should be responsible for resuming negotiations next year.
 I disagree. As the mayor of this city elected to this office, the current crisis is my responsibility, and I refuse to pass the buck. We are in a serious staffing crisis in the Portland Police Bureau. Our officer vacancies are increasing rapidly. At least 150 vacancies are likely by next summer, and that's about the soonest that a contract negotiated in the next administration could possibly go into effect.
 Right now, we have 83 officer vacancies, and we have 22 retirements scheduled this month. The risk of increased reassignments of officers from specialty divisions to patrols grows with each of those additional deficits. We have very limited capacity to build the relationships that are necessary for a healthy relationship between the Portland Police Bureau and the community we serve.
 We're stretched too thin to expand walking patrols. And the other things that Port Wonders believe will mean a positive relationship with our police force. So I'm responsible for addressing this crisis, and so is this council, and that's why we've been in union negotiations all year and meeting periodically with our human resources team that actually conducted those negotiations. Thank you.
 The City of Portland is committed to strengthening our accountability systems. The contract allows us to do that and make some gains in that, but most of that work is outside of this contract. But what does the contract accomplish? As Ms. Hardesty just mentioned, it does remove the 48-hour rule, which will remain in effect if the council doesn't approve it.
 It raises officers' starting salaries to be not the lowest paid starting salary of any major police agency in the state and to also make us competitive for lateral moves with agencies that are now hiring our officers for that purpose.
 It eliminates a whole long list of Portland Police Association grievances against this city, which, if they succeed, would block our reform efforts. One of those grievances is against our discipline rules that I've been applying, along with two police chiefs, in situations where we have terminated or accepted the resignation of police officers that would have, in the past, perhaps won an arbitration case.
 I don't want to lose that ability to properly discipline our police force because it's core to accountability. There's been a great deal of confusion about the body camera issue. First, Section 5, I think you've all seen the memorandum from Anna Canwitt. Section 5 merely says that if an officer has viewed any kind of video footage for the purpose of writing their report, they'll get to see it again.
 That's all it says. It doesn't say that the police chief must give them access. It doesn't say anything else about body cameras. In fact, of course, there's nothing about body cameras at all in the contract itself. I'll get to some specifics about the body camera policy because that's what my amendment addresses. But again, I want to say most of our work in reform in the Portland Police Bureau is not in the union contract.
 It's in lots of other ways, like the development of racial equity training that's embedded in our annual in-service training now. It's like de-escalation training that's resulted in our use of force rates falling so much over the last four years. I'm committed, this council's committed, the Portland Police Bureau is committed to working with advocacy groups that bring the community to the table and give us the police bureau that we want.
 and continues the reform that we've already seen so many benefits from. I know people are passionately concerned, and I am too, about the tragedies of excessive force by police bureaus. Our police bureau has a bad record in the past of using excessive force. And there's been loss of life across this country that's unconscionable. Black lives matter.
 and they have been at risk too often in too many places, and it's my passionate belief that we can do better than that in Portland, as we have been here lately. So I understand the pain a little bit. I understand the fear a little bit. As a white man, I can never understand it completely, as an African-American young man might walking down our streets. But I know it's real, and we have to address it, and we have to address it in lots of ways. And if I thought this police contract...
 would in any way make life worse for that young man, I would never vote for it. Now, we have an amendment on the table that I proposed last week and that was seconded. I had some language changes that I want to make in that amendment to make it even clearer about what it does.
 I'll read it and then talk about the words that change. It says, Council directs the Police Bureau to convene a stakeholder committee to review the draft body-worn camera policy version 2.2 and national best practices as they continue to evolve.
 Additionally, the public will be given the opportunity for universal review and to provide public comments through the Bureau's established directives process. A report will be presented to the Council by the Stakeholder Committee and will be subject to further public input, and here's new words, and Council approval at that time.
 Finally, I propose to strike the last sentence, which says, following this public review and comment process, the PPA and PPB will meet to discuss finalization of the body-worn camera policy.
 Whatever is bargainable will be bargained, but the council, the city council of the city of Portland will vote on a body camera policy before one body camera rolls out the door of any precinct. So I wanted to make that crystal clear in these modifications to my amendment, and if there are no objections, I'll consider that... I'll second it. If I might suggest a further friendly amendment. After the... When you just said...
 further public input and council approval, could we have further public input, comma, potential amendments, comma, and council approval? Sure. It's not just for understanding. It's that everybody gets to come to that hearing. Got it. Thank you, Mayor. Got it. We have further public input, comma, potential amendments, comma, and council approval at that time.
 Okay, so Commissioner Fritz has seconded my modification to the amendment. So let's vote on the modification first and then on the amendment itself, or do we do that all in one motion? One motion. One motion. So the amendment as modified. So let's take a vote unless there are any further questions by the council on the amendment that's now before us.
 Okay, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, so the amendment's adopted, and this item moves to second reading. I'm sorry, please, comments before we go to proceed? And I know we've lost Anna Kenrick to her long-planned vacation.
 So I expect you may know the answers anyway. As far as having criteria for which retirees are invited back, currently it's at the chief's discretion, is that right? But there could be additional criteria, and this was suggested by Commission on Disability Commissioner Philip Wolfe, that would include some community review.
 So that there might be an opportunity for the public to say, yes, that's when we want back, or no, it's not. That's completely possible. So that's... And the reason I'm being a little bit vague about that is I don't know if during my administration we'll be rehiring anybody back or not, but if we do, I'm certainly willing to have that be a public process. Great. Thank you. And also to pass on to the next police commissioner that we should do that. And then what Ms. Hardesty just...
 raised about giving cadets stipends. Is that possible under this contract? Or is it that I know that part of the reason we're in this place is to have some incentives for recruits. Right, right. And we weren't allowed to give them anything without the police association's approval. I think the language that we have in the contract is maybe a little bit different.
 tangential to that, but I'm not sure. I think the language that we have in the contract about the development of a community service officer program gives us quite a bit of leeway about how we would do that and that a cadet could become a community service officer on the way to becoming an officer. Yes, and we also didn't completely specify what the recruitment incentives have to be. That's right. So that takes care of that question. About who can be the coach, can any police officer sign up to be a coach of a new recruit or...
 What's the vetting process for that? And that's probably a chief marshman. That probably is a chief marshman comment. I don't think there's anything. I'll look at the contract again. I don't believe the contract in any way determines who can be a coach. It just determines some things about what coaches do. Right. Well, that's something you can get back to me by next week. We can clarify that by next week. Then the final thing is about drug testing after use of force. And we were in a big discussion about that a couple of contracts ago.
 I think we ended on random drug testing so that there's no constitutional right against self-incrimination by giving a sample. And we had a discussion about that vis-a-vis community members who have to have a reasonable suspicion before we can do a blood test to see if they used alcohol. So if I'm wrong on that, I'd like to hear from the city attorney later, but that's my understanding of why we didn't.
 right after Chief Youth Support the last time and whether there's any potential constitutional way to do that. And then the final thing that Ms. Hardesty brought up was about the body cam process, and I think you've addressed that. I think so, yeah. I think we've clarified that that process is going to start at some point and follow the guidance and directives that we've just laid down and that the right to look at...
 The information when you write your report, or sorry, the right to look at a video that you used when you wrote your report is the only thing that the contract deals with. If you didn't get to see it in the first place, you don't get to see it the second time. Yes, right. And I actually did want to make some comments in relation to these points. As far as the IPR process, you're envisioning that that would come in in the future?
 what the auditor may eventually bring in would be... By code. In fact, the auditor sent out a memorandum which had a number of errors in it, and the primary error is that all that's guided by code. It's not guided by the union contract. Thank you. That's helpful.
 And then you've already voiced an interest in looking at the school resource officers, especially if certain things happen in November. So that, I think, is an ongoing discussion in the budget as well as on the principles of whether or not they're helpful. We certainly in the budget process heard from lots of principals and others who thought that they are helpful. So that's...
 And then regarding the need for a clear process for public and community members to engage in the system, I think you're absolutely right on that, and it's possibly something that we can fold into whatever the Community Oversight Advisory Board becomes after we've had the reset. So thank you very much for that, and that's definitely on my list. Thank you. Any other requests or questions? I have a few questions and comments. We'll try to get to you. Or do I just come back and talk about it? If you want to come back, we'll make sure we get you in then.
 So, Mayor, just a few comments to follow up on some comments that Commissioner Fritz made. One of the concerns that I've heard in the community is that when we laid out the case for why we need to invest in recruitment and retention, we presented some scenarios where specialty units would be cannibalized, programs that the community cares about would be compromised, and other things.
 I think it's fair to ask the question in the reverse. If we are poised to invest in order to prevent in the short term that from happening and then to address what you have clearly put down as a priority marker, building back the force so we have folks.
 I think the question that comes up and I hear a lot in the community is how will we be sure that those officers are deployed in a way to bolster community policing and sort of on the ground stuff that people consistently want, meaning getting cops out of their cars, engaging the community. And what will be the process for making those judgments? Good.
 Good question. I mean, it appears, and Mr. Turner from the Police Association gave us some indications of this in his testimony, it appears that there are quite a few officers who will not retire as planned in October if this contract is approved. I certainly hope that that's true. We will find out if they file for retirement or if they don't. But what I would suggest is that we have another work session with the chief inspector,
 perhaps by about the first week of November so we know where we are, as we did the last time with him, about if we're coming out of the nosedive, which I hope we are, how bad is it...
 How bad is it before we climb? Are we climbing now? And see that situation, because there are still choices about if we have to take people out of specialty units and put them on patrol, where do we take them from? I see nodding among your other colleagues. And by the way, just my own view, if it meant bumping a comp plan hearing, since we have about 1,000 scheduled events, I would welcome that. But I think hearing from the chief...
 about a number of these questions. How can this investment bolster community policing? What are some of the choices that you'll be making with the chief in terms of staffing and particularly units? And then what are the criteria you'll be using at the front and the back end with this new investment? And you've just committed to doing that in November. I think that makes a lot of sense, Mayor. The other thing is...
 There is a lot of community confusion, and while I think you did an admirable job a few minutes ago explaining what's in the contract and what isn't, there still is a lot of confusion, including some of our friends in the legislature who authorized this program and are very concerned that the community have a strong voice in developing the policy. And, Mayor, I know there's a lot of documents that have been produced.
 But what I would urge us to do is, in a place that's accessible to everyone in the public, put a very simple FAQ that lays out the questions that we've received and gives very simple, direct answers with links to documents, and post that between now and next Wednesday so people have access to it. Not to cut and paste from all the other documents, but one document that just explains what we're doing, what we're not doing, and what we are proposing to commit to in the future. I would urge you to do that. Yeah, we certainly can. Good idea. Thank you.
 Other requests, concerns? I just wanted to take a minute to address the concern that the tentative agreement says that the PPA and the city agree that the subject of review of audio-video is mandatory for bargaining. And I've heard some commenters say that that was an unnecessary concession. And I just wanted to hear your take on it, Mayor. I think Mark Amberg is probably better qualified than me. But we did actually discuss that.
 and that was that it's a statement of fact according to Anna. It's not something we bargained. It's a statement of fact. If we can in the interest of time, maybe between now and next week when we vote, we can get a complete, I've seen some more additional information, but let's get a complete memorandum from the city attorney's office on why they believe that viewing that footage as it
 affects discipline is a mandatory subject of bargaining no matter what we say if I can paraphrase their legal memoranda on the subject but we'll get a more thorough one than that to you over the next couple of days. I do recall that you said that but I thought it was a subject of such discussion that it bared repeating Yeah, it bears really ventilating so we want to get that from the city attorney's office and obviously we'll make it public as well.
 Other requests? All right. Thank you all very much. This moves to second reading. And now let's move to communication items. And I think we had Mr. Lightning at the table when we interrupted, so we'll take... I think if he wouldn't mind, we'll take Mr. Davis first. Lightning, is that all right with you? All right, Mr. Davis, you're up. 10-93, request of David Keith Davis, Multnomah County Cop Watch, to address counsel regarding war on cop watchers by the police and city.
 Good afternoon. So, I had to go to jail yesterday just to make it here and then go through all this vetting process and...
 stuff just to get this three minutes to speak, you know. And apparently you've rebranded free speech and language itself as disruptive, you know. People can't even have any dissenting voices in City Hall. And, you know, last week you were supposed to meet with Don't Shoot Portland outside of City Hall and in City Hall.
 but you chose to go to a pastor's church instead, which he was an employee of the Portland police for 12 years. He's also a child molester by his own admittance. This has been covered in the Willamette Week, the Oregonian, Blue Oregon. So you chose...
 to circumvent a meeting with community members to go hang out with a former police employee who happened to have molested his own relative from age 12 to 16 by his own admittance. Okay? And you are the same guy...
 who swept the past of Nazi cop Kruger under the rug. So you can't even talk about that anymore in the city. And you think that we are supposed to trust you when you have cop watchers arrested, citizen activists, you know, arrested just for trying to speak to you, you know? And I heard you're going to the Portland Development Commission next. Is that true? Yeah.
 Well, whatever. That doesn't really matter. But, you know, I'm sure you'll find some slimy position to go crawl into or whatever and make people's lives miserable from there and profit from it, you know. So, you know, so that's pretty cruddy, though, that you would rather go hang out with a child molester pastor that works with the police. And you know his past.
 And every one of you up there knows his past. I would... And I can tell just by the expressions on your face, you know, my dad was a psychologist, and I learned a lot from him, okay? So he might have been a hippie, but he was a... And, you know, so you basically...
 would rather hang out with child molesters than teressa rayford and gregory mccelvey and members of the community that's that's really a sad statement thanks very much remember i got arrested june 29th it was talking about your time's up your links to child sex abuser terry bean we're going to take the next time next person you definitely uh okay would you call mr lightning then please
 Item 1092, request of Lightning Watchdog PDX to address counsel regarding evict the Clinton Foundation from the White House. Come on up. Again, sorry you were interrupted yesterday. Pastor Matt Hennessy. Lightning, sorry for the delay, 24-hour delay. Please take the full one minute to make your comment. That would be cruel. My name is Lightning. Lightning. There we go. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 Just real fast pertaining to the body cams is my real problem is who controls the footage. The body camera footage won't increase police accountability to the public if the public can't see the footage. And again, from my position, I propose that a neutral third party control all body camera footage. The body camera footage is better regarded as a public resource rather than property of the police, right?
 Now, I do understand creating a mechanism for a third-party control might require state-level legislation. But again, I want it to be regarded as a public resource, access to the public, and again, a neutral third party to control certain policies, privacy issues that will be regarded pertaining to this film. Now, moving on to the Clinton Foundation, as I've stated,
 I just want to see the Clinton Foundation separated from the White House. As we know, President Obama's transitioning team did an agreement with Hillary Clinton and the foundation to allow certain things to take place within the White House, such as having White House employees, also employees of the foundation simultaneously, also consultants for foreign governments, advisors to foreign governments simultaneously to the foundation, etc.
 All I'm saying in the MOU with President Obama, it absolutely creates a conflict of interest here, especially with foreign governments. And all I'm saying is the legacy to President Obama, if you remove the Clinton Foundation at this time,
 and avoid any future conflicts, which we all know we've seen, the amount of money going into investigations, FBI coming in, all different type of U.S. attorneys involved monitoring this foundation. All I say, separate it from the White House. Focus on issues. Focus on more important things than the foundation. The foundation does not run the White House. The White House runs...
 Other issues within the White House and nothing to do should be pertained to the Clinton Foundation, which has grown so large at this point that it overshadows a lot of issues within the White House. Again, you know they violated your MOU agreement. You know they violated your special government employee agreement rules pertaining to having employment at the foundation in the White House.
 Take some action now. Remove the Clinton Foundation completely and separate it from the White House. And again, your legacy can't be tarnished, such as James Comey, such as Loretta Lynch. And understand, this will continue to go on pertaining to this Clinton Foundation. Separate yourself from it. Separate it from the White House. And enjoy your legacy. Thank you, President Obama. Thank you very much.