Morning. That's interesting. Oh, this one here, yeah.
 Everybody, this is the Wednesday morning, October 3rd, 2018, morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning, everybody. And Carla, good morning. Could you please call the roll? Good morning. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Wheeler? Here. Good morning. Good morning.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless it's otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something that is being said, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive contact, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that any further disruptions may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. First up, communications. Communications.
 Item 1017, a request of Elliot Young to address counsel regarding the petition for a compassionate response to homelessness. I had a question. I noticed that all five of the communication slots are written the same. Do you want to come up at the same time or come up separately? It's your choice. Same time? Very good. I believe there's five. Can we all fit?
 If you want to grab two other chairs, just slide those two chairs up if you want. And the microphones move around. I can read the rest of the titles. Thank you, Carl. Sure. 1018, request of Kaya Sand to address council regarding criminalization of homelessness. 1019, request of Alex Gillow-Wiles to address council regarding commentary from street routes.
 1020, request of Kimberly McCullough to address counsel regarding compassionate response to homelessness. And 1021, request of Sarah Ayanna Rohn to address counsel regarding compassionate response to homelessness.
 Very good. Good morning. And I don't know if you want to go in the order stated here on the sheet or if you have a different order. Could we request two people would like to substitute comments from some street vendors who would like to speak? So if we could occupy those five slots, would two of the slots be different people?
 I will allow it under this circumstance, but generally the answer to that question is no, because people sign up way in advance for these slots. And I'll be the first to admit they're too far and few in between. But in this case, since you're here and you've made the effort, absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. So should I go? Yeah, please. Okay. My name is Elliot Young. Thank you for hearing our testimony today. I want to first start out by...
 recognizing the tragic death of Patrick Kimmons in our city.
 And today we're here to bring to you a petition co-sponsored by community activists, religious leaders, civil rights organizations, academics, lawyers, homeless advocates, and one city council candidate. In addition, more than 4,000 individuals from across Portland have signed on to this petition, which very simply asks that we change our strategy for addressing homelessness.
 from one which has resulted in over 53% of arrests being of homeless people, to one which actually tries to solve the problems facing them, including lack of housing, mental health and addiction services, and basic hygiene for people living on the streets. Thank you.
 Here are five specific recommendations. I believe you have them in front of you to city council. While we realize that creating affordable housing is a long-term effort, what we are asking can be implemented immediately or in the near future. Number one, develop a robust group of first responders who are trained to deal with mental health and addiction crises who would be the ones to connect people living on the streets with services.
 These first responders could also address the livability issues like needles in parks, garbage in neighborhoods, and low-level theft if victims did not want to involve the police. Two, declare a moratorium on sweeps of homeless camps. Until we can offer adequate alternatives, sweeping people from one part of the city to another part of the city is an expensive and harmful way to deal with the housing crisis.
 Number three, provide basic services for hygiene for people living on the street, including restrooms, water, and garbage disposal. Many residents' complaints stem from the lack of adequate infrastructure for people living on the streets. Addressing basic needs will solve a great part of the problem.
 Number four, legalize temporary camps on city-owned property, as well as providing services to make them clean, safe, and viable. There are already successful examples of city-sanctioned camps, so let's expand this model. And five, track arrests of homeless people, publish data on a city website, and hold responsible parties accountable for achieving a drastic reduction of arrests.
 We should not have to rely on the investigative journalism of the Oregonian to learn basic facts about how the city deals with its homeless population. Finally, police always use discretion about the laws they enforce in order to deploy their limited resources more effectively. We agree with the police union that the police are not the best people to be addressing what is at the root of social problem.
 The mayor himself last June asked the police not to enforce violations of people at the ICE occupation. So we're asking that city council use such discretion again to stop arresting people living on the streets for low-level offenses. While reasonable people can disagree about the most effective ways to address the crisis of homelessness...
 We must all affirm the dignity and humanity of people living on the streets. The recent vigilante actions by Portlanders who videotape and photograph people entering a needle exchange program is a dangerous descent into mob dehumanization of our most vulnerable neighbors. So I call on the mayor and city council to stop mass incarceration of homeless people and to speak out against the dangerous anti-homeless vigilante actions. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Annette Johnson, and I'm a street root vendor. I've been a vendor since October of last year when I got hurt at the Oregon Golf Club as a dishwasher. And prior to that, I started using heroin in Seattle, Washington. At the age of 15, I was addicted to heroin and cocaine for a good 30 years, so I've been to prison five times in the state of Washington.
 And my mom used to come here when we were kids and play at Portland. We used to go to Portland Meadows to the racetrack. So one day I got on the bus and decided to come to Portland to get away from everybody wondering why I couldn't stop using drugs because I couldn't figure it out. So drugs were easy to get here on the streets of Portland 24-7, unlike Seattle back in 98.
 So I started here, and I got arrested. I was homeless, addicted, and they arrested me and took me to Multnomah County Jail, and they let me out immediately. And with the charges that I was arrested for, I would have been sent to prison in Washington. After going to jail so many times, Judge Sidney Gowtin, I got arrested for selling $5 worth of crack to an undercover cop. They were going to give me two years for it.
 Instead, they realized I wasn't a drug dealer, that I had other issues. So they got me the psychological evaluation, got me to treatment at DePaul. I got kicked out, then Volunteers of America. And if I didn't complete treatment, I was due to go to prison. So long story short, I saw other drug addicts in the treatment center working, and I started copying what they did.
 And that was study those books, study something. You don't have to be a drug addict on Skid Row no more. Moving forward, I have 14 years clean and sober on February. I might have 15, actually. Anyway, on February 22nd. But I'm happy. Thank you.
 I live in affordable housing at Graze Landing down on Southwest Waterfront across from the immigration office. I have mental health issues. I would walk up and down the street just lost. And so one day I asked a lady at jail, can you give me the ugliest booking picture that you have of me? And she said, turned around 20 and said, you need to pick.
 Long story short, when the people are down here on the streets, I want to know whether the city or anybody else, if it was you, didn't have a place to stay, had mental issues, drug issues, who would you want to come out there and get you? Who would you send? The police?
 Food is not a cure. Money is not a cure. Drug treatment and housing is not the main cure. There is hope for people like them out there. As far as who's going to provide that help, it's going to take more than just a house to stay because a lot of people can't function no more. The longer they stay out there, the worse of the problem is. There was an 89-year-old woman that was killed in northeast Portland.
 a mother, a grandmother, she's dead because of mental illness. Thank you. Thank you, Annette. Appreciate it. Thanks for being here. Good morning. Morning. Hi, my name is Leo Rhodes, and I'm also a street roots vendor and homeless advocate. Yeah, so I'm clean and sober, been clean and sober since 2001 when I started my advocacy. That's right.
 But being clean and sober, I'm also being victimized by the police, by the community, because everybody thinks all homeless people are drunks, druggies, and mentally ill. I'm neither one of those. And there was a lot of, when I first started my advocacy, like within the first couple of years, I had elected officials, church leaders, even people, all these influential people, even people in affordable housing, trying to get me into affordable housing, but couldn't get me in there because...
 I was clean and sober. I wasn't a drunk, a druggie, or mentally ill. So there's a lot of homeless people out there, what I call the functional homeless people, that can't get inside but are being victimized by the way people are thinking of homelessness. When you talk about the mental illness, there's a lot of sleep deprivation out there, which...
 can be thought of as mental illness, but it's not. When you're not getting enough sleep, your health goes bad, and you also make wrong decisions, which other people think that there's something wrong with you. Yeah, so...
 The housing issue is great, but that's a long-term goal. It takes two to five years for that to happen. So what you're basically telling people when you say, I'm all about affordable housing, is wait, homeless people, wait for two to five years until we get enough affordable housing. Sometimes we don't hit that mark, and you have to wait a little bit longer. And if you're clean and sober, you have to wait a little bit longer than that.
 You're being victimized out there all this time because of the way people think, which is really, really bad on homeless people when they're trying to help themselves, they're trying to pick themselves on up, but yet we have non-homeless people that come on over and tell us that we're mentally ill, we're lazy, that we don't want to get a job, we're unkept, things like that. Yet it's the way the people have put homeless people through this stuff.
 There are a lot of services out there, but just not enough services out there. One of the biggest things that I like is Right to Dream 2. Now, there's a place for people to go to to get some sleep, at least let their hair down a little bit at a time. You know, in most places you can't do that.
 So, yeah, that's what we need is more right-to-dream tools, tent cities, and shelters for a temporary solution until we have enough affordable housing. Because me, I am traumatized by all of this stuff. You know, I might not show it, but, yeah, I've been victimized many times out there. And there are a lot of homeless people out there because of the mindset people put in people's minds, not homeless people's minds.
 So, just want to, well, can't say it now. I did want to read a poem, but I ran out of time. So, thank you. Thank you for being here. And congratulations on...
 That's almost, I would say, 18 years clean and sober. Yeah. Congratulations. Yeah, in December. That's great. December will be 18 years. It's a long road. Well done. Yeah. Thank you. Members of Council, my name is Kimberly McCullough. I'm the Policy Director for the ACLU of Oregon. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you this morning and for the opportunities that each of you have given me to have conversations with you outside these chambers. I look forward to more dialogue and conversation.
 I want to say I love this city, I believe in this city, and I believe in our ability to recognize when we are making mistakes and our ability to do better.
 Crucial to that is more and better communication and collective learning, and my hope is that this morning will contribute to that. Please note I've supplemented my testimony with some information I hope you consider. You don't have it in front of you, but the clerk has it. One is a recent press release about the related issue of business improvement districts, and it has some policy recommendations, and then also a recent report that provides practical guidance for authorized homeless encampments.
 That's from Seattle University. Although we're here asking you for policy changes at the outset, I don't want you to think that we're saying that you aren't trying or the city hasn't taken steps to try to address these issues. I've heard from each of you about things the city has done, and we thank you for those things. At the same time, there's also things that are operating in our policies and our systems that are both causing harm and not helping to alleviate homelessness, and that are also diverting resources from solutions that would help.
 More specifically, those things that are causing harm and diverting our resources are the repeated displacement of people who have no safe place to go, repeated police contact for people who have experienced trauma, and criminal justice system involvement for people who truly just need services and a place to safely sleep.
 As long as over 50% of arrests in the city are of homeless, are of our houseless neighbors, there's something fundamentally wrong with our policies and systems that we have put in place to address this emergency. This situation with massive numbers of our friends and neighbors without housing and without safety truly is a state of emergency. It's similar to the city experiencing massive flooding or earthquakes or another natural disaster that has forced people from their homes.
 And I believe that if such a massive displacement happened due to a sudden disaster, we would not respond in some of the ways that we're responding to this current crisis. I believe we would not give up on finding safe places for people to gather and seek safety, like authorized camps on public property. I believe we would work together with our neighbors to address the hygiene needs of our displaced neighbors. And I don't believe that we would think that more police was the answer.
 So speaking of police, I want to be very clear here. I have personally spoken with a variety of folks in law enforcement on this issue, from officers to representatives of the police union,
 to folks higher up in the chain, and those conversations lead me to believe that many in law enforcement also believe that more police is not the solution to addressing homelessness. We have set up a system where it is somehow law enforcement's responsibility to fix this problem, but they literally can't fix it. More policing, more sweeps, more identification checks, which I still am getting reports about happening, those things are not going to help.
 Instead, we need to work together to create non-law enforcement responses and alternatives to our current practices. And we need the city council and our local government to help us educate the public about how alternative solutions will work. These conversations aren't easy. There's a lot of frustration all around. But as I said before, I believe in this city, and I believe we can do better. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for having us here today.
 My colleagues worked really hard to put this all together. Over 4,000 people signed our petition so far once the Oregonian report came out that over half of the arrests last year in Portland were of homeless people. It seems like just yesterday we were here arguing against adding more police in the last budget cycle.
 We said that we did not want this additional money going to new police officers because we anticipated that that would affect our homeless population negatively. It feels like yesterday that we were here arguing that increased police staffing would not improve livability overall in Portland, and later we were vindicated by the Oregonian report. But the homeless population and their advocates argued that
 The additional police staffing would negatively impact their lives through the profiling, harassment, and sweeps they experience. This is disturbing. We need to be listening better. We were here in April. We asked you not to add those additional police. We were not heard. And now we're circling back again and saying we need you to listen to us.
 Meanwhile, neighborhood groups following in many ways the lead of the decisions made by this council are coalescing in places like Lentz, Creston, Kenilworth, and you'll even see people from Montevilla potentially here this afternoon saying they also want more policing around urban livability issues. But this isn't really about livability. This is about excluding people experiencing homelessness, homelessness.
 from the public eye, from neighborhoods, from communities. As we come to you with this request, we need to be thinking at the 30,000-foot level about the direction we're going to take forward for our city and how we're going to define livability in the future. Who are these additional police serving? Who are they making safer?
 They're certainly not making the cyclists who relied on better NATO safer, nor the man and his child who were injured by a motorist trying to cross 122nd Avenue last night. They're not making human rights demonstrators safer, who are arguing against white supremacist hate groups, ICE, or the Trump administration.
 They're not making mentally ill people like John Ellefritz or black people like Jason Washington and Patrick Kimmons safer. And as we've clearly demonstrated today, additional police are not making our homeless people safer. Thank you.
 What we need to think about is are we going to make Portland a place that feels safe for elites, for business class? Are we going to administer our police to attract capital investment and keep Portland a place that seems good for doing business? Or will we focus on deploying our limited resources with regard to public safety in truly making Portland a place that is safe and livable for everyone? Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 If I could just make a couple of comments. First of all, I thought that was a very well-prepared, excellent, and thoughtful presentation, so thank you for that. You may be surprised to hear that I agree with much, in fact, the vast majority of everything that you've just said. First of all, let me say...
 that I agree wholeheartedly that the police are being put into a nearly impossible situation. They are, along with other first responders, fire EMTs, they are now the first responders to a homeless crisis that I think most of us now acknowledge as a crisis.
 is the result of failures upstream. And you referred to some of those things longer term. It's support for lower income and workforce housing. You indicated that there needs to be a more aggressive posture with regard to mental health service delivery, with regard to addiction treatment. And I was very pleased to hear our folks from Street Roots, Annette, talking about her successful efforts
 to overcome her addiction, and now she's been clean and sober for nearly two decades, as was the other gentleman, and I applaud you too, sir. I think that's fantastic.
 We talked, or you talked, about innovative alternatives that get people off the street and out of the elements. And there's no question that this council has been unified around working hard, whether it is shelter. And I know some of you who just presented worked side by side with us on the foster shelter. That was a very, very difficult and contentious issue, but an important one. Some of you worked alongside of us as we found an alternative location for our two families.
 which we did, and I think it's been a huge success. Some of you worked with us on the Kenton Women's Village, which was a tiny home urban experiment, which has been very, very well received. In the Kenton neighborhood, we're working with private sector partners, Homer Williams, Tim Boyle, Robert Stoll, and others on the Haven for Hope project.
 potentially under the Morrison Bridge, and so we're looking for those opportunities. I was very pleased to hear somebody say we need to track the data, collect and track the data. I could not agree with you more on that point. And the budget that this council adopted...
 A few months ago actually has three more data analysts, and it focused on issues around public safety in particular, and this is an important part of that data collection effort. I want to tell you that it is current police policy that we do not arrest people for being homeless. There is no policy that would support arresting somebody because they are homeless.
 We do have obligations around public safety in this community. And if you were here, and I think Sarah – excuse me, Mr. Walsh. I think Sarah mentioned that if you were here last week, you would have heard a different panel with a very different perspective on this. There's, of course, the Montevilla petition that I will be in receipt of shortly, and I hope to talk with the people about that.
 of Montevilla who I think share many, if not all, of your views with regard to this. Not to be confused by the Montevilla petition I received last year saying that we were too soft.
 on issues around homelessness and criminality and livability. It has been my objective to separate these issues, have a compassionate, effective, data-driven approach around homelessness that includes prevention. We supported 6,000 people last year through the joint office in that regard. Shelter, we supported 8,500 people last year through our shelter system.
 and the transition into housing. Last year, 6,000 people were transitioned either off the streets or out of shelter into housing. And then, yes, we're also being very aggressive on the long-term play around housing. When it comes to public safety, we have an obligation around criminality. I do want to gently push back on the notion that
 The current circumstances around law enforcement are in any way impacted by the city council's budget this year around policing. There is no proof of that. In fact, I will give you contrary proof. We supported funding for 58 new police officers.
 We also supported funding for an expansion of the behavioral health unit, which pairs mental health professionals alongside first responders so that the mental health professionals are making that initial contact. We also supported funding for the service coordination team, which helps work with people in addiction recovery who have interactions with the criminal justice system so that those interactions end and they can go about their lives better.
 and enjoy the benefits of the hard work that they've put into their recovery efforts. But the officers that we hired, the Street B officers, it takes 18 months for them to go through the certification and training. They won't hit the streets of this city for another year. So you cannot draw conclusions based on the budget that we just passed. Lastly, but not leastly, we need to figure out
 as a community how to come together on this issue. It is a highly divisive issue in the community right now. And as long as we remain divided as a community on this very, very important social challenge, we're going to struggle to make real results. And I was very encouraged when I met with mayors from all around the state
 on Saturday of this week at the League of Oregon Cities down in Eugene, and our only subject of conversation for the day was homelessness, we talked about where are the points of commonality and agreement that we can get behind and support? Because...
 I've got to tell you, if Portland, Oregon can't figure out how to get out of this situation with regard to homelessness and poverty and income inequality and mental health and addiction issues that are going untreated and a lack of housing, if we cannot figure out how to get out of this box together, it doesn't paint a very hopeful picture for anywhere else. We can do it.
 And so I appreciate your being here today. I appreciate the meetings that you've already done with us, the time and the energy that you have personally invested in this issue. And I look forward to continuing to work with you. Hold me accountable as you are, where you feel that I need to be held accountable or my colleagues need to be held accountable. But in exchange, I'm asking for something too. I'm asking for you to work with us hand in hand
 on the parts of your agenda where we're in agreement. Can we do that? Thank you. I appreciate it. May. Commissioner Udaly. I just wanted to thank all of you for coming today and for the suggestions that you made.
 have offered. It was a stark contrast between the panel we had, between this panel and the panel we had last week from a particular neighborhood who started with a laundry list of complaints about the homeless, did not offer any compassion, let alone solutions, and ended with telling us we were making it too hard to be landlords in this city. Thank you.
 Mayor was surprised I didn't jump in on that, but I really honestly felt like it would be an exercise in futility because there's just such a lack of understanding in the broader community about the forces that have brought us to where we are today. There's a 96% correlation between housing affordability and homelessness.
 So anyone who wants to tell me that we're making it too hard to be a landlord or that regulating our rental market is not going to help this crisis doesn't know what they're talking about, frankly. I agree with all of your solutions. I also agree that more police is not going to remedy the problem.
 livability issues that people associate with homelessness, which is really the only justification I was hearing for the increase. I didn't want the increase. I never received the rationalization for police staffing that I wanted. I pushed back. We got less than they wanted. It wasn't satisfactory to anyone. So I just want to say I sympathize with that.
 Um, and finally, uh,
 I am ready and willing to work on all of these items with all of you. I have been working on them. But we also need to bring these issues to the county. We don't have all the resources here, especially around mental health and addiction. And to the state and to the federal government. I mean, city council, city hall does not have the capacity to provide all the services and the housing that's needed. And then the other...
 I guess, favor I want to ask is just keep talking to your friends and family and neighbors because every time we, well, I shouldn't say every time, often it seems like an obvious solution. We need a dumpster here. We need a porta potty there. We need hygiene centers. No one wants them in their neighborhoods. And I don't know when we're going to reach that critical point where we just start
 providing them regardless of public sentiment, but it would really help if people were more informed and more willing to cooperate and support these efforts. So thank you.
 Thank you. Colleagues, I've been asked to make an announcement. This morning, Wednesday, October 3rd, FEMA is conducting a national alerting test, which will notify almost every person in the country simultaneously. Here's what you should expect. At 11.18 a.m.,
 The wireless emergency alert system will send a test message to most people's cell phones. The message will say, quote, this is a test of the national wireless emergency alert system. No action is needed.
 At 11.20 a.m., the emergency alert system will send out a test message on TV and radio. So that may disrupt the coverage of council session. If I remember, I'll try and give a notification closer to that time. But just in case I forget, there it is. Carla, have any items been pulled off the consent agenda? We've had no request. Call the roll. Udailey? Udailey?
 Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain. Please read items 1022 and 1023 together.
 1022, accept the residential garbage recycling and composting collection 2018 franchise review report. And 1023, grant residential solid waste recycling and composting collection franchises in the city.
 Colleagues, BPS has completed its midterm review of the franchise system that governs residential garbage and recycling collection. At the Council's discretion, the review is focused on advancing equity in the franchise agreements. We were initially concerned that the franchise system presents many barriers for new companies, especially minority-owned businesses. We have two items from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability today. One is the BPS review of the franchise system.
 First, BPS is asking us to accept the 2018 Franchise Review Report, which summarizes the franchise review process, findings, and recommendations. The report includes the waste equity work plan. So by accepting the report, we're directing them to go forth and work with the community and other city bureaus to advance equity and diversity in the waste and recycling industry. Second...
 We're holding a hearing on the franchise agreement governing residential garbage and recycling collection. The revised franchise agreement includes changes that will improve the ability of the current and future franchisees to secure financing, increase transparency in the franchise transfer process,
 and require consideration of equity and diversity in future reviews. We won't be voting on the franchise agreement itself today. The city charter requires that we wait 30 days for a vote.
 Here today to tell us about this work are Jill Kolick and Arianna Sperry from BPS. Welcome, and thank you for being here. Thank you, and good morning, Mayor and Mr. Harkin. I'm Jill Kolick with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and we are bringing forward two items this morning, a report and the first reading of an ordinance to adopt a new franchise agreement governing the collection of residential garbage, recycling, and composting.
 Every five years, the city reviews the residential waste and recycling franchise system to assess whether it is meeting the goals and is still in the public interest. DPS completed the most recent midterm review, drafted a revised agreement, and is now recommending that council vote to adopt the new agreement.
 A quick note on process. City charter that governs the franchise adoption process is very prescriptive. If there's any amendments to the franchise agreement before the vote, the whole process must begin again, and our goal is to bring this back to you in early November. When council launched the franchise review process in August of 2017, they adopted a set of guiding principles to provide focus for the review, including to the directed BPS to consider diversity and equity in the franchise system.
 The two new guiding principles are increased participation of women and minority workers, and two, reduce barriers to economic opportunities for minority and women-owned companies. The most important outcome of this process was a recognition that trying to advance diversity and equity when only considering a small portion of the waste and recycling system was difficult and would leave out significant opportunities.
 For example, only 20% of the waste is generated in a residential sector governed by the franchise system. The commercial and multifamily sectors offer greater opportunities and more varied opportunities for minority and women-owned companies. We need to look at the system as a whole in order to identify those opportunities and develop a comprehensive plan for how we will advance diversity and equity in Portland's waste and recycling system. And that is what we've done today.
 We've created a Waste Equity Work Plan that documents BPS's commitment to doing this work. Implementation of the work plan will be guided by a Waste Equity Advisory Group. And that's the first item that we bring to you this morning. To aid in our accountability to the community, we're asking you to accept the 2018 Franchise Review Report and Attached Waste Equity Work Plan. So now I'm going to turn it over to Ariane. She's been the lead on the project. She will describe our process, the findings, changes to the proposed franchise agreement, and the actions in the work plan.
 Thanks, Jill. When we embarked on the franchise review last fall, we really dug deeply into the guiding principles. How do we increase participation of women and minority workers? How can we reduce barriers to economic opportunities for minority-owned and women-owned companies? As you know, it's our practice at BPS to incorporate equity into all of our work, so we are excited to apply the equity lens to the garbage and recycling system.
 We convened a group of about 20 folks to help us explore and develop this work. It included some current franchisees as well as stakeholders representing the interests of minority-owned companies, many of whom are here today. We began with research to learn about the current situation. We interviewed the stakeholders to learn about current practices as well as perceived barriers for potential new entrants into the franchise system.
 Current franchisees collected demographic data from their employees. We also researched solutions from other industries and reached out to other jurisdictions to learn from them. Before jumping into findings, I'd like to go over a few terms so that we're on the same page. COVID certified is an umbrella term for all businesses that are certified by the state, including minority-owned businesses, women-owned businesses, emerging small businesses, etc.
 And when referring to certified minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses, as we often have in this project, we sometimes use the shorthand MWBEs. Thank you. Now on to the findings. Overall, our franchise system is serving Portland well on most counts. We have top-notch recycling and composting system, and customers indicate high levels of satisfaction with their service.
 The demographic survey showed the franchise workforce is as diverse as Portland's overall, with around 25% people of color. However, women are a small fraction of the workforce, and both women and people of color are underrepresented in management. In terms of company ownership, to the best of our understanding, all franchise owners are white. We do have two franchises that are majority women-owned. Our research did identify multiple barriers that face small businesses interested in becoming franchisees.
 including access to market information and access to capital. And of all the barriers, access to capital is probably the most critical. This is a very capital-intensive industry. The main thing is the trucks, which cost upwards of $300,000 each, and you need several to provide the garbage, recycling, composting collection, and probably have a backup. But you also need to buy roll carts for customers and have billing and customer service systems in place. Other barriers include opportunities to build relevant experience,
 as well as just the sheer number of opportunities to purchase or franchise territory. When the franchise was developed in 1992, all companies that were currently providing residential service received a franchise, which at the time was 69 companies. Since then, there's been consolidation as family-run businesses retire and sell their companies, and now we have 12 franchisees. So over time, opportunities to get into the system are dwindling. And these barriers exist for any small business.
 but they're amplified for minority-owned and women-owned companies due to historic inequities, such as the documented discrimination in capital markets. So we looked at a number of options for reducing these barriers. We considered letting the franchise expire and bidding the residential collection out competitively, but none of the stakeholders around the table supported that approach. We also looked at re-slicing the franchise pie to create one or more zones intended for new entrance to the franchise system.
 And we really struggled with how to do this in a way that could set everyone up for success in such a capital-intensive industry. We're still interested in revisiting this approach in a few years' time. But we reached the conclusion that we first need to build capacity. And there are lots of opportunities for that if we expand the pie outside of just the residential franchise. We realize we can be more strategic and achieve more sustainable progress by looking at this system as a whole.
 In order to document our commitments to advance equity and diversity across all the sectors of the waste and recycling industry, we developed a new waste equity work plan, which is incorporated into the 2018 Franchise Review Report. Along with the work plan, we are proposing a waste equity advisory group to guide implementation of the work plan and track progress. So what's in the work plan? First, we're walking our talk with our own city contracts. We're looking to overhaul the procurement approach for collection services at city offices and facilities.
 This is currently structured as one big contract that pays about $900,000 a year, but it isn't accessible to small companies. We'd like to change that. We're also doing a lot of work right now to expand collection of public trash containers. When we finish installing new trash cans on sidewalks throughout the city, we anticipate the contracts will total $2 million annually. As we expand, we want to increase access for minority-owned and women-owned companies.
 Beginning in early 2019, BPS is going to embark on a big look at our multifamily program, which currently lags behind single-family, both in terms of program performance as well as the level of service provided to tenants. We will engage a broad set of stakeholders and identify ways, including additional regulatory controls, to improve multifamily recycling performance, bring equitable service to tenants, and provide equitable access to minority-owned and women-owned companies.
 Other work plan highlights include, franchisees will submit annual plans describing the actions they will take to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion in their workplaces and operations, including their relationships with diverse vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors. All permanent haulers will submit annual workforce demographic data, and we'll use it to set goals and evaluate progress toward improved women and minority participation in the workforce across all organizational levels.
 We will partner with workforce development organizations and metro to implement best practices for increasing workforce diversity, including connecting employers to pools of qualified job candidates and providing technical support and training. We will identify options for prioritizing delivery of garbage to facilities owned by COVID-certified companies. And finally, we will reconsider the creation of new entrance zones in the franchise prior to the next midterm review. Turning now to the franchise agreement, the ordinance in front of you includes several changes.
 We've added diversity and equity to the list of factors BPS will consider in future franchise reviews. We will require franchisees that want to sell or subcontract their franchise to first reach out to minority and women-owned companies on a registry of interested parties that BPS will maintain. The term of the agreement has been extended from 10 years to 12 years to help current franchisees continue to make investments in new vehicles and allow potential new entrants a longer-term contract to recoup initial investments.
 And there is a new process that allows franchisees to divide franchise territories for sale. In conclusion, this review process has brought to light a number of limitations and complexities in our current system that make it difficult for new entrants. This is especially true if we're only seeing the problem through the lens of the residential franchise. It can be difficult to solve for root causes of inequity without being able to look at interventions across the larger system, which is why we expanded our focus and created the Waste Equity Work Plan.
 We expect the actions identified in the work plan to create greater economic opportunities for minority and women-owned businesses than the franchise system alone. We appreciate the time that everyone has taken to engage with us in this conversation. It's been a really committed group of folks, and a lot of them have pledged to continue to work with us as we implement work plan actions moving forward. And we know that more process isn't really an exciting outcome, but for BPS staff, this is a pretty big deal.
 We're committing to an equity process that goes way beyond the scope and timeline of a periodic franchise review. And we believe this process will create more sustained change that succeeds over time. Our interest is not in maintaining the status quo, but in continuously improving the system to be a viable economic opportunity in our city for local businesses. And we see this not as the end point, but as the beginning. As a reminder, here are the two actions we are recommending, and we're happy to take questions.
 Here. Colleagues. Commissioner Fish. So thank you for an excellent presentation. I have a number of questions. I think for anybody watching your presentation, they will be surprised if they don't have a depth of knowledge of this issue to learn that we don't consider multifamily development to be residential. And since it is largely residential –
 but by virtue of the definitions is excluded from what we regulate, so we only regulate 20% of the market. What is the best explanation you can offer as to why multifamily is not treated as residential? The residential system is for single-family homes, duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes. So it's for...
 that receives a similar type of service. It's very homogenous in nature. And so we can set the rates for that service and set those service standards very easily. But let's assume that we really wanted to take our MWBE to the next level. Isn't the opportunity that's in front of us to regulate multifamily services
 waste collection and just set some hard numbers for MWB the way Seattle did? We definitely are interested in regulating the multifamily, further regulations around that, and looking at that being a way to do no entrance into the system. But isn't that, if we really wanted to put some extra teeth into our commitment to equity, wouldn't we have on the table a proposal to take multifamily properties, franchise it,
 and create some hard numbers targets for MWBE.
 Well, we do see trying to figure out the multifamily puzzle, and our stakeholders were limited to really the hauling community, so property managers weren't in the mix, tenants weren't in the mix. So we felt like that next step in our work plan was to expand the stakeholder groups so those folks are at the table and then figure out what we need to do because we know there's a problem there that could be solving not only service inequities but also opportunities. But if we're setting this up for a –
 If we're extending the agreement by 12 years, and I understand the argument in terms of predictability and financing, aren't we postponing this conversation indefinitely, or is there some interim opportunity to have that conversation? Yeah, so the...
 The multifamily conversation is a separate conversation, and it can happen outside of the residential franchise. So we can decide what we want to do with that system moving forward outside of the residential franchise. And we are going to review the residential franchise five years from now. So we continue to review it every five years. So if we wanted to speed that up and do it in a timeframe that's quicker than five years, would
 but you've admonished us not to put any amendments on the table because of the way this is prescribed. How do we accelerate the process for evaluating a multifamily franchise system with you getting what you need today? Yeah, that's part of the work plan. So that is in the work plan now that beginning early next year we are going to launch that look at multifamily franchises.
 So the other piece of my interest here is the difference between how Seattle has tackled this issue and the way we're approaching it. Am I correct that Seattle has set hard numbers for set-asides? It was my understanding that they used to have that, and they don't anymore. How can we confirm that? Because that's –
 If your understanding was that they used to have hard numbers and don't anymore, do we know why they don't have that approach anymore? I thought that it was not considered to be legal. So I'd request some follow-up on that because that's slightly different than the information I was given, but maybe my information is out of date. Mayor, I appreciate that it's in the next five-year work plan, but again –
 I think to the average person, the notion that a multifamily property is not residential sounds like a difference without a distinction. And since we're only regulating 20% of the market here, and since we're committed to having more participation by MWI,
 BE firms, I'd like to see an acceleration of the timeline for us to consider whether there's an opportunity to franchise multifamily, and if so, whether we can advance some of our equity goals in doing so. Right, and we will be working on the multifamily work more quickly than the midterm review cycle. So we'll start, we're scoping it out this winter, and then we will launch the process 2019-2022.
 and we'll have a better idea of how we're going to do further regulations on the multifamily sector. Well, without an amendment here, can you give us some certainty? Can you give us some assurance that something will be back to us within the next couple of years? Yeah, we would hope so, yes. I mean, we hope to figure out the multifamily puzzle within 12 months, to be honest with you, depending on how we skip the process. Right. We would have to come back to council. Okay. I'll be interested in the testimony to see whether that timeline is aggressive enough.
 okay so thank you yeah we have um that we would um wrap up that project in 2021. commissioner fritz so you could give us a report back to council in a year or so right yeah so that would be a i think rather than waiting the whole two years just come and let us know yes uh a year from now how it's going right on the whole work plan all the items including multifamily
 But you, as the commissioner in charge, can make that happen, can't you, Matt? Well, I think we're making it part of the legislative record. So let's assume it is the case. And if there's any question about the assumption, I'll make it an executive directive. Commissioner Saltzman. So just to be clear, so you will be coming back?
 Not five years from now, but a year from now. Right. So the work plan will have a different timeline than the residential franchise mid-year review. So the work plan has a lot of items in there that will be coming back and be working on a different timeline, and the multifamily is a pretty significant chunk of that. Okay. I was impressed with your report, and I was intrigued by a couple options put on the table to potentially –
 provide more opportunities for others to provide residential waste collection services in the city of Portland. So the two that stuck out to my mind as intriguing are the notion that the city would, at the end of the current 12 years, purchase the franchises and then reallocate them based on perhaps new criteria. Mm-hmm.
 or the other would be at the end of the 12-year period, the franchises be put out to bid. Could you just briefly address maybe the pros and cons of each one of those? Yeah, that's a good idea. Do you want to talk about that again? So we did look at...
 We did look at both of those, and the franchise system has enormous benefits to rate payers and has really helped our recycling goals, encouraged recycling and composting, given us one of the highest recovery rates in the country. And the stakeholders around the table, all of them, organizations representing the interests of minority-owned companies, as well as the current franchisees, were all in agreement that the franchise system has many benefits and benefits.
 There was not an interest in letting it expire. That was one of the options that we considered and was taken off the table early due to consensus. But your recommendation to possibly assume the franchise is back or purchase them back does not necessarily mean we would abandon the franchise system. It means we would simply reallocate the franchise. Oh, yes. So creating new entrance zones and –
 We agree that there is a need for a new entrance zone. To do this, we need to make sure there are companies that are ready to take on the zone and have the financial capacity and management and operations experience. To be successful, we know that a new entrant would need to invest, depending on the size of the franchise, even the smallest franchise, would be a minimum of a million dollars
 And our rates that we set are based on average costs, but a new entrant would have very high initial costs. So they would need to be well-financed to cover those high initial investments. And we did a request for information to identify potential companies, but it was kind of a chicken-and-egg thing where –
 Because we weren't bidding out a real opportunity yet, companies were unable to provide us with sufficient details to assure their financial and technical capacity. And so that's when we pivoted to look for options to create those new opportunities to build capacity outside of the residential franchise in the near term, and then at the same time, exploring how to create a new zone within existing single family or multi-family system.
 moving forward. So the option to purchase them back and then reallocate them, I guess, if you're going to do something that's, you know, that radical in the scheme of things, it seems like the earlier you signal you're going to look at something like that, the better, both for the current franchise holders and also for those potential new entrants. I mean, if they know, let's say, you know, two years into a 12-year franchise. Right.
 that there's going to be a new way of doing the business at the end of those 10 years, then those potential new entrants have something to focus on. And, frankly, the current franchise holders also know, you know, the certainty that things are going to change after 12 years. Right. Potentially change. Right, exactly. So I guess I'm just concerned that if you –
 be seriously looked at. I know we can say we can solve all the problems in the multifamily sector if we just go there, but I also know that there is going to be a fierce resistance to that. This is not an easy thing to do. You know, apartment owners, others are really going to mobilize. So it's not just, you know, take it for granted, we'll just move to multifamily and solve all our problems there. So I do think it's an intriguing idea that we should look and, you know, maybe we
 within that one-year report, come back with some ideas about how to potentially do that at the end of the 12-year term. Okay. As well as putting them out to bid, although I understand the advantages of the franchise system, too, has served us well. I understand that. But that doesn't mean that can't be accomplished through a well-prescribed opportunities to bid as well. But I just, you know, in all fairness to everybody. Okay.
 The more time you give to people, both current franchise holders and potential new entrants, the more likely those new entrants will be ready to step up at the time and purchase franchise from the city. Right, right. Thank you. Public testimony? Yes. Yes, we have 13 people signed up. That's it. Yeah, the second page. The first three are Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, James Posey.
 And did Dave and Giancarlo Cargney, did you want to come up together for this item? Yeah, I've got Dave, Cargney, and Giancarlo. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridge, Crane Johnson. And action is going to need to be taken to improve the way we've really failed to serve our
 particularly people of color and minority-owned businesses, but also women-owned enterprise small business workers. So even though Commissioner Fish is correct when he talks about the need to also look at multifamily, where trash is taken into large dumpsters picked up over the top of the truck instead of the small curbside buckets,
 since those issues have been separated, I encourage you to move forward with this based on what we hear from the really most impacted people that will be testifying after me, people who are in those minority groups that are impacted. What they're going to add is much more important than what me as a person who just looks at the Greuter's bill that comes to over by Division 46 and says, do I even know if this is a minority-owned business or a women-operated business or how they're handling equity issues?
 So the PDF package that came with this was rather long, and I can't claim to be an expert who comprehensively received it. The one thing I haven't heard talked about maybe as much as should be is the metrics. Where are we going to see the actual numbers that improve our ability to help make this a less patriarchal business? I know when I watch from the curb...
 I wouldn't really necessarily wish, you know, I hope people are, it's a transitory career, but we know that in other cities that have union garbage, that people can, we're always going to need garbage people, so maybe it needs to be structured so that you can get a living wage doing that work. Also, in the bigger picture, especially as we look at branching out to regulate possibly commercial, or at least commercial residential,
 Uh, we know that the whole industry has been shaken by the way China handles garbage. So I think we also need to be looking at partnership with academia to really get a handle on, uh, making these businesses resilient and having government and academic resources so that Oregonians can take care of their own garbage without putting it in a boat to go across the ocean. I know that works well for New York city at our end, but, uh,
 You know, it's really, there's no equity in that, saying like, oh, garbage is complicated. Let's send it to some poor colored people. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Commissioner, Mr. Mayor. Actually, I just came this morning to support you all's agenda to take a close look at this system. I recounted to one of my friends that...
 I remember back in the day when my grandfather was hauling garbage in Indianapolis and I worked on the back of his truck with a flatbed and we were going through alleys with 55-gallon drums picking up garbage.
 We had all kinds of animals running out of those 55-gallon drums, and it was an area in which black people, in fact, could make a living back in the day. And I thought the irony of us coming today to talk about cracking this particular law
 what I consider a monopoly, historical monopoly that's benefited everybody except people of color here in the latter years and how this whole idea of inclusion and wealth building really focuses on you all changing policies that will actually break up historically what's been a closed system.
 And I suggest to you, when you all are talking about this, when you talk about 12-year terms and holding things out for 12 years, that's an eternity. It's an eternity in terms, I don't even know if I'm going to be around 12 years. And most of you sitting on this...
 commission may not be here in 12 years. So I think what you do here today relative to analyzing this piece that you build in as much flexibility and as much ability to change the system as we go along, go along particularly in the area of making sure that there is access. A million dollars, I don't know if any of you could come up with a million dollars so you could be an interest into this process. So...
 you're going to have to ask your people to go about
 who developed this plan to not only look at the idea that we're trying to develop equity, but what's common sense reasonable and how do we structure this so that we have a pathway for people to actually get in. We're not standing still here. It's not where you're standing still and you jump right into this process. So I'm suggesting to you this is a good process in terms of looking at this,
 But you have to go back and redesign it so you can really be functional in terms of making it a viable access for people of color.
 Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. And I was somewhat negligent. We had two invited guests that I'd like to bring up at this point. I apologize for inadvertently skipping over that. Kristen Mitchell, who is the Executive Director of the Oregon Refuse and Recycling Association, and Mr. Nate McCoy, who is the Executive Director of NAMAC Oregon, otherwise known as the National Association of Minority Contractors, the Oregon chapter.
 My apologies and welcome and thank you for being here. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. Thank you very much for having me here this morning. My name is Kristen Mitchell. I am the Executive Director of Oregon Refuse and Recycling Association. I'm here subbing in for Beth Vargas Duncan, who is our Regional Director, and she has been working on this issue for the past year. She had...
 commitment that she had made about a year ago and wasn't able to change that. So I am here in her place this morning. Thank you.
 So the members of Portland Haulers Association are all of the residential franchise holders in Portland. Nine of them are small family-owned companies, and every one of them has been providing service and working cooperatively with the city's Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff to provide safe, modern, and efficient waste collection services that include garbage and recycling and compost or organics collection, as we call it.
 at reasonable rates for the residents of this city. The franchise agreement is important to all of our efforts to meet many significant goals that the city has set on safety, environmental protection, and efficient service. But I'd like to focus on two of those goals as those are the conversations that are before us today.
 The first is equity, to advance equity and open new doors of opportunity. And the second is to stabilize current franchise operations and allow for necessary financing to continue forward the access to capital issue. First, I'm here in coordination with NAMAC in support of the franchise agreement and to assure you that our commitment to working with the city and other partners to identify ways to open doors for new entrants in the waste management industry is a long-term commitment.
 Over the last year, PHA, NAMAC, and other community partners have been working with the city BPS staff to advance new equity and diversity goals outlined in the new franchise agreement. This has been hard and important work. There have been difficult moments in this process. It would be disingenuous to suggest otherwise, but what could have been polarizing has actually been uniting.
 In fact, our group efforts are also leading to individual relationship efforts outside of the City's regulatory process. The Franchise Renewal Agreement serves as a foundation and framework to govern these ongoing efforts. Once the renewal is in place, we can move forward into the next phase of the work plan that will determine how we meet the terms of the agreement. It will be how we identify strategies to reduce barriers to new entrants, how we expand opportunities for new entrants,
 and how we meet new goals for increasing opportunities across the industry for more women and minorities to succeed and grow in careers in this industry.
 PHA members are here today to demonstrate that their commitment is strong to work with NAMAC, the city, and others in the community, and to share our expertise in the industry, including our own challenges, in navigating the business of waste management in a volatile economic climate, while also helping to identify ways to reduce the barriers to entering and growing a business or career in waste management.
 As I stated earlier, this work, to set clear targets and outcomes to measure success with strong accountability goals, can only begin if there is a framework to guide that work, and the franchise agreement is that framework also.
 Second, the franchise agreement is not only critical but urgent to meet the basic needs of financing. This need would be true for new entrants and current franchise owners alike. Access to capital is critical for any company to succeed, and any business needs a solid agreement with clear terms in place before a lender will provide financing for operations and capital, such as clean fleet vehicles, one of the city's environmental goals.
 Those trucks cost in the range of $330,000 to $370,000, depending on the type of truck. If the original timeline for renewal had been met, franchise owners would be entering into their second year of a new agreement. So this one-year delay has caused tremendous strain on some of these companies.
 Within an agreement, these companies can secure the loans they need to meet the expectations of current and future agreements, have certainty for their employees, who they employ in family wage jobs with excellent benefits, and allow them to continue to provide exemplary service to the residents of Portland. Furthermore, the certainty of a franchise renewal allows our members to look forward to planning and working with the city and other partners like NAMAC to meet all the goals set by this renewal.
 In conclusion, for many decades, Portland Haulers Association members have demonstrated a strong commitment to providing excellent service to the residents of Portland while also producing sustainable results and consistent operational safety.
 We bring that strong record of commitment to advancing the next phase of work to increase opportunity and reduce barriers for new entrants at every level in the waste management industry. We look forward to strengthening our relationship with NAMAC, continuing to partner with the city, and continuing to provide the people of Portland with reliable, sustainable, and safe, solid waste management services. Thank you. I'm happy to answer your questions. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Mayor, Commissioners, thank you for having me again this morning. I'm Nate McCoy, Executive Director of NAMAC Oregon for the record. I'm here solely today to kind of echo the unity that I think over the last year we've had. In fall of last year, I think we all came into this, the haulers and some of our NAMAC contractors,
 a little guarded, I think, with kind of what we thought the system should be, could be, and what the ultimate outcomes we were looking for. I wanted to thank personally real quick the city staff of BPS, Arian and Bruce, the haulers, of course, Jeremy Hayes, Desiree Williams, Raji, who was the consultant who helped convene this committee, and then just the stakeholders rustling around the table.
 What I've been fortunate to have, given that I'm on a lot of committees, is a group that was eager to actually wrestle with some of the uncertain equity initiatives of BPS and what the commitments looked like. And they brought data, and we had an analysis of what the industry could be and should be. The one thing that I would say is –
 a caveat is that we want to see a little bit more folks of in the management levels, uh, in the workforce. We, we saw great numbers of people who actually do a lot of the dumping and picking up and hauling, uh, a little less of the management level and entrepreneurial side of, uh,
 the equity agenda, but I think there was a willingness through this equity work plan to really figure out how that could play out to really show that there's some growth within coming into this industry up into a management or even starting your own hauling business.
 One of the things that I think we've all concluded with is it's very different when a minority or a person of color goes into a bank to access a loan versus our white counterparts. And that is a huge priority for kind of this working group going forward. And one of the things that I've thrown out there would be great for our commissioners to consider is as folks go out there to access loans, it seems like an appropriate step for this leadership.
 to guarantee some of these loans, especially when we're talking about facilities that the city owns, parks, public cans. What better than having the backing of a government agency saying as these minority and potential women come in as new entrants that we are backing them and making sure that they can access the kind of loans they need to buy equipment, to sustain a workforce, and to grow and prosper.
 These are the things I hear you all speak about, and that's the part that I really want to make sure we wrestle with going forward. The other comment I would say is one that Nick pointed out earlier, multifamily, huge opportunity, hugely with Metro having a bond, the Portland Housing Bureau currently having a bond, and Home Forward who has been a partner at the table. We want to carry these conversations forward.
 we want to expand the pie bigger than, you know, and be bolder than I think we all imagine today. And lastly, what I will say is I,
 I also agree that, you know, the midterm review is a priority, but I agree that there should be a yearly check-in. And I've asked of each of your guys' offices to have an appointed person from your office to ensure that, um, that we are meeting the milestones and goals that we sought out because five years is, uh,
 Not too long, but to have a constant check-in quarterly, yearly, I think is a way to ensure that we're holding everybody accountable. And lastly, I guess I will make one more quick comment. Technical assistance. You know, we threw out there, and I think BPS is definitely going to propose this, but we've already got a program that works well, the Prime Contractor Development Program.
 It is where all of our minority contractors and women-owned businesses find themselves competing for work against each other, not the big boys, getting technical assistance, getting access to capital. And what better than recreating the wheel to throw new entrants and potentially new certified firms in?
 into this program that has worked for city of Portland. And it allows us to have the set aside that we all hope could give them, um, some competitive, uh, advantage or a little bit fairness in the industry because most of the haulers have years of experience and years of contacts and, and, and books of business that would be hard to compete with for any new entrant. So I just really want to stress the fact that we have some tangibles, we have some matrix,
 And I think we just want to make sure that our leadership across our five commissioners, the mayor included, that we have people there committed from your office to ensure that staff and our stakeholder groups are really stretching and really trying to create more opportunities. And I feel good about where we are, and we would hope that you guys would approve this so we can move forward. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Commissioner Fish. Nate, I was intrigued by something you said, and I just want to make sure I understood it. I like the idea of taking bond-funded projects. So this would be typically new construction, new multifamily, because there might be preexisting relationships with our preservation agenda. But in these new developments, you're suggesting that not only could we potentially carve out projects
 multi-family development where the city is a participant, where we're helping to finance. It's new, so it's additive. And at the same time, guarantee some of the – look at the access to capital issues and guarantee some loans. Carve out a piece of that business, franchise it, and see whether we could bring some greater MWBE participation. Is that roughly what you're saying? Yes, yes. I think it's –
 Another reason why we should hope that the 26-199 passes, but that's $250 million of bond proceeds just going to Multnomah County. We've got $60 million or so or more in the pipeline that hasn't been spent on the housing bond. So that's a lot of purchasing power. Absolutely. Okay. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Yes. Can I just briefly answer what I think is an operational question that Commissioner Fish asked about the multifamily versus the residential franchise? One of the reasons that it's different is because of the operational issues. When you are picking up a two-, three-, or four-plex, those are generally carded service with the same kind of truck. When you're picking up a large multifamily residence, that tends to be a front-load truck, right?
 with a different, you know, like what you would think of as a dumpster for a collection, which is a different kind of routing and a different kind of equipment. And I just wanted to make sure that that difference was understood about why that's not in the residential franchise now currently and why it's a conversation we can have going forward. And to Commissioner Saltzman's question kind of on the length of term, the 12-year term was something that the stakeholder group talked about quite a bit, and one of the reasons we felt that was good was that it would allow a better –
 access to capital because when lenders look at things, they look at the length of the time you have for the contract. So as you move through that, the closer you get to what could be the end time, the less possible it is to obtain financing to purchase those expensive trucks or do the things you need to do in capitalization. So I just wanted to clarify those two points. Thank you. Thank you, Bob. Thank you. Thanks, Nate. Yeah. Okay, the next public testimony are Dave and Giancarlo Cargni.
 And Brian and Jess Heiberg also want to come up, pull up a chair. And they'll be followed by Andre Baugh, Valerie Grutherhill, and Alex Witter. Good morning. Would you like to start, sir? Sure. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Mayor Wheeler and City Council members, my name is Brian Heibert. I'm here joined with my niece, Jessie Heibert. Jessie is our third generation of our family-owned and operated business, Heibert Garbage and Recycling.
 Jesse is an integral part of our company. As the office manager and customer service supervisor, she is here today to experience the pleasure of public speaking, which I dread. And in front of a crowd of people, you are elected officials. I expect her to take this role over from me in the near future. That's great. My parents purchased their first collection company in Portland in 1947.
 And last year, my brother Bruce and I proudly celebrated 70 years of hybrid garbage, providing garbage and recycling collection here to our customers in the city of Portland. I have met with many of you before and testified about the history of our company, our work with the city in setting up the franchise collection system back in 1992, and the large investment we've made in clean-burning compressed natural gas trucks, including an on-site fueling station.
 In fact, Hypergarbage was the first Portland-franchised collector to purchase and operate compressed natural gas trucks in Portland. We have done so to do our part to address the air quality in the city. I have also provided information about diversity of our workforce and the commitment to providing family-wage jobs and good benefits to contribute to the economic growth of our city. Our commitment to all of these values remains strong.
 We have been operating without a renewal in place for the last year, which has been difficult for many reasons. One of the unfortunate results of this delay has been that we have had to purchase diesel trucks instead of compressed natural gas trucks. The uncertainty of the franchise renewal and the additional cost of these compressed natural gas vehicles of $25,000 to $35,000 more is something our small company could not overcome.
 nor could we secure the financing we would need to cover the increased expense. We are committed to our customers, our employees, and the service we provide for the city. We have worked collaboratively with city staff and other stakeholders represented in this room today on the language and terms of both documents.
 We are now at a critical point. If this agreement does not advance, locally owned companies like ours will be hurt. It will jeopardize our ability to continue to provide the award-winning service we do in a way that advances the key goals of the city. It will certainly halt the advancement of new goals as outlined in the agreement before you.
 In addition to addressing climate change, this agreement is essential to advancing the other guiding principles, ensuring cost-effective, safe, and environmentally sound operations, providing exemplary customer service, and developing a resilient and equitable system.
 As you have heard from others today, the Portland haulers share the values of supporting a diverse industry where small, local-owned businesses and large ones can work together to provide excellent service to Portlanders and support opportunities for new entrants in the waste management industry.
 hybrid garbage and recycling, started as a small company, so we know firsthand the challenges of starting a company in waste management. We have also learned a lot over the years about – Thank you. I'm starting to have to keep it because we're backed up a little bit here today. Thank you. You're actually very good at public speaking. Good morning. You can finish that. Go ahead. He did okay. We think you can probably top that, though. Right there.
 I'm Jessie Heiberg with Heiberg Garbage and Recycling. As Brian was saying, we started as a small company, so we know firsthand the challenges of starting a company, waste management. We've also learned a lot over the years about how to manage a successful company through the volatile periods that come into our industry. The market changes, those are out of our control. Cost increases, policy increases, changes that influence how we provide service to our customers.
 Our hope is that we can use our expertise and lessons learned, both the good and what we wish we would have known, to help potential new entrants. We also want to help use our experience to shape the administrative rules that govern this agreement so that the rules support an up-and-coming company and everyone is set up for success, the companies and the customers alike.
 We're here today in support of this long-term process and with a straightforward request. We ask that you accept the Franchise Review Report and Waste Equity Work Plan and direct that the ordinance come back for a vote next month for approval. None of this important work can advance without the renewal of the franchise. Thank you very much. Thank you. She's a much better speaker than I am. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council.
 Thank you for the opportunity to speak briefly today about the Portland Franchise Agreement for Residential Recycling and Garbage Service. My name is Dave Carney, and this is my son, John Carlo Carney. We are here representing Portland Disposal and Recycling, a local, family-owned business that has been serving customers in Portland for over 80 years. There are seven principal owners, including myself, and each of us individually has a minimum of 39 years in the business.
 We are committed to our customers and our employees. We share the values of Portland. We have been effective partners with you and many others in this room and remain committed to those partnerships. We are here to urge you to support the franchise agreement after a year of discussions. You have heard other haulers and our association speak to many issues. Our safety records, investments in clean fleets, new technologies, and excellent customer service.
 Portland Disposal is committed to continuing these achievements and is proud of the reputation our industry has built. I'm here today to represent a company that has always valued diversity, and those values have guided how we hire, operate, and elevate those within our company.
 We employ 85 people from diverse backgrounds, and we are always seeking new ways to expand our reach into all the communities so that our workforce represents those communities we serve. We also believe in supporting our employees so that they have opportunities to grow their skills and move up in the company when vacancies occur. Our vice president and office manager are both women.
 and our CFO and operations manager is of Hispanic origin. As a small company with deep roots in Portland and a diverse shareholder group, we want to be part of the efforts to expand opportunities for more diversity in our industry. But as a small company, we are also at risk when the franchise remains uncertain. The financing needs, as described earlier, are real.
 We want to be focusing on new ways to support more jobs in this industry and creating opportunities for new franchise owners. But without an agreement, our attention is diverted to keeping our existing customers served and employees paid. This industry in Oregon was built by business owners of varying ethnicities, including African Americans, Germans, Italians, among others.
 Over time, it has consolidated. Many business owners decided it was their time to retire. These hardworking men and women came to us and entrusted us with the businesses they had built. All of these businesses were purchased, which created debt and financial risk. And if I'm over, I'll let my son finish. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning. John Carlo Carney. So it says...
 I share this because we are an industry of inclusion, one that supports each other, even though our competitors at times, because it's our core values of who we are, where we came from, and how we will continue to progress in the future.
 My father wants to be able to pass this company on to myself and maybe my children, knowing that the values, reputation, and integrity our business has built will continue to expand and progress for years to come. Portland is also growing rapidly. There is enough opportunity for current franchise owners to continue to provide excellent service and quality jobs while still opening the doors for new entrants.
 But to accomplish these goals, we must first secure a franchise agreement. I sincerely hope, and my father sincerely hopes, that we can move beyond this procedural necessity to approve the franchise and turn our attention to the work that will advance opportunities for new businesses,
 and create the certainty that businesses like ours need to continue to operate in Portland. Thank you, and we urge your support for this agreement. Thank you very much. Thank you. I just wanted to take a moment of privilege to personally thank the Heiberg family for their leadership on using compressed natural gas. I mean, that is no small task. As Commissioner Fish well knows in his leadership,
 in his poop-to-power initiative to take methane gas from our treatment plant and use it to fuel vehicles. It is still very – it's not the norm. It should be because it's a very clean source of fuel. It can even come from renewable resources like methane gas from a treatment plant. So you're stepping forward, and I am a hybrid customer, full disclosure, and I still marvel every time I see those compressed natural gas trucks coming.
 They seem to be quieter, too. They are. They're definitely cleaner. They are definitely quieter, too. It solves a number of problems. Yeah, so I just want to commend you for your leadership on that. Thank you. Very good. Next three, please. Our Andre Baugh, Valerie Grutter-Hill, and Alex Witter, and they'll be followed by Ashley Henry, Elizabeth Start, and Alondo Simpson. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Alex Witter. I am with Chetco Construction Services. I am the owner of the company. I just first want to say thank you, everyone, for coming together and hearing this. This has been a long road. Bruce Walker, Arian, Jeremy Hayes, they took 15 of us at a table.
 that we're all wanting a piece of the pie and trust me, it got heated. A lot of it was maybe me, but I think that we are right at the point of finding something that works. What I do want to say is that with this waste equity work plan, this will give the foundation of something that will offer equity to a small company like myself.
 I know that everyone keeps saying five years, 12 years. Those are all solid figures. Everyone also keeps saying access to capital. Access to capital is a huge part of any new business. I do have access to capital, so if that opportunity were to come sooner rather than later, I would be ready to take on that responsibility right now.
 Again, thank you all for your time and I really hope we can all work together and get along. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. I'm Valerie Grutter-Hill, President of the Portland Haulers Association and owner of Grutter Sanitary Service, a family-owned garbage and recycling company serving Portland residents and businesses since 1951.
 My mother and father started this company. My father was an immigrant from Europe with a dream. Together they were determined, worked hard, and fought to overcome barriers that many immigrants faced during that time to establish their company and provide for their family.
 I am both proud and privileged to have the opportunity to continue in my parents' footsteps to serve the people of Portland. My remarks today represent my views as both a hauler and a small business owner. As a small business owner, the franchise agreement is essential for my business to continue to operate. Operating a waste management business is very expensive with infrastructure costs that include trucks, carts, fuel, maintenance, and more.
 Add to that the cost of labor. We value our employees and we pay family wages with excellent benefits. Then consider the unexpected increased costs due to the recycling market crisis. We are grateful to the work in this community. We are grateful to work in this community that supports efforts to allow our shared values to thrive. But this past year has been a very stressful one for our small company.
 We need an agreement for our lenders to have assurance that we will have the business revenue to honor our debts. We also need the agreement so lenders will provide the financing to continue to advance the goals outlined in the franchise agreement around climate change, safety and other policies that influence how we collect and sort materials. Those goals often require our business to purchase new equipment and make other investments.
 This agreement is not only important for existing franchisees, but critical for any potential new entrant who is seeking to acquire a franchise. The agreement is what banks and lenders need, and all companies need financing to operate. Thank you.
 As a hauler and president of the Portland Haulers Association, I am proud of the partnerships we have formed with the City of Portland and staff of Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm also proud that our group of stakeholders and partners has expanded. We are learning new perspectives from the community, and I believe the others are learning from ours. While at times it has been tense, I believe we all want what is best for the city,
 both in terms of creating and supporting economic opportunities for small companies as well as providing excellent service to the Portland residents, I wish that you would support the franchise agreement. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners, Andre Baugh. First, I hope you support the franchise agreement. It gives the haulers what they need to move forward.
 But I want to be clear, it does nothing for equity. In 12 years, I doubt there would be any more diverse group. So it's a good agreement for them. It moves their values forward to keep the businesses, to get the quality we want for our residents. And so I encourage you to not make any changes and move forward. The work plan, on the other hand, is the tool.
 It is totally in your control without your directives to your bureaus. That is an implementation plan, not a study plan in my view. So if you study it to death...
 and get a report back each year, there will be no equity move forward in this area. The areas, and I'll just be quick about what I think you, each of your bureaus can do, in the area of housing, the Housing Bureau today sets requirements for people that want their money for participation of MWSBs.
 for energy efficiency, a number of things. There's nothing that I think would prevent them from saying they have to use a hauler that is of MWSB. You have agreements around garbage collection today that you could change in the parks area. You can do things around transportation. You can work with other agencies, Multnomah County, Home Forward,
 in talking to them about the collaboration that the city already has in moving forward. These are things that are already in the work plan, and to be able to come back within a year and say, how do you move forward, I think is reasonable. Staff has done a very good job in looking at the opportunities that are out there. What you really need now is, in a year, how do we move forward, and what are the agreements you need to make
 have minority firms pick up city garbage, get into the multifamily. The multifamily area, in my three years of delving into this issue, is it's the growth area. That's where Portland's growing, as you know, in multifamily. The ability to direct and push growth.
 that area with the haulers, and it's the area that has the least amount. And you can check with staff, but it doesn't have the best recycling record. So we can improve the recycling and do things with the minority haulers. I encourage you to direct and have your staff work with BPS to implement the work plan. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all of you.
 The next three are Ashley Henry, Elizabeth Start, and we're going to go with Mary Seip. And just a time check, Carla, how many more do we have after that? Two more. Thank you. Good morning. I'll get started. My name is Mary Seip. I just want to say that I strongly support Commissioner Fish's comments about the multifamily piece of this. As I'm sitting here and I was watching the PowerPoint presentation and I saw the pie –
 and I see 20% is residential and 80% is multifamily and commercial. My perspective is, okay, we're talking about a program to expand opportunities to minorities, women, emerging small business owners, but we're only giving 20% of that piece of pie
 as the opportunity. And I think we need to look at this carefully. What comes to mind for me is the Pearl District. Pearl District might be a great place to use as a pilot program. I mean, when you look at the concentration of multifamily and commercial in that community, and it also might address some issues that we have with noise from garbage pickup and the multiple all-day-long different companies that are coming into every building.
 So I wanted to just support Commissioner Fish's comments. And I also want to thank Kybrid as well about using the compressed natural gas.
 It's another thing in the community where I live with all of the trucks that are diesel. The amount of diesel emissions that we have in our neighborhood is really starting to concern a lot of people. And I think especially something like this, any company that can make that kind of expenditure and any financing opportunities that the city can provide to help encourage that, I strongly support. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello. I'm Ashley Henry. I'm here representing Business for a Better Portland. We're a membership organization comprised of about 265 companies in Portland. And I'm pleased to be here today to support the agreement. Actually, it was...
 great to look back at our comments from August of 2017, the letter that we submitted when you began this process. It was actually the first time that we testified as an organization before City Council. And at that time, we had about 100 members. And today, we have over 265. And
 It's interesting that of all the topics that we could have chosen to testify on, the very first one was this very issue. And it may seem like a relatively obscure issue compared to all the things that are happening in our city. But given the fact that our organization really set out to call attention to historic inequities that have existed in our city and try to find ways that businesses could elevate concern about that and ways that policies can...
 address the inequities that were created by policies in the past, really made sense for us to be weighing in on this topic. So I want to thank you for that opportunity and just encourage you to continue the good work that's being done already with the waste equity plan and to stay on top of that because there's going to be, obviously, leadership changes at BPS, and I know these kinds of things can sometimes...
 But things get busy in the city, and so I encourage you to continue your focus on it because the outcomes are incredibly important to create more opportunities for local companies to continue to grow in the city.
 Thank you, Ashley. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Elizabeth Start. I'm Executive Director of SCRAP, which has nothing to do with this because we get people to reduce their garbage and reuse. However, I have a unique background in equity, solid waste, and recycling. And as part of the stakeholder group, as...
 believe the only non-stakeholder, or one of the only non-stakeholders. However, this work is really important, and I appreciate the council's direction on getting more folks of color and women to own, or into the industry, and to reduce those barriers in getting more businesses, and also the great work that BPS has put into this.
 I support moving forward with the contracts. There's a lot of companies that are waiting in their livelihoods. Their businesses are, you know, kind of at a standstill. So I support that fully. However, I think it is important to recognize that these businesses have benefited from a system that has created these barriers to people of color because it is –
 white-owned businesses. So I think that as we go along this process, I recommend that you support the waste equity plan, and as we go along these next 12 years and look at these franchise agreements, that there's going to be a lot of hard decisions that are going to have to be made, and people will be affected. But I think that there is an equitable path forward that will benefit all of the parties. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next three. The last two are Lightning and Alondo Simpson. And while they're coming up, I'll just do the message again. This morning, Wednesday, October 3rd, FEMA is conducting a national alerting test, which will notify almost every person in the country simultaneously. Here's what's to expect. Number one.
 You're thinking, who gets left out, right? At 11.18 a.m., the wireless emergency alert system will send a test message to most cell phones. The message will say, this is a test of the National Wireless Emergency Alert System. No action is required.
 At 11.20 a.m., the emergency alert system will send out a test message on TV and radio, and we just want to acknowledge that may impact coverage of the city council hearing at least briefly. Greetings. You want me? Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Disruptive PDX. One of the concerns I heard from Commissioner Salzman is maybe purchasing the franchise at a certain time.
 And when that was thrown out, my curiosity, kind of looking at that, is that including the total business value of the company that controls the franchise at that time? Because we could be talking a tremendous amount of money if that is. But if you're putting a certain number on that franchise itself, separate from the company itself,
 I'm curious how you do that valuation because it's my understanding on this franchise agreement where an 8% and 3% goes to rate stabilization. So when you threw out a purchase price, I'd be curious how you come up with that number. Issue number two is that a lot of these companies that have these franchise in position, really to me that is a monopoly. Right.
 And we looked at the same thing from the taxi industry when Uber and Lyft stood up here and said, you're going to allow us to expand out into the marketplace, or we're just going to sue you, is what their attorney said. From my position, this is almost a monopoly here that has been allowed from within the city to the city's benefit. And again, why did you not go into the area of the multifamily and the commercial?
 Why did you not expand into that area? Because in my opinion, what you have, and I'll throw kind of a wrench into the middle of this franchise, you can sign your name and have this franchise in this nice little sweet little paper where you give all these little benefits to certain people on this franchise agreement. But here's something from Lightning. You cannot expand and have any additional...
 agreements in the commercial arena if you get this franchise for the residential. Now, you're going to have people in this room saying, you better be careful what you're saying because we have those agreements and those routes already. So when we get this money...
 That gives us the ability to go to the bank and say, hey, we've secured this franchise. Now we're going to get the equipment. We're going to have the money to operate. And now we can come back in and get the commercial routes. And that's going to step all over all the small players who are trying to step up and go to that bank and saying, hey, I want to step in and get a loan for this commercial agreement, and I can't get the money. I can't get the money and compete.
 This must be Donald Trump cutting me off. Mr. Trump. Is that what he's doing? Better him than me. And my phone is on silent, so that's really interesting. Mine too. Okay. Should I continue? Please, go ahead. My point being is that this is a very monopolized system here. And the people in this room wanted to be kept that way. We saw what happened in the taxi industry. It opened it up.
 And again, when you're talking getting that financing from the bank, you are the signature that gets that financing.
 Unless they have a strong net worth and a lot of money in the bank, they're not going to get that financing. So I suggest you don't extend this out the full term. You cut the time frame up a little bit, go to about a five-year, and let the small businesses step in on these commercial accounts. Thank you. And make sure that they have the money to do it. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Are we good? We're good. Wow. Thank you, sir.
 he left me. I'm alone. Mayor, Willier, Wheeler, and members of the council, for the record, Orlando Simpson, my company is City of Roses Disposal and Recycling, otherwise known as CORE, which is a locally owned, minority owned solid waste entity, and we've been in business for 22 years. And I don't want to
 consume too much time here today because there's been some very valuable testimony that's been brought forward by all stakeholders and constituents that have been involved within this process. And I just want to, you know, tip my hat off to those that have sacrificed a lot of time and resources and energy and effort diving through such a complicated manner. I think it
 Last time we were here talking about this prior to proceeding down this step, Commissioner Fish had indicated that he felt some kind of tension. And I believe there was tension. There was true organic tension because what was being considered and what was being discussed at that time was disruptive. And in these particular times, I think disruption is necessary for our society in all facets of it.
 And the good thing is that from that disruption and from that chaos and from that pain, we've actually been able to come to a consensus on a direction we all feel is going to be adequate that we can go down and be proud about in the future of our solid waste and recycling system, not only for all of the constituents and stakeholders of today, primarily those that are going to be benefiting the most on the franchise agreement, but also the stakeholders and constituents of the future and the future generations. Thank you.
 I feel like as an entrepreneur, as a business owner of color, it's my responsibility, as well as a fourth generation Portlander, to utilize a platform and foundation that my grandfather and my father have put in front of myself and my siblings and the rest of my family members to try to build something substantial and create wealth.
 Because as we know, wealth is the caveat to a lot of the challenges we see in society today relates to the economic disparities. And the irony here is that there was an important document that was actually released throughout this process, a 1955 City Club report, which talked about racial discriminatory practices that have existed in the solid waste system in this very city.
 And then I go back to look at in 17, Mayor Wheeler, you presented your State of the City speech at the City Club talking about reducing barriers to economic opportunities and building wealth in community of colors, primarily African American communities. And so given the fact that the thing that people see of least value...
 being waste could be the catalyst to us achieving some of these aspirational goals that our leader in charge has set out, I think is not only groundbreaking, but it sets the tone for the rest of the region, the rest of the country, and most importantly, the rest of the world. And as somebody who loves this city,
 I am very adamant about us making sure that we achieve sustainability in all facets, not just the green side and not just around our environmental footprint, but also utilizing equity and diversity as a caveat to help us get to a truly prosperous, resilient ecosystem for future generations. And just for the record, I'm...
 As we're talking about opportunities in the system around multifamily and city facilities and all these other opportunities that staff are going to be entertaining and looking to explore, I want you guys to be fully aware that my company is capable and willing and ready to take on some of those opportunities if they are presented.
 The difference between investment from my lens for how I perceive investment is because I make investments to take risk. Risk does not assure a return. When you have a franchise, that is a guaranteed return. So it's not really the same way I view investment. Investment is putting yourself out there.
 As we stand today, and I'm sorry that I'm going overboard because I know you guys have to move forward, but I just want to compliment staff. I think staff have done a tremendous job coming into something that is completely foreign, and they have dove into the deep end and found a way to get to safe grounds. I commend the PHA group, all the other constituents, big waste companies, small waste companies. For us to all be able to convene.
 true, honest, transparent conversations and sit around the table to come to a solution that is going to not only benefit all the stakeholders and constituents involved, but as I have indicated before, the system going forward in all our future generations. So thank you. Thank you. And Mr. Simpson, thank you. You've been very, very helpful and very active on this issue, and I can't tell you how much I personally appreciate that. Great. Thank you. Thanks. Thanks.
 Very good. So, colleagues, we won't be voting on the franchise agreement itself today. The city charter requires that we move that out 30 days for a vote. May I move to accept the report? One moment, Commissioner Fish. With regard to the franchise agreement, what day do we want to put that on the agenda?
 November 7th. So that will be, I'm sorry, November 2nd? 7th. 7th. And is that time certain or just on the regular agenda? It'll be regular agenda. Very good. November 7th. With regard to the report, Commissioner Fish moves the report. Commissioner Udaly seconds the report. Please call the roll. Why are we buzzing? I don't know.
 On the report. Just on the report, the 18 franchise agreement report. You, Daly. Well, I want to thank everyone who came to give the report today and give their testimony and for raising these important issues around equity, lack of equity and opportunity. One of the things I love about this job is there is...
 Always a new area to learn about and explore, and waste and recycling is a new one for me, and it's really a vital issue. And I'm generally pleased with the improvement that the city's made in utilizing women and minority contractors, but there's obviously a lot of room for improvement here.
 So I just want to put on the record that I am concerned about continued consolidation in the industry, which stands to leave us without any Portland-based companies in the garbage recycling, reuse, and composting system, let alone women or minority-owned companies.
 So I support moving to a franchising system for multifamily buildings and making sure that Portland-based companies, as well as companies owned by women and people of color, have a chance to access that market, not only for hauling but also for processing and transferring those waste streams.
 As we heard today, I'm well aware that these are capital-intensive industries and that we have to be sure that companies have the capacity to compete before we help open up new markets. But we should proceed as quickly as we can to open or create new opportunities for Portland-based businesses. I vote aye. Thank you.
 Fritz? Well, thanks very much to staff. This is an amazing, really great work, and thank you to everybody who's participated. I would not have guessed that we would get to a hearing where we'd have so many people coming in saying, yes, move forward, and we're all in agreement. This is obviously something that everybody cares about very passionately, and I believe that we can and should make changes. So I appreciate the Mayor directing that we will get a report back at Council within a year so that we don't just put this on the shelf and on the backboard
 that it stays as an issue of vital importance to everybody. Hi. Fish? You know, I don't remember the last time we had a hearing on accepting a report and there were no dissenting voices, which often happens. So it's been a good hearing. I want to echo what everyone has said about the staff and the process that has been followed over this past year.
 I visited with Mr. Simpson the other day and got kind of a primer in the industry, and there's some things which I think we need to seriously consider in the next year. I'm very interested in looking at the multifamily housing. Other than the fact that it's a different piece of technology to collect the trash, I think it still is, in my mind, residential in character. It just requires a different truck.
 and I'd like to know what our options are when you come back to us in a year from now. I appreciate what Mary said about the Pearl District, and it reminded me of how offensive it was the other day at a public forum when someone who was opposing 26-199 said it would lead to the creation of ghettos. Now, the logic of that is that if you invest in affordable housing, you're creating ghettos, ghettos like the Pearl District.
 So I was pleased, Mary, that you pointed out that in terms of just raw percentage, we have more affordable housing in the Pearl than any other part of our city, and we should not be using words like loaded terms like ghettos to describe providing affordable housing for working families. I appreciated...
 The earlier testimony about taking a good hard look at what both the Housing Bureau and the Parks Bureau can do, the mayor has indicated he wants to put a beautification plan on steroids.
 Actually, probably not on steroids. I don't want to get him into some regulatory problem here. But he wants to expand garbage collection and find ways to keep up with the demand. It does seem to me that parks and housing are going to be the lead bureaus in that. And as has been suggested, we may have some flexibility in how we can structure that work, which I'd like to know about. Also, just a –
 Footnote that I would like to know more about, and an e-mail from staff would be fine on this, and that would be I know that Metro takes a dollar a ton for beautification projects, and I'm interested in how that money gets carved up and what comes back to us. And I understand it generates $250,000 a year either for us or in the pot more generally, just interested in what our share is of that. This is a good report.
 And it's a basis for doing, I think, even more work to expand opportunity going forward. And I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? I think it's – I just want to say that while I think this report has some interesting recommendations, or ideas, I should say, ideas, two of which I asked about, which are the notion of the city reassuming the franchises at the end of the 12 years and redistributing them or reallocating the franchise territories –
 or putting it out to bid. And I know those are radical concepts to the existing hauling community, and I just want to say that this is not said in disrespect at all for the work you do. In fact, I have a tremendous amount of respect for the work you do from the ground up. But I do think we need to look at doing business differently if we're going to achieve some equity goals, and those are options that deserve an honest examination.
 I don't know if any of my colleagues know this, and I wasn't on the council in 92, but that's when we started the franchise. But around that time, there was such opposition to the idea of franchising that I remember the haulers circled City Hall with their trucks in opposition to franchising. So we've come a long way. And since we franchised in 92, again, I want to commend our haulers for really helping us as a city.
 to get to the tremendous recycling rates that we have now and the ease with which all residents take pride in putting their push carts at the curb once a week, some even less than once a week.
 But it's really been, I think, you know, it's given Portland a recycling rate that is the envy of many, many cities. So, again, not only do I commend the haulers, I also want to commend the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff, in particular people like Bruce Walker, who helped transition us from sort of an unfranchised system to a system now that is really achieving a lot of goals.
 and that doesn't mean there aren't other goals we need to also consider achieving as we move forward as a city. But I'm pleased to support this report. Aye. Wheeler. I want to thank everyone who spoke today, the residents, the haulers, staff members who spoke today.
 as well as those who participated in the many meetings orchestrated by BPS over the last year. There's clearly a lot of interest in this important issue, and we're committed to continuing to push to create new opportunities for minority and women-owned businesses, while also honoring the haulers who've invested so much, and as Commissioner Saltzman just said, have provided really excellent service to the people of our city.
 BPS took a holistic approach to this review and considered opportunities across the entire waste and recycling industry, not just in the residential sector, which accounts for only about 20% of the waste generated in our city. It turns out that many of the best near-term opportunities are actually outside of the residential franchise, as people have noted today.
 I know some wish we could move faster to create opportunities in the franchise system itself, but I also want to be clear that our intent is to go far, not just to go fast. The actions BPS has identified to create opportunities for minority-owned and women-owned companies will build capacity, and I ultimately believe it will help them to grow in the waste and recycling industry.
 It's important to note that these opportunities are actually much bigger from a dollar-to-dollar perspective than the franchise system alone. Finally, this is truly important work. The future of our economy is minority-owned and women-owned businesses, whose growth is far outpacing that of non-minority-owned businesses. So I'm very optimistic.
 Glad that we here in Portland are continuing to work towards reducing the barriers for these companies to participate. I also just want to take one moment to thank the board.
 Thank a few individuals. Amy Rathfelder from my office has been working very, very hard on this with the BPS team, and I, of course, want to acknowledge the work of Jill Kolick and Ariana Sperry for not only their tremendous presentations today, but the hard work that they've put into this all along. I vote aye, the report's adopted. Thank you. Next up is...
 I belatedly, I'm sorry to say, item number 1024. Thank you, everybody, for your patience. Proclaim October 8th to be Indigenous Peoples Day. Good morning. Good morning. Losing everyone. I apologize for the delay. Thank you so much for your patience this morning. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and student commissioners. My name is Laura John, and I'm the Tribal Relations Director in the Office of Government Relations.
 Present day, Portland is located on the traditional village sites of the Multnomah, Wasco, Cowlitz, Cathlamic, Clackamas, Bands of Chinook, Tualatin, Kalapuya, Malala, and many other tribes who made their homes along the Columbia and Willamette rivers. Let us also acknowledge our larger Native community members.
 whose journeys have brought them to Portland by various ways, some seeking opportunities such as working in the shipyards and living in Vanport, and others by way of forced displacement through federal policies such as the boarding school era, which includes Chimawa Indian School just south of Portland, or tribal termination such that happened to many Oregon tribes. Today, these same communities celebrate their rich heritage through a reverence, resilience, and tenacity that would be greatly admired by our ancestors.
 I want to just take a moment and ask those that are in the room today who have Native ancestry or identify as American Indian to stand. Thank you. In 2015, the city passed Resolution No. 37154, which declared the second Monday in October as Indigenous Peoples Day. I wanted to read a couple of excerpts that give some further background on why the city made that decision in the past.
 Whereas Indigenous Peoples Day was first proposed in 1977 by a delegation of Native nations to the United Nations sponsored an international conference on discrimination against indigenous populations in the Americas, and whereas the United States endorsed the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples,
 the Declaration on December 16, 2010. And the Declaration includes that indigenous peoples have suffered from historic injustices as a result of inter-allied colonization and dispossession of their lands, territories, and resources.
 And whereas Article 15 of the Declaration recognizes the right of Indigenous peoples to the dignity and diversity of their cultures, traditions, histories, and aspirations, which shall be appropriately reflected in education and public information, and places an obligation on states to take effective measures in consultation and cooperation with the Indigenous peoples concerned,
 to combat prejudice and eliminate discrimination and to promote tolerance, understanding, and good relations among Indigenous people and all other segments of society. Today, we again reaffirm the city's commitment to promote the prosperity and well-being of Portland's American Indian, Alaska Native, and Indigenous communities by refocusing the lens of our historic narrative to honor the important contributions of traditional traditions and culture.
 We do this on the heels of the commencement of our inaugural Tribal Nations Summit, which happened last Friday, where we brought together leadership from the Cowlitz, Selects, Grand Ronde, Umatilla, Warm Springs, and Yakima Nations. It was quite the day.
 Concurrently to the summit, over 100 city employees attended a training to learn more about the importance of the Columbia and Willamette Rivers to the tribes in our regions, the value of protecting first foods and food sovereignty, and the resurgence of the canoe culture and the annual canoe journey. Some of our leaders, Commissioner Gudele and Mayor Wheeler, also had the opportunity to ride on canoes and have that experience. What I want to share today is that the impact of the summit goes far beyond just the city.
 We are taking bold steps to be a role model for other cities and municipalities. Just as we took that bold step in changing this day, Indigenous Peoples Day, from Columbus Day. Our tribal relations program will not only assist in creating positive government-to-government relationships, but will also impact the wellness and prosperity of the Native people that live, work, and play in the city of Portland.
 I wanted to also share that Multnomah County will be having their proclamation presentation tomorrow at, I believe it's 10 a.m., and Metro will have their proclamation tomorrow at 2 p.m. At this time, I'd like to introduce Jolene Joseph, a community member and a very respected leader, to speak. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners.
 My name is Jolene Joseph. I'm the executive director of a national nonprofit organization based here in Portland called the Native Wellness Institute. And I am an enrolled member of the Aani or White Clay people, as we call ourselves. So in my language, women say naha, that's our greeting, and the men say wahey. And in sign language, and I'd like you to join me, we say this for good morning. If you want to join me, this is good. Good.
 And then this is morning. This is the sun rising. Good morning. You guys can join too if you want. Good morning. So I give that example because there's always more than one way to do things. So I just said in my language how you say good morning. I showed you in traditional sign language how to say good morning. And...
 That's related to why we're here this morning, changing Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples Day. So in schools, you know, we learn a lot of misinformation about Columbus. And we learn that he was this great man. And what he represents to our people is the beginning of genocide. And so this day is about...
 our people being seen and our people finding our voice and using it. And I give honor to the original people of the land that I'm on today, but I also give honor to our...
 that paved the way for Laura and I to be here and to the other people to be here in this room that also found their voice and used it, and used it in a way for us to be seen. And so when we know better, we can do better. And when we look around in this room, we have descendants of colonizers here. We have miracle survivors of genocide in this room.
 We have the descendants of people that were sold and enslaved. We have the descendants of those in this room. And here we are working together to make our world more just and more equitable for everyone. And that's what this day is about. And as we go forward, this is also an act of decolonization.
 And before we can fully understand decolonization, we have to fully understand the impacts of colonization. And the Tribal Leaders Summit that happened and these other efforts that are happening are helping us all to understand the impacts of colonization so we can move forward with these acts of decolonization. So I just thank each of you for your commitment to helping our people, the Indigenous people of this country,
 city to be visible and not to be erased anymore. So I could go on and on and on, but I just want to say that and just share, share our gratitude. Thank you. Thank you for being here. I want to also thank all of you for your leadership and your commitment, not only to this proclamation today. And some of you that serve on city council were there when this proclamation or when the resolution was passed.
 in 2015. Some of you were also there when the resolution was passed that really led to the creation of my position in 2012. So I do want to express my gratitude for your commitment towards building meaningful relationships that will benefit many generations to come. We're all working together, as Jalene said, to reverse the erasure and the exclusion of tribal nations and tribal people. Today is, on this coming Monday, will be another example of that work.
 I look forward to working with the city to expand tribal relations and also to expand our relationships and elevate the voice of our Native community here in Portland to make our city a more welcoming city for Indigenous people. Thank you. Thank you.
 Laura, do you have other guests, or should I read the proclamation? No other guests. Very good. Before I read the proclamation, I want to acknowledge Commissioner Udaly. Did you have a comment? I could make a comment. Please, go ahead. Thank you. And then Commissioner Fritz. So I want to thank Mayor Wheeler for making the proclamation, for one thing, and also to our Director of Tribal Relations, Laura John, for her vital work. Laura recently accompanied me to Pendleton, where I was the director
 Honored to be the guest of the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservations. And as she mentioned, we also recently, recently? What week is it? Last week. Friday. Had the first annual Tribal Nations Summit in Portland, thanks to Laura's efforts. And I think all of these efforts are vital. Thank you.
 because we know that Native Americans are disproportionately...
 I don't want to say it. They are marginalized and disadvantaged, and we talk about negative outcomes in our city. They're often experiencing the worst outcomes. So while this is a celebratory day and I don't want to bring the mood down too much, I do want to take this opportunity to raise awareness about the Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women movement.
 and I want to encourage every Portlander to observe and celebrate this day however they see fit, but I do urge everyone to contact our senators, Senator Merkley and Senator Wyden, to express support for Savannah's Act, which is legislation introduced in the U.S. Congress to combat the epidemic of violence against indigenous women. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Eadaly. Commissioner Fritz.
 I was going to start with saying honoured guest, and then I remembered that it's I whom I guest in your country, and so thank you for honouring us with your presence. Thank you for your beautiful words. As a descendant of colonists, I recognise it is part of my responsibility to try to make reparations for the evil done in generations past.
 Director John, I'm really very, very happy that you are helping guide the City Council and indeed the entire city in what we need to do to make those actual changes. And Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Saltzman will remember that when we passed the resolution changing from the previous name to Indigenous Peoples Day, we got a load of people saying, this is just, you know, flim-flam, window dressing, not going to really do anything, typical liberal Portland. Right.
 And my colleagues will also remember that we had to fight really hard to keep the funding for the position in the budget and to make sure that it found a fine home in the Office of Government Relations. And now we're starting to see the fruits of the changes that have been going since 2011, 2012. And I'm very happy that we are, as in the previous conversation, which again, thank you for sitting through,
 some very challenging issues, and yet when people do talk to each other, work together, we can find some solutions, and we have to find solutions. So thank you so much for being here, and thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for introducing the resolution and continuing to support Tribal Relations Director Laura John in the work that she does.
 Very good, and I'll just put in my plug for our summit. I thought it was fantastic, and Laura, of course, did an amazing job. Commissioner Udaly and I had the privilege of being brought ashore in canoes, and we were even given the opportunity to be pullers. And for me, it was...
 just an impressive and beautiful experience to be part of that. It's a deeply spiritual experience for the tribes that are actually in the canoe. They're praying as they pull. And I felt very privileged that I was invited to be part of that and participate in that. We had a wonderful welcoming ceremony. Laura brought us the sun, which we are very appreciative of.
 So the lunch was fantastic. It was a first foods lunch, and there were some educational opportunities, a few really phenomenal speakers. And stealing the show, of course, were a group of children, young women, who honored us with a prayer dance, and later in the day, the closing ceremony, also the swan dance, which was a lot of fun.
 And perhaps for me the most meaningful part of the day was the one-on-one opportunity with our tribal leaders to talk about where we go from here. It's great that we think we're the first city in the United States to establish a permanent tribal summit day. And we want to build on that. There was a lot of positive energy in the room and a lot of enthusiasm and excitement about where this could lead and how it could lead to enhanced progress.
 and further develop relationships with the individual tribes. So it was really a great experience. And, Laura, I wanted to embarrass you again in public because you're here for the hard work that you put into that. It really was a marvelous day. And I heard back from all of our employees. I had a chance to go to a couple of the workshops, and our employees benefited tremendously. So it was a good shared learning experience all around. So it's my honor to read.
 This statement of values from the Portland City Council, it is a proclamation. Unfortunately, it's in four-point type. So let's see if I can muddle my way through it and do it the justice that it deserves. Whereas the city of Portland recognizes that the indigenous people of the lands that would later become known as the Americas have occupied these lands since time immemorial.
 And whereas the city recognizes the fact that Portland is built upon the homelands and villages and traditional use areas of the Multnomah, Wasco, Cowlitz, Calumet, Clackamas, Band of Chinook, Tualatin, Kalapuya, Malala, and many other tribes who made their homes along the Columbia and Willamette Rivers, without whom the building of the city would not be possible.
 And whereas the indigenous people hand down oral histories, science, governance, a distinct relationship with water, land, rocks, native plants, birds, fish, and animals, and invaluable cultural knowledge and rich traditions that continue to thrive in Portland.
 And whereas Indigenous people who have been here since time immemorial continue to contribute immeasurably to our country, state and city's heritage, distinguishing themselves as scholars, veterans, teachers, athletes, artists, entrepreneurs and leaders,
 And whereas the indigenous population of the Portland metro area is over 70,000 people who are members of or descended from more than 380 tribes from across the nation who have a unique political status and relationship with the United States of America.
 And whereas the city of Portland has a responsibility to oppose the systematic racism towards indigenous peoples of the United States, which perpetrates high rates of poverty and income inequality, exacerbating disproportionate health, education, and social crises.
 And whereas, the city promotes the closing of the equity gap for Indigenous peoples through policies, practices, and investments that reflect the experiences of Indigenous peoples, ensuring greater access and opportunity, and honoring our nation's Indigenous history and contributions.
 And whereas the City of Portland continues to promote the prosperity and well-being of the American Indian, Alaska Native, and Indigenous community. And whereas on October 7, 2015, Portland City Council passed a resolution resolving that the City of Portland shall recognize Indigenous Peoples Day on the second Monday of October.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim October 8, 2018, to be Indigenous Peoples Day in Portland.
 and encourage all residences, businesses, and organizations and public institutions to observe this day by reflecting upon the ongoing struggles of Indigenous people on this land and to celebrate the thriving culture and value that Indigenous people add to our city. Thank you for being here. Could we get a photograph up here in the front?
 I apologize for my phone going off in the middle of that. I think it's further off on the alert system because it's from Kentucky. I don't know anybody in Kentucky. All right. It's over here. One, two, three.
 One, two, three. Keep smiling, keep smiling. One, two, three. That's right. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. No, thank you. Thank you.
 Is the second reading? Thanks. Okay, so I'm going to move those up. And I'm sorry, colleagues, I have to leave about noon. So we want to do this one. We have the public hearing last week. So this is a vote on emergency. Read item 1036 next. 1036, yes.
 Increase contract with Miller Consulting Engineers, Inc. by $250,000 to provide additional on-call engineering consultant services to the spectator venues program. Colleagues, we took testimony on this and heard the presentation on it last week, but we didn't have sufficient quorum to actually take the vote on the emergency items. So we will be taking that vote. Is there any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next, item 1033, please. Establish the office of the Portland Children's Levy. Colleagues, thank you. And Commissioner Saltzman in particular, thank you for your leadership on the Portland Children's Levy over many, many years.
 I'm looking forward to assuming the role as commissioner in charge in the new year, 2019. Tough shoes to fill, Commissioner, and it's important to maintain the continuity of the office to deliver on these important programs to support positive early development, school engagement, and academic achievement, high school graduation, and family safety and stability. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 And before us this morning is a very straightforward and relatively simple ordinance that creates the code language for a stand-alone Office of the Children's Levy. It's an office completely funded by a voter-approved levy that has been approved now four times by voters, most recently passed four times for five years at an interval.
 Most recently passed in May of 2018 with 83% voter approval. For 15 years, the Portland Children's Levy has had a track record of investing in proven programs that make a difference for children and their families, and doing it with a low administrative cap of 5%. I am very proud of the work that the Children's Levy has accomplished since 2002,
 and I'm happy to know it will continue to provide critical services to children, parents, and caregivers in our community in years to come. I'm confident that the levy will be in good hands with Mayor Wheeler upon my departure, and I thank him for his support of this program. And I also want to take this opportunity to thank the six staff that work for the Portland Children's Levy. Most of them have been here from the inception of the Children's Levy in 2002.
 and they are, by all accords, subject matter experts in early childhood, issues around foster care, hunger, after-school programs, and running a lean organization. So I want to thank them as well for all their hard work over the years, and I'm very pleased. We have Michael Cox here from the mayor's office and Matt Grum from my office here to answer any questions. Gentlemen, would you raise your hand and take the oath, please, before you testify?
 Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, my name is Michael Cox. I'm chief of staff to Mayor Ted Wheeler. I'm here today to accept in the coming year, of course, on the mayor's behalf, responsibility for the office of the Children's Levy. Thank you for your leadership on this important program over the years. The mayor has directed me to work with your chief of staff, Matt, to ensure that the transition from your office to our office runs smoothly. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thanks a lot. Any further questions? Is there any public testimony? Oh, we lost Carla. There she is. The city grinds to a halt. Carla is missing. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, I show two people. Very good. Shedrick Wilkins and Edith Gillis. I'm Shedrick Wilkins. Gentlemen, we're about to lose the mayor, and it's going to complicate our agenda. So the question before us is whether it should migrate to the mayor's office.
 Is he kidding? No, he's not. Go ahead. Go. Go. We actually want relevant testimony. Oh, I will skip relevant testimony. Okay. I support the Office of the Children Levy even though Commissioner Saltzman has questioned this overhead staff of charitable organizations. So maybe I don't know what I'm talking about, but I support the office and I may not know what I'm talking about so I'm going to stop talking.
 Good morning. Morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridge, Crane, Johnson. And as to relevant testimony, occasionally we have people who receive disability checks and are employed by Cintas or through Job Corps, and I'm sure we have patients for their testimony regardless of the quorum here. So as to the children's levy, I hope that as we move to establish this office,
 not only that all the, there'll be a huge amount of work that will continue to go into the services to children and that to encourage that the children's levy is perpetually renewed, we will also be able to see some concrete statistics that show us how we are doing better in the city of Portland at getting positive outcomes for foster kids and children living in poverty so that we can constantly refine those expenditures. It may be challenging,
 With adults, we know that sometimes people who can't find services in rural Oregon end up coming into the urban area and creating a different level of dependency. But I hope that with this permanent office, in addition to actually delivering and funding the services, there'll be a little bit of research and metrics that tell us how we can do even more with the money to keep it coming and improve the lives of children. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Udailey? Yes.
 Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, and thank you, Mayor, for taking this on. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you, Commissioner. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Great testimony, you guys. You did a fantastic job. You knocked it out of the park. We have a bunch of second readings. Let's get through them. 10.34, please.
 Authorized sale of usable surplus mobile data computers pursuant to City Code 5.36 for approximately $12,250. Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Seltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 1037. 1037.
 Authorize charitable organizations eligible to participate in the city's 2019 charitable campaign and authorize exemptions for charities not meeting the 25% overhead cap requirement. Please call the roll.
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? I just want people to know this is for employees to donate to good causes, and included on the list of those that are eligible are Salem-Kaiser Coalition for Equity, Klamath Lake Cares, Silverton Together, Strengthening Rural Communities, Community Alliance of Lane County, and Salem-Kaiser Coalition for Equity. So this is another way in which city employees are helping people all over the state of Oregon. Aye. Saltzman? No. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Wheeler. I appreciated the amendment that was added last time. I think this is really about giving our employees a platform for contributions, but also giving them access to full information. And so I appreciated the amendment that adds the state filing that includes the overhead information along with other information to the final amendment.
 to the final ordinance. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as it was amended. Next item, 1038. Vacate Northwest Terminal Street between Northwest 17th Avenue and Northwest Upshur Street, subject to certain conditions and reservations. This is also a second reading. Please call the roll. Udailey? Aye. Thank you.
 Fritz. I wasn't here last week. I did review the record. I want to stay on the record that I'm assured that we don't need a public easement over the existing sidewalk, and I hope that that does continue to be available for public access. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, I have to go, so Commissioner Saltzman in his capacity as Senate President will take up the last item on the agenda. Thank you, Commissioner.
 That last item is 1035. Amend ordinances to authorize use of bond proceeds for the payment of interest on bonds during reconstruction and space build-out of the Portland building. Hello, Commissioners. I'm Matt Gerak, the new debt manager.
 For this ordinance, this clarifies the allowable uses of bond proceeds for the Portland Building and Space Optimization projects. Specifically, this ordinance authorizes bond proceeds to be used for payment of bond interest during construction. This amendment will facilitate the city's ability to accelerate the long-term bond financing of a significant portion of the projects. To date, project costs have been financed with a construction line of credit
 which has increased in cost with the rise in short-term interest rates. Long-term interest rates are currently low. Therefore, executing a long-term financing now will reduce the risk of potentially higher future interest rates and the final costs of these projects. By funding a portion of construction period interest payments with bond proceeds, the City can reduce interest rate risk now without impacting the timing of Bureau contributions to the project. Thank you. Do you have anything to add there? Nothing to add?
 Any questions? Okay, thank you very much. Is there anybody here that wishes to testify? Or did anybody sign up? Carla? Sorry, I left a sign-up sheet out there. Did Mr. Bridge pay me? Good morning, or good afternoon, Commissioners. Thank you for this. As Mr. Walsh, who's now left, noted, the title of this is a little bit of a tongue twister. But I do think that...
 Hopefully, as part of the annual reporting from the bond office, we will be able to get kind of an after-action report to see how well we second-guessed the market. It would be unfortunate if we paid interest in advance or reduced the principal.
 now, and then later had to cost overrun and ended up grabbing some more expensive money at the back end. Plus, there's the whole beauty of having a 90,000 building remodel going on while thousands of people are sleeping outside, and we don't have any large funded homeless shelters. But, of course, this item is only about the financial precision to possibly pay down the principal with the principal, so we don't pay interest or something like that. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay, this proceeds to a second reading next week, and we are adjourned until 2 p.m. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, October 3rd afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Are you Daly? Here. Fritz? Here. Bish? Seltzman? Here. Wheeler? Here. Good afternoon, Robert. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record.
 Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up.
 If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass.
 Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. Carla, we have one item on the agenda this afternoon. Could you please read it? Yes. Item 1039, amend the seismic design requirements for existing buildings to require placards and tenant notification for unreinforced masonry buildings.
 Colleagues, on June 13th, we passed Resolution No. 37364 after hearing staff updates and public testimony on retrofitting unreinforced masonry or URM buildings. Among other things, that resolution directed city staff to come back to the council within three months with an ordinance that does the following.
 First, requires URM buildings to put placards at the entrance of the building that says, quote, this is an unreinforced masonry building. Unreinforced masonry buildings may be unsafe in the event of a major earthquake, unquote.
 Number two, requires URM building owners to include the following language in their rental agreements. Quote, this building, which you are renting or leasing, is an unreinforced masonry building. Unreinforced masonry buildings have proven to be unsafe in the event of an earthquake. Unquote.
 Number three, strengthens triggers for seismic retrofitting of URM buildings in the existing code. I will now turn this over to Commissioner Saltzman. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Earthquakes are our most likely disaster here in Portland. It is the event we train the most for. Over the last five, ten years, the city has developed information on unreinforced masonry buildings.
 These are the buildings most likely to collapse in a serious earthquake. So we have a database of some 1,600 buildings of unreinforced masonry buildings in the city of Portland. For transparency's sake, it is our obligation to provide Portlanders this information and to respect their ability to make informed decisions and also to be aware of their surroundings. I also think of this as really an obligation to today's 10-year-olds.
 the generation that really hasn't been at the table at all during this debate. Today's 10-year-olds are the ones who will be living in unreinforced masonry buildings over the next 20 years until mandatory seismic retrofit standards kick in. So they're going to be, they along with a lot of older adults, are going to be the most at risk in the next 20 years. So giving Portlanders the placards, I believe, helps build awareness of seismic risk.
 about what to do if you're in an unreinforced masonry building, which is to duck and cover, not to get out. And it also builds the demand, the market demand, for seismic improvements to these buildings. It was great that in June, the Council unanimously directed staff to come up with a proposal to highlight unreinforced masonry buildings in Portland through placards and tenant notification.
 The mayor just read the language. This is what a placard would look like in real size and real font. This conversation has continued with many of you in the room and with others, and I think more and more people, Portlanders, are becoming aware of the risk of unreinforced masonry buildings and understand that regulatory actions are taking place and will continue to take place until these buildings are made safe.
 I do want to recognize some of the adjustments and things we've learned since that June hearing, and most importantly, recognize the impact placards could have on religious institutions in Portland. Throughout Portland's history, white men have led this city and imposed their priorities and mandates on the population of our city. And this has often come to the detriment of minority communities, and especially our black community.
 We must recognize this and apologize for those past actions. We are sorry. And part of that recognition is extending the timeline for the placard requirement for unreinforced masonry churches and nonprofits to two years so that those communities and entities have the time to discuss the issue and to better understand the danger imposed by unreinforced masonry buildings today
 and how they may work together to make sure that their parishioners or their attendees at their nonprofit institution are more aware of their surroundings and can work together to make those buildings safer. Another adjustment was recognizing that the city really needs to walk the talk here and model good behavior. And that is, in this ordinance, under this ordinance, the city is the first out of the gate with the placards.
 So therefore, we have moved the timeline up for public buildings to just two months, January 1st, 2019. City buildings will have the placards that need to be placed on public buildings by the beginning of next year. I'm sorry, they will be placed on public buildings by the beginning of next year. And then the requirement for all other private buildings, yes.
 Private buildings is March 1st, 2019. And as I said, for churches and nonprofits, it's into 2020. So I think beyond those points, I know we'll hear many arguments about why this is a bad idea. We'll hear the age-old Portland argument about not enough process. And we'll hear about insurance rates and property values. And we'll hear claims of endless demolitions and lost business. And I'll be blunt here, I don't buy it. We had four years of process, and with all of you here,
 Word is out that something is happening. The insurance companies and the appraisers, they already know if you're in an unreinforced masonry building, and that is already loaded into their calculations. Customers are not going to stop shopping at their favorite store because of a placard. Concert goers are not going to cancel their tickets because a placard is now outside the entrance to their favorite venue. These things are not going to happen.
 What will happen is that people may start asking why your building hasn't been retrofitted to withstand an earthquake. And to me, that's a very fair question to ask. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. So we now have a staff presentation. Nancy Thornton, Senior, Code and Policy. Sorry.
 Senior Code and Policy Analyst from BDS. I apologize. It's been a long day already. And Amit Kumar, Senior Engineer from BDS. Thank you for being here. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. Amit is going to be doing the bulk of the presentation, so I'll let him start. Go ahead. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Good afternoon. My name is Amit Kumar, and I'm a Senior Structural Engineer with the Bureau of Development Services. Thank you.
 And I'm joined by Nancy Thorrington, Senior Court Policy Analyst at BDS, and John Apefthamu, Planning Policy and Community Program Manager at PBM. John, welcome. I'm sorry I didn't acknowledge your presence. Thank you. Thank you. I'm here today to provide an overview on the proposed ordinance requiring placarding and tenant notifications for unreinforced masonry buildings. Thank you.
 As was mentioned before, in June 2018, the City Council directed City staff to return to Council within three months. That would, one, require a placard on all URM buildings that have not been retrofitted to prevent collapse in an event of a major earthquake.
 Two, require all URM building owners to notify tenants or renters through rental agreements that the building is an unreinforced masonry building. And three, strengthen existing triggers in Title 2485 by closing some existing loopholes in the title.
 The first requirement is placarding of URM buildings. This ordinance would require a placard that is an 8-inch by 10-inch durable placard, lettering in a 50-point bold font, and with the placard to be posted on a conspicuous location at the exterior at the main entrance with the following message. This building is an unreinforced masonry building. Unreinforced masonry buildings may be unsafe in event of a major earthquake. Thank you.
 The timeline for installing these placards, the original resolution required URM buildings to be posted with the placard by March 1, 2019. However, Council felt that the City should lead by example, so the requirement for placarding of public buildings was pre-poned to January 1, 2019.
 In addition, based on outreach to various constituents and with understanding the unique nature of services provided by non-profits, including religious institutions, it was felt that these class of buildings would be afforded additional time to place placards. They will now be required to place the placards on or before November 1 of 2020. All other buildings would have to post placards by March 1 of 2019.
 The second component of the ordinance is tenant notification. This requirement would require that building owners notify all existing tenants, and every new lease or rental agreement entered into or renewed must contain the statement that this building is an unreinforced masonry building. Unreinforced masonry buildings may be unsafe in the event of a major earthquake.
 The timeline for notification into a new lease or rental agreements is the same as that for placarding that we just talked about a little bit earlier. Can I ask you a question? Because I want to make sure, I believe I've read a slight inconsistency here, and I want to make sure I've got this exactly right. This is the language that must be in the notification for existing tenants, the language right here, just to be clear. Is that accurate? Yes. Thank you.
 I want to make sure that you did understand that. So there's two categories. If it's an existing tenant, we're not requiring that they modify their leases, but they do have to inform the existing tenants. Yeah, there's just been different language going around in recent days and weeks, and I want to make sure that we've all agreed this is the language we've settled on. Very good. Thank you. In addition, owners would also be required –
 to record an agreement with the county that they would maintain the placard and not remove it unless authorized by the city, and also an acknowledgment that they have complied with the tenant notification requirements that we discussed previously. Not all URM buildings will require placard or tenant notification. The resolution required that buildings that have been fully retrofitted to prevent collapse in a major earthquake will not require placards.
 The ordinance defines what is meant by a major earthquake and what collapse prevention means by specifying the nationally recognized standards the retrofits need to meet. Essentially, any URM that underwent a full seismic upgrade in the past to the standards in effect at that time, which is since 1995, have been grandfathered in and will not require a placard or tenant notification.
 BDS is going to implement this plan. We are going to require that URM property owners will be notified by December 31, 2018 of the requirements for placarding and tenant notification, including any information on how to comply with the requirements and appeals and an enforcement process. BDS will host a website where URM owners can upload and record the agreement and pictures of the placard on the building.
 There is an appeals process in the ordinance where owners may appeal the notice and placarding requirements if they believe that the building was incorrectly classified as a URM or it has been retrofitted to meet the standards to be exempt from placarding. Placarding and tenant notification will not be enforced until this appeal has been resolved.
 As far as enforcement is concerned, Portland Fire and Rescue will inspect the placement of placards as part of the regular commercial building inspection program and will work with BDS code enforcement in applying the requirements for placards. And BDS will use its existing code enforcement program authority to enforce the requirements for placarding and tenant notification.
 And lastly, the third requirement in the ordinance is the strengthening of a couple of existing triggers for seismic upgrades related to re-roofs and cost triggers, and we are trying to close a few loopholes there to strengthen these requirements in 2485. So that's a quick overview of what the proposed ordinance is, and I'll be happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you. Rishi Daly. I'm sorry. Could you go back over the appeals slide? I just wanted to...
 take note of this because we have heard from a number of URM building owners who feel that their buildings don't belong on the list that currently exists. And this is something that's come up in conversation in my office. If there are grades or ratings for URMs that have achieved like some level of seismic upgrade, maybe not the full level. So I just wanted to make sure that there's clarity on how this appeal works.
 would work. Right. So if the building owners feel that first of all the building is not a URM.
 So there's been some questions about that. One, yeah. Right. So the owners are welcome to submit an appeal that BDS would review. They would submit an appeal with any substantiating evidence that they have, like building plans that they have or they've done some inspections and an engineer has gone out and looked at it. BDS will review it. If we agree that it is not a URM, the building will be taken out.
 If we need additional information, we'll ask for it. If we then decide that this is still considered a URM, then we would deny that appeal.
 Once that's denied, the building owner still has an ability to appeal to the administrative appeals board at BDS with their evidence. And if that is still not adequate, they can go to a building codes appeal, which is an independent body that hears code appeals. So they have a three-step appeal process available. Great. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I may have questions later. I frankly want to hear some of the public testimony. Then I'll probably have more questions. Thank you. Thank you. Did you have more to present? You know, if you want to know any of the outreach or the enforcement, I'm happy to talk about that. Otherwise, if you have questions, that's fine too. I have a few. So placarding is currently required in the state of California. What do they do in terms of enforcement there? Okay.
 And what do we know about, has it increased the rate of seismic improvement or demolition? What can we learn, if anything, at this point from the California experience?
 So California has required placarding since the 1980s, but they didn't have a strong enforcement mechanism until the state law changed in 2004, where it was possible for individuals to take action to require the placarding. Some local jurisdictions have done that, but there's not a statewide enforcement mechanism. There are cities in California that do enforce, and anecdotally, you can quote...
 city managers that have said they feel it's helpful in terms of informing the public. So like in Portland, it's a land use matter, so it really goes city by city. Some people have told me that they have a legitimate concern that they would lose customers and potentially lose revenue. What do we know from the California experience or anywhere else about the impact on revenues or customers or entry into buildings based on placarding?
 I have searched everywhere to find a study that would prove or disprove that, and I've seen anecdotal statements that it hasn't reduced business. I haven't seen any studies or assertions that people have lost customers or lost tenants because of the placarding. I think it would be helpful for us if we rolled this out to – and that's been my experience as well. Frankly, it's been very, very difficult to get credible –
 there's nothing in the way of peer-reviewed studies or academic studies or anything else, and therefore I think there's an opportunity here for us to take a lead on that. I have heard from a number of people who are very concerned they might lose their insurance or see their insurance rates go up due to placarding. Have you spoken with insurers on this particular issue?
 We have, and the city obviously carries insurance, and we own 42 unreinforced masonry buildings ourselves. So we consulted with City Risk, and they asked our insurance broker to check with the insurance company. I believe that our...
 that they submitted a letter to the record, which I don't have in front of me, but their feedback was that they did not anticipate property insurance going up at all due to the placarding, and that's primarily because the building construction method is something that insurance companies already consider when they issue the policy. The insurance company would not find out it's a URM because of the placard. If I could read this letter into the record, I'd like to do it. It's from Willis Towers Watson, Washington,
 Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this. The underwriters I spoke with were both small accounts, single building property owners, and large accounts like the City of Portland. We have never heard of an insurance company canceling, non-renewing, or declining to offer favorable insurance terms and pricing to an insured due to a placard.
 It is our opinion that having placarding requirements will have neither a negative or positive impact on the insurability or pricing of one's insurance. From an underwriting perspective, the risk profile does not change by placarding and notifying the public. But the reason I ask is there may be other academic sources out there. Again, I could not find one. And I called lots of people and...
 burned out Google on that. What retrofit standard, how do you get rid of the placard? If I'm a building owner and I have the placard, what's it going to take for me to get rid of my placard? Assuming I don't want
 Right. The way to get rid of the placard is to retrofit a building. And we have specified the standards that need to be retrofitted to, which is based on the American Society of Civil Engineers that define what collapse prevention means and what retrofits you need to do to prevent a collapse in a building.
 So those buildings that have already been retrofitted since 1995 to those standards, those are grandfathered in and they will not require a placard. But going forward, any building that is retrofitted to the standards that we have specified in the ordinance, you could then take the placard down. There have been some questions that have been raised, and undoubtedly we'll hear some testimony from some people about the accuracy of the URM list.
 could you tell us a little bit about how is that list compiled and what are we going to do going forward to ensure the accuracy of that list? You mentioned the appeal process, and that's great, but what are we doing proactively as the –
 stewards of that list. Right. So thank you for that question there because I know there have been some concerns that have been raised about the accuracy of the database. So I'd like to clarify how this database was created. As this, you know, there seems to be some misconceptions about it and that it was based on a windshield survey, thus implying that a level of casualness and therefore inaccuracies associated with such a casual approach.
 While the database was created on a survey of buildings, it was not just a windshield survey. In the 1990s, over three summers from 1993 to 1995, City of Portland undertook a task of creating a database of all commercial buildings in the City of Portland.
 Trained city staff in collaboration with Portland State University visited all commercial buildings, quarter section by quarter section, block by block, and using procedures developed by the American Technology Council for visual examination, identified different building types, including the construction type, users, number of stories, plan areas, observed deficiencies, etc.,
 This survey was then coupled with the research of existing building records, permit history, sand bone maps, and that's what was used to create a database of all commercial buildings in the city of Portland. And from that, we extracted all the buildings that were identified as URM buildings. Okay.
 But since in 2014, when at the direction of city council to look into hazards posed by URN buildings, the first task BDS undertook was to verify and update this URN database. This review was done by a BDS structural engineer. Verification including using newer available technology like Mapworks, Google Maps, Street View, reviewing permit records, surveying building owners, and field visits where necessary.
 And based on this review, we removed buildings from the database that were demolished or were falsely identified as URMs. We identified buildings that were seismically upgraded and levels of upgrades done to these buildings.
 In all, we reviewed over 2,084 buildings and removed 131 buildings that were originally identified as URMs which were misidentified as URMs. We are fairly confident about the database, but of course we cannot guarantee that every single building in the database is accurate due to the inherent nature of identifying such buildings.
 In some cases where building data is not available, the only sure way to tell if a building is a URM bearing is by doing some destructive testing.
 So that's why we have that appeals process that we talked about. We continue to update our database as more information is available, but given all the information that we have, we feel that our database is fairly accurate. Okay, and one final question with regard to the database list. If I am a building owner, and I'm not, I wish I was. Yes.
 But if I have a building, and I am fairly sure that you have inaccurately included my building on your list of unreinforced masonry buildings, did I hear you correctly when you said...
 If I appeal this, I do not have to placard until my appeal is resolved. Is that correct? That's correct. We will look at all the appeals that are there. And until it's resolved, we will not enforce your placarding or tenant notification requirements. And then finally, what is the process or the penalty associated with not complying?
 Well, so the process basically will be that the fire marshal's office will go out to do their regular inspections. And then if...
 It's a URM, and there's no placard there. Then their process is basically they give you notice in 40 days, and then they'll come back out and re-inspect after 40 days. And if it still doesn't comply, then they'll issue a re-inspection fee and turn it over to BDS. Then BDS would get it.
 and then our process would kick in with our enforcement group, and they would be given a letter and another 30 days to comply. And then, you know, so nothing would happen for at least 70 days. Right.
 So could I just ask a question if this is a stupid question? I guess it would be in character with most of my questions. Why don't we – first of all, it sounds like you don't have the placard police. You're not going out there and looking for the – it's in conjunction with the regular fire life safety inspection. Why don't we just take some extra placards with us? We're not talking about an expensive item here. Why don't we –
 Just take them with us, and if somebody doesn't have a placard and they need a placard, the inspector can just hand them the placard right then and there, and they can attach it, as opposed to sending them letters and follow-through and re-inspections and everything else. Why don't we try and make this easy? Berkeley mailed self-stick steins to all their URM building owners. Yeah, so I think it's totally feasible. Okay, good. Great. Thank you.
 Those are all my questions for right now. I might have more after testimony. Anybody else? Commissioner Fritz? I have an amendment request, and this actually speaks to Pastor Hennessy's letter asking for an education program that the nonprofits can tap into. My amendment would say in a...
 under the now therefore council directs after a amending the code of chapter 24.85, I would add a B.
 For city-owned reinforced masonry buildings, Bureau of Emergency Management staff will work in collaboration with the ADA Title II and Civil Rights Title VI Language Access Program staff in the Office of Equity and Human Rights to develop materials that provide reasonable and meaningful access to safety information for building occupants and visitors. Second. Commissioner Fritz moves.
 Her amendment, Commissioner Udali seconds the amendment. That's on the table now and open for discussion. And if I might just speak to it. The idea is I think that the whole point of the placarding is to let people know about this. So for city-owned buildings, we have community centers, we have other Water Bureau buildings and others that we can give people a little pamphlet saying, this is what this sign meant, this is what you should do wherever you are in an earthquake, this is kind of...
 what this is all about. And so it seems to me that it is on the city to develop that in appropriate languages, including Braille, and that we would make this available. And I'm hoping that we could make it available to community property owners as well as to city staff. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. And we'll have you back up at the end, but thank you for your presentation. Chief Myers? Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, we have an invited guest. Chief Myers is here. Thank you.
 Is there anybody else? Good afternoon, Chief. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I didn't prepare any comments today. I wanted to make sure I was present in case you had questions regarding the enforcement. I wanted to make sure that I had an opportunity to be here for you. So if there are any questions for me, I'd be willing to entertain those. That's fine.
 Great. Not at the moment, but thank you. Obviously, in the last presentation, you supported this. I assume your opinion has not changed. It has not changed. Very good. I can clarify if I need to, but I'd be remiss in my duty if we didn't at least announce the concern that we have for unreinforced masonry buildings. That is my priority as a city to provide a safe place to live, work, and play. So, thank you. Good. Thank you, sir.
 How many folks do we have signed up, Carla? We have 22. 22? All right. Why don't we call it the first three. The microphones slide around. We find that about six inches is the right distance. If you get too close, they wig out. When you have 30 seconds left, you'll see a yellow light. When your time is up, the red light goes on.
 And as my colleagues know, I hate playing microphone cop. So please, when your time is expired, please stop, because there's lots and lots of other people who'd like to testify as well. Without further ado. The first three, please come on up, are Reverend Roy Tate, Reverend Ed Mundane, Jr., and the Reverend Matt Hennessy. And they'll be followed by Angie Even, Walt McMoneys, and Pippa Aaron. Welcome. Okay. Good morning.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. It's good to see you. Thank you for your response to my letter, Commissioner Fritz, and I'm hoping that you all read it. When I listen, my mind goes to, since it's not a real big problem, then why are we here? It frightens me for our community, being that we've been displaced so many times.
 and not invited. There's two things for sure you could count on about the African American community and community policy and public policy usually, is that we are the first affected and the last informed. The disparities of this entire mandate is troublesome. I've outlined those reasons in a letter to you. And my only thought now is this. It's difficult for me as a pastor
 to receive grace in a sense that my constituents and my parishioners and those that I serve in community are not receiving. It's imperative that we understand the lessons that we learn about the power of non-inclusion, and it is also extremely important to me that our community understands that it has a voice. There are many people who will speak today and repeat much of the information that I could spew right now,
 But for me and my colleagues at the NAACP, my hope would be that our resolve would be as simple as starting the entire process again and asking those that are concerned in our communities to be able to raise their voices together and the education module that Pastor Hennessy has prescribed all together and rise up together.
 My last thought is that when you stir from the bottom, everybody rises. Thank you for having us today, and I'm excited to hear the rest of the testimony, and I'm glad to be here. Thank you, Pastor Mondin. We appreciate your presence. Thank you. Good afternoon. Roy Tate, Christ Memorial Church. I appreciate, again, the opportunity to come before the council to speak. Our voices be heard regarding this major issue.
 We consider it a major issue. We do not take it lightly. Number one, I want to make sure that we understand safety is a number one priority with us as well. Safety has always been, we preach it every Sunday, preach it every week about safety. And that's the number one thing. That being said, the concern is, again, the effects that it would have on the churches.
 mom and pop shops, small businesses, and individual persons in that particular area. There's still a major concern, Mayor, and I think you did bring it up, that we're not clear about how do they go about getting this list. Again, one time I saw the list, and then the next time I see another list, some names are not on there, some are on there, and it seems like it's not clear how this is happening, and people are wondering.
 I don't agree with you, Commissioner Salzman, that putting a placard on our church, putting it on, it will affect. It has an effect, our permissioners. It has an effect because they would be wondering, why is this happening? What's going on? What does this mean? And it makes them feel uncomfortable. It makes them feel like, do I really need to be here or should I go somewhere else? That's what we get.
 That's what we're going to hear. That's what we have heard. Out of all of this, and I understand there's no, I haven't heard anything at all regarding dollars or monies that could be provided to help. Perhaps maybe not at the city level, but perhaps maybe at the state level or maybe the federal level. But we haven't heard anything about that we're going to try to help, especially...
 churches, religious organizations, mom and pop who cannot afford to even do this type of work to their buildings. And number two, if we even did the work to the building, it's not going to make the building
 It's not going to make the building even better for as the cost of our property. It's not going to make it go up. We do not have any tax credits that we can use. All we rely on is our members of our congregation to give, to help keep the church going. And so at the same time, we do appreciate the extending of the time that the religious organization have for the placard.
 concern very much about having to put this on our buildings at this time. Thank you so much for hearing us today. Thank you, Pastor Tate. I appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and to the members of the City Commission. It's great to be here. For the record, my name is J.W. Matt Hennessey, the pastor of Vancouver Avenue First Baptist Church. In addition to these wonderful pastors here, we have Bishop Tate and Bishop Irving who are also with us today today.
 I'd just like to borrow from some of the comments that I made in the note that you had before you. One, we do really recognize that in every major policy issue we deal with in the city of Portland, particularly as it relates to almost anything, quite frankly, there is this fear.
 concern always for a continued area of disparity. And so therefore we echo the comments that Pastor Mondanay and the NAACP have made. And I would like to ask just that when we finished the Williams Avenue work, we said here again was one of those issues. And we want to make sure that we do everything we can not to repeat
 leaving people out of the process. And so we would ask you just to keep that in mind. Secondly, we recognize that it's important to be constructive.
 We are where we are right now. And we want to thank you, Mr. Mayor, you, Commissioner Salzman, you, Commissioner Fritz, and you, Commissioner Udaly, and certainly in his absence, Commissioner Fish, for hearing from us and having your staffs work with us as we sort through this process. Again, not just concerned about African American churches, but all churches and all nonprofits as well.
 So therefore there are some things that are important to us as we support the recommendation that's being made today. And that is the educational process, because we do need people to really understand. Secondly, I thank you for the updated list. We have that now. Number three, the range issue of what buildings can withstand.
 the technical team that will be deployed so that we can work with them along with a facilitator, and also work with us and several nonprofits about the possibility of us being shelters, and then work together on the funding mechanisms engaging as many options as possible.
 We don't know, any of us, what happens 20 years from now, but what we do know is we have a serious issue on our hands, and we stand ready to work with you to help make this whole process work. Finally, we want to thank, first of all, I'm grateful for our new fire chief. I've not met him before, but I realize he and I go to the same barber, and it's always good to see people like him around. But we're really grateful for Elizabeth, for Matt, for Jonna, and for...
 Nancy and Amet and many others that we probably don't know who've been working on this. And we just look forward to working together with you on it. Thank you. Now, by the way, I'm one who likes to stay to the end. This is Wednesday, Bible study day. So I know that I can't stay the whole time. But there are other people who do Bible study on other days. But Wednesday is my day. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you. Next three are Angie Even, Walt McMoneys, and Pippa Arendt.
 and they'll be followed by Mira McLaughlin, Jim Brumberg, and Reverend Marcus Irving. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Angie Even. I'm here today to ask you to change course and invest in a meaningful citywide education and awareness campaign to follow the policy committee's recommendations.
 to not stigmatize people's homes, small businesses, churches, and schools. Through four years of committee work, countless publications, and FEMA, we know that URMs are just one of three classifications of building types in Portland that are more vulnerable to earthquakes.
 Also, soil and liquefaction equalizes all structures. New buildings, sky rises, houses, bridges, fuel tanks built in liquefaction zones all heed equal warning. What about the Burnside Bridge? In 10 plus years and $500 million, it may be upgraded.
 Yet Saturday market and homeless programs take place under the bridge, and there is no evidence that the city has concern to warn. To placard one building type is the equivalent to spot zoning. It's a false narrative designed to deter business, patrons, tenants, and buyers while creating insurance and finance roadblocks.
 On June 13th, Commissioner Saltzman, you stated that Portland was copying the San Francisco ordinance and that therefore our concerns would be unfounded. I called San Francisco and I have an email from the building code manager. San Francisco does not have or has never had a placard or disclosure ordinance to unfairly tag in code buildings...
 as unsafe. Have you considered oh wait at a time when the city expects us to raise funds to retrofit why would you put policies in place to discourage renters devalue buildings and harm small businesses? Have you considered that these policies will act as a waiver? That instead of protecting people more you will protect them less through insurance companies denying claims?
 I urge, so since we're inventing our own wheel and no one has been notified, I urge you to slow down, pause, answer our concerns, include us in a conversation, and do things with us instead of to us.
 I urge you to charge the new work groups with this discussion to apply equal due diligence for all buildings and to recognize that minorities also own for-profit buildings. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, Walt Limones, 601 Southwest 2nd Avenue, Suite 2100, Portland.
 I'm here representing myself as an owner of three designated URM buildings and also the masonry building owners of Oregon, which is a group of building owners that have been concerned and have been involved in the process over the last four years. Let's see, I did something strange to my chair, so I'm even shorter than usual. I think I'm going to stand up. Policy Committee felt that I was on the Policy Committee. Walt, I think it's fixed now. Oh, you've got it up there. Great.
 Whoa! Sound better? Yeah, there you go. I served on the policy committee. I can see you. You can see me. One of my best features. My policy committee service makes me feel concerned that the statements have been made that the policy committee came down in favor of negative placarding. And I don't think the policy committee spent a ton of time on placarding, but it was basically perceived to be an onerous thing that we didn't want to use on anybody who wasn't a scofflaw.
 So we certainly didn't propose front-end, let's see, punitive or negative placarding. As to San Francisco's program, I didn't.
 down there and did some Google searches and found that they have the soft story program. And the notification they're using on the soft story program is very different from the one that's being proposed for Portland. It seems to me it's less pejorative, less accusatory. It just says you're in violation. This property is in violation of such and such city ordinance. It doesn't say the building is going to fall down and kill you. Let's see.
 I do think blackerning elicits an immediate and very negative response from tenants. Round Hill Pacific, that owns a building across from one of my buildings, discovered that they were –
 There was an article in the Northwest Examiner about this whole situation, and it showed a picture of the building with a banner that said, this is an unsafe building. And an unbelievable number of tenants called up, some high percentage within the building. So it is something that elicits a scare response among people. And that's one thing I liked about the San Francisco Placarding Ordinance. It gave a number to call for further information, whereas the one we're using doesn't do anything other than – you're proposing to use it, it doesn't do anything other than saying –
 It's a dangerous building. Then on to some things I didn't cover in my written testimony, which I did send in. The URM list, I've been misquoted as denigrating what BDS did. I don't feel that way at all. I think they did a very good job of getting a raw number of what were the probable, likely URMs in the city of Portland. But this all is derived from FEMA publication 154, and it is –
 fairly clear that that's not to pick out individual buildings. You need to do the invasive testing to find out if the building is really a URM. The upgrade in standard of life safety is what you're stuck with if you have a placarded building. But if you don't have a placarded building going in, you only have to comply under the proposal with collapse risk reduction. Let's see. That's pretty much what I wanted to say. Thanks so much. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Pippa Arendt. My goal here is to encourage you to not placard my home, my building. Why? I need a chance to succeed. Going on this idea of San Francisco placarding, they placard only after noncompliance, not preemptively. So they give the buildings a chance to succeed, and I need a chance to succeed. Okay.
 This list, as you know, is published only in 2016, and I've never received one single outreach from the city of Portland, only through other building owners. So most building owners still don't know, and these building owners need a chance to succeed before we preemptively do more punitive damage to their buildings, to their businesses. Thank you.
 We also know, as Angie was saying, that there's other buildings, as per your own website, that are equally as dangerous. And so we know that targeting only a few is strategically sort of nonsensical, it's illogical, and it's punitive.
 Also, we know that liquefaction matters, sometimes more than structure. And we can look at things like tsunami zones at the coast, where they don't put a tsunami warning on a building. They put it on the area. That would make sense here. It's an earthquake liquefaction zone area warning as opposed to the specific building because it may not matter what it's made out of.
 I really personally want to succeed. As some of you know, I actually did a refi about two years ago to do some of the retrofits to do roof to walls. I immediately stopped when I heard about this mandate because I saw that I was potentially being fiscally overrun, that my building was potentially being totaled with the potential mandate that's still out there.
 I, it's been, when I saw the Indonesian earthquake this last weekend, I was sort of mortified and really scared and very frustrated with the city that I had to stop.
 the retrofit actions that I was taking because of the potential fiscal nightmare that this potential mandate and the placarding which is on top of this adds to my personal situation. I want to live in a city where small building owners and local housing owners such as myself are encouraged and supported.
 as we provide the historically low-cost shelter for families and creatives and startups. And I can succeed with your help. And what that looks like is simply incentivizing the current code and don't punitively placard my building or other people's.
 We know these placards aren't about safety. Otherwise, you'd simply placard the high-risk zones and the other buildings that are also equally as dangerous. We know these placards aren't about choice, or else you'd open enrollment for the schools when you placard those on January 1st.
 You say that this has been a long process, Commissioner Saltzman, but I haven't been really included in that, and a lot of people also haven't. So if, indeed, you want to move forward with placards, which I think are nonsensical, please put them in the committee. Thank you. The next three are Mira McLaughlin, Jim Brunberg, and Reverend Marcus Irving, and they'll be followed by Roger C. Jones, Nathaniel Brown, and Kathy Rogers. Welcome. Hello. Hi. Hi.
 Thanks for being here. We appreciate it. Jim, do you want to start? You go in this order? Yeah, I tend to just go the same direction. That way I don't lose track. Okay. Thank you for hearing this and from hearing from the public. Dan, I know, Mr. Saltzman, I'm not sure how to address you, but I appreciate the work that you've done for public safety. And I know that it's frustrating. I know you're frustrated and that this is a seemingly long process. But as many people are going to attest to today, due process is key.
 I'll read my letter. These buildings are the heart of Portland, are a big part of it, and it's what makes us great. And the heart...
 In there is nonprofits, many of the people in the faith community that I'm proud to be sitting here with today. There are music venues. These are the places where the stories of Portland come from and that make Portland great, many of them. And despite what the developers and their interests will tell you, the diminished value to these buildings that will result from placarding is very real and
 and I've talked to a lot of people about it on my research. I actually don't own a URM, to my knowledge. I wouldn't know. I wouldn't know if I did because there hasn't been any notice directly to building owners. But I own Revolution Hall and Mississippi Studios, which are both completely up to code. But some of my favorite places that I won't name because they may or may not be on the list are part of this.
 It's a very real thing, this diminished value. And a placard that declares that a building is unsafe is going to put a downward pressure on leases and rents, as has already been pointed out. And on the curb value, the curb appeal, when people go to refinance their building, the appraisal is based on curb appeal, as I'm sure you know. This makes it harder for the real work that I know that you all care about to be done. We all want the buildings to be safer. I want to see brick buildings be safer. I spoke with Patrick Otellini. He was the citywide...
 He was the head of the Resiliency Planning Commission for San Francisco, which is a 30-year comprehensive plan for the entire city. And as a small part of this program, San Francisco used some placarding here and there as an incentive and in a few cases as a threat to non-complying businesses and non-complying property owners. But here's what he said about placarding on its own. Quote, it's a cop-out.
 Just look at Napa. They placarded only, and then many of those buildings fell in the earthquake of 2014, end quote. So if placarding is to happen at all, it's only effective if it's part of a comprehensive program that takes time and process. New seismic rules, incentives, reasonable timelines, administrative assistance to help identify specialized loan products and other financial instruments. It's a way of rewarding the most responsible folk, not a way of punishing the most vulnerable ones.
 So I know you're trying to do the right thing. I've supported all five of you. And Nick, in his absence, I'm very happy about our city council. But I know that we can do better. Dan, I promise that your legacy of public safety, education, and issues of human compassion stands tall without this particular footnote. Let's pull it together. Let's make a big plan for the big quake. It is coming, we admit. And most building owners want to do the right thing. Beneficial Bank, I have 30 more seconds if I may.
 Is that my warning? Make it fast. I will make it super fast. Because then everybody else will ask for 30 seconds. The answer will be no for everybody else, just so you know. Go ahead. I'm sorry. I'll give you 10 seconds. Beneficial Bank wants to help. Unqua Bank wants to help. Placarding alone will cause lawsuits to the city.
 I'm not an owner. I'm not – this is not in any way a threat of lawsuit, but I am submitting for the record a law – a legal letter from Professor Michael Blum, who is a 30 – 40-year, I'm sorry, property law professor at Lewis and Clark College, who has looked at all of what you guys are talking about and has determined that there will be successful lawsuits against the city that will further embroil us all in a quagmire that will keep the real work for safety from getting done. And I hate to end on that note, but thank you for your time. No, that's – that's – that's –
 Good testimony. If I could just give a slightly broader context to this. Today we're here talking about placarding, but I just want to remind everybody how we got here.
 And the reason we got here is we started with the more comprehensive strategy that Mr. Odellini had suggested. We started with seismic requirements. And we had a whole series of seismic different requirements for different types of facilities, different uses. And that has been a tried and true methodology in cities all around the world. And what we heard from people was two major themes. Number one, give us time.
 Give us time to be able to do that, to finance it, to figure out how we can afford to do that. And so we extended the timelines significantly. I think we're out to 30 years now.
 The second thing we heard was give us financial help for those of us who can't do it, especially if we're a nonprofit, if we're part of the faith community. Don't penalize us. Team up with us, and let's go down to Salem together and see if we can shake the tree. And until we have sources of identified support for building owners, don't enforce anything.
 That was effectively the conversation. The compromise was we've got to do something in the near term. We can't do nothing. As the editorial said this morning, we've got to start somewhere. And we had many of us who were engaged. Not everybody here obviously was engaged. But the placard started off being pretty strong in its language. And now it states what a lot of people think is just an obvious statement of fact.
 Well, it sounds like a great idea to educate the public. Here's where I'm going with this. We're already talking about the compromise. We're here today taking testimony on what's already the compromise away from what other cities have done, which is simply say here's the standards, and within X time period you're going to meet the standard or you're going to be out of code.
 And so I just want to make sure that we have that broader context on the table here, because I feel a little like we're negotiating against ourselves here in some regards. Commissioner Fritz. Thanks, Mayor. I think the third thing that I heard in those hearings is dozens of tenants, both residential and commercial, saying, I don't mind that this is an unreinforced building. It's where I want to live. So I just don't find it persuasive that having the sign on the wall
 side of the building, like you. I will name one because Parks owns it, and that's Keller Auditorium. I went to a concert there last week, and I thought to myself, because I know where those buildings are, this is an unreinforced masonry building. Let's go see Death Cab for Cutie. Maybe an unfortunate choice of which concert I was going to, but in fact, it stayed up. LAUGHTER
 I sit on the advisory panel for the P5, and I know that they're having a great difficulty refinancing capital improvements to the Keller, including retrofitting. And this will stop. It will hurt their chances of retrofitting that building, and the building may be razed and replaced or developed. Well, in that case, the city is going to be right in it with everybody else. In fact, as the pastors pointed out, we're in a worse situation because we can't get tax breaks either. Well, thank you for your time. Thank you, Jim. I appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Hi there. I'm Meryl McLaughlin with Music Portland, and we represent the local music industry. Music Portland supports fair and rational efforts to make our city more seismically secure. Appreciate that you've invested as much in the process. Particularly interested since 34, originally 38, because four of them have already closed, music venues are listed on the URM list. I could find none of them that said they had been even aware of the process. Okay.
 Most of them are lessees rather than owners, so that may explain part of it. However, the placarding rule under consideration today fails to improve safety. It fails to advance equity. It reduces community engagement and negatively impacts local business. The only thing placarding would do is to stigmatize select buildings without actually addressing safety. If, in fact, people will still go in, no problem. How does it improve safety? Okay.
 Could I answer that? Yes. Because we had a pretty big discussion. It's about full information. It may not stop you from going in the building, and I'll be the first to admit I go into buildings all the time that are unreinforced, in part because I work in a lot of them, in part because I choose to of my own free will. Right.
 But I also know the risk, and if there is an earthquake, that informs my decision about how I want to react in that earthquake, whether I want to duck and cover under the desk or whether I want to get the heck out of Dodge or whether I want to leave the basement or come down from the roof. From my perspective, it's added information. That's great.
 And the sign doesn't give me any of that information of what to do. It just says you're at risk. So we're going to develop the materials, as my amendment said, so that we can make them available to private property owners as well. Okay. So venues operate on very thin margins. It feels disingenuous to me that there will be no impact at all on the businesses. That doesn't feel like a fair statement because I believe it will.
 You know, just, it will. If, as Council suggests, there's no impact, then why do it? And you've explained some of that. If it is to build public support, as Commissioner Fritz has suggested, then why only do it on a select group of buildings? Let's see. Given the fact that these buildings would need to have up to level 5 buildings,
 reinforcements to get the placard removed. It disincentivizes the owners from actually doing the work once the placard is up. That seems sort of nonsensical. The accommodation proposed for churches demonstrates that community gathering places merit special accommodation.
 Indeed, live music venues are the secular churches of our community. Our popular music culture is a potent community-building force, unifying both new and long-time residents of all colors, ages, and economic strata more than 1,000 times every month, month over month.
 In a city that values social sustainability, arts and culture, and quality of life, the negative placarding impacts on live music venues confounds those priorities. Furthermore, it absolutely fails the equity test. It's hard not to be cynical about a policy that threatens to stigmatize small property owners, low-income renters, and small businesses rather than the high-rises and condos that sit in liquefaction zones.
 Music Portland would strongly support a citywide public education program in lieu of the placarding to make Portlanders aware of all risks that they face and align them behind constructive rather than fear-based policies that threaten to do more harm than good. The music community would be thrilled to be an ally in promotion of such a program and really give a great platform for that. This would be a more equitable, effective, and constructive approach for our city.
 Thank you for your service and for the chance to talk today. Thank you. We appreciate your being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Bishop Marcus Irving, Albina Christian Life Center, and I am also part of the group of ministers that you just heard from, but to Commissioner Saltzman and to Mayor Wheeler and to Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Udaly, I appreciate this opportunity to be able to speak to you.
 I feel like I'm in Afghanistan with a pea shooter. I found out about this process in May, and all of us ministers are scrambling around trying to make sense out of this that you have been working on for over four years. It's not fair. It's not fair for the rest of the
 building owners, many of whom have not been contacted. They have no idea that they're getting ready to put a placard on their buildings. My father was displaced by Portland Community College when we had the Walnut Park Theater over on Albina and Killingsworth. And we moved to the building that we're at now, and here we are once again facing displacement
 And I feel like I might as well just give you the keys now to my building because I can't afford to have an inspector. I can't afford to – there's no way in the world my congregation can go out and buy a million-dollar building right now because we couldn't pay the loan back. And we're facing an impossible situation in all 1,600 of us.
 are in the same predicament here. There's a scripture, Psalms 18, chapter and 7th verse. It says, Then the earth reeled and rocked the foundations also of the mountains, trembled and quaked because he was angry. I need to say that I don't think any one of you, any one of the fire marshals can tell us right now which building in this city...
 won't fall retrofitted or unretrofitted when god begins to shake this earth and i think that we are really in a uh being done a disservice and my time is up but just give me 15 20 more seconds i'm a preacher 20 more seconds i did a funeral last week i didn't have time for this
 The family of the deceased person had absolutely no idea what to do. And so as a minister, we went to the funeral home. We took them by the hand. We led them through everything. By the end of the funeral and then after our Sunday morning service, Monday, I poured myself out on the couch. I was totally, totally exhausted, only to find myself having to come here because of imposition.
 Concerning these placards and concerning the placards, concerning the placards, anybody, I feel, I feel that the placards are in every way a disservice to all of us. And it's a detriment to every building that will have to put those placards on our buildings because we have factions and groups that will walk past our buildings, whether they're members or attendees of our churches or not.
 And they'll form committees. And they'll be asking me questions because I'm doing funerals and weddings and counseling. I don't have time to talk to them about these placards or anything else. Sometimes some of us didn't choose our buildings. Our buildings chose us. And that's what we have. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you, Bishop. Sorry for taking me. Not at all. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you for your time.
 The next three are Roger C. Jones, Nathaniel Brown, and Kathy Rogers, and they'll be followed by Matt Reed, Nancy Chapin, and Dan Lenzen. Good afternoon. Would you like to go ahead and start? Me to go first? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Hi. My name is Kathy Rogers. Thank you for listening and hearing what we have to say. I have one ask, that the issue of this placard's,
 be put in the committees that are newly being formed and is discussed and evaluated and looked at around all of the issues amongst one piece of a larger puzzle. Commissioner Sultzman, you indicated that part of the reason of the placarding is to spur public discussion and support for seismic upgrades. If that's truly the case...
 why don't we notify everybody who lives or works in the high liquefaction zones, which includes downtown, the Pearl District, and the South Waterfront? If everybody who lives or works there got a letter indicating that it was a high liquefaction zone, that may raise some awareness, right?
 Why don't we notify everybody who has gas coming into their building, whether it's commercial or residential, that a $400 automatic gas shutoff valve would dramatically reduce the dangers in an earthquake? Somebody told me that. I had no idea. No idea. I had gas coming into my home. The minute somebody from the gas company told me that, we had one immediately installed.
 An education process there, I believe there's some 40,000 buildings in the city of Portland that have gas coming into them, and not very many have gas shutoff valves. You also indicated, Commissioner Saltzman, that we had a four-year process. We did. We had a URM committee, and I was at many of those meetings. They discussed placarding at length. They unanimously voted against it. There's a reason for that. In terms of the database, we all know it's inaccurate.
 And with all due respect, if a building owner believes that their building is not a URM building and there is some question in ours, I can pretty much guarantee you that the cost of the proof is going to fall on the building owners. We've already spent $8,500, and it's still unclear. So who's going to pay for the proof of whether it is or it isn't? In terms of insurance?
 I don't know what insurance you guys have been talking to, but my guess is that the reason the cost of insurance won't go up with placarding is because most property insurance doesn't cover earthquake. It doesn't cover it at all. You have to have earthquake insurance, which we have. And I have had discussions with our insurance agent who indicated that this will be troublesome not only for the cost, but even for our ability to maintain earthquake insurance. If an event happens...
 earthquake insurance is going to be key to rebuilding. Elizabeth has spoken with our insurance agent, and all I can tell you is what they have told me. We pay $12,000 a year for earthquake insurance, and I'd like to keep it. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Nathaniel Brown. I'm a government relations specialist with the Portland Business Alliance. The alliance represents nearly 1,900 businesses, a majority of them small businesses and hundreds of property owners throughout the Portland metro region. As you're aware, we've been closely monitoring the city's process to develop this mandate to retrofit URM buildings.
 And we were largely in support of the resolution that passed in June that outlined the various class requirements and the retrofit timelines. We certainly understand that these vulnerable buildings pose a safety risk in the event of an earthquake. However, we are very concerned that placarding will go into effect before any clear upgrade requirement or financial incentives are in place, which is at direct odds with the City's URM Stakeholder Advisory Committee recommendation of voluntary placarding for compliance.
 We do appreciate the clear direction in the June resolution to identify incentives and other financial support for property owners. But the mandate will have a financial impact on property owners and commercial tenants, particularly small businesses in neighborhood districts. The placard may further impact revenue and the property owner's ability to finance the required seismic upgrades.
 Because of these serious concerns, our strong preference is to refer discussion of the placard requirement to the new stakeholder committees formed to evaluate the retrofit requirements. If the City does move forward with a requirement today, it is essential that the provisions within the requirement for an appeals process remain. The City has stated, as we've discussed today, that the accuracy of the URM inventory...
 cannot be confirmed due to a number of factors, property owners must have a way to avoid the placard if the building has been upgraded to current standards. Additionally, the requirement must include a swift process to remove the placard after the building has been upgraded. We recognize the difficulty of balancing public safety, the need for affordable commercial and residential space, and financial impacts on building owners.
 We also urge the city to monitor the impacts, the economic impacts, of any placarding requirements should it move forward. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to you all. It's good to see you here. And I'm sorry that after May 9th and then June 13th, this has been such a rocky road. It's been a little seismic for a lot of us. But things changed on June 13th. And...
 An urgency happened. We were hoping to be all on the same path forward with the new committee that, thank goodness, you guys have done. But one thing sticks out, and that is placarding. I don't want to separate that, but placarding is putting the cart before the horse. And I'm sorry, Nick's not here. He used that term when we were talking earlier.
 Putting the cart before the horse is like penalizing people for owning URMs. It is a stigma. It is a very negative process. I know that the policy committee has said that's not what they want. They want attaboys. They want to set a good example for the future so that we can move ahead. Others have stated the list is faulty. I'm not going to go there because...
 I have my own thoughts about it, and I've told you before, and if we continue to use a defective list, it would be like me going into the Bureau of Buildings and saying, I need a building permit to build a sandbox, and I don't know how to build a sandbox, but give me a permit for it because, you know, I think I want a sandbox. This is an enforcement action, and the first thing that the government is trying to say is,
 to a property owner is the first line of the notice. It says this is an unreinforced masonry building. The owner can't prove that without a very invasive process to say it. So what's going to happen in my idea is that when people get those notices, they're going to disregard them. Sadly, it would be a good thing if we could enforce it, but we can't.
 We're going to do it wholesale on every URM building, and they cannot prove that the first line is true. If I owned a URM, I could not state definitively this is an unreinforced masonry building. Am I out of time? Oh, 30 seconds. I just want a process that works.
 I would hope that you would pull back, as many others have said, and take this under advisement as all of the constituents and the affected parties and put it back into the process that's going to go on for the next year to get a process that works. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Matt Reed, Nancy Chapin, and Dan Lenzen.
 And they'll be followed by Robert Hunter, Tomi Lee-Smith, and Doug Klotz. Good afternoon. How are you? Good, thank you. Thanks for having us, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I think a lot has been said that I would have already said, so I'll just kind of diddle Angie over there. I kind of agree with most of what she put down. I want to kind of identify that we've owned our building in the Pearl District since 1969, 77.
 We're very good stewards of it. I've had it since 96. Very proud of it. We've kept it up to current code. We had our roof redone. In the code, it was asked that we earthquake our pulpits in our water tower and our roof. We did. It worked perfectly. So we're earthquakeed halfway. Okay.
 We're looking to do our walls. We know that we're going to need to do our walls. Hey, look, we all want the same thing. You know, I'm a fourth-generation Oregonian. We want a safe building. I'm really proud of our building. We survived. So many buildings around us have not. And we have a bunch of small businesses in there. And I kind of want to address Mr. Saltzman or Commissioner Saltzman, excuse me, and I appreciate your strong opinion of how you feel about it. I just, after running a building for 30 years, disagree. Okay.
 I'm going to have some trouble. And when I start having trouble and they ask me the question, I think the question is it's going to start a conversation with your tenants about, hey, Mr. Owner, why haven't you upgraded the earthquake? Well, we're going to level two. The requirement that the engineer is talking about is level four. If I do that, they're not going to be in my building anymore. In fact, my building may not be there anymore because it's cost prohibitive.
 And that's, it's that. And so the city, if they can help us do it, we're on the same team, we want the same thing. But by blacklisting or putting a scarlet letter on my building when we're doing everything we can to be in code, be good Portlanders, and supply a business application for money. I've got great small businesses there. A lot of them, they do shoes, they invent things, they...
 They're all going to be displaced because they're not going to be able to afford to be there, and that's the answer to your question. Why haven't you done it? Because you won't be here anymore because you can't afford to be in here. I'll have to raise the rents too much to get to that level four to get the placard out of here.
 I fully intend to earthquake. I want to earthquake, but I think there's a process of when we did our roof, we earthquake. We did our pulpits. We did our water towers. When we do the next step, we'll do our walls. We'll do our – and the lines are set, and we'll walk down that path. We hope that Salem will come through and help us a little bit. Most of these people in here are just like me. They're retirement funds. They're Oregonians, and they love their properties. They're not trying to chintz out. So –
 With that, I just want to know, we've already, the process worked for us. We're already on our way. You don't need to placard us because that could actually harm us. And I disagree with you. It will harm us. Okay? And that's from 36 years of renting a property. It will. Okay? Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Nancy Chapin, born here in 1939.
 And once again, at least for the third time, maybe the fourth, maybe the fifth time, I'm ashamed of my city fathers and mothers, who, by approving this staff and council-driven ordinance, will have, once again, targeted a class, a group of people, this time those who own or occupy one- to three-story URM buildings. Thank you.
 The actions of staff and the council over the life of this process have caused financial institutions to essentially redline this class, this group, and have created a potential bonanza for developers to take over, redevelop.
 and change beautiful, important, historical aspects of what created and makes Portland, Portland, all while financially impacting many owners and residents. Fear itself is no reason...
 to take over properties and residence of this group, class of owners, businesses, and residents. I truly hope you see the irreparable damage you have already caused and stop this process immediately.
 Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thanks for being here. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi, Dan Linton. Frequent flyer here at City Council. Of course, you guys have seen me. And thank you for listening to all of this. There's been fabulous comments and quotes, and it's been across the board of what everybody's thinking. To get to here, I'm living proof of the last 30 years of
 hospitality industry in the city of Portland born raised in having started small businesses numerous numerous times and owned and developed buildings including the Grand Central building on the east side which we did structurally reinforce as well as other buildings that we couldn't afford to so we ended up having to sell them so anecdotally I want to bring forward just a point
 The U sign, which is a placard, was applied to our favorite, now gone, the Lotus. Some years ago when the landlord had a bad upstairs, we were on the first floor.
 Um, on that, uh, during that time, then I was, uh, interviewed by, uh, uh, a, a neighborhood fire marshal, uh, in the news station about safety of nightclubs and bars in the city of Portland. The Lotus was known as a very, very safe place. Um, incidentally, uh, that night the Rhode Island fire occurred and they had already scooped this story. So, um, uh...
 So there's two stories going along at the same time. That showed that the Lotus was very safe. It spoke loudly to the business and the operators, of which I was an owner. Also, the U was on the outside of the business at the same time, and we saw immediate effects for a lunchtime business. So, Dan, it does affect, yes, it does affect them in two ways, as you're saying. One, people are going to think. I get that.
 Totally. But on the other side, it's, oh, I don't know. I'm going to choose something else. Maybe a food cart because it's not a building. But it did affect. So we put the U on the upstairs where it should have been. We saw business come back because they felt comfortable.
 So there's kind of a couple anecdotal stories there, as well as my experience having done this thing and feeling comfortable about doing it right, and understanding when I couldn't do it, and we do lose our building because we can't afford to do it. So I've got a lot of experience in all this, and I appreciate all you all really spending a lot of time in this four years. Honestly, I have a URM right now. I didn't know anything about this placarding.
 So I think the outreach is not there. If anything, education, that's what you want to do. Let's spend some money on education about these buildings to the general public. I really think that we need to get that out there. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Robert Hunter, Tony Lee Smith, and Doug Klotz. And they'll be followed by Tim Davis, Greg Harris, and Moshi Lenski. I think Tim Davis is left.
 Good afternoon, sir. Would you like to go ahead first? Yes. My name is Doug Klotz. I support this ordinance. We need to let people know which buildings are URMs and use that information as they will. I visited San Francisco 30 years ago, and they had placards on buildings then. And people, as far as I could tell, were not making any choices to not go in there. I went in the buildings that had the plaques.
 I, in fact, worked in Portland for 13 years in an unreinforced masonry building, and I also worked another 17 years of my career in an unreinforced concrete building where the trusses were not tied to the walls.
 I worked, but I did work there. I didn't quit my job, but I remained aware of the risks every day for 30 years, looking around, okay, if there's an earthquake, where am I going to run? Over there, under that, under this. So I don't want the other staff to live this way for the length of time I did. I support the program to require retrofitting, and I laud this as the very, at the very least, the city could do to forward that conversation. And this is the first step toward raising awareness.
 And I think we will do it more effectively than any public service announcements or any outreach. Just seeing those things when you walk down the street, that's going to raise awareness. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Toni Smith, and my concern about the mandate and the placarding is that it's negative and it will have effect on what is the very heart and soul of Portland.
 These artists, entrepreneurs, musicians, and bars and restaurants have become world famous, and people are moving here because of them. We're celebrating the maker culture, and these are the very community that will be suffered and harmed the most. They're the ones who have no idea also that the pending placard and mandate is happening. Many owners, in many cases, the business owners don't, or the building owners don't know. So I...
 politely disagree with your assessment that there's been education in the community. There has not been education. There are many, many people that do not know this is pending, as well as the inconsistency of the list itself. There are probably people on the list that have no idea that they are URMs, and they will be subject to the placards and the mandate.
 I agree with many of the other testimonies that say this is not a public safety issue. It doesn't assist in educating or helping people. Knowledge that it's a URM doesn't give them any information about how they should act in it.
 as well as building owners are not going to be able to get loans to improve their buildings, so now their buildings will go into repair rather than improving them and maintaining the seismic upgrades. I urge you to vote no on this negative platforming and lean into education or take the placarding conversation back to committee with the rest of the mandate.
 Thank you for your time, and thank you so much for the open dialogue and inviting the community to testify and continue talking with you about this issue. Yeah, we appreciate your being here. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Robert Hunter, and I own three buildings that were on your list. One was taken off. It's a cinder block building. One is a brick building. It's still on. And the other one is a cinder block building.
 And it sits over there in southeast Portland on sediment left by the Missoula flood 15,000 years ago. It's a liquefaction area. And I pulled up one of your maps, one of the Portland maps for liquefaction. And it's all, like it's been said, it's on up and down both sides of the Willamette, in the Pearl, northwest Portland, southeast Portland.
 Instead of placards, why don't you make signs and put them on each street corner in these areas, educating the citizens of Portland that this is a liquefaction zone, and it's susceptible to land sinking. All you have to do is look at what happened in Christchurch. There are some videos on YouTube that will show you that. That way, you would educate the entire city of Portland and not go after just...
 building owners. And then you can deal with building owners on an individual basis. I will retrofit all of my buildings. One doesn't have to be retrofitted, but I will do that because I think it's great to do that. The other one, the brick, I'll do that. The third one, which is questionable, I call the city engineers to ask them to assist me determine whether it needs to be on the list. And this woman was very helpful, but
 She wrote me a letter back and told me I had to get involved with a – maybe have an engineer look into it, which a neighbor who was with an engineering company said, Robert, you know, I don't think that is a URM building. It's center block, and there's rebar in that. So now I'm left with having to hire an engineering firm to find out whether it is because it's on the list possibly by mistake. So –
 What I want to leave you with is that I think educating the entire city by signs on every corner of the city saying this is a liquid faction zone and it's susceptible to earthquakes. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. It sounds like Tim Davis has left. So the last two who signed up are Greg Harris and Moshi Lenski.
 Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. Thank you for having us here. My name is Greg Harris. I'm the owner of Roosevelt's Terrariums on Hawthorne Boulevard. I'm also the co-president of the Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association. And I'd like you to stop and listen carefully for just a moment. Did you hear that? That was the sound of a silent economic earthquake.
 that is rolling through Portland and bringing down buildings unnecessarily. If you listen closely, you can hear the sounds of laughing developers swooping in like looters after a disaster. And you can also hear the collapse of many political freeways that are careers collapsing from the devastation. The fallout from this mandate and the placarding
 is going to cause a tremendous amount of suffering and financial disaster for many, many people who have no backup system. And it could be avoided by simply stepping back from the precipice and including more people in the process. There have been many suggestions made here today that I think are valid. I believe that different ways of educating the community,
 that there could be a means of assisting and funding for those who want to retrofit their buildings and who have the means to do so, but they would need to have some kind of assistance that could be a cooperative operation between private and public agencies and funds. The Portlanders that I know...
 would be willing to step up and endure the expense involved in creating a fund that would rescue important landmarks in our community and would be able to make sure that 100 years from now we're not shaking our heads with regret that we've lost so much of what makes Portland, Portland. In conclusion, the Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association has been following this issue closely
 and we would make the following two requests. Number one, that you would refer this action to the stakeholders in the community and allow them to have a more audible voice in the process and to be able to bring their experience to the team and to work together to find solutions that are not going to create so many unnecessary casualties. And secondly...
 To seat a small business association representation on that committee, HPBA would be willing and would appreciate being considered for this position. But we believe that education is important, but in education all around, there are many options that are not being effectively considered, and I would like to see those brought to light. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Last but not least.
 Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, thank you for starting a long process. You may or may not have been exposed or not to this little book called the Earthquake Engineering Handbook. I'll wait until that comes out on audiobooks. It's very interesting, and don't start timing me yet. Please. I'll ask you a question, Mr. Lansky, so you can just keep going.
 It tells you how much more there is to do. But thank you for getting along as far as we have. I'd like to make three points, if I may. First one is about the placards. I'm assuming that putting a safety number on a masonry building doesn't say that a wooden building is safe. That would be bad, wouldn't it? Rather, the placards, it seems to me, should have a more positive...
 message such as for the citizenry that they heed any alerts something's going to happen sometimes somewhere who knows what when where we're doing nobody it's the phantom but it will happen probably citizens should heed alerts and then should have some idea of whether where to go or what kind of place to go and what place kind of place to avoid that's an even
 positive message for everybody in the city. Finished with that. Next thing that I would like to talk about is the professionalism, lack of it, of the database that you're using. I don't understand it at all. I own a two-story building, 1910, exquisitely built with a marble threshold. So they rate it as a
 as an occupied building. It's an unoccupied warehouse. So on top of that, so that's, they're just wrong. You know, they haven't examined it. They haven't been there. And so they're just wrong. On top of that, they have a mechanism in which they have it for buildings. They add it, they come up with an occupancy of 100.
 I don't know if that's a standard number or by footage or whatever, something. So here we have your data, 100 occupancy, actual zero. If it's 100 and zero, that's about 100% long, wouldn't you say? I mean, just offhand. Moving on. They also claim that there's no...
 What's the word? Help me. It's unreinforced. Yes. Well, the fact is that a car tried to drive through our building, and it collided with an 18-inch, turned out to be steel, filled with whatever it was, and so forth and so forth. They left a little bloody mess, but anyway. So...
 But the point is, the building was built with this reinforcement and steps of concrete in the basement, et cetera, et cetera. It's a well-built building. So they're wrong on three things. And I could go on more. But I think you get the picture that if you're basing yourselves on this data or this kind of data –
 You better look at your whole cards big time because I wish I had more time. So do I. It's been enjoyable. Thank you. I appreciate it. And I feel badly because now you have to take that book back. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 All right. So did we want to bring staff back to have some follow-up questions? Oh, there is a really important point that I want to make. Yes, sir. Yeah, go ahead, please. In the environment, we do an environmental impact statement, right? What this calls for is an economic impact statement. You know, what's the city losing? What's the city going to have to pay for on all its buildings, et cetera, et cetera? Right?
 They have the money, they have the staff, they have the kind of people... You know, you have a lot of property, and I suppose you can't just exempt it, or the way they do... It would come under the same sort of... So if you do that... And I think this would...
 go over into other things. You know, old brick buildings have lower rentals, and we're talking about affordable housing? You might be losing a whole bunch of affordable housing with what you're doing. So you need a whole larger economic impact study to really know what's being affected, and that's before this is...
 Don't do it. Thank you. I actually have a question for Chief Myers. Sure. And I'm wondering if... Why don't we have our whole team come on up just so you're all here. And you can bring slides and chairs if you need to. Is Shelly from Prosper Portland still here? Yes. Okay. Sorry, I was looking right at you as I said that. And if you wouldn't mind, it's been a while just when you talk, could you just reintroduce yourself for the record? Thank you.
 Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, Commissioner Fritz, of course. Chief, it was mentioned about the U that's on a building. Tell people what does the U mean? Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor, Commissioner. I'm Mike Myers. I'm the Fire Chief for the City of Portland. Some of you may recognize as you drive around town a large red U that occupies some of our buildings. That U is not meant for the public to recognize for their own safety. It is actually for the firefighters. Okay.
 So there's a lot said today about the safety and welfare for individuals moving in and out of the buildings, and we spend a lot of time making sure that the buildings are also safe for our firefighters to go inside.
 There are a lot of very old buildings. There's a lot of unkept buildings. When we get a call for service, we have about a five-minute response time and about ten seconds when we arrive, literally ten seconds time to make a pretty significant decision whether they're going to enter the building or not.
 And so I make some, I myself and other fire chiefs that are on the scene make some very difficult decisions to send city employees into very dangerous buildings. So we go out beforehand throughout the year. We have a battalion chief that has this assignment.
 That individual works very hard in working with business owners and identifying buildings that are unsafe. And there are many factors that go into making that decision. It is not an easy decision for the building owner. It is not an easy decision for us. But ultimately, a couple things happen. One, we ultimately decide that we're going to put the U on the building.
 that does stimulate the owner to some point to get the U off on some cases. In some cases, they don't care. And the second is the building owner. We work with that individual to help them figure out what it's going to take to get the U off. Okay.
 So it's not something readily known to the public. We don't advertise that's an unsafe building to the public. We do that so our firefighters know that when they make entry, there may be missing portions of the floor. There may be multiple roofs. There may be limited access. They may find themselves easily trapped. Right.
 There may be collapse hazards within the building. It's just many, many factors. But that's what that U is about. And it's been going on here in Portland for quite some time. So a firefighter responding to an emergency wouldn't necessarily go right into the building if there was a U on it?
 Not necessarily. It's hard to say. Those decisions are made at the freedom of the commanding officer when that officer arrives. But I can tell you it would be likely that they would not enter a building with the U on it. However, if there is a rescue necessary, there's an individual in there, and we know there's an individual in there, those firefighters will probably take pretty significant risks to enter the building anyway. Okay.
 I appreciate the service of the officers. And will these placards make any difference to whether firefighters go into buildings or not? No, I do not believe they'll make any difference at all. That has not been discussed at our operations meetings. I can tell you my experience would suggest it would make no difference whether a firefighter would enter a building or not. You know, I came in here a couple of years ago. This was after...
 the prior fire chief was very successful and Commissioner Saltzman in getting the nightclub sprinklers on.
 And I know that every time we make a difficult decision, balancing what is inappropriate for public safety for the public, at the same time, we're hearing today, and we're not ignorant of this fact, that there's a balance. We want vibrant cities. We want businesses to thrive. And we want commercial space to be occupied. And that's all part of it, that equation. And business owners will tell you they want a safe building too, largely, when we go in and talk to them.
 And I thought that was a smart thing to do. I'm glad you took those steps, Commissioner, years ago with the prior fire chief. We have another pending issue with high-rise properties in the city of Portland that aren't sprinklered today.
 And I'm aware of those issues, and we will have to take steps at some point to remedy those. These are not inexpensive fixes. But we've seen demonstrable disasters around the world if we don't take these necessary steps. But what I'm seeing is good conversation between public officials,
 with commissioners and mayors and the public around how we get that done and that balance. And I want you to know that we are aware of that also in the Fire Bureau.
 Thank you. And then just going back to the U buildings, do you have any data on how many of the U buildings have been brought up to code, how many just keep operating, and how many have closed? I don't have that data with me. I can easily get that data. If that's something you are interested in, we can definitely get that. I would think so. Can you help me and formulate your question to me in an email, and I will make sure I pass that along and get that done? Yes, I will do that. Thank you. Awesome. We will take care of that. But just to summarize...
 if a building were generally unsafe, it would probably already have been inspected and already have the U on it. What we're talking about here is buildings that would be unsafe only in the event of a major earthquake. That's my understanding, yes, only in the event of a major earthquake. Thank you.
 Commissioner Udailey. I had a question for the Chief. So some of the most compelling testimony I heard today was about the fact that there are multiple types of buildings that are more likely to come down in a major earthquake, as well as these liquefaction zones. Of course, we can't do a lot, I think, retroactively about liquefaction zones. Buildings can be built to different standards, new buildings, but...
 I'm certainly in agreement that we need to do a much better job educating the public about all the risks involved with a major earthquake and ensuring they're prepared. That said, it's my understanding that unreinforced masonry buildings pose a risk.
 kind of extra hazard to the public safety in that they're likely to collapse and the debris will fill our streets and prevent emergency vehicles from reaching survivors, fires, etc. Do you happen to know what those other types of buildings are and if they're on a par with the risk of the buildings we're talking about today? So
 I'll be as frank as I can without scaring the public. So here's where we're at. If anyone's read articles about this earthquake, they're already scared. And it's just not about earthquakes. You know, I thought one of the pastors said it best with his quote, his verse, which
 the magnitude of the earthquake matters and the magnitude of every disaster matters. I don't care if you're on the coast and you're facing hurricanes, tsunamis, heat waves. The potential disaster is really about magnitude.
 The higher the magnitude goes, the potential could be extremely bad for Portland. We have no idea on the level of the disaster that we could possibly see based on the size of the magnitude. If we're looking at...
 an average size earthquake and what it might do to buildings. And we are looking at trying to remediate and fix some of those buildings on what is likely to happen. I think that's what we're talking about here today. Can we make Portland entirely safe? Absolutely not. Okay.
 There is a lot of potential danger, not just in our city, but multiple cities across the United States that are in earthquake zones. Those are all over. And we're not the only city that faces this issue. We are taking, I think, an appropriate step. I'm not talking about the placarding. I'm talking about taking steps to remediate unreinforced masonry buildings.
 just like we need to put sprinkler systems in areas of occupants and high-rises. These are minor steps that I think we should take. If we didn't, I think we would be remiss in our duties if we just didn't act. And I thought there was a lot of good testimony today.
 a lot of good conversation about what other people would like to see, and that's good public government. But I think everybody would agree in the room, we should do something about this, right? And so at what point do we do something? At what level? Yeah.
 So largely we're talking about brick buildings. You did specify the types of buildings. These are largely the brick buildings, which I frequent as well. I happen to live downtown here, and so I'm in and out of these buildings all the time, shopping and doing my daily activities. So I'm very aware of those buildings and the wonderful exchange of vibrancy that goes on in the downtown area.
 But the question remains, why would we target one particular type of building that's vulnerable to collapse in an earthquake when there are others? And maybe that should go to our engineer. Yeah, so again, just looking at performances of these type of buildings from around the world, URM types of buildings have been shown to be the most prone to earthquakes.
 especially even on small earthquakes. For example, in the mid-'90s, we had the Malala High School that even under like a 5.4 earthquake, we had the facade falling off the building on the thing. So they are very susceptible just because of the construction type. They are very brittle materials.
 The floors and walls are not attached together, so when the earthquake happens, they just separate and cause a collapse of the building. So every earthquake you see around the world, these buildings have been shown to be the most vulnerable of any other type of construction. Yes, there are other types of buildings that are also vulnerable, but these are the ones that are the most dangerous of all of them. And when we say you're, are we including brick, stone, and concrete? Yes, all those are considered unreinforced masonry buildings.
 Okay. My next question is for Shelley. I think while we did an excellent job on the kind of structural and engineering analysis, we didn't do a great job on the financial analysis or impact to the building owners in the city. And so one of the things that I've committed to as we move forward on other pieces of this conversation is –
 developing financial incentives and lending products that are viable for most of these, that would be viable for most of these building owners. So can you talk about where we're at with property fit? So with property fit specifically, yes.
 The program is active. We've closed our first transaction, and it was on an unreinforced masonry building that's being renovated and will be put back into use. It was a vacant apartment building. Now it will be put back into use as a social hotel or hostel, and that's scheduled to come back online in 2019.
 As far as the actual financial analysis in general, I think what we –
 learned through the process is that the financial needs of the individual property owners, as well as the costs associated with the retrofitting the unique individual properties, is that you need a suite of financial tools that are going to meet the unique needs of each of those components.
 And so through the support conversation or what started out as the incentive committee, we identified a suite of financial products that would be of value to building owners. The challenge is finding the capital to actually fund them. And so some of the ideas that we identified,
 identified was one was expanding the authority, the statutory authority under the PACE, authorizing PACE legislation for a property fit, which we were successful in doing. We also went to the legislature to gain approval of a property tax exemption.
 program, what is called SB 311. There's conversations now about, okay, how do we take this statutory authority and now actually exercise it and put it into programmatic form? Some of the financial product types that we've been talking about are something as unique as a shared appreciation mortgage. Some of the property owners, the buildings will not afford additional debt. Okay.
 that the economics of that building, the amount of revenue and the cost of operating, will not allow it to actually service new debt. And so a shared appreciation structure is one where you could – it would be –
 It would be a lien against the property, that there would be no payments required, and at the end of the term there would be a return of that investment. That would serve the needs of a unique set of building owners. Some building owners just need the economics of the current real estate market to catch up with what that debt service might be. They might benefit from yet an interest rate buy-down or some other type of financial tool.
 Really the crux of it is we've come up with some ideas of what this suite of products could be.
 In order to actually put those forward, we need the capital with which to make the investments. So that's the challenge at the moment. And just this seems like a good opportunity to clarify something that some people may have been a little confused by. There are a couple reasons that we're giving a longer phase in for nonprofits and churches specifically.
 But a big reason is we don't have financial incentives or lending products for them because they don't pay property taxes and they don't... I mean, it's just a very different scenario for them. So while I certainly...
 appreciate, patronize many businesses that are in URMs and wouldn't want to see them go away, those property owners aren't subject to kind of the same challenges that nonprofits and churches are. And that's why we have distinguished them. Yeah, thank you.
 I just had a couple of questions. Jenna, could you tell us a little bit more about – we heard a lot about decision-making. Could you tell us a little bit more about the decision-making at the Policy Committee around placarding? Certainly. So the Policy Committee was actually three committees over the course of four years. We had a technical advisory committee of engineers and architects. They did recommend placarding.
 for unreinforced buildings. Then we had a committee, a financial committee, that was developers and people who work in the finance industry. They recommended against placarding or only positive placarding. Then when we came to the policy committee that was called upon to reconcile those recommendations, they ultimately didn't recommend placarding. I think as Walt acknowledged, they really struggled to reconcile the other retrofit recommendations, so it wasn't a topic they spent a lot of time on.
 What they did recommend was tenant notification and that the city pursue that actually as a state legislative item, which we may still do. But I think it's important to remember that policy committee also recommended mandatory URM retrofits for all unreinforced masonry buildings in the city of Portland. So my understanding of when this came forward to council is council did not...
 opt to, at this time, follow through and require retrofits to all those buildings, but the compromise was since we weren't requiring that at this time, we would move forward with placarding so at least people would be informed. You said it more eloquently than I did up front, and I tried to set the table up front. In fact...
 We have already compromised away the policy committee's rather stringent requirements around seismic upgrades. And I know the chief had come in, the fire chief had come in at that point and eloquently spoke in favor of that. Somebody mentioned the Mayor of Christchurch. In fact, she visited Portland. She came all the way from New Zealand to Portland to strongly encourage us to push the seismic retrograde mandate forward.
 And she was quite eloquent in that, basically saying, yes, people are going to be very angry at you. Yes, they're going to be unhappy. Yes, it will create all kinds of economic hardships. But if the earthquake happens and you haven't done it, you've got a whole different level of grief coming and reckoning coming. And so I'm appreciative of that. I actually wasn't aware that one committee had recommended in favor. My understanding was they had all recommended against it.
 That was against what their broader recommendation was, which was enforce the seismic upgrades and do so quickly. Exactly. Thank you. One other question, and this is a general issue. It's not just specific to this issue. We hear a lot, and maybe this is more of a comment than a question. We heard a lot of people, people who I trust, say they never heard about this process until fairly recently when it heated up in the news media space.
 I believe our standard policy is to notify building owners. Is that correct? And are we thinking citywide, enterprise-wide, about maybe changing the way we notify for these things? Because let's be honest, if you're a tenant and a building owner gets 150 notices and it all looks sort of the same, there's a lot of opportunity for you not to get it or maybe –
 I heard from one of my pastor friends who said they had a front office volunteer who checked the mail, and they had sort of a standing agreement that if it was junk mail, throw it away. And it's possible that it got round-filed with some of that. Is there some way we can improve our notification process just so we don't have people feeling like we're excluding them from an important process? Has anybody given that any thought yet? Yeah.
 Yeah, sure. I can take that, Mayor. Thank you. Yes, definitely. We heard loud and clear. I went back. I wasn't here at the hearing, the original hearing in June, but I did go back and listen to the testimony. And, you know, even just talked this afternoon with a couple of the pastors and with our equity manager. We really do want to do better. We do.
 very much heard them loud and clear that they, regardless of how we think we notified them, they didn't get notice. So we realized that there's a gap there. I don't know yet, because I'm coming in new to this particular project.
 how we're going to do it, but I know we need to do it better than we have been. Yeah, I'd appreciate any recommendations. I mean, maybe it's even certified mail, and then we follow up with people where we haven't received the receipt. I'm no technological genius. Maybe there's better notification platforms out there, but I'd be really interested in that because we increasingly –
 and routinely hear that people say, I never heard about this process, even though it's been going on for a long time, and I have no reason to doubt people's veracity on that point.
 I might just add, I think we will continue to feel obliged to continue to use mailed notifications, but I also think that Commissioner Fritz's amendment that talks about preparing some educational materials that would be inclusive and that would be accompanied with the signs and making those available through our community centers, through churches, through other places that will be placarding, I think will give us an opportunity to reach people even if they don't read their junk mail. Okay. And I had a question for my colleagues. Commissioner Fritz's amendment...
 is a good one. I don't particularly see it as controversial. Is there any objection if we take the vote on the amendment?
 before we move the package to second reading. Are we okay with that? I would like a chance to deliberate a little bit more on the whole item, but I'm fine with the amendment. Oh, yeah, very good. So just before, and just so people understand that this is a non-emergency ordinance, so we don't vote on the overall ordinance today. It moves to a second reading for a vote, but this is sort of the, you're here for the meat of the presentation. Commissioner Udaly, did you have other questions? I don't.
 i have other questions i do have some comments i want to make before we adjourn so if you want to vote now why don't you go ahead and do that okay and and then commissioner fritz and i'm going to stand over there just for a moment we could make our comments at the vote on the amendment perhaps if that works for you would you like prefer that sure okay
 You're going to leave the room for my comments? No, I've just been sitting here. I know. It's been a long day for us. Very good. All right, so why don't we do this? Why don't we call the roll on the amendment, and then if people have further comments, that's a good time to do that. So to Commissioner Fritz's amendment, please call the roll. Are you daily? Okay, this feels like a weird time to me to make these comments because they're not very pertinent to the amendment, but I do want to say a few things. First of all...
 Thank you all for coming here, and thank you for your testimony. You've given me a lot to think about, a lot more to think about about something I've been thinking about for 21 months now. I'm not sure if I should thank you. No, I'm kidding. I am left with a few questions. One, who should be financially responsible for proving whether or not a building is on that list? I do not feel comfortable saying,
 based on the testimony I've heard today, that we would create a significant financial burden to a property owner who may not belong on that list. Two,
 If there are, in fact, other buildings that are just as likely to come down an earthquake, that are just as dangerous to the occupants, whether they would fill our roadways or not, should we be including them in this placarding policy? Is this really an adequate approach that we're taking?
 and I'm certainly not averse to notices about liquefication zones. I have to be honest. I think I would be more likely to avoid a liquefication zone than a URM building, so be careful what you wish for because I don't know if that would be great news for people that own buildings in that zone. Three, who are the stakeholders? Someone said that we need to bring the stakeholders back to the table.
 And we have been put in this really challenging position, I think because of the way this whole conversation began, of pitting public safety against private profit. And I have to say to the building owners, the stakeholders include your tenants, your employees, your customers, your parishioners. Thank you for the thumbs up, because it's something that's...
 very important to me that everyone has the information they need to make informed decisions about their safety and their choices. So thank you. I am concerned by the issue that Ms. Arend brought up about financing for seismic upgrades and then hearing that our standards may change and then not moving forward with them and then learning we were going to be placarding and she may be placard before she has a chance
 to improve her building. So I just want to put that out there as a concern. Yes, this was our compromise. We could not reach a kind of amicable conclusion about the larger issue of standards of upgrades, so we decided on placarding, which seemed very reasonable, but this is kind of one of those unintended consequences I think we're always hearing about.
 I do want to say that taking matters of public safety back to a stakeholder group, in my mind, creates a new definition of death by committee. I mean, I love the Portland process. I oversee the Office of Community and Civic Life. We're charged with civic engagement and outreach, but we were also elected...
 I think all of us by 100, 200,000 people who have invested some confidence or trust in us to make decisions, basic decisions about the best interests of our city. And so I don't think a years-long process about a vital public safety issue is reasonable. I'm not saying we don't need your input. I'm just really nervous about kicking this down the road another few years.
 And I think everything else I have to say, I can wait for next week. I just want to commiserate with everyone in the room. This is a really tough challenge, and I appreciate your input, and I really want us to do right by everyone. But I think it's going to hurt a little no matter what we do. Thank you. I vote aye.
 Thank you, Commissioner, for all of your comments there, which I associate myself with. Thank you, Jonna Papathymou. You've been working on this for at least the 10 years since I've been in City Hall. She deserves a hug. Well, you know, this is something that literally has been on the table since 2008.
 The first day I got into office, and probably long before that, because I didn't really become aware of it before that. So with Sam Adams, with Charlie Hales, now with Ted Wheeler, three mayors who have really grappled with this, and it's my feeling we have to do something.
 what the something was at the last hearing was let's just require these retrofits. And what I heard, my biggest takeaway, in addition to the building owners and your concerns, thank you to everybody who came today. In addition to that, I heard so many tenants, both residential tenants and commercial property owners, saying we can't afford to live anywhere else. We like the place that we are. We want to stay here. And that's fine for those who choose to do that, just like I chose to go to my concert.
 I believe that people should have that knowledge and that choice.
 I have said over and over again that we would only ask private property owners and non-profits to do what the city is willing to do ourselves. And the point was made. We do have a significant liability in the city. I was for five years in charge of Portland Parks and Recreation, and we have several community centers, which is going to cost, we're currently looking $500,000 just to do an assessment of three of the parks building to find out how much it's going to cost to fix them.
 And like the churches and other non-profits, the city doesn't have the option of state aid, tax breaks, other such things. And so it is something that the wider community is going to grapple with. Because when we're talking about how is the city going to do it, we mean how are the taxpayers of Portland going to do it. Because the taxpayers are who are going to be funding those community centers.
 I appreciate Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Wheeler putting it so that the city goes first in this requirement. And we can look at the data in the community centres from January and February to see, is there a massive drop-off after we put these placards on there? If there is, I, for one, would be willing to take another look at this. I just, knowing that I've been in the university club over on 6th,
 on several occasions and seen the placard and thought, like the Keller, well, let's just hope the big one doesn't hit. No, I mean, I think that anyway all the time here in Portland. So I think it would be helpful for people to have that choice. And what my amendment does and what I'm about to vote on is saying, the city has heard you. We are going to take responsibility for creating those materials in an easy-to-read manner
 decent font, large type with different languages, translating with braille.
 way for people to know what really does this mean? I mean that the warning in itself is just like, oh, it may be unsafe. Well, it may not be. Off we go. I think the other thing we have to do is what do I do then in entering any kind of building in Portland because for the most part you're not going to maybe even notice even a placard that's this big and and so I think it's just
 common sense to help educate all of the people in Portland about this challenge, which we all share. And we all need to share in the financing, not only for the city buildings, but also for the non-profits and for the private property owners. It is a joint responsibility. I hope that in the next budget we'll be financing an update to the historic resources inventory so we can decide which of these historic resources,
 and reinforced masonry buildings really do deserve to be historic buildings that then get tax breaks and other public assistance. Because it really is about how are we all keeping us all safe, regardless of who owns the building.
 I do know that insurance companies are in the business of risk assessment. That is what they do. So I just find it unbelievable that an insurance company would rely on the city posting or not posting a sign in order to decide whether or not or what kind of premium to charge for earthquake insurance. I've got extra insurance on my house.
 to add the earthquake rider, and I filled out the form, and I'm sure had I been in a masonry house, they would have asked more questions, but I don't think that they would have relied on coming over to my house to see if there was a placard on the door.
 I think, to me, this really is about public engagement, public awareness. And then once we get everybody realising that this is all of our challenge, then we will get more support for everybody saying, yes, I can pay a little bit more on my taxes, I can pay this, I can help figure out a solution so that everybody stays safe. As time goes by, we know we are due for major and minor earthquakes, and it's time to do something about it. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, thank you for your comments today and your testimony. As I said at the outset, we have this information on unreinforced masonry buildings. I believe the list has a lot of integrity to it, and it's not completely black and white, but I believe we have done our homework, and this is a robust, accurate list by and large.
 And what do we do with information we have? Well, we get asked all the time to release information we have, whether it's the media or a private citizen. We have an obligation to be transparent with Portlanders and release this information. The best way to release it is by one of these placards in front of the information. And I believe this, you know, respect Portlanders' intelligence. Give them the information. Let them weigh the risk. They're quite capable of doing that.
 and I believe they will do it. And they also need to be aware of their surroundings to think about. If you live in an unreinforced masonry building or you work in one, as Mr. Kloss said, think about what your exit plan is or whether to exit. Think about where you're going to duck and cover. This is information, fundamental life safety information. And another committee to deal with this, many of you testified saying give it to the committee, and you also testified that
 The previous committee, you know, many of you, I remember back in May and June, were testifying about all the flaws of the committee structure back then and how erroneous they were in their findings and the recommendations of mandatory seismic retrofits or doing things in 15 years rather than 25 years. So you can't pick and choose. And I'm picking, as Commissioner Daly said, that this council can ultimately make the best decision to respect the safety of Portlanders.
 I appreciate your participation, appreciate the role of the committee, appreciate the role of the new committee, but this should not be part of that new committee. This should be a decision made at the highest level of city government, and that's the five of us up here. And I vote aye for Commissioner Fritz's amendment. Wheeler. Before I forget, I'm going to support Commissioner Fritz's amendment, and I want to thank you for the amendment. I think it makes perfect sense, and I'm appreciative of the effort that you're undertaking.
 We've had a long afternoon, but I want to thank everybody for their testimony today. And for those of you who have met with me on many occasions, I want to thank you. For those of you who have vociferously disagreed with me, I want to thank you too. Every meeting I've had on this, every conversation I've had, every call, I feel like people have treated me
 this issue with the seriousness that it deserves. I think people have been incredibly respectful, and as per always, I come away from this, whether you agree with me or disagree with me on this issue, I come away feeling very good about the fact that I have a city where people actually engage on these important issues and share their thoughts and do so directly and respectfully. So thank you for that.
 I want to particularly thank Amit and Nancy and Jonna and the PBEM, Portland Bureau of Emergency Management team, for lots and lots and lots of work on this that predates my tenure by at least 50 percent. So thank you for that. I want to thank Chief Myers for your continued focus on the life safety issues and reminding us that we have a duty to keep those issues front and center.
 I want to thank Elizabeth Perez from my office, who probably wishes I'd assigned her just about anything else. But you have done a fabulous job, and I appreciate that, and to the rest of my team as well. Is that placard there approximately the right size? This is exactly the right size. It is exactly the right size. This is what we're talking about. The hard work is actually the work that we still have to do.
 Because the hard work is the work that we are. In fact, I vote aye on the amendment. Thank you. The amendment is adopted. The hard work that we have to do is actually the work that we have put off to the committee work. And we've got a lot of work to do with our pastors in the community, with our nonprofit leaders, with the small building owners, with the state.
 We've put down a marker that we understand the economic hardship that this would pose for those who rent low-income housing, for those who provide maker space, for those who provide space to our iconic mom-and-pop businesses, bakeries, restaurants, cafes.
 art studios. So the hard work is really the work that we have to do ahead. And I hope whether you agree on this part of the process or disagree profoundly on this part of the process, that we all acknowledge that we've got a lot of work yet to do together. Commissioner Fritz. I just have a question. There's this massive size of sign that's right in front of us. Could you pick that up and show it to folks please? And so that the camera can see it as well.
 Because this has been sitting staring at me all the hearing. So obviously it's the same, yes. It's got the same and it's got the same warning but in the safe harbor. So it's in Chinese, Vietnamese, Russian and Spanish as well as English. And what's the planned purpose of that kind of a sign? Can you speak into the mic? Go back to the mic again. Thank you.
 The proposed ordinance only requires posting in English, but we anticipate that some public buildings, particularly probably parks community centers, may choose to post in additional languages. So we prepared a sample of what a sign would look like if it included all the languages. And then we also have...
 small size. So for instance, if you're in Chinatown and you just wanted a Chinese language sign in addition to English, we'll post these all on our website in PDF. So if people are making their own signs, they can have a sample and they can easily print it. Or they presumably could get one from you. Or they can get one from me. Yes. Great. I appreciate that effort.
 We had to have some discussion in the Office of Equity and Human Rights about whether there needs to be a Braille version. I'm not sure that somebody would necessarily be looking for a Braille version on the outside of the building, so that, again, was part of my thinking of having a brochure that then is available in Braille translation would be the way to do that. Thank you very much for thinking about that. Thanks for bringing the example. Certainly. Great. Anything else for the good of the order? Seeing none, there being no questions,
 Further discussion? This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended. We are adjourned. Thank you.