The Portland City Council. Carla, good morning. Please call the roll and thank you. Good morning. Udailey? Here. Britt? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Wheeler? Wheeler.
 Here, the purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and give due consideration to matters before the council,
 All of us must endeavor to preserve the order and the decorum of these meetings. To make sure the process is clear for everyone, I want to just review some of the basic guidelines that I hope makes everybody feel comfortable, heard, and respected and ensure the decorum is maintained. There's two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak on any subject they'd like to speak on.
 These are items that are scheduled in advance with the clerk's office, and if somebody would like to participate in that opportunity, one can sign up with the clerk. Second, people may sign up for testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you do sign up, your testimony must be germane to the issue being discussed.
 Please state your name for the record. We don't need your specific address. Council rules do require that if you're a lobbyist, you let us know that. And in addition, if you're here representing an organization, it's helpful if you let us know that as well.
 Individuals typically have three minutes to testify. When you come up to the microphone, just state your name for the record. There's a little box there. And when you have about 30 seconds left, you'll see a yellow light. When your time is up, there will be a red light, and you'll hear some beeps. We ask you to please stay within your time limits. If there's a disruption, I will issue a warning that if there's a disruption,
 there is any further disruption occurring, the individual or individuals creating that disruption are subject to expulsion from the meeting. If you're asked to leave and you don't leave, you're subject to arrest for trespassing. We don't like that to happen, so let's all just
 So keep it good. If folks would like to show support, a simple thumbs up is great. If you want to show your dismay with something, thumbs down is fine. Just remember, you're going to hear lots of different opinions. Many will vary from your own opinion. And let's all just try to be respectful of everyone's interests. With that, Carla, please call the first communications item.
 Item 1082, request of Jill Heinemansen to address counsel regarding Peterson's convenience store. Good morning. Good morning. Okay, I'm Jill Heinemansen. I'm Mr. Peterson's lobbyist. Thank you for letting us testify today. What I'm going to do is I'm just going to read this letter just to give you guys an update on kind of what we're going through right now with our situation.
 Okay, on December 1st, Peterson's Convenience Store will celebrate our 34th anniversary at our Morrison location. Since day one, we have been open 365 days a year during all hours that the Max runs to best serve over 900 customers from all walks of life who shop at our store each day.
 That's every single day, right, Mr. Morrison? Right, yes. Every single day for 34 years. Anyway, our celebration is bittersweet because December could also be our last full month in business at our Morrison location because Prosper Portland is requiring us to vacate our space by January 14 for a full year to renovate the Yamhill Spark Park garage and the ground floor retail area. The future beyond January 14 for us is unclear.
 We were initially very excited about the opportunity to renovate our Morrison store. For us, making significant investments in the space would have been a risky undertaking since we have been on a month-to-month lease since the 90s. Until now, our landlord, the city, Portland, thank you, has never offered to make any improvements. The city gave up on fixing the air conditioner years ago, making the store so hot in the summer that the chocolate bars would melt.
 Our excitement turned to anxiety when we realized that all the stores that are black, many who are successful local legacy businesses who have been in the community for over 30 years at the same location, were about to suffer the same fate as Portland's Albina neighborhood where Prosper Portland pushed out families and businesses they considered undesirable.
 Prosper Portland has met with us several times since 2015 and has said that they have heard Peterson's desire to remain in a Morrison location. Their actions suggest otherwise. The construction plans divide our current space into smaller units, which indicates that we already face an uphill battle to keep our space. In addition, the application process isn't going to begin until Prosper Portland is ready, which could easily extend beyond when we are asked to vacate.
 Even if we could apply before we lost employees who have been with the company for decades, the requirements set by Prosper Portland puts us at a disadvantage. Prosper Portland Resolution No. 7240 set a lower priority for locally owned franchises with more than three locations, we have four, and will not allow off-premise sales of alcoholic beverages, and we sell Pacific Northwest wines and beer.
 The requirement to vacate for an entire year or more during the remodel also feels targeted to root out existing businesses like ourselves. Open store remodels are common, with just one example down the street of Pioneer Square Starbucks.
 Our space is conducive to staying open, since the major construction will occur on the corners of the building and the storefronts or slated to remain intact for some time. It will also be safer for the MAX riders, because we sell the hot pass and being open late, because we're open all hours that the MAX operates. Many of our 3,500 supportive comments, right here, we receive from our customer who have signed our position to discuss how they feel safer waiting for the MAX. So in closing,
 We really, again, we want to stay, and we were hoping to get some help from City Council because we're not getting it from Prosper. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning, sir. Hi. My name is Doug Peterson. I'm the owner of Peterson's. We just can't get any communications going with Prosper Portland. Twice we've appeared, a bunch of our employees and myself have appeared before at their open public meeting. We never got a response after appearing. Okay.
 We wrote a letter after we got a letter of support from Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Saltzman, wrote a letter to Prosper Portland urging us getting some help. And we wrote a response to that talking about we could actually stay during much of the remodel because of the location of the business. And we never heard one peep.
 We've gone down there and tried to make an appointment. They referred a name to us. We've emailed them. We've called, and yet no one has responded to set up a meeting or anything. We're just absolutely being ignored. And, you know, we're popular in the neighborhood, as you can see, and over 900 customers a day come in our stores.
 We've donated to the Downtown Neighborhood Association has a project at National Night Out Crime Prevention. And every year we've donated water and soft drinks for that festival. And usually go through about 800 units of water and soft drinks. We've.
 hire handicapped people. We're part of the community and we're like Voodoo Donuts and Starbucks and Powell's as far as being known in Portland and we're popular and we're just asking if there's anything we can do to get a process going to talk about this because we really want to stay. And like Jill said, the ends of the building are where the major construction are, where they're
 building out the storefronts or building new stairwells and elevators and tearing out the old ones. In the middle block, as I understand it, they're planning to maintain the building, the storefronts, for some time. We walked through with a bunch of contractors looking at the building, and that's what they stated, the integrity of the storefronts.
 would stay for a long time during the remodel before they actually knew that part of the thing, and we're in the middle of a block. So I think we could be there and be serving the TriMet customers and serving the construction workers, and we have the hop pass.
 and that's the direction that TriMet is going, and they can buy the Hop Pass, and we can add value to it. I know that you can do that on your iPhone, or I think you can do it over the telephone, too, or on the Internet. A whole lot of folks don't have iPhones. I have one, but not everybody does, and especially tourists, people that are unfamiliar, we can help them, you know. Yeah.
 navigate getting the hot pass. And I think we can just be a good assistant. So thank you for your time and hopefully maybe some support. Thank you. Very good. And Doug, I'll have Kyle from my office connect you with Prosper Portland and get you your meeting. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Next item, please. Item 1084, request of Stanley R. Herman to address counsel regarding his question on ORS 830.035. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Well, let's see if we can put an end to this here. You guys have seen me for about 11 months now, but it's all not bad. My name is Stan Herman, president of the History Collection Nonprofit Group.
 But like I mentioned, I've been here for 11 months now and need to understand and learn your process a little bit more. Let's start with you guys got a tough job at times. I really appreciate the work you guys put in. It's amazing. But in the past, I've talked about 20 city employees to get an answer to my question with no help at all. That's why I decided to come to the leaders of the city here to kind of get some communication going. And it hasn't happened for whatever reasons.
 For almost 11, now for the record, almost 11 months now, I've been asking the mayor or the council to give me an opinion to a question. Mr. Mayor, four months ago you said you'd give me a legal, this is a legal question, I'll have the lawyers give us an answer, but that never happened. I've been asking for your opinion, not a legal answer, although the answers would be the same.
 I'm asking you now, every week I hear your opinions regarding a lot of different issues. Why couldn't I get an opinion from anybody up there regarding my questions over the last 11 months? So, Mr. Herman, to answer your question, and I'm going to answer it annoyingly exactly the same way I answered it the last time you were here.
 This is a water-related crime. The jurisdiction is Multnomah County. We have no legal jurisdiction over this matter. Multnomah County does. You didn't read the ORS that I submitted. It clearly says the Portland City Police. You have received communications from our legal counsel stating their opinion. They didn't give me opinion.
 But anyway... I'm looking at the emails right in front of me. But anyway, if you'd read the ORS, it clearly says the first police officer that shows up. But anyway, we're going to go on because I've got something positive. I'm not just here to bitch and complain about things. I've got some solutions. Thank you, sir. And maybe that's what we've been waiting for. So like I said, I'm not asking for your opinion or question. I'm not trying to bring it up so I can sue the city or anything. None of that is my intentions. I just...
 Wanted to point out and have you guys accept the fact that the police was in 08 responsible for an investigation. And I called and reported the homeless under the building that burned this building down three months ago, four months ago. I got a case number. They never showed up and did their job as well. So now I lost millions of dollars there. Thank you.
 Well, I'm going to skip down to the real meat of this thing. And like I said, I'm not here to complain. I'll be 70 in December, and I'd like to partner up with the city to give back to the community. A wonderful plan, which you have some pictures in front of you, to build three soccer fields on this facility, a storage and launching area for canoes and kayaks for kids. It would require conditional use.
 We also plan to put a dock on the front to restore the, put the LCI 715 veteran restored ship there. This is a group that's a for-profit business and a government and a non-profit business and we'd like to get some involvement with the city on a fast track permit and feasibility for this. The project is going to be fun, it's going to create jobs and I've even got a nickname for it so far. I think I might call it Herman slash Fish Field.
 So it could go both ways. It could represent you or the fish. So anyway, I just want to know if there's something that with what you see here, again, maybe I didn't make myself clear in the past. I'm not here to bitch. I'm here to provide something for the community and the city. And if any one of your commissioners, chief of staff, want to sit down with me, we can plan a wonderful, wonderful event.
 space for the community for soccer and canoes. Wonderful. I actually have somebody on my staff who'd be interested in hearing more about your contacts. I think it'd be great. Your concepts all connected. I only got 40 more summers left. I've got to get this project done. Thanks, Stan. It's good seeing you. Pardon? It's good seeing you. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 1085, request of Wayne Wigness to address council regarding Portland's open data program. Good morning. Hey, good morning.
 My name is Wayne Wigness. So earlier this year, I was listening to some people present on making data more accessible to the public. At the time, the shooting of Quanis Hayes was a hot topic, so a lot of people seemed to take this as data on crime in law enforcement. But to me, open data means more than that. When I began to solve a problem, I was able to solve it.
 In the beginning, I have no idea what patterns are going to emerge. It's only once I start playing with the numbers and the variables that connections become apparent between things that I previously thought were completely unrelated. It's this kind of understanding that is required to gain any kind of user control. Here we're talking about social issues, group dynamics, not just individual actions.
 There are many variables to identify and even more patterns to emerge. My point here is that I don't see too many enlightening patterns emerging by just making data available on crime and law enforcement. In fact, if an issue has evolved to the point where a cop needs to step in, then we're talking about the effect, not the real underlying cause. There are numerous researchers and curious minds alike here in Portland who would benefit from making data more accessible on crime.
 infrastructure, medical, environmental, industrial, infrastructural, educational, and to the extent that the government can do so, even consumer data. You've got to figure there's a reason why companies are paying good money
 to access data on seemingly redundant things. More data means more patterns, means more understanding, and that understanding can translate to more leverage for consumers and citizens alike. What triggered me signing up for this communication was over the summer I heard of Disney mining data on 13-year-olds to adjust their marketing strategy. They were getting sued, apparently. My point is this is kind of a new frontier situation,
 And you guys can wait till issues like this pop up on your table, forcing you to regulate a free market, or you can just try to be proactive and provide the data, level the playing field. I do realize this is a new project and they're just getting started, so it's not me pointing the finger at anybody. It's just pointing out that there's more to data than people getting shot.
 Additionally, I wanted to comment that maybe it might not be a bad idea to have a public comment section on your online websites. That might be more productive than having ... You're the government. You can have people register with their social security numbers and be accountable for what they say, and that might be a more productive way to communicate rather than ...
 through online news that dramatizes the same issue every week and got us starting back at square one every week. So thank you. Thank you, and I agree with you on that and the same comments over and over again. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Next item, please. Item 1086, request of Eli Spivak to address council regarding historic districts. Good morning, sir. It's good to see you. Good morning.
 I'm Eli Spivak, and I'm an amateur historian right now. Thinking about the housing crisis, I go back to World War II sometimes, where Portland had the last big housing crisis. 194,000 people came to Oregon.
 150,000 of them working in 85 shipyards. We had a huge housing crisis, and we responded quickly. In 1941, we created the Housing Authority. In 1942, we have the War Housing Code, which is six pages, and it seriously made it much easier to internally divide existing homes, and it loosened building codes. And in rereading it, on page six, I found something which was curious to me,
 And I printed this out, if you could put it up on there, on the map. There's an exception. There was a lot of support back then to increase housing options so people could live, but they didn't apply in single-family zones, Class I residential zones. So it got me curious, what parts of the city have effectively figured out how to not be part of that response to a housing crisis? And so I pulled out the old zoning code map, and you can see on the next page, single-family zoning pre-World War II.
 and did a little color by number. Back then, they marked by little dots the single-family areas. And the yellow areas are the areas that were zoned single-family back then. So those are the areas of Portland that didn't really participate in the first response to a housing crisis.
 So fast forward 75 years to today and if you look at those yellow areas, those tend to be some of the affluent parts of Portland. We now have historic landmark designations for individual properties I strongly support. But for districts, I have some questions. And it seems like there might be a trend, if you look at the areas I drew in where we have landmark districts...
 that they tend to overlap pretty well with some of the areas that were protected from being part of the housing solution 75 years ago. It's obviously not the same people. People don't live that long. And there are obviously good reasons for protecting historic homes. But if it turns out that the new land use tool du jour becomes an historic district, which makes it harder to build any new housing,
 there's no buy-write process of doing it. In fact, you can't even use housing in those areas to meet our Goal 10 supply demand because you can only do it through the discretionary process. Then we've got an equity issue. And I think that I'm concerned, as new landmark districts get proposed, that...
 the correlation between the Landmark District and the affluence of the neighborhood might be much closer than the correlation between the Landmark District and the number of historic structures in that area. So the last page I showed is Historic Resource Inventory and I can only do a screenshot, but you can see that there's landmark buildings all over the city, all over, everywhere. And there's maybe a loose concentration in the areas where they're designated districts, but
 I think that before we go creating more districts, we should figure out whether there's an equity issue that we're perpetuating here. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Carla, how many items, which items more precisely have been pulled from the consent agenda? Just one item, 1092. Please call the roll on the remainder. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Please call 1092. Okay.
 authorize Bureau of Parks and Recreation to execute a disclaimer and relinquish all of its right, title, and interest in the Catherine B. Gordon Residence Trust, including its remainder interest and all other interest in the real property at 8533 Southwest 35th Avenue. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Just briefly, as it says in the ordinance, this property was donated to
 to parks by an estate and they didn't ask artists ahead of time if we actually wanted this property. It's not located near any existing park, nor is it suitable for a park ongoing. And the way that the gift was given, if it's not used for park uses, it goes back to the landowner. So basically we're just saying thank you, but no thank you. I believe that Lightning pulled this. Good morning. Good morning.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. One of the reasons why I pulled this item is on the trust itself. When Catherine Gordon died on October 2, 2004, she set up this trust, number one, to live in the property to the end of her life and then transfer that to the caregiver of her to allow to be living the property also.
 One of the things she wanted to also have done is that after the individual that's living in there also, at a certain time she wanted to have it transferred to the city of Portland. Now, I'm having a little bit of a difficulty on her wanting to have this done, and the city of Portland is saying, no, we're not going to do it. Now, your statement today was it's not near a park. Your statement today was...
 We can't make it into a park. We can't utilize it for public use as a park. And in the trust, it did state that if you tried to sell it for any monetary gains, that would not be approved. Now, my position is that in the trust, if she wanted it transferred to the city, why can't you use it as just a small park? Why can't you do that based upon what this trust has stated, just a small piece of property there?
 Why can't you do that based upon her wishes in her trust to transfer it to the city of Portland? And now you're coming back and saying, well, we just don't want the property. We wanted to declare it a surplus property. Again, that would be as you reverted back to the trust, which if I am correct, and I'll research a little bit more on this, a few months ago this property came up during a resolution.
 And if I am correct, this property came up during the resolution to sell the property. Now, I will go back on the records here and look at that. But you must have referred back to the trust itself that said you can't do it for monetary gains. Now, there's nothing that says that you can't keep this property, allow the current person in there to live in there, as it's stated in the trust, the wishes of Catherine Gordon. There's nothing that says you can't do that.
 So I am really surprised that you're turning back and just saying, no, we just don't want this property based upon your trust. We don't approve what's in this trust. And also when you look in this, she is also donating various money to the Portland Art Museum, various money to other areas that are very beneficial to this city, that again, in this trust was written up her wishes upon her death to see the city of Portland end up with this.
 Make it into a park. You have a small park right in the middle of a road down there that's only a couple feet. You can make this into a park. Respect her wishes. Respect the trust. And take this property. Keep this property. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Next item, please. It's an emergency. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. I almost forgot the most important and exciting part. Please call the roll, Carla. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please.
 The time certain item 1087, further extend the housing emergency to address continuing homelessness issues, identify council powers, specify an 18-month duration, and waive portions of the zoning code. Colleagues, we're proposing an 18-month extension to the housing emergency that was first declared. The other mayor? No, we're reading it separately. Okay.
 that was first declared in 2015. Since first declaring this state of emergency, we've made significant progress to address the housing and homelessness crisis. We've increased shelter, and the number of unsheltered people sleeping on our streets has decreased. There are 2,200 affordable housing units currently in the pipeline through both an increased funding strategy and streamlining the permitting process.
 We've passed a number of additional tenant protections from inclusionary housing to mandatory 90-day notice to mandatory relocation assistance. And we're currently finalizing the strategy to construct, acquire, or rehabilitate an additional 1,300 units thanks to the $258 million affordable housing bond voters approved last year. But there's more we need to do to stabilize the systems that impact housing and homelessness in our community.
 Rents continue to increase, and families continue to be faced with difficult decisions, like whether to take a 20% rent increase or move 45 minutes further away, whether to pay their phone bill or their rent this month, or whether to sleep on the street or stay with an abusive partner. This is an emergency that requires action now.
 This housing emergency is not just a theoretical concept. It's a practical set of land use and regulatory tools that we can use to address both housing and homelessness in our community. This ordinance asks the Portland Housing Bureau and the Joint Office to help us determine criteria which indicates when we can end the housing emergency as well as a plan to get us there.
 I also want to acknowledge the typo in the FIPIS at the end of the original announcement, which had the incorrect date listed for the extension. It's corrected here in the code, and the intention is to extend this policy out six months to April of next year, 2018. Just to clarify.
 I'd now like to ask Commissioner Fish. He has some comments he'd like to make up front. And if colleagues, if anybody else has any comments they'd like to make up front, that would be great too. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Mayor, today, Mayor and colleagues, today and over the next few weeks. That's correct, yes. Sorry, and the typo correcting my typo has a typo. It's 18 months. Sorry. Sorry.
 Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. Today and over the next few weeks, we are poised to take four important actions to address our housing crisis. I support all of them. Extending the housing state of emergency by 18 months, extending the renter relocation ordinance, developing a roadmap for how we spend the housing bond, and setting a bold vision for boosting the supply of permanent supportive housing.
 deeply affordable housing with the services that people experiencing mental health crisis and addiction so desperately need. These are very important steps, and I am grateful for the leadership of the mayor, each of my colleagues, and the activist community. But we still have more to do. I believe we should make the rent or relocation ordinance permanent and should do so this calendar year.
 and I will push for continued funding for the Joint Office for Homeless Services during our normal budget process. We are not the only city on the West Coast experiencing a housing crisis, but we have an opportunity to be a leader in supporting innovative, compassionate, and cost-effective solutions to that crisis. Thank you. Thanks, Commissioner.
 Anybody else? Commissioner Daly. Thank you. I don't have any prepared remarks. I just want to acknowledge the housing advocates in the room who were the ones that...
 first called our housing state of emergency and I want to appreciate the council for hearing that cry. It's hard to believe that it's only been two years. That was really a turning point in my life as a housing advocate when Justin Burry from Community Alliance of Tenants
 reached out to me and other housing rabble-rousers and kind of invited us into the fold. And our joint effort made the first noticeable difference in this crisis. So thank you, Mayor, and I look forward to the crisis.
 extending, but I look forward to the emergency measures we're taking, staying in place. Very good. With that, we'll introduce Mark Jolin from Home for Everyone in the Joint Office of Homelessness Services and Kurt Krieger, the Director of the Portland Housing Bureau. Come on up. Thanks, gentlemen, for being here. All right.
 Good morning, Mayor, members of council, Kirk Krieger, Director of Portland's Housing Bureau. It's my pleasure today to speak in favor of this extension. I'd like to speak to two aspects. One is the 180-day review by which the Housing Bureau and the Joint Office of Homeless Services will review.
 derive what we think are appropriate metrics to end the housing emergency. This was discussed during our budget process for the 2018 budget. I think with the Council Budget Office on OMF, we're both involved in that effort. We want to make sure it's an open, transparent conversation. We'll be especially looking at not just metadata,
 like vacancy rates by income quartile, but also particular subpopulations, ethnic minorities, sexual minorities, and needs by gender, because there's a huge difference across the spectrum. Now that we're doing the point in time annually, I think we'll have better data and more frequent data inputs for that purpose.
 The other thing I'd like to underscore is the value of some of the more subtle aspects of the state of emergency.
 The process improvements that have been created by working together amongst and across bureaus, the Bureau of Development Services, the Housing Bureau, the Bureau of Transportation, Environmental Services, and Water especially, to help accelerate the velocity of permit approval for affordable housing projects has been very, very important. Under Commissioner Saltzman, we increased the pipeline by, we essentially doubled the pipeline, and we're going to double it again.
 And it doesn't do a lot of good to appropriate the money without seeing the actual end product as quickly as possible. So I'm pleased that our sister bureaus have been very cooperative. I do think that the state of emergency has sharpened everyone's focus because everyone has proprietary knowledge.
 of their own. And in this particular instance, the state of emergency has really helped. So I think things like design review, I know are kind of inside baseball, but the fact that we now have faster ways by which to gain permit approval is profoundly important for the people that will ultimately live in these properties. Thank you.
 All right. Good morning, Councilmembers. I'm Mark Gillen. I'm the Director of the Joint Office of Homeless Services. I appreciate the opportunity to come and speak a little bit about what we've been able to accomplish thus far under the state of emergency and why we need to continue this. When you first declared the state of emergency two years ago, you gave us important tools, financial resources, and critical focus to move forward a set of strategies to address the homeless and housing crisis in our community.
 Since that time, the city and the county have worked together in an unprecedented way and in partnership with community-based organizations, advocates, business leaders, philanthropists, and the faith community to expand the resources available to people facing homelessness. With the declaration of the state of emergency, you joined the county to increase total investment in homeless services by 40%, $20 million a year, in addition to the large increases in housing development investments.
 With the investments in homeless services and the tools provided by the state of emergency, we've expanded services rapidly. In the past two years, we've been able to open and help open six year-round emergency shelters with over 650 beds of capacity. That includes a new 90-bed women's shelter, a new 120-bed shelter for couples and women,
 a 30-bed veteran shelter, a new 200-bed shelter for adults that prioritizes women, couples, the elderly, and disabled, a new 14-bed village for women in the Kenton neighborhood, and a year-round 120-bed shelter for families that also serves several hundred additional people a night with overflow capacity. We've also added 50 beds in motel rooms for women and children fleeing domestic violence.
 In addition, with the help of partners from the business community, each winter we've been able to open several hundred beds of additional temporary shelter. As a result, since the declaration of the state of emergency, we've been able to help what was, sorry, let me say that again. Since the declaration of the state of emergency, we're now able to help over 8,000 people a year access shelter. Prior to the declaration of the state of emergency, that number was around 4,000.
 Beyond shelter, we've been able to expand successful programs and introduce new programs to prevent people from entering the shelter system. An expanded shelter diversion program for the family system and for the domestic violence system helped several hundred families avoid having to come into shelter last year. A new partnership with the workforce system last year helped dozens of families who were participating in workforce programs to avoid losing their housing so that they could successfully complete their training and find living wage jobs that actually pay the rent.
 There's a new program that focuses on helping African American men coming out of the criminal justice system called Flip the Script. It connects them with the housing, treatment, and employment services they need to avoid being discharged into homelessness. And there's a new housing stabilization team at the County Department of Human Services that helps their aging and disabled clients avoid losing their housing.
 As a result of these expanded and new program investments, last year we increased the number of people who received prevention assistance by 33% to 6,000 individuals. And we've made similar progress on our ability to place people off the streets and out of our shelters.
 We've more than doubled the number of housing placement workers doing outreach to camps and shelter in the last two years. We have a specialized mental health outreach team. We have culturally specific outreach to the Native American, African American, and Latino communities. We have teams specialized in serving women with histories of domestic violence. We have a team that's out there recruiting private market landlords. And we're offering increased access to employment services and benefit services.
 As a result of all of these efforts, the publicly supported nonprofits in our community last year helped more than 4,900 people move off the streets, out of shelter, and into permanent housing. That's a 65% increase over where we were three years ago, the year before the declaration of the state of emergency. All of this is good progress, and yet the housing and homeless crisis continues for low-income people, disabled people, our seniors, and especially for communities of color.
 The most recent point-in-time count made it clear.
 While we can appreciate that our unsheltered number was down by 11%, an outcome that defied the trend of double-digit increases up and down the West Coast, there were still conservatively over 1,600 people entirely unsheltered on one night in February in our community. And importantly, the overall homeless population continued to grow, nearly 10% over the past two years. And we saw a particularly dramatic increase, about 24%, in the severely disabled long-term homeless population.
 and over 70% of that chronically homeless population was still unsheltered. Within this increase, there are other disturbing trends, especially the continued significant overrepresentation of communities of color in the homeless population. Nowhere was this more evident than within the Native American community, which makes up 2.5% of Multnomah County's population and about 10% of the HUD homeless population.
 What this data tells us is that while we have made progress on improving shelter access overall, that work is not done. We still have too many highly vulnerable people unsheltered, and we need to fully stabilize the shelter capacity that we've created. And critically, we continue to be in a situation where each day more people are becoming homeless and ending up on our streets and in our shelters than are able to escape homelessness.
 For all the progress we've made on prevention and placement, we need to use the continued declared state of emergency to sustainably improve the ability of our shelters, especially our low-barrier shelters, to help people move out of them and back into permanent housing, to reduce the number of people who are leaving the hospitals, the mental health system, the criminal justice system, and the foster care system, and winding up on our streets, to strengthen the integration of our homeless interventions with mental health, addiction treatment, education, and employment services.
 to expand the targeted interventions for communities of color that are overrepresented in the homeless community, to expand our targeted housing and support service interventions for chronically homeless people, including, importantly, the expansion of supportive housing, and finally, to take the financial and regulatory steps to ensure that very low-income households can remain in the housing they have and to increase access to deeply affordable housing units for families and individuals who are homeless today or become homeless tomorrow.
 The Joint Office will, as directed in the ordinance, work with the Portland Housing Bureau over the next six months to articulate the criteria for determining when we no longer find ourselves in a state of emergency with respect to housing and homelessness. But right now, the crisis clearly continues. And extending the declared state of emergency recognizes that we must continue to prioritize the critical work of sustainably expanding and improving our local response to the housing and homelessness crisis. Thank you. Appreciate that.
 And we also have an invited panel. So if you gentlemen want to cool your heels for a bit, we have Sharon Myron. She's Multnomah County Commissioner District 1. Michael Bonacore, the Executive Director of Home Forward. And Will Harris, who's the Deputy Director of JOIN. Come on up and welcome. Thanks for being here. We sure appreciate it. Commissioner, do you want to go ahead and start? Yes, thank you, Mr.
 Thank you for having me here today, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Sharon Myron. I am the Multnomah County Commissioner for District 1. And I want to just briefly discuss the work that the county and the city are doing together to expand shelter, streamline homeless services, and get thousands of people into permanent housing. I want to acknowledge up front that I think the most important voices we will hear today
 are people with lived experience of homelessness or housing instability. Those voices, those experiences, they demand that we respond with care, urgency, and meaningful investment. To that end, over the past two years... I'm not sure. I keep fading in and out. I'm too close. Thank you. To that end...
 Over the past two years, Multnomah County has worked closely with the City of Portland and several community organizations, along with advocates, business leaders, and others, to expand shelter beds, prevent homelessness, and secure permanent housing for individuals and families throughout our community. And...
 Though it is clear that people are suffering and we have so much work to do, as Mark Jolin just so eloquently stated, last year we saw record housing placements and shelter access. Thousands of people throughout our region got back into housing, found a safer night of sleep, or were kept from becoming homeless in the first place.
 But at the same time, we're seeing progress, as Mark Jolin also described. We are also seeing how much work remains to be done. The gap between wages and housing costs continues to widen in Multnomah County, and this pressure is especially acute for our lowest-income residents.
 What sticks out to me in particular is that our progress on shelter, on housing, and prevention hasn't been experienced equally by all of our Multnomah County neighbors. The 2017 point-in-time count of homelessness in Multnomah County tells us that people with disabilities and people who are chronically homeless are making up a larger share of our unsheltered homeless populations than they ever have before.
 These are often people who struggle with health and addictions issues that complicate efforts to get them into and keep them stable in shelter and housing.
 As I think all of you know, I am an ER doctor, and these are the people that I see regularly, all too frequently in the emergency department. There are people in mental health crisis, people cycling in and out of our criminal justice system, people with chronic physical health conditions, including substance abuse disorder, and people with complex medical needs.
 They're people who need housing to be able to get healthy, but who often have very, very few housing options available to meet their needs. We cannot leave them behind. These are some of our most vulnerable residents, and their suffering compels an immediate need to respond with compassion and to provide adequate, safe, and habitable shelters and to rapidly increase the supply of permanent, affordable, supportive housing.
 It's clear to me that our housing crisis continues to be a true emergency.
 The action you're considering today will help us respond swiftly and humanely to this crisis. And thank you again for your time. Thanks, Commissioner. We appreciate all your great work and your important perspective on this. Thanks. Thanks. Michael, you want to go next? Absolutely, Mayor Wheeler. Commissioners, thank you for having me here this morning. My name is Michael Bonacore. I'm the Executive Director of Home Forward. We're the housing authority that serves the City of Portland and Multnomah County.
 Commissioner Udaly, thank you for honoring the memory of Justin Brury here today. His memory continues to inspire me, and it's right that we remember him now. In addition to being the executive director of Home Forward, importantly, I am also a mentor. You may know this because I talk about it as annoyingly frequently as possible to encourage other people to become mentors themselves.
 It's bigtime.org to learn more. And so my little brother and I started a ritual last year. He's a junior in high school now, where on Wednesday mornings I will pick him up and we'll go get coffee and catch up. And then I bring him to school where he has a late start on Wednesdays.
 So yesterday evening, I texted him and I said, hey, unfortunately, I have to drop you off at school and skip coffee in the morning. I have to hurry to get to City Hall. And he said, OK, that's fine. And I said, see you in the morning. Seriously, sorry. I'd much rather hang out with you. Sorry. And he said, yeah, it's no problem. What are you doing at City Hall? Yeah.
 And I said, testifying that they should extend the housing emergency. The mayor asked me to be there to support it. It's definitely still an emergency. It basically means the city officially recognizes there are too many people without a safe place to live, and they need to keep doing as much as possible. And he said, that's cool. What are they going to try to do about it? And I said, I had to think about this one for a minute. I said, yeah.
 spend more money than they usually would for shelters and housing for people and have fewer dumb rules that make it harder to help people, lol. And then I thought, well I just educated the kid and wrote my testimony all in one text, calling it a day. But in all seriousness, in addition to the demonstrable need that we all see, there's no question that the need still exists to consider this a crisis and an emergency.
 I think what is less obvious is that our federal resources are less available than they have been when this crisis started. When we were regularly pulling families off of our housing choice voucher waiting list, about half of them were leaving homelessness this past January.
 We stopped pulling names from our housing choice voucher waiting list. It's frozen for the foreseeable future because our federal funding is not keeping up with the cost of rents. In our housing portfolio, which includes deeply subsidized public housing as well as affordable apartments for folks with slightly higher incomes, our...
 Our vacancy rates are over 98%, sometimes creep over 99%. So there's not a lot of movement in the stock of about 6,500 apartments that are also a really important resource in helping people get safely and permanently housed.
 So I wanted to just offer that perspective. I think in spite of what is a really terrible time in our community, I think thanks to the city and the Housing Bureau, we are seeing more groundbreakings happening, and we know that more affordable apartments will come online. I remain optimistic that we will come to our senses nationally and appropriate more money for voucher funding.
 And there's more good work happening around renter protections and prevention work to keep people who are in housing stable where they are. So I am proud to stand with some really brilliant and passionate people in this community to do everything possible. And I thank you for your commitment. Thanks, Will. I'm sorry, Michael. Thank you. Will, you're up next. Thank you. My name is Will Harris. I'm the Deputy Director at JOIN. Okay.
 You've heard from a lot of folks already this morning about the importance of the housing emergency and the declaration of its extension. I hope you'll take my testimony coming from people you've tasked with doing the work on the front line and our recognition that you rightly identified the housing emergency when you originally declared it.
 this back in October two years ago, that emergency still exists. It's not done. And we see the urgency of the emergency every day in the interactions we undertake with people experiencing homelessness on the streets of our neighborhoods. We feel the scope of the emergency in the tempo of our own work, where we're housing these days twice the number of people that we did in 2013. Right.
 We understand in higher moving costs where we're facing double, sometimes triple deposits just to affect the transition into private market housing.
 And we felt it among those already stably housed who are having their tenancies threatened by the increases in rent. You know these things. You've heard the statistics on it. But we feel it even personally with joint staff members who have received no-cause evictions. So plainly put, the housing emergency still exists.
 From our perspective, the original declaration played an important role in focusing efforts and resources and improving outcomes and enhancing service provisions. Mark Jolin spoke eloquently about that. One tangible representation of this service innovation and enhancement is JOIN's inREACH program. This is a multi-agency effort bringing together a diverse number of services to affect housing placement out of safety off the street locations and emergency shelters.
 So we're leveraging services by housing people, creating new opportunity for others to access those emergency services. What we know is that over the last 20 years of joint street outreach, being out on the street, creating relationship with the folks that are struggling to survive, these people that we see on the streets of our city desperately are looking for the tools needed to end their homelessness. We see the extension of the declaration providing three areas that can enhance those tools that we've already built upon.
 The first tool we need is more housing. We are scouring the county looking for opportunities for the people that we're working with to place them, to secure housing placement. It's expensive.
 Because in this market, there just are not units that exist. So our hope is in this declaration that you will continue to streamline processes, that we can accelerate the pace of housing development. We need thousands of units annually to meet the needs of the people that are on the street. We need supported housing units that have the services attached to them, but we also need simply more units of all types that are focused on 0% to 30% MFI for singles and individuals, one-bedrooms and three-bedrooms.
 Additionally, this point has also been made, but in this market, we need more robust tenant protections. JOIN does have a program that conducts outreach to landlords, recruits them, and tries to retain them by making a business case to them that it's important to work with us. That case is extremely difficult to make in this market.
 So we see tenancies threatened by what the landlord sees as opportunity in the market. We need robust tenant protections to balance that, and we need additionally education about those protections with tenants and with landlords, landlords who would do the right thing if they were actually aware of all the protections that the tenants faced. And finally, when we do all this,
 When we think about innovation, when we think about new service enhancements, we need to continue to build on what we have done so successfully in creating access to mental health services and addiction treatment opportunities and the housing outreach and housing placement assistance that we provide and in employment support. These are the things we need to continue to do. This has to be an and proposition, not either or.
 So I thank you for your time this morning. You heard wonderful testimony. We urge you to extend the declaration. We think it's important. We think it's a community statement, and we think it's effective. Joanne looks forward to the important work in front of us. Thanks, Will. And Commissioner Myron and Michael, thank you both as well. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony. How many people do we have signed up for public testimony? We have 43. Okay. Let me do this. Yes, sir.
 My guess is that people signed up for both. I only had one sign-up sheet for both items. So let's do this. Let's go ahead and also read 1088, please.
 1088, extend sunset of mandatory relocation assistance for involuntary displacements of tenants under affordable housing preservation and Portland renter protections. So let me just give a brief statement on 1088. And that way if people want to testify, they can testify either on the emergency extension or on the reload.
 Colleagues, recognizing that the cost of involuntary displacement burdens residents, increasing the risk of homelessness and poverty, earlier this year, the City Council passed a temporary mandatory relocation assistance program.
 While we've been aggressively advocating in the capital for additional tools like Just Cause Eviction Standard and rent control that could help us address our housing emergency faster, we know there are tools we currently do have that can help us make significant progress. Mandatory relocation assistance is one of the most important tools we have at our disposal.
 We're now working to finalize the details of a permanent policy. However, the current policy is set to expire on October 6th. Given our commitment to meaningful public engagement for housing policy, this extension provides us time to finalize a permanent relocation assistance policy. The code change ordinance in front of us today extends the current policy for six months.
 However, I want to be clear that we're bringing back a permanent relocation assistance policy on December 6th, and it's my intention to have a permanent policy in place by the end of this calendar year. I'd also like to especially thank Commissioner Chloe Udailey for her willingness to lead on this issue so early in the year, and frankly, so early in her political tenure.
 I've sincerely appreciated your partnership, and as the Housing Commissioner, I'm going to continue to value your insights on housing policy. So thank you. I don't know if anybody wanted to say anything else on Reload. Commissioner Budeli? Hello, everybody.
 So it seems like yesterday we were here to debate the merits of mandatory relocation as an anti-displacement technique. Here we are today at the end of the temporary date. We put on that policy more convinced than ever that it is the right thing to do for people. We've accomplished a lot this year, but honestly, when I reflect on the last nine months, I...
 relocation stands head and shoulders above anything else that I've been able to accomplish this year and really make some of the stresses and sacrifices of this job worthwhile.
 Since the passing of this policy in February, we've received nonstop calls and emails from renters and landlords alike. Our office feels confident that this policy has absolutely made a difference in the lives of hundreds and possibly thousands of renters.
 While today's ordinance merely extends this policy another six months, I am committed to making it permanent and making it even more effective. I will continue to fight to end displacement and to stabilize renters through multiple strategies, but today this is the best we have, and we owe it to renters to make it the best it can be. Thank you to everyone who came today in the middle of a work day.
 or school day, or child care-less day. I know it's really tough to come here in the middle of the day. Actually, it's not the middle. I wish it was the middle. It's still morning. Good morning, everybody. I think it's a clear statement of need when renters take off time from work to make their voices heard. I want you to know I hear you, and I thank you for being here.
 Very good. And, folks, given the large, large number of people that have signed up for public testimony and acknowledging that people have to get back to work and other issues, let's limit testimony to two minutes apiece. My suspicion is with that many people, you will find some people are also making the same comments you are about these two policies. It's okay just to say I agree with fill in the blank.
 Or you can say, I disagree with fill in the blank, and that will help us speed things up. So I'd like to extend a courtesy for folks with disabilities, people with very young children.
 who might like to speak. I also understand that Representative Hernandez is here, Casey Jama is here from United Oregon, and former State Rep. Shemia Fagan are here. If you'd like to testify, we'd like to have you come up quickly as well. Mayor, if I may, before we hear. I have an amendment to offer for Item 1088.
 It is to remove language in the code that allows an exemption on relocation payments for owners who rent only one unit in the City of Portland. I will second it for purpose of discussion. Commissioner Fish seconds the amendment for purposes of discussion. And Mayor, I have a proposed friendly amendment to the amendment.
 I think I was the original author of this exemption, and in my statement in support of it, I explained that the council had put accessory dwelling units into a special category. We had made special efforts to create incentives for people to build them and maintain them, and we had exempted them from a lot of our rules.
 I thought consistent with that, we should put them in an exemption. I have met with some of the advocates and other folks who care about this issue, and I am persuaded that the one dwelling unit exception has had unintended consequences. And I think, in effect, it's a loophole that needs to be closed, but I still believe that accessory dwelling units deserve 
 a protection because the council has said so consistently that we want to encourage them. And I think it's an identifiable and separate class of occupancy that we can address. So my friendly amendment, which I'm going to hand out, simply 
 in lieu of striking one dwelling unit from 30.01.085B, replaces it with an only, quote, a single accessory dwelling unit, end quote. So we would limit the exemption strictly to a single accessory dwelling unit, and I would offer that as a friendly amendment to the Udailey amendment. Commissioner? Commissioner, thank you, and...
 Thank you for acknowledging that perhaps we didn't know or consider enough the impact of that original exemption. I agree with maintaining the owner-occupied rule, and I believe ADUs would be included in that. So I just want to be clear, though. ADUs would be exempted, but also owner-occupied shared housing rules.
 would remain an exemption. Is that... So to speed this along, she's rejecting your offer? Well, I'm not rejecting. I'm trying to clarify it. Because currently, the only exception to RELO is when an...
 A rental unit is shared with the owner. It's owner-occupied. It's not. Yes, it is. It absolutely is. And an ADU is called an accessory dwelling unit because it is attached as an accessory to that home. The owner...
 occupancy requirement is not affected by my friendly amendment. Okay. May I just ask a clarifying question as a sponsor? Is this an issue that's being discussed in the committee looking at the permanent rules? It very well may be, but that committee was set up as a technical advisory committee, and this is a policy decision. Well, let me be clear. I would like this issue to be on the table for people to address in testimony. It is the council's will how we dispose of the amendment.
 So I would like to invite, if people want to address this, I would like to hear, and then the council decides whether we're going to take it up today or some later date. If I might just further comment, this illustrates the reason that we were putting this off to the committee, because there's multiple variations of the amendment already, and it is a more complicated issue as evidenced by, apparently, I don't understand the ordinance that was passed.
 So why don't we do this in the interest of moving this along? Because we have a lot of people who would like to testify. And Commissioner Fritz, I just want to publicly state that is my preference. I believe we should honor the process we put into place. We established a reload committee for the purpose of evaluating these kinds of proposals. They are coming back in December with the permanent strategy. Thank you.
 and it would be my recommendation that this go to that committee for further evaluation and recommendation to the city council in December. However, let's have both of these issues on the table here today. Let's hear from the public on these issues. I don't think that you're
 Your amendment was seconded. I'd like to second the Fish Amendment. So Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Udaly seconds. So we now have two amendments on the table, and we'll now open it up to public testimony. Two minutes each, please. I have Holly Hansen, who requested to go early. And if anybody else with...
 I'm sorry, Mayor. Did you have some other people you said you wanted to go first? If any of the individuals that I called up are here and they want to go early. So they are here. Representative Diego Hernandez is here. I see Shamia here. Very good. I think you said Casey Jama. Casey's here. Good. He's here. Thank you.
 Come on up. Anybody with disabilities, children who'd like to go early, please just let the clerk know and we'll accommodate you. Could I wait? Sure. If I run into trouble again. Perfect. Thank you, sir. Good morning.
 All right. Good morning. Good morning, sir. Mayor Wheeler, city commissioners, my name, for the record, my name is Diego Hernandez. I'm the state representative for House District 47 in East Portland, representing neighborhoods like Gateway, Hazelwood, Rosewood, and other East Portland neighborhoods. In my district, families are finding it harder and harder to pay for rent as prices increase and as more and more folks get displaced. Rents continue to increase and families continue to be forced to,
 With difficult decisions, should I take on this 20% rent increase or move further away? Should I pay rent or my phone bill this month? Should I report the black mold and risk being evicted?
 This is an emergency, and we need to continue to do everything we can to improve the experiences of renters and families who are experiencing housing instability. In February of this year, you all mandated that landlords in the city of Portland pay relocation assistance to tenants experiencing rent increases of 10%. We are asking you to lower it to 5%.
 Thank you for your efforts here at the local level. While we tried to do something with HB 2004 and we failed, we're optimistic that we could continue to do something at the state level. It is reassuring to hear that while extension is through April, council will be voting on a permanent policy later this year. But the time is now and we are here to ask for permanent changes today.
 We need to close the loophole like you all were talking about. I urge you to lift the exemption now so that all tenants have the assurance and relocation assistance. Also with the commitment of developing a hardship appeals program at the six-month review for these landlords experiencing EDGE cases.
 We ask that the city base any future or current exemptions on data. And speaking of data, also tracking how many landlords are paying the relocation assistance. We ask that the city immediately invest in outreach and education to get the word out. Thank you. Thanks, Representative. We appreciate your being here. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is, for the record, my name is Casey Chama. I am the Executive Director of Unite Oregon. Thank you so much for having us today here.
 I'm here to speak and urge you to make the rental relocation assistance ordinarily permanent and also to consider expanding the protection offered by this policy. I think we know that we have housing crisis in our hand, and our community, particularly low-income community, community of color, immigrant refugees, are especially impacted.
 I also emphasize that the City of Portland must take rental location assistance ordinance permanent now with six-month review. Why permanent? Because we know the problem is not going away. It's getting worse, and we don't want to have to come every six few months to push this policy forward. We also urge you that the City must lower the rent increase limit from 10% to 5%. Why?
 Because people are not only receiving increases in their cost of rent, they are receiving increases in transportation costs, food costs, medical costs. It costs more just to be alive. These increases are not keeping pace with the poor landless paychecks. Something has to give. Please do something. The city of Portland also must remove small landlord exemptions.
 In order to extend alternatives equal protection, let me be clear, renters who speak English are having a hard time to navigate the system.
 Imagine if you don't speak English. It's a very, very complex system, and I think we have to close the loophole. With that said, thank you very much, and I'm looking forward to be working with you. Thank you, sir. We appreciate your being here. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of the Council. For the record, my name is Shamia Fagan, former state representative for House District 51, which included a large portion of East Portland, east of 122nd.
 In 1997, my brother was driving us on I-84 to East Portland to see my mom for the first time in many years. We were being raised by a single parent in eastern Oregon, my dad, and my mom had been struggling with addiction and had been on and off the streets living in East Portland. But she finally had a home and had invited us to come see her.
 So I remember my brother pulled up to this big, beautiful, Victorian-style house with a huge wraparound porch. We were thinking, whoa, mom, nice house. And she gave us a hug and walked us around to the front steps. But instead of walking up the steps, she dropped down to her hands and knees and she crawled under the porch. And then invited us into her home.
 And my brother and I dropped down to our hands and knees, and we crawled under the porch behind her. And she had a sleeping bag unzipped to cover the dirt floor, and we spent the day with her there. And like many people experiencing housing insecurity and homelessness, my mom didn't drive around with a U-Haul, so she showed us the one box that she kept with her, which is full of pictures of us and letters from us. I know through your courageous leadership that you took in February that you know what I know, which is that everybody struggling to make a home or keep a home, that somebody's somebody.
 That's somebody's mom, that's somebody's nana, that's somebody's friend, that's somebody's brother or uncle or son. So we're here today to ask you to make these changes permanent, because these folks need you to not let the rug be pulled out from under them and be concerned that this might expire, this might sunset. We need these changes to be permanent, and we ask you to make those changes today. Do you want to add anything? Thank you. Out like a light. Thank you. We appreciate it. It's good seeing you.
 Next three, please. We have some people with disabilities. We have Holly Hansen, and I believe we have two more from the other room who came over. Very good. Good morning. Oh, hi. My name is Holly Hansen. I live six blocks from here, and I represent the next wave of...
 5,000 newly homeless people. I live in a subsidized Portland tax credit Section 42 apartment, and I pay $609 a month rent. It's a regular building, but the units by the trash closet or the elevators that are kind of more undesirable get the tax credit discount.
 And I'm permanently disabled with a neurological condition. And many of my neighbors are disabled and elderly. Many are young people just starting their careers. We all have been paying our $609 a month. We've been background checked and credit checked.
 And last month my leasing agent told me at my rent renewal that the landlord has to re-approve the subsidy that I'm getting for my apartment every 15 years. And then she started in with a hard sell that I should pay $1,200 a month when the subsidy expires again.
 because it's better than being on the street. And that was her quote. My subsidy can be ended in 11 years. I have $260 a month every month
 an average in unreimbursed medical expenses. So $1,200 a month rent is not sustainable. When I moved in, I was told that it was a 100-year subsidy starting when the building was built, which was around 1994. So I planned on having it for 80 years. I spent $5,000 moving here.
 to be with my only daughter in the town of my grandmother's relatives. The apartment was worth $750 per month five years ago. Now the landlord can get $1,200. $1,200.
 There are 40 units like mine in my building, and we all will need new apartments suddenly. I have a list from Oregon Housing and Community Services, and by my count there are 112 apartment buildings in Portland. And if each one of those has...
 40 units. I got my calculator out and that could be 5,000 new Homeless people like me who did nothing wrong. I'm I'm I'm a volunteer You know, I'm leaving a stable life. And so I'm here today trying to stave that off no one I know has a room for me to rent and
 I can't do more than a half-hour transit ride due to my disability. I need to live close to my daughter so that she can work and care for me as I age.
 I'm just looking for more incentives. I don't want my landlord to find out I was here today and piss him, get him mad at me. But I'm hoping that they need more incentives that clearly they want to dump this program. And I don't have the numbers of...
 How many people this will displace, because I don't know if they have more than 40 units, but I'm guessing maybe it's 4,000 people that are going to be the next wave.
 And then I also am trying to help a friend of mine who is Susan Sammel. She's the caregiver for Jane Sandel, and her husband is Charlie. They're in Portland. They get $1,100 Social Security for the two of them a month, and they're like 85 and 86. Okay.
 Their rent was $998 a month. Now they've lived in their apartment 17 years, but now their rent went up to $1,370 a month, which is $372 more than their Social Security. And Charlie is 86 and has had two strokes in his death. Jane is 85, partially blind, partially paralyzed. They need to be close to their doctors. That's an issue for me.
 And their apartment is all the way out at Stark and 190th Street. And they still have gang activity there. And she mentioned that it's owned by Templeton. And I have the list. I made copies of everything I've said today.
 And I have the list of the tax credit departments from the Oregon Housing. Great. Thank you. And if I could be directed who to give my documentation to. If you could give it to Carla right there, we'd appreciate it. Okay. And she'll make sure we get copies of all of it and that it's entered into the record. Oh, good. And I'm just here doing what I can. And if there's anyone in the room today that can help direct me 
 My disability is all-consuming. I really need time to get back to my health and all of that, but I can't afford to lose my rent and be on the streets, so I'm taking time out to fight for my rent. Wonderful. And we appreciate your being here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Can I give a voice? Very good. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Me? Yes, please. Oh, thank you. Thank you very much for allowing me to speak.
 My name is Cora Mason, and my family and I have lived at 5819 Apartments since June 2nd of 2015. We moved into a two-bedroom apartment on March 5th, 2016. Our rent there in that two-bedroom started out at $1,350 plus electricity each month and was increased to $1,375. Okay.
 On September 14, 2017, I received notification via stuck outside our apartment door of a rent increase that is at the end of my November 30, 2017 lease. That's when it ends. The paperwork includes that my rent will increase from $1,375 plus electricity to $1,512 per month, which is a $9.97.
 9.997% increase. Okay. And then in addition to that, there will be $20 monthly for garbage and an unknown fluctuating amount for water and sewer each month. They don't know how much it is yet. Okay. So I was never charged before for water, garbage, or sewer. Okay.
 I have no idea of the possible total of these items, and I do know I can't afford these increases. Yet I have no money saved up to relocate my two grandsons and my daughter. My daughter's six-year-old son is autistic. He attends Jason Lee School where he is in a group with other autistic children. He is doing extremely well. And to move him out of the group due to moving somewhere out of the community, it would be a tragedy and a travesty.
 Each one of us living in this family group has a disability and or challenges of some kind. Earlier this year, I had an operation to remove a cancer, and I also had hip replacement surgery. It was also discovered that I have atrial fibrillation, for which I have been prescribed Eloquus, which has a $400 a month copay.
 I became disabled back in 2003 following open-heart surgery. My heart stopped working, and I was given last rites. Fortunately, after being able to summons an oncologist who was able to turn the situation around, I am still here. However, it is not without the damaging side effects of the incident. Thank you.
 My daughter has a number of medical challenges as well as my oldest grandson. We have nowhere to turn for money to relocate, yet we cannot afford these unfair monthly increases, and we certainly do not want to be homeless.
 I can't imagine carting my family around all over. No way. Thank you, and we're glad your health has improved. Thank you. I just comment on that. I really appreciate you pointing out that there's a way to get around the 10% by adding on fees that you never had to pay before. So I would suggest that's something that when we get to the permanent rules, we should include something about that. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, folks. I'm Johnny Shaver. I work in housing and homelessness in Montevilla and also in Vancouver with Cher. But I was here in February to testify about how no-cause evictions were harming my neighborhood, but I'm here today to tell you how they're harming me. One week after testifying in February, I received a no-cause eviction.
 I have no way to prove that it was retaliatory, but I can tell you that it displaced three generations of my family as I take care of my mother and my eight-year-old child and my stepfather at that time. I was not able to get renter's relocation because my landlord situation was very probably not unique but interesting. My house was technically owned by a woman in her mid-90s.
 Her son managed the estate, and while she only owned the one rental property, he has about half a dozen. He was responsible for the sale of the house. He brought a real estate agent into my home but would not identify him as a real estate agent to me. It was very awkward to have folks walking through my house and have no idea who they were. Okay.
 This has been a huge hit for my family. Without the connections that I have made in my community, I would not have housing right now. Because I do work in housing and homelessness, and the irony is not lost on me that I cannot afford housing otherwise without the connections I've made in my community. So I'm here today to ask that the relocation ordinance be extended and that the...
 loophole be closed. It is my landlord made $375,000 on a house that they've owned for since 1950. It was all profit for him and it was all hardship for me. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it. Next three please. We have one more from the child and then we'll go with Alan Kessler and Sean Jillian's.
 You can come on up now. And then they'll be followed by Nicole Phillips, Craig Rogers, and Wayne W. Good morning. Hello. Good morning. My name is Megan Dorton, and I'm here today to talk to you about my experience as a landlord and to express my support of our renter protections and the expansion and continuance of the relocation ordinance and to ask that the council close the small landlord loophole.
 So I, as I said, I'm a landlord. I have a property in northwest Portland, also in northeast Portland in Montevilla. And when I found out I was pregnant with this one, my family and I decided that we were going to move from our home in Montevilla down to the next neighborhood in Foster Powell. We found we were looking for some home that was bigger and was closer to a low-traffic pathway to school for our soon-to-be kindergartner family.
 And we looked and we found a place and it was great. It was perfect down the street from the library. It was wonderful. And so we moved because we wanted to. We gave ourselves a lot of time and we had the money to do it. And it was hell, it was a nightmare. Moving was very, very difficult, even under these great circumstances.
 And I mention that because for my two tenants, their situations also had to move before they rented with me. And their situations weren't quite as great. They were forced to move, both of my households, without cause. And they were left-facing...
 not only losing their home, but losing their neighborhoods. Their kindergartners couldn't go to the school of their choice. Their kindergartners would have to move and change schools.
 And for them, it was utter chaos. And months for one tenant and years for the other, these households are still facing the legacy of financial difficulties from having to move without sufficient notice and without...
 without sufficient means to do so. Now, in both of these cases, they moved prior to the relocation ordinance being in effect, but it wouldn't have mattered anyway because they were small landlords. So I'm asking you to please consider the effect of the small landlord loophole on the tenants themselves. They are not, though their landlords might be smaller, the effects of them are just as great and powerful on their lives as for other tenants. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Morning, Mayor. Members of the council, for the record, Sean Gillians, registered lobbyist representing the Oregon Association of Realtors. Yeah. Folks, excuse me. I'm sorry. As much as I would have. I want to remind people what I said up front, that not everybody is going to have the same opinion. Please just do this or do this. Let's be respectful of everybody here, regardless of their opinion.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Obviously, speaking on the relocation segment of this, it was interesting in listening to sort of the emergency that we're facing in the housing community. That's something that's really been years in the making. Yeah.
 We have been seeing a serious lack of supply for over a decade in the Portland metro region as far as keeping up with just our existing folks coming in. And then when you add on the immigration because Portland has become so popular, you fall further and further behind. And our state economists have pointed out that we're tens of thousands of units a year behind and increasing.
 I point that out simply to say that when you all make decisions, there are sometimes unintended consequences. And when you hear stories about people who are deciding to take institutional money to other places, not building here because they're concerned about the regulatory environment, or you hear stories about small landlords in particular.
 particular, the one exception, you hear a lot of small landlords who have a single family residence, they're selling them now. And that was one of the concerns we raised in February, is that people would just get to the point of saying, you know what, it's not worth owning that anymore. And that property is no longer available for a single family rental. We've seen a considerable uptick in the number of those units that are now on the market. And you're also seeing a decline in actual single family rentals that are available for folks
 those folks who might have a family, want more space, don't necessarily want to live in an apartment. So as you move forward and look at permanent decisions,
 I would hope that your technical advisory committee looks at policy as well, not just we already have the end in mind, which is sort of how the original ordinance was crafted, and then input was sought afterwards, that you would look at sort of what the consequences are of the decisions that you make if you're actually going to have the opposite impact on the policy.
 that you all are looking for, which ultimately is what we're all looking for, which is significant increase in supply, which will ultimately drive down some of the costs. Mayor, can I just ask a question? Commissioner Fish. I'd love to see whatever data you have on this, so if you can supply it to us. And I'll just give you one example. For 20 years I lived in Hollywood, and my next-door neighbor bought her bungalow, perfectly nice, two-bedroom home.
 in the 70s for about $40,000. She was a legal secretary. She raised her family. She had a tenant. She was a great neighbor. She ended up selling her bungalow at the beginning of the market uptick to a developer for about $400,000. Under our rules, we allowed the developer to take it down but keep the foundation, put a monster house on the lot, and sell it for $800,000.
 So one of the questions that I want to drill down on and look at your data is, is it the city council's regulations which you think are driving these decisions or the fact that we're in an unprecedented market where people can make just 
 The kinds of profits on the sale of homes were unimaginable 10 years ago. But I look forward to seeing your data. Yeah, and Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Fish, I think it's not just decisions that are made at the city council level that are driving the cost of dirt up to such a level that you're talking about, where someone could purchase effectively a lot for $400,000 to build that new home on. That's effectively what they're doing when they're tearing down that bungalow. Our statewide land use system, by definition,
 that constraining development is going to drive up the cost. And you have areas in the city of Portland now where raw dirt without any services is going for $1.2 million an acre. So when you're looking at that cost, there's no way you're ever going to have an affordable unit on there because by the time you pay your SDCs and you put the sticks and bricks on there, the house is going to have to be in the $500,000 range. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. I had some testimony, but I think I'll make it really quick so I can get to some points about the amendments. I'm an attorney. I've worked some pro bono matters for relocation. I've helped tenants get paid under relocation. I want to support Commissioner Udalli's amendment. It's really hard to figure out, especially with the new rules.
 nested ownership and the structure of ownership. This is my job. I'm really good at it. I am particularly good at research. I have an impossible time figuring out what the ownership interests are. So the way the current rules are, they throw some tenants completely under the bus if they have a dishonest landlord. As for the amendments, I support...
 Both amendments, either amendment. I'd like to point out, though, that the current language, so this is 30.01.085B, says that the requirements do not apply...
 to tenants that occupy the same dwelling unit as the landlord. In the next sentence, it also says that the requirements do not apply to a landlord that only owns one dwelling unit. So those are separate sentences. And I would imagine that Commissioner Udaly's amendment was to strike that second sentence, leave the first sentence in place, which would preserve the exemption for people who live in the dwelling unit.
 Now, dwelling unit is interesting. In that same section, this is still 30.01.085b, later in the paragraph it says, for purposes of the exception, dwelling unit is defined by PCC 33.910. Under 33.910, dwelling unit references residential structure types, it just says see residential structure types. And there, accessory dwelling units is listed. So are tripeclesses, duplexes, et cetera.
 There's one more point of code, and it sounds like I'm about to run out of time, but 33207040B2 is...
 explicitly allows an owner to treat the ADU as part of the residence, so they can live on either side. That doesn't really match the language of the code, and I think that that should be resolved. But I would say that you could simply define the ADU as the same dwelling unit and leave Commissioner Udali's amendment in place exactly. Can you submit that in an email just to us? Okay.
 Absolutely. Could you repeat your name again, please? My name is Alan Kessler. Thank you. I really appreciate this. Thank you. Obviously, there are a lot of things to consider. Thank you, all three of you. We appreciate it. Next three, please. Are Nicole Phillips, Craig Rogers, and Wayne W., and they will be followed by Marianne Drake, Mona Korvash, and Joe Walsh. Good morning. Good morning. Do you want to go ahead and start, sir? Oh, okay. Thank you. Sorry. I'm sorry.
 It's convenient to point the finger at the developers and the politicians and whatnot. Out of respect for that, I should probably apologize to half the politicians and representatives in this room. But sometimes people can be their own worst enemy. Metaphorically speaking, if you wanted to bury everybody in this room, you wouldn't need to do much more than exactly what they're asking you to do. Trying to give everybody their own individual private unit, whether they can afford it or not,
 Not only is a source of much economic inequality, but it's also been tried a number of times before with questionable results. More concerning to me is that owning your own individual unit has become the American standard. And if you can't meet that standard, then God help you because there's no other options out there.
 Relying on government funds to keep a roof over our head, that is a sad testament to those before us, some of which who died for the sake of individual liberty. And yes, I believe liberty is tied to who pays your bills. Alternatively, smaller, isolated, and claustrophobic units, increasingly smaller units,
 They're good options to have, but they're not for everybody. So once again, what I always come here for, large-scale bunk housing, pod hostels, these forms of infrastructure being made on the monthly rental market with no strings attached. These are options we should at least explore before throwing all of our eggs in a government-funded basket or locking ourselves in closets. Privacy is good, but a rental market monopolized by physical privacy is not so good, unfortunately.
 The shelter model and charitable institutions in general are flawed concepts as they implicitly assume that individual liberty is an expendable thing. And the majority of people end up paying the price for a few bad apples in those places. I mean, you've got to wonder why they cut off access throughout the day and people, you know, all these things. A lot of people don't know what shelters are like. But they're not humane alternatives. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Nicole Phillips. I'm speaking, of course, in support of permanentizing the relocation ordinance. I'll do this quickly. So in volunteering with a local social service organization, I ran into a family that was there for services because they'd spent the last of their money on a used car. They'd done this because, of course, they needed to pick up extra shifts and things because they'd had a massive rent increase.
 The card was also plan B in case they couldn't continue to pay the rent. They'd have a place to sleep at least. Because of the massive amount of power given to property owners here, there are people paying more than half of their income to rent. Terrified that they're going to receive that next rent increase. That's just going to be too much.
 or they're scared of a no-cause eviction, knowing that they don't have the thousands of dollars, and I mean thousands of dollars that it's going to take to move. The emergent relocation odd ordinance was a good first step in reducing that power balance.
 However, if we're serious about protecting tenants and fostering a city that is accessible to everyone, there are several things that we need to do. The first, of course, is making this ordinance permanent. I've heard the discussions, and I'm very happy to hear that you are in support of making that permanent. And I'm sure that, obviously, part of that was realizing that it worked.
 There are fewer of these massive increases, fewer people are getting those no-cause evictions. Require property owners, obviously, to inform tenants about RELO. That seems like a no-brainer, but obviously knowledge is power, and if you don't want to pay it out, you're not going to tell people about it. Remove the small landlord exemption. A property owner's investment property is a tenant's home.
 I don't mind. I guess we've discussed about a means-based exemption. But obviously, quite honestly, if you're concerned about your investment, maybe don't gouge your tenants for their rent or no-cause evict them because they've become inconvenient. I also want to lower that trigger, like everyone else, from 10% to 5%. Number one, hearing things like 9.998%
 That's just evil. It really is. I don't know how anyone can do something so unconscionable. The other thing is that I spoke with a landlord at the Hawthorne Street Fair. Nice enough guy. He wanted an explanation as to why he should consider people when he's talking about his investment property. And one of the things that he said was that at 9.9%, he could regularly raise the rent and still be where he wanted to be, regardless of what happened to the people that he was renting to.
 So thank you for your time. We're looking forward to creating more ways to make this a city where we can all live, work, and play. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Craig Rogers, and I support these proposals before you today. Thank you.
 I live in East Portland. I live across from the East Portland Community Center, Floyd Light Middle School, and East Portland Police Precinct. You'd think I wouldn't have any problem, but there's a heavily treed area right across from them. So I'll be speaking from my personal experience of that area. So the face of homelessness, what I see there, it's a woman with a black eye and a bloody nose.
 And I will be drawn to out in front of my house, and there's a woman that has the courage to leave her abusive partner, and she's sitting on the neighbor's hillside, and he's threatening to dump her cart with all her belongings in it. And that's the face of homelessness I want you to remember, because we need to solve these things. We need to create stability, and I've heard that word mentioned, and you're right on point with that, and I appreciate that.
 We need to understand that, to a large degree, homelessness and heroin go hand in hand, and we need to seriously address that. We need people who are passionate and pay attention to detail. We need your help. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks, all three of you. Next three, please. Our Marion Drake, Mona Corvash, and Joe Walsh, and they'll be followed by Lightning, Betty Holliday, and Margo Black.
 Mr. Walsh, would you like to start? Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I find myself agreeing with the city council. I find myself also acknowledging the superb work that Commissioner Udali did on this and the council for allowing it to happen because even though 
 Idea is great. You still need three votes. So congratulations on your diplomacy. Congratulations on what you're doing and the amendments. We see our position on most of these items as a counter to what you're doing. We look at the negative side.
 rarely do we get an opportunity to look at the positive side. And this seems to be really positive. You want to extend it 18 months, which is really good. We would also point out that we take some exception about the first year of the extension. And we realized you had an election, you had new people coming in, it was very confusing. Right.
 So it ate up a lot of time. But on this one, we want you to do more. We don't want to lose people on the street this year. And if we do, and the coroner comes out like last year and says they shouldn't have died, that if we did something more, they would have lived, we will come here and we will yell at you. And I don't get up at 6 o'clock in the morning on Wednesday to get thrown out of here, believe it or not.
 I have other interesting things to do than get thrown out of the city hall. So, again, congratulations. I would take an exception to the two-minute rule. People write their speeches. They take time off from work. You have to understand that. When I write speeches, and I don't do it very often, it's three minutes. I time it. So when you knock it down to two...
 It throws everything up in the air, and that's unfair. You know, I can get past it because I've done this so many times now. I can do it off the top of my head most times. But people that come to you for the first time, they look. They write them out. They time them.
 So you should honor that. And I notice that you're not doing the two-minute rule stringently. You're giving people extra time, and I congratulate you on that. That's a very human connection. All right?
 I've gone on too long saying nice things about you, and you're ruining my reputation. I was going to say, yeah, and I want to acknowledge that. There's a balancing act here. I do want to be respectful of people's testimony, but it is very hard for us to predict in advance exactly how many people are going to want to come and testify.
 and 43 is a large number. So we combined the two ordinances to help speed it up so people wouldn't have to come up twice. They could leave. But the reality is we also have a jam-packed city council agenda for the entirety of the day. So as important as this subject is, there's lots of equally important issues that are also coming before the council, and we want to make sure that we get to those. So that's the tension. Thank you.
 But thank you, sir. When many people show up, you should be excited. We are. That's democracy. Yeah, it's great. And it is. And it is a tradeoff. And it's a real one. And as the presiding officer, it's my responsibility. Do better on a tradeoff. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and council. My name is Marion Drake.
 I support the statements of Representative Hernandez and Mr. Casey-Jama that rent increases lower to 5% to make the reload permanent. I live in Section 42 tax credit housing, which has increased the retail rent 13% in 18 months. I also recommend that the city make a resolution or recommendation, whatever you call it,
 to set an example for the state to have rent control and end no-cause eviction. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Mona Corvash.
 I live in an apartment in southwest Portland. I've lived there for about four and a half years. When I moved in, my rent was $695. And then the rent increases started a little over a year ago. Usually, it's always been $100 at a time. So my rent is now $995. I'm disabled and on Social Security. And my Social Security check is $1,200 a month.
 So with just other basic bills, it's like way more than I get in Social Security. If it wasn't for other help that I've been looking up to get, like emergency utility assistance in the food bank, I don't know what I would be doing right now. And even still, I've gone hungry and had my electricity turned off a couple of times.
 Usually, the neighbors right around my place, there's different landlords, but when one of our rent gets raised, the others are quick to follow. My neighbors recently had their rent raised just under the 10%, so I'm really worried because I don't know what I'll do if it gets raised anymore.
 The last raise that happened, happened just after the real rule was made, but I wasn't able to find out how to utilize the rule or the exact
 what it exactly said. So also education would be really helpful because by the time that I was able to find Portland Tenants United and figure it out, it was past the 15-day limit that was the rule at that time, and I was ineligible. Yeah.
 So also, I agree with closing the small landlord loophole and with making it permanent. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Next three, please. Our Lightning, Betty Holiday, and Margo Black. And they'll be followed by Julia DeGraw, Christina Dirks, and Dave King. Margo, do you want to start us off, please?
 Oh, sure. Yeah, I was going to put something up on this computer. Okay, in that case, let's go to Lightning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. On the emergency designation, I do agree with that.
 But it's my understanding the Governor stated not to use the state of emergency, so it would be called the city of emergency designation. I hope you check into that and hear back from the Governor. Issue number two is that I'm absolutely against inclusionary zoning at this time. It needs to be looked at again. I think we're beginning to see developers place money in other locations, step away, step back.
 We need to correct that situation immediately. We're losing a tremendous amount of jobs. And again, my position, and a lot of people may disagree with me, we need more housing units built. If you have 10 people and you have 5 housing units, they're going to pick and choose who gets it. People are going to lose out. We need to balance out the overall inventory. That will begin to see rents begin to...
 stabilize and lower. We're seeing that up in Seattle. We're seeing that in some other locations. Watch real close on when you begin to keep building more inventory. The issue on this relocation policy, I would like it to expire. I would like it to be refined more. I think we're beginning that loophole statement to see the
 utility costs shifted over and added on and given to the tenants, which in turn is a rent increase, which will be no penalties. And all that's going to happen, these tenants are going to end up not being able to make their rent. They're going to have to move.
 That's not the direction we want. We're having too much of a battle between the landlords and the tenants. It has to stop. Stop this immediately. It's not good. It's not going to work. And issue number three is that from my position, we want to make sure that if you're going to step in, I want to see a pay raise moratorium put on your salaries immediately.
 and also I want to see you work on cutting your water fees, your sewer fees, your garbage fees and understand that also drops down the rent and you control that. I want more skin in the game, cost you more money and I guess what? You're going to build more units. And thank you very much, Mr. Salzman. That affordable housing bond, the best thing that ever happened to this city. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Betty Holliday. I have a very personal story to tell. I am a renter here in the city of Portland. I felt compelled to take time off from work today to testify. I work with the Department of Human Services, and I'm a graduate of Willamette Law School.
 In the past two and a half years, I will have moved three times, two of them due to no-cause evictions. I left a Beaverton home when my landlords wanted to sell it to pay for their children's education. Understandable. After living in a very small furnished cottage for one and a half years, I found a larger house. The owner had rented to the prior tenants for a little over two years while he worked in New York.
 His plans were to keep working out of town. I paid all the concomitant costs associated with a move again. Ten months later, after doing some traveling, my landlord told me he was coming back to his house to live. My year's lease ends on October 31st. My take on the single-unit landlords is that they, like all other landlords, should be considered to be in a business.
 I heard Oregon House Representative Mark Meek tell one landlord in a town hall that she needed to be a responsible landlord. I would say that message rings true for all landlords. My landlord didn't understand the fragility of tenant stability. I am now paying the price for that literally and figuratively.
 The City of Portland needs to set the expectation that even a single-unit landlord is running a business. As such, he or she must be prepared to pay any cost of that business, including relocation costs for any tenants they know cause a vict, period. Thank you.
 There may be a myriad of ways to get there, but we need to get there sooner rather than later. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Is it possible to put my picture up there? I don't know. I think, yeah, there you go. Great. I'm just really proud of it. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Margo Black. I'm an organizer with Portland Tenants United, which is a registered to lobby with the city of Portland. I'm supposed to say that, right? Yes.
 So before I begin, first I want to thank that Betty was able to take work off to be here to testify, but I want to call your attention to all those who are not able to be here today. PTU did a lot of outreach to the many tenants who have been impacted by this historic policy, those who've been able to stay in their housing, those who've been displaced with dignity, and also those who have been left out with the exemption. Many of these folks wanted to but could not be here today because they are working.
 They're nurses, they're teachers, they're child care providers, they're bus drivers, they wait tables, they work at Safeway, they have sick kids. Being able to be here on a workday morning is a position of privilege, and I hope that the council realizes what voices are systematically left out in these hearings and how that underrepresentation is institutionalized by staffing commissions and advisory committees without those voices as well.
 One person who could not be here is Amanda Potter. After 11 years in her Mount Tabor courtyard apartment, her landlord declined to renew her lease, being upfront about wanting to remodel and re-rent for hundreds more.
 She moved to that apartment with her toddler after her former apartment of 10 years was converted to condos. So she's moved both with and without relocation and would have loved to be here to tell you what a difference it made. And also to tell you that even with relocation, she had to move 200 blocks away and her daughter had to start middle school in a new city. And now as a Troutdale resident, she does not have that protection available. And Multnomah County has indicated to Portland Tenants United that it does not want to proceed with a relo policy until Portland has made theirs permanent.
 Portland's housing crisis doesn't end at our borders. $500 rent increases and no-cause evictions are becoming epidemic in Gresham. Cities and counties across the state need to see Portland demonstrate leadership on this policy by making it permanent today. I'm also here as a member of the Relocation Technical Advisory Committee to urge you to pass the amendment to protect all renters today. I want to remind you what relocation is for. It's not a fee or a fine. It is a real cost. I'm sorry, I'm just going to keep going.
 It's not a fee or a fine, it's a real cost that someone has to pay. If the landlord who chooses to force their tenants out doesn't pay it, then the tenant does, like Betty. It goes to application costs, double rent, security deposits, packing, moving, time off, work and childcare for all of the above. Time off work. Moving is expensive and traumatic regardless of how many units your landlord owns.
 There are no extra protections for small tenants. There are no discounts for tenants with small landlords.
 I'm not here to paint landlords as rich and greedy. I have no doubt that relocation might be a financial burden for some small landlords, but it is no less of a burden for their tenants. I know that they may be using their rental for retirement and to put their kids through college, but renters have kids in college too and may someday want to retire. Our city, state, and country have failed us by tearing up the social safety net, but using renters to make up the difference isn't the answer. Please remember that these small landlords have something that their tenants don't, two homes.
 They are better off by every single metric than their tenants who own zero. And it makes no sense for the city to prioritize the financial security of those landlords over those with no financial security. Paying relocation will not force these landlords out of their homes and into their cars like the tenants who are denied it. I know you want to defer these questions to the relocation committee, but with all due respect, that's like deferring gun control and health care to Congress.
 There will not be consensus from a committee comprised of property managers and service providers. I am the only citizen activist on the committee, and only one, I believe, of two renters.
 But as a member of the committee, I would prefer to approach this question from the perspective of when should there be exemptions, why, and what does that process look like, rather than go back to the table with the bias of this hastily thought out exemption to fight about it. Ultimately, we need to try to balance the wish lists of landlords and renters. We do not need to try to balance the wish lists, but we need to think about the value and purpose of this policy. City Council needs to decide what the value of this policy is and legislate based on that today.
 The policy isn't meant to punish landlords. It is meant to prevent and mitigate the impacts of displacement. The exemption categorically and unjustifiably leaves out a huge population of renters without asking who those renters are or why they are better equipped to shoulder the burden of this unplanned and unpredictable cost. Margo, I'm sorry to interrupt. You're going on five minutes. Are you coming to a conclusion? Yes.
 Yeah, I will. Thank you. Why don't I just say this, that I did ask that question. We know that the vast majority of unprotected tenants are in single-family residences. According to some data I got from Metro yesterday, this is 25% of Portland's renter households.
 And the people who live in the single family residences are people with kids and pets, people with disabilities who need the accessibility of homes, seniors and renters doubling up. As Betty stated, this is a business expense. It is reasonable for landlords who are business owners and it must apply to all businesses just like payroll taxes. Make this policy permanent today so renters can live without the anxiety of wondering
 and education begin in earnest, and have the courage to legislate on the loophole today rather than hide behind the committee. Protect all renters and close the loophole. Thank you. The next three are Julia DeGraw, Christina Dirks, and Dave King, and they'll be followed by Ethan Harrison, Adelpha Sanchez, and Mary Seip. How many more people are signed up? After Dave King, I've got 24 more. Okay, folks, I'm not trying to be a jerk.
 But I am the timekeeper. I'm hearing a lot of the same points. Try to keep it as close to two minutes as possible just so we can get through this and get to all of the business that we have on the agenda. Thank you. If you'd like to start, please. All right. My name is Julia DeGraw, and I live in the Montevilla neighborhood, and I am a candidate for Portland City Council.
 First off, I'd like to just start by saying that everyone, regardless of their income, race, or ability, should not have to worry about whether or not they have a place to sleep at night, a safe home. It's time we started treating housing as the human right that it clearly is. We cannot live without food, water, and shelter. It's as simple as that.
 So I'm here today to advocate not just for an extension of the housing emergency, which is clearly necessary, and for making the relocation ordinance permanent, but to encourage the city to go further to ensure that housing becomes more affordable and accessible to Portlanders desperately trying to both live and work in the city we all love. But this simple goal is challenging or impossible for an increasing number of Portlanders to achieve at this time.
 One policy the city could pursue is a vacancy tax, which could tax landlords who allow hundreds of units in the city to lie vacant in hopes of charging ever higher rents. A vacancy tax would encourage landlords to charge affordable rents and provide housing for more people.
 Now and in the long term, we need more housing which is affordable to all Portlanders. Revenues from a vacancy tax would allow city to spend money needed to preserve existing affordable housing and take housing stock out of the dog-eat-dog private market and place it into community-based ownership, which would lead to a permanent affordability.
 Until a vacancy tax becomes a reality, and I believe it is not far off, there is something simple and moral the City Council can do to help thousands of tenants citywide right now. You can make the relocation ordinance permanent and make sure it applies to all landlords, not just the large ones. A 10% rent increase is unjust, period. And so is a 9.9 or 9.8 rent increase, period.
 The family thrown into homelessness does not suffer more or less based on whether or not the landlord owns one or many units. This is why I urge you not only to extend the housing emergency, which clearly needs to happen, but that you make the relocation ordinance permanent and ensure that it applies to all landlords. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioner. My name is Christina Dirks. I'm a staff attorney with Legal Aid Services of Oregon. I want to thank you all for your commitment to protecting renters from involuntary displacement. As a staff attorney at Legal Aid, we serve some of the lowest income folks in our community. My practice is solely in housing work. I represent low-income tenants in landlord-tenant matters and fair housing matters.
 I'm sure I don't need to tell you the statistics, but in Multnomah County, 136,000 people are at 100% of federal poverty guidelines. And we have roughly 1,200. To qualify for our services, someone has to make 1,200 a month or below. So we are dealing with very, very low income individuals.
 Through my work at Legal Aid, I've observed the important and critical impact that the relocation ordinance has had. I staff our biweekly housing hotline where I talk to renters in crisis
 regularly. I would say before relocation ordinance passed we would get a call about a no-cause notice probably one in every three called. Since the passage of the relocation ordinance we get very very few calls about no-cause notices. We also get similarly very few calls about rent increases over 10% in the city of Portland. Unfortunately we get all too many calls about 9.99% increases and that such.
 I have tons of case examples I can give you about the impact of relocation. But in the interest of time, I think I will just say to you that this ordinance should be made permanent in that it provides critical financial, educational, and emotional support for folks facing involuntary displacement.
 I also wanted to express my support for the proposed amendment to lift the single landlord exemption. I'm sure you're going to hear from numerous landlords that will speak about their inability to afford relocation assistance. The fact is that tenants living in homes owned by small landlords are even less likely to be able to afford the cost of relocation. The policy rationale for this ordinance is to shift the significant cost of relocation from a landlord to a tenant.
 tenant who is being involuntarily displaced due to no fault of their own. So council should really consider a policy decision from the perspective of not of which landlords can afford to pay it, but rather from the perspective of whether a tenant should be excluded from receiving relocation. I have advised numerous tenants. I apologize. I will finish real quick.
 I've advised numerous tenants of their ineligibility to obtain relocation assistance solely on this loophole. And I can tell you it is heartbreaking to witness tenants feel like have the rug pulled out from under them, not only the first time when they got the no-cause notice or the rent increase that they can't afford, but the second time when they're told they can't afford.
 obtained relocation and they had no knowledge when they are renting a place whether their landlord owns more than one place or not let alone Can they usually do the research to find out whether their landlord owns one unit or more? And the other point I just want to make quickly is that many of our most valuable Tenants in the community are renting from small landlords who only own one unit These vulnerable tenants include individuals on fixed incomes who are renting rooms and houses with other tenants
 They include folks that have barriers on their rental background that makes it impossible for them to qualify under screening criteria for some of the larger complexes in town, so they're living in mom-and-pop landlords' houses. I think there's also an important race equity consideration at play here that we need to talk about, which is that many of our tenants of color and our immigrant tenants are renting homes from small landlords due to family size doubling up and living with extended family. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Dave King and my sweet wife and I have been landlords since the mid 70s. We have three houses right near our house in St. John's and the income from those houses is our retirement. Our renters like us. We keep the rent low and when something needs to be fixed, I'm right there.
 People feel they have a good deal, so they don't want to move, which is good for us because turnovers are a lot of work and expensive. We don't need to raise the rent much, so 10% or 5% is totally doable for us. That's fine. By the way, we support the ordinance and the amendment and like to make it permanent.
 There have been a couple of times when we've had to evict people. The first time was a person who seemed to be using meth. He was building a shop in the basement and got busy and removed a post that supported the central wall, which supported the ridge of the house. He stopped paying rent because he said little worms were crawling out of the walls and embedding themselves in his arms. When no one was looking, they'd stick their heads up and look around.
 and that's why he stopped paying the rent. When we told him he'd have to pay the rent or move, little bugs or not, he got a lawyer, so we had to get a lawyer. And it took a couple months. There were two hearings. His girlfriend went to the first one, but he never showed for the second. And after that, they moved before the sheriff came. It was no fun, but it only took a couple months and a few hundred dollars, and...
 That's totally doable. There was another time when people just stopped paying the rent. So, yeah, I said that we're supportive of what's before the council right now.
 We think it's terrible what's happening to renters in Portland. They need a lot more relief than this. The rental market's way out of control. We think it's up to the city to step in and regulate the banks and the landlords that are pricing people out of the city. The whole town's gentrifying, and you need to stop it. Mortgage rates and rents need to be controlled.
 Thank you, sir. Thanks to all three of you. Next three, please. Are Ethan Harrison, Adelpha Sanchez, and Mary Seip. And they'll be followed by Mike Adera, Michael Hawkins, and Tony Tepe. Okay.
 Hi, my name is Ethan Harrison. My pronouns are they and them. I'd just like to note, well, I'm an organizer with Portland Tenants United. It's still unfortunate that the balcony is closed under the auspices of security, and that's really a shame. We should be able to have more people out there. I also was able to enter through the turnstiles today that Mayor Hales so thankfully removed, but I just want to note personally that's really unfortunate. Having been at those city council meetings that you used as the guise to put those in, we should really have them taken away.
 a few notes from myself and then I have testimony to read from Alicia Marie who's a worker and resident tenant in northeast Portland as we've heard today 10% is way too much and landlords can get around it it really should be 5% as well unfortunately Commissioner Fritz is not here but
 The technical advisory committee that is being cited as the reason to not pass this today is, as Margo noted, literally full of people who, as per the two meetings that I attended, throw around numbers in the millions. They're not representative of the community at all, and we really need to do more with regard to equity on those technical advisory committees. So pass it today, right? Like, you know, come back with amendments in December, but pass it today. You can do it.
 So as I mentioned, I'll read some testimony that was submitted by Alicia Marie. She is a worker as well and wasn't able to be here today. She offered this at the Technical Advisory Committee that informed this ordinance.
 Shaky breath. She says, in January 2017, I received an email from my landlord giving me 90 days notice to find a new place to live. I wasn't a stranger to this situation as I had received a no cause eviction just six months prior. Having to move twice in less than one year has been very taxing on me, both emotionally and financially. She writes, I wasn't able to afford the rental application fees and several thousand dollars in deposits, so I accrued a lot of credit card debt during that time.
 In both no-cause evictions, my rental units were owned by people who didn't consider themselves landlords. They purchased a second home to give them income as an investment for when the housing market picked up. Both of my landlords expressed sympathy for the situation that their tenants were now facing. However, each landlord also made almost triple the price that they initially paid for their home. So why did they get a pass from City Hall to no-cause eviction without any financial repercussions? Yes.
 When I learned of the tenant relocation ordinance, I thought there might be some relief. I would have made my move more accessible and lessen the unexpected burden I was facing. Unfortunately, the current protections don't apply to small landlords like mine or many of my friends who have faced evictions as well. She goes on to say that she would like for the single exemption to be removed.
 I look up and the mayor has taken leave. And I stand in solidarity with her and with the previously cited amount of Portland renters who would be positively affected. And Commissioner Fritz, good to see you. I was noting that we shouldn't hide behind the Technical Advisory Committee because it is an ill representative of our community. Having attended two meetings, there were only, as Margo noted, two renters on the committee and the rest are people who are millionaires and or their representatives. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Okay, I'll try and put this all concisely together. I definitely support the ordinance to extend the housing emergency, but I do have some concerns in that when I look around and I see how many people are still on the streets in tents,
 I feel like we're sticking our finger in a hole in the dike that this big round and it's Just it's not it's like water in a balloon. We fix it here and it pops out over there and so what
 What that makes me think about is why is this? Why is it no matter what we do, it's not enough? There are still people out there. And there's a couple of things that concern me, and I've talked about this before. I live in Section 42 housing, and I've shared with you how one of my concerns is that there are people living in Section 42 housing, the building where I live, who actually no longer meet the financial requirements
 limits. One individual in particular who actually owns a condominium and she rents out that condominium and it's not considered income. She actually bragged to me how she, when her tenants moved out, she made some improvements and now she's getting more rent for it. I think we need to look very hard at the people that are currently living in these buildings and if they don't qualify financially, they need to go.
 It used to take about six to nine months on the waiting list to get into the building that I live in. It now takes three to four years. There are 350 people on the waiting list in the building where I live.
 We're not going to have another 350 units overnight. It's going to be another two years before we have those. Quickly, I want to reiterate what the very first person, Holly Hansen, talked about, and that is the danger of people like myself who are on fixed incomes, who have only source of income is Social Security, and when they decide that this building is...
 no longer is going to be Section 42, what happens to those people? I think we need to put all of these buildings into a pool and one waiting list. And if you're getting kicked out of a building like Holly is because they're no longer going to make that commitment that they made, then you go to the top of the waiting list for all of the buildings that are there. And 
 just one quick thing I know I'm running out of time you have run out of time oh I am I'm sorry okay well I'll wrap it up thank you thank you
 Good morning, members of the council. And all of those who are here accompanying us. My name is Adelfa Sanchez. I have a husband and three children. And I'm here to support the ordinance for relocation assistance. Yes.
 that protects Portland tenants. We were supported by this law. And I ask those of you who have the power that you continue to support us with this ordinance because it's a great help for all people.
 for all people who suffer living in a property, whether it's a house or an apartment, as renters. It is very difficult to find yourself without a home. My family and I have experienced this two times, being without a home.
 When I was living in the Normandy apartments in the Cully neighborhood in northeast Portland, they gave us the notice that we were going to have to pay double our rent. And it was a horrible nightmare for me.
 I would like that instead of removing this law that protects renters, that on the contrary, that you would give us even more support and pass even stronger laws, and that they be permanent laws.
 I thank you very much for your support. All of the families need this ordinance. Thank you, members of the council, and I wish you a good day.
 Thank you all. Adelpha and I are members of the Cully Housing Action Team in northeast Portland, a group of neighbors working to create stable housing and resist displacement. And at our monthly meeting last night, we signed this card that we would like to give to you that says, the Cully Housing Action Team says, Portland renters need relo. Please extend the emergency rental relocation ordinance. Thank you. Could you put your name in the record as well, please? What's that? Put your name in the record. My name is Mira Conklin. Thank you. If you could give it to Carla. Thank you. The next three, please.
 are Mike Adara, Michael Hawkins, and Tony Tape. And they'll be followed by Matilda Bickers, Lior Schweitzer, and Daniel Whitaker. Okay, please start. Okay, my name is Mike Adara, and I live in southeast Portland. I'm sorry, could you turn that mic on? Somebody turned it off. Yeah, just press the gray button. Thank you. Got it. Okay, my name is Mike Adara, and I live in southeast Portland. I also rent one house out
 and that makes me a small landlord, I've always rented it out for below market rate. And the relocation ordinance doesn't inconvenience me, hasn't inconvenienced me. Other people have spoken to the basic day-to-day problems of being a landlord. But I'm not worried about the relocation ordinance. I'm also a father of an adult son who has a severe mental illness.
 And one of the big contributing factors to his relapse this year has been impossibility of finding independent housing. His condition has actually cost this city and the county a lot of money in this year. So much of that would have been unnecessary if he had been able to find a place to live by himself. It really contributed to his condition.
 Here's the truth about small landlords, so-called small landlords. We live in the community. We're affected by the housing emergency. Peripherally, we have family members who are undergoing the stress of the housing crisis. We don't have corporate fortunes to buffer us. I've spoken to a lot of landlords who make the same argument. Basically, the way I look at it,
 The speculation that's been happening in this town is that it's just like an industry dumping pollution in the river. It's a peripheral expense that they hope...
 other people will pay for. That's why I think this ordinance should be permanent. We should reduce the threshold to 5% and we should eliminate the single landlord clause. Thanks. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Emily Schnipper and I'm reading testimony from Michael Hawkins who could not be here today. My name is Michael Hawkins and since
 2011, I lived in a triplex in Selwood. I lived in a unit upstairs, and another tenant lived in the basement unit with his three sons. The landlord lived in the other upstairs unit and also owned a few other houses elsewhere. This past summer, both me and the other tenant who rented the basement apartment were given a 90-day no-cause eviction notice. We were later told by the landlord that she desired to sell her place or have it torn down in order to build a 6-10 unit condominium on her lot.
 When the other tenant and I asked her about the relocation fee, she initially acted as if she were unaware of the law, then later in the same conversation stated that she had already talked with her real estate attorneys about the law and said she was exempt since we were all roommates. When we pointed out that all three units met the legal definition of a dwelling space, separate entrances, kitchens, bedrooms, and bathrooms, she insisted that her lawyers had told her otherwise and told me I was lucky to have lived there as long as I did.
 So began my long search for another home. By this time, I only had 30 days left since she had given me the notice when I was out of town visiting my kids and family in another state for six weeks.
 At this point, I pursued legal action. However, my attorney told me that although I had a good case, it would be six months or longer before we saw any results, even if we won. Meanwhile, I ran out of time and money to move and ended up living in a tent in a friend's backyard for five weeks with my son before we found a new place, which was smaller and cost me twice as much in rent. I'm sorry.
 It has now been 60 days and she has still refused to pay either the reload fee or return our $600 deposit, but instead sent me an invoice for $2,800 claiming damages to her floor, windows, missing smoke detectors, all of which was undocumented, fabrications of things we never knew were missing in the first place. All my savings were drained because of this move. Why do I have to take legal action and pay for the upfront cost?
 I'm given legal options, but the results of any possible justice are slow to take place. Who can wait half a year for the small court system to work? It leaves me mentally, financially, and emotionally exhausted. All the while, she now rents those units on Airbnb for double or triple the profit. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Or good morning, sorry.
 Good morning. My name is Tony Tappe, and I'm a landlord for the last 10 years. I own a four-unit rental building and a rental home, so I do not qualify as a small landlord. I fully support the extension and expansion of RELOW.
 It is my view that these measures do not impose an unreasonable burden to attentive and competent landlords. If a landlord plans and budgets like I do, increases below 5% are sufficient to maintain and improve properties.
 I view measures such as this ordinance the same way that I view a minimum wage. As a business owner, there are no exceptions for paying minimum wage. If I'm having a bad month, I do not get to lower the wage of employees. At this point, I don't have employees yet. I'm that small. But to me, a lot of this falls under the...
 privatizing profits and socializing losses. That is how a lot of landlords are able to make the money they do. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three people. Next three, please. Are Matilda Bickers, Lior Schweitzer, and Daniel Whitaker. And they'll be followed by Sarah Chandler, Kelly Frankois, and Eli Spivak. Good morning. Hi.
 I'm so nervous. Don't be nervous. Well, first of all, I want to say thank you because your relocation ordinance, am I too loud? I can't tell. No, it's good. It saved me. Last Monday I got a notice from my landlady that she was raising my rent $250 from $1,300 to $1,550. I sat there in my yard crying and talking to my dad. Then I found out that I'm still covered by the relocation ordinance, so
 So there followed some negotiations between me and my landlady as she lowered my rent increase incrementally until she finally realized that she had to lower it below 10%. And so now it's a $60 increase. But I know that if we don't pass this again...
 In December, I'm looking at another increase. But I'd like to back up for a second. So people keep talking about small landlords like they're trustworthy, members of our community, and like they're really good people. My landlady qualifies as a small landlord. Probably she owns a couple different places in Portland. She's a slumlord. She's found ways to charge me money that you couldn't imagine as long as you're reasonably ethical. When I first moved in, she kept my trash service off
 until I paid her an extra $200 to turn it back on. It's $58 every two months. There are ways for landlords to make money if they're unethical, but they find loopholes. They don't need to be protected. We need to be protected.
 I don't have a fire detector in my unit. There's all this stuff wrong. My water heater broke in August, and I knew as soon as I looked up how much a water heater costs that I would be seeing a rent increase so that she could recoup what she was spending on it. I debated telling her, and on the advice of Marco Black and some other people, I did tell her. My basement flooded for five days before she did anything about it, and in part that's because I pay water. So it didn't cost her anything to leave me with a flooded basement for days and days.
 I just, you have no idea what it's like for tenants. That's all I have to say. I'm sorry. Could you just give us your name again, please? I'm Matilda. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Hi, good morning. Thanks for letting me speak. I'm going to really severely amend what I wanted to say because so many people have echoed this. I want to begin just really quickly by saying thanks to all of you guys for the work that you've done to help renters here. When I moved here two years ago from San Francisco, yes, San Francisco,
 I was flabbergasted at the few laws there were here to protect people. I could not believe that there was literally nothing to protect renters here. And I realize we're all playing catch-up because the rents went up so dramatically, so quickly. And I'm heartened to see all of these changes made so fast to help so many people that are desperate for help.
 I specifically want to thank Commissioner Udaily for just getting the ball rolling on so much of this stuff so fast after you got into office. Chloe, you're a hero to so many people in this city. Without all of this work that you all are doing, I mean, people's lives are being so badly affected out there. I don't know if you guys realize how bad it is. It's really bad. Okay, so...
 I also want to agree that this one-unit loophole really needs to be just axed completely. Basically, there is no way to prove that somebody owns one unit, that they actually do. You just heard testimony today from a lawyer whose, that's his job. I mean, he's got so much at his disposal to check that. He even said it was impossible for him.
 to figure out if somebody had one unit. So you just can't confirm that. The other thing is that you wanted to put this in place to protect the small landlords because they're supposedly cost-burdened.
 There is also no way to check if there's cost burden, none whatsoever. I'll easily admit there's probably a very small number of landlords who are cost burdened, but I'm going to wager it's a very small percentage given the enormous amount of increased rents landlords are enjoying right now and the massive increase in their property value.
 I also want to say really quickly that it needs to be taken out completely, and there should not be an exemption to aid people who have just ADUs. Let's face it. You have enough money to build an ADU. You have plenty of money for relocation fees. So I'm going to go on record. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please. Sarah Chandler, Kelly Francois, and Eli Spivak, and they'll be followed.
 by Jay Rumetsky, Edith Gillis, and Mark Kramer. Eli, do you want to start, please? Eli, would you like to start, please? Thank you. Okay. My name is Eli Spivak. I'm back wearing my landlord hat and developer small contractor. I support the extension of the housing emergency. I think a lot of times about the opportunity Portland has to learn from mistakes in other cities, but
 One of those opportunities is to increase our renter protections, as the person before spoke, they're non-existent in our city, and to increase our supply of housing. And I think that there probably is a relationship between the two of them. I think that there are some things you can do to increase renter protections that provide some friction to the housing production market.
 The things covered in this ordinance are not among them. I think that as a landlord, it is totally feasible to pay relocation benefits. I can't imagine going backwards on 30 to 90 day, back to 30 day. People need to have a chance to have a soft landing when redevelopment happens or someone's moved out, and those are key elements of that. I think that the six-month extension worries me a little bit. I see the political benefit of having a hard deadline, but
 to create some policy decisions. But I worry a little bit that that might work to actually get us across the finish line to make these refinements instead of letting them drag out. It creates this cliff event where someone who's a tenant or landlord might take some rash preemptive action leading up to the end of the six month time period that they might not otherwise take.
 because they're just not sure what the rules, they're afraid of what the rules might come into play. So I would recommend extending that to 12 or 18 months and still hit the six month policy time to come up with the new rules.
 And I also want to echo what Margo Black said about other cities. I mean, Portland is the first city in Oregon to really wrestle with this significantly, and we're in a housing market that's much beyond the city limits. And to the extent that we can come up with a well-crafted set of rules, I sure hope that that gets copied and pasted by other jurisdictions around us. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning. Hi. My name is Kelly Francois, and I'm here. I'm a small landlord, the quote small landlord, and I support removing the exemption for small landlords, and I support doing it today.
 not going back to committee, but go ahead and doing it. We've heard a lot of stories. I have more stories about tenants not being treated fairly. And as a landlord, if I decide my tenants need to move out for whatever reason, that's my decision. The cost burden should be on me. Okay.
 Thank you for your time and listening. I have a lot written, but it's all been said very eloquently. And also, black lives matter. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Sarah Chandler. I am the chairperson of Right to Dream 2, and I also work with other organizations like Urban League, the Village Coalition, JOIN, and YWCA. I am here to speak about the state of emergency and ask for it to be extended for the 18 months. I
 I work with hundreds of houseless people every day. The need is obviously there. It's a work in progress. I just hope that it can be extended and that we can continue to get people in while this is definitely an emergency that needs to be dealt with. I want to thank you guys for your support, for helping Write to Dream to Move, and all the work that you've done with us. I really appreciate it.
 Also, I was asked by other board members to speak about possibly bringing up again the zoning laws, that if we change some of them, then other shelters or rest areas could also be built to help with the situation.
 And I think that's all I have to say. Very well. Thank you. Sarah, I just want to thank you for your participation in the Good Neighbor Agreement for the move to Ratcheteer 2. And, yes, I agree that we need some zoning code changes, and that would be one of the things that would be a deliverable for no longer needing the emergency clause. So thank you. Thank you.
 I forgot. I wanted to say I strongly support Udailey's amendment to get rid of the single-family exemption, along with Fish's proposal to basically treat an accessory drilling unit like a group house. So I forgot to put up my notes. Thanks. Thank you. Next three, please. Our Jay Rumeski, Edith Gillis, and Mark Kramer, and they'll be followed by Eddie Prushetta, Diane Kiefauver, and Jane Leo. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Jay Rimeski, I'm a landlord. I'm sorry, could you turn that mic? The mic got turned off. Got it. Thank you. Jay Rimeski, small landlord here in Portland, Oregon. Challenged somewhat by the ordinance and some of the language in it, mostly because I've looked at what's happening in Seattle and San Francisco and...
 The way that their ordinances are written, at least for small landlords like me, it leaves the opportunity for me to move back into my house without having to pay a fine. That's how I look at it. I'm completely behind the relocation fee for circumstances that...
 fit it, but I don't think I should have to pay when I want to basically relocate back into my own property. They don't have that in Seattle, much more difficult there in terms of a rental market. They don't have it in San Francisco. They make us look like
 you know, the Bush League in terms of the rental market. And I think it should be considered when you consider rewriting the ordinance. The other thing is the sale of a property. State of Oregon statutes basically states that that can generate a no-cause eviction. It's my property, right?
 I don't understand why I don't have the opportunity as a property owner to hold on to it or dispose of it. And the reality is I have disposed of it. So I guess I'm in the process of no longer being a landlord. And I've taken rental units out of the market because of it. So it exacerbates the problem you're trying to solve.
 So you really got to be careful with the ordinance in terms of the language and who gets to be impacted by it because we're impacted by it too. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Edith Gillis. And just to address the last testimony, I know of several folks of the landlords have said they had to move back into their house, claimed emergency or whatever else, and then within a few weeks or a month were headed for rent again and higher. And that bouncing back and forth can go on for several different reasons. And I want to alert you to the problems of that.
 At the minimum, I want this ordinance extended for 18 months, but I really think it should be permanent. The one exemption that I do want is not what either of you have spoken about, but that...
 The only exemption would be when the tenants live in the same house as the owner, occupant, who is occupying it for a minimum of 11 months out of the year, for causes of safety concerns and criminality. Only under those conditions would there be...
 someone not having to pay the relocation. And then that, of course, could still be negotiated or still up for litigation over criminality issues. Now, I also want us to...
 Is this working? Yes. I want us to also make sure that we have no demolition of safe, affordable housing. We need to have sustainable housing stock and not replace with these trashy, big monstrosities that have mold and wood rot, but that instead maintain a percentage of units for the percentages of people at the rates of their income. So if we have...
 50% of the people living in the area having no more than $700 a month from SSI, then there should be 50% of the units that are built should be for no more than $250 a month rent. And it can be more than the kind of housing that we have. We need to have a city public bank, and we need to expand our monies for housing attorneys and support.
 Thank you, both of you, for your testimony. I just wanted to add, when I did call the city to talk about my situation, the help that I got from one of the city employees basically stated that I had the rights that I just described, but they failed to realize they were talking about Seattle and San Francisco. So they mistakenly misinterpreted the ordinance based on their own...
 research. Thank you. Next three are Eddie Pruschetta, Diane Kiefauver, and Jane Leo. And then the last three I showed sign up are Katrina Holland, Carrie Lyons, and Soren Impey. Good afternoon. Would you like to start? Certainly. My name is Diane Kiefauver. For the past 13 months, I've rented property from Peak Property Management, which
 at 8435 Southeast Inslee Road in Southeast Portland. On May 31st, I was given a $75 increase. With my portion of the rent, because I get money from Home Forward, my portion of the rent was raised 30%.
 I'm retired. I was the domestic violence attorney for the state of Montana. Most of my work was pro bono. So I don't have any money, no income at all, but my Social Security, which I've earned working since I was 15 years old. So I receive $756 every month from Social Security. Um...
 This rent increase, like I say, it would be 30% of my income. I subtract that $298. It leaves me with $456 to live on for food, car insurance, gas, food, medicine, and I just had to get new dentures. Where is that money coming from? Try living on $456 a month. It's real impossible.
 But they wanted to raise me again under the $75 a month that I don't have. So I gave them a 30-day notice and started looking for another place. That was on July 31st.
 On August 2nd, I gave them a notice. They were in violation of this ordinance, and they would have to pay me relocation assistance. They said no. She said, we don't do that, is what the property manager said. We don't do that. Four days later, they gave me a notice to vacate the
 saying I hadn't paid the rent. I did pay the rent. I paid it on the 31st. They were just doing a dirty trick on me. They were harassing me because I filed the notice for reload assistance.
 when I pointed out to them that there are 72 hours for nonpayment of rent, that notice, they were charging me the rent that was not due until July or October this month. Um...
 I couldn't find anyone to talk to. I was going through hell thinking they were going to throw me out of my apartment at any moment. Or if I left the apartment, if I teach English as a second language classes at the Voss Worker Center, if I left my apartment, I would come home and be locked out or all my belongings would be thrown in the street. So this was a very stressful period to me. Thank you.
 One other thing, I finally talked to the manager three days later, and she said, oh, that was a computer error. So this is the atrocities that a landlord can do to us that leaves us completely defenseless. I've had to cash out all retirement savings I had in order to move to this new place I'm at now.
 And that leaves me nothing, nothing to fall back on if I get sick. Thank you for your testimony. Jane, did you want to go next? I'm Jane Leo. I'm the Governmental Affairs Director for the Portland Metropolitan Association of Realtors.
 And my testimony, I honestly was not going to testify, but after hearing some of the comments and the questions, I felt compelled. I do have with me in response to statements that have been made that landlords are not hurt by this or that this isn't detrimental to the single-family rental market.
 I have more than a dozen individuals who own single-family rental property, who have written in as to why they are putting their housing on the market. And they have asked me personally in most cases not to disclose their name for fear of retribution and out of fear that some of the tenant sites are actually advocating violence against the landlord. So there's a fear of personal protection.
 To a question that was asked, I want to point out that not all accessory dwelling units are physically connected to the house nor in the house. There are plenty of neighborhoods where the ADU is over the garage, and the garage is a detached garage.
 So I call that to your attention. Also, this city for years has put into place efforts to try to create more accessory dwelling units to increase our rental supply or alternative housing. To now say that that property owner, homeowner who has a tenant over the garage is no longer exempt.
 is burdensome and it will be difficult to continue to promote the building of ADUs in this city.
 So you do have an adverse reaction on that. To that point, the city has got to address its housing supply, both from the market rate housing as well as that which is subsidized. The city has to address that in order to deal with issues such as what we've been dealing with for quite some time. When the city sets its limits on what the rent increase can be, the city needs to take a look at itself. How much did the water and sewer rates go up?
 How much did the property taxes because of bonds go up?
 You know, I've done some quick math just looking at my own situation, and my property taxes went up close to 16% between Multnomah County, the city of Portland. And then if you add on to that what happened with the sewer water rates, you see increases that are not to a property owner that are not related to whether or not that property is in rental. So whatever your cap is, the city has got to take a look at itself.
 And I do want to point out that I've been tracking how many single-family housing units have been put on the market for sale since the city adopted the mandatory relocation fee on February 2nd. As of September 30th, there are more than 440 single-family properties that we know were or are tenant-occupied units.
 for sale on the market. So they are leaving the market because of the uncertainty and the burdens that the City of Portland's ordinances have put on single-family owners of single-family rental. To the point that continues to be made behind me, nobody bailed out these property owners in 2008 when the market tanked.
 Thank you. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Please, everybody, just let's listen. Let's listen? And yet you can agree or disagree. Yes, seriously. Are you completed? Yes, I am. Thank you. Yes, sir. Good afternoon, and thank you for being here. Thank you for entertaining me. I wrote this to come in right at three minutes, so we'll see. Ed Pichetta, 715 Northeast 20th Avenue, apartment 4, Portland 97232.
 Members of the Council, while some say only rent control can effectively remedy Portland's ongoing housing crisis, in the absence of such control, Portland's tenant relocation assistant provisions are the only effective alternative for now. I can speak with some authority on the effectiveness of these provisions. With relocation assistance looming for the Council back in mid-January, that month I and my fellow month-to-month tenancies in our garden complex received a letter that I've provided copies to your office.
 from our recently anointed property management company. This letter demanded that we commit to signing an as-yet unseen and unavailable fixed-term lease. The letter also said that if we don't sign and return such a commitment in less than 10 days, we were to consider the letter at hand to be our 90-day tenancy termination notices. Some of these tenants, like myself, had lived in our units for more than a dozen years.
 Having recently returned to Portland, I was not yet employed, and either a large rent increase or a termination of my tenancy would have been life-altering under existing law, and I would not now be able to live and work in Portland and contribute to the community. Was it a coincidence that being on the kind of lease we were ultimately offered in February was a fixed-term lease that landlords thought would allow them to escape the relocation assistance provisions of Portland's housing emergency ordinance? I think not.
 I offer as evidence the fact that after receiving my landlord's lease offer and telling them shortly thereafter that I couldn't afford to pay the proposed greater than 10% increased rent provisions in it and would therefore have to move, they verbally withdrew the supposed 90-day notice and shortly thereafter the fixed-term lease offer.
 I can only believe that my property owner's unwillingness to be obligated to pay relocation assistance, together with my awareness of Oregon landlord-tenant law and Margo Black's very effective work with the Portland Tenants Union, were key to their withdrawals. While I remain in the same apartment I was in in February, with tenant relocation assistance provisions poised to expire periodically, my housing situation remains precariously unstable.
 My ability to ever buy a home in Portland remains uncertain due to, at my age, my concern over my ability to obtain a sufficiently remunerative career. I think my situation, tenancy, is probably the new reality for many inner-city Portlanders. While I'm not saying property owners shouldn't be able to sell or convert their properties as a whole as they see fit when the time comes,
 They should be flush with cash if such time comes, which means they can afford to pay tenant relocation assistance out of their property value windfall. The Portland community in general will benefit greatly over the long term from stable housing for its tenant-focused neighborhoods. With stable, affordable housing, tenant families can spend less time desperately worrying about housing costs, finances, and having to move, and more time planning how to get into a higher-paying career and otherwise enhancing the community.
 The most effective tool available now to eventually achieve this is to make the tenant relocation assistance provisions permanent, mild though they be. While tenant relocation assistance will not permanently ensconce tenants in neighborhoods, it does ensure that if the time comes when a property owner decides to convert his property to a higher-yielding use, the effective tenants will have a better shot at avoiding homelessness. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Does that complete our testimony? The last three people are Katrina Holland, Carrie Lyons, and Soren Impeg. Very good. Come on up. I think it's just me. It's a solo act, perhaps. Very good, Katrina. You get the last word. Yeah, such a privilege. Thanks so much for having us here today. I definitely commend Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Fish for bringing forth this
 This amendment to the relocation ordinance, Community Alliance of Tenants is of the opinion that it definitely should restrict or, excuse me, lift the exemption for smaller landlords. As Christina Dirks was saying earlier, it is, in fact, very true that most of our vulnerable tenants do tend to rent from smaller landlords who own one property.
 as a result of not being able to access mainstream properties due to potentially troubled records, criminal history, potentially evictions history, et cetera. And so there is an equity issue to be concerned about, and I do think that it is something that needs to be passed right away as opposed to throwing it to the tag. Because that commission, although while we have made pretty significant progress, it is a very dysfunctional.
 space and I don't believe that the group would be able to come to consensus in a manner that is effective to bring forward an amendment to city council so we would like to see that passed today we definitely support lowering the threshold from 10% to 5%
 And I think one of the things that we talked about at the beginning of this Portland relocation that hasn't been stated here today is we need to include some provision for landlords to inform their tenants at the time of notice that they are eligible for relocation assistance and how much they are eligible for relocation assistance.
 assistance because it has been brought to our attention that many tenants have received no cause evictions or have received rent increases above the threshold and the landlord is banking on the fact that they do not know. As of yesterday I literally heard of five tenants who received no cause evictions and were told no basically or didn't weren't aware that they were eligible for relocation assistance and Portland Tenants United and Community Alliance of Tenants is
 of course, has limited capacity. We cannot serve the entire city. So I think that should be added. Very good. Thank you all for your testimony. Thanks, everybody. And thank you all for being respectful. Mayor? Yes, sir. Commissioner Fish. I propose we go ahead with a vote on 1087, and then I have a couple of questions on 1088 before the vote. Any further discussion on 1087?
 And this is to extending the housing emergency. Please call the roll. Eudaly? I just want to thank everyone again who took time out of their days to come give testimony today. And thank my colleagues for supporting this extension. We are clearly still in a housing emergency with no end in sight. Aye.
 Fritz. Well, thanks to former Mayor Hales and to Commissioner Saltzman for first bringing this in October of 2015, and then to Commissioner Fish and then myself for extending it in 2016. I'm very interested in fixing the rules. In fact, Michael Boone, of course, said at the very beginning of this, we need fewer dumb rules. And Commissioner Saltzman also corrected the dumb rule about temporary activities being allowed 
 Permanent improvements like putting water service in can be done in a temporary activity site, which was one of the reasons that we haven't been able to provide more shelter to people. So I believe we need to look for other things like that. The main things we use the housing emergency for are emergency shelters during the winter. We're also using it for Right to Dream 2's current home.
 And so we need to look at how do we make the zoning code allow these things by right in certain instances. So I'm looking forward to working with the mayor on finding exactly what those dumb rules are and how to fix them. Aye. Fish. As Commissioner Fritz pointed out, this will be the third time that she and I have cast, and Dan have cast a vote on the state of emergency. It has, as Mark Jolin and others testified a few hours ago, been.
 It has paved the way for a lot of innovative and important policy. Yes, ma'am. I'm sorry, it was just today. I'm sorry, but you have to come to the microphone if that's going to be allowed. I was afraid to leave today because I thought I heard that if my rent gets raised, I only have 15 days to protest it, and if I don't know that rule...
 I'm S-O-L? And that was horrifying. Is that really a rule?
 When you don't even, if you don't notice a deadline. It's now 45 days, but this isn't really the time and place to go over that. Okay, so sorry. Mayor, we have the Deputy Director of the Housing Bureau here. Perhaps he could speak with you. I think Commissioner Udaly got that correct. So unless there's anything else the Housing Bureau Director would like to say, continue Commissioner Fish. So Mayor, this is the third time I've had a chance with two of my colleagues to vote on a housing emergency issue.
 And I want to reflect on the fact that, as Mark Joel and others pointed out, it has paved the way for a lot of good work, and it has focused us on our number one challenge as a community. But we have a lot more work to do. So, Mayor, I thank you for proposing an 18-month extension. And I think over the next 18 months, we will continue to make this our number one priority project.
 I hope at some point we don't have to extend the housing state of emergency. I hope we have laws and rules in place that protect people, and we have figured out a way to significantly boost the production of affordable housing. But for now, I think this is the right thing to do, and I'm proud to support this extension. Aye. Saltzman. Well, thank you, Mayor, for proposing this 18-month extension. It's still as necessary as it was when we first adopted it in 2010.
 uh, 15. And I also wanted to recognize, uh, mayor Hills for his work and bringing this housing emergency, uh, into place. I think it has definitely helped, uh,
 help pave the way in terms of eliminating some rules, the dumb rules I guess we call them, that may have stowed in the way of more shelters being added to our system. And also I think it has all stimulated this whole council as well as the county commission and others to look at ways we can boost production of affordable housing. And those goals remain as important as ever. And I'm pleased to vote for its extension. Aye. We are. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everyone.
 Next item, we'll take the vote on 1088. That's the mandatory relocation assistance. Commissioner Fish, you have a comment. Thank you, Mayor. So I just want to clarify a couple of things because we've been here nonstop since 930. It is your intent to bring an ordinance to council no later than December 6th? Correct. Correct.
 We've had some testimony about the technical advisory group that you have proposed would weigh in on this.
 and there's a concern that I and others have about their ability to reach consensus. Are we clear, Mayor, that we are seeking majority and minority reports? In other words, we're seeking guidance from the committee, and if they can't reach consensus, we're looking for a range of views that come to us to help inform our work? That's correct. Several people mentioned that they didn't see that a consensus was possible. That may, in fact, be the case, but as I stated up front today,
 I'm not prepared to vote on amendments on the fly. I'd like to hear different perspectives, different ideas, get people's perspectives on additional ideas. And somebody proffered what I thought was an intriguing additional idea.
 I'm interested in what Commissioner Udailey's amendment raises. I'm interested in your friendly amendment to that. And so from my own perspective, I'd like to respect the process we currently have in place, which has the permanent ordinance coming back before the council in December. And, Mayor, just to be clear, because, again, we've heard from a lot of people about whether consensus is possible.
 As a decision maker, what I value is feedback. And it could be a diversity of opinions. It could be contradictory. But if there's no consensus on the issue, I would still like to have the recommendation and advice of the people we've charged with doing that. And finally, in the course of this hearing and prior to this hearing, a bunch of issues have been raised, which I hope the committee will take up. Of course, I'm not going to be able to answer all of them.
 Through the amendments that have at least been preliminarily proposed, there's the question of a small landlord exemption and how to reconcile what Commissioner Udaly has proposed and what I've proposed around ADUs. And as a very competent lawyer previously told us, there's different sections of the code and different language that needs to be reconciled. So I think that needs a clear recommendation there.
 There has been, I think, a very productive conversation about how do we make sure that tenants get notice of their rights and what is the effective way of doing that. I would welcome recommendations to that regard. Margo Black and others alluded in passing to some mechanism for a hardship exemption, recognizing that there are unique circumstances where someone should have recourse
 I'm just, again, I think setting up that process and having clear boundaries is important. We've had a number of people talk about the utility costs. I know this is no solace, but your water bill would be more expensive in most suburban cities. Yes.
 as your water bill, but the question of what can and cannot be passed on to tenants and how that is done, clearly as the person in charge of the utilities, I'm going to go back to the city attorney's office and get some more advice on that because I'd like to know. But I think this question needs further ventilation. So there are, I think, a bunch of very important questions that have been raised.
 I look forward to getting recommendations and to evaluating them. I've been clear about where I intend to land in December. But based on you, Mayor, your desire to give the committee a chance to weigh on this, I'm prepared to delay eight weeks before we make the final decision because we are, after all, extending the protections and they remain in place through that period. So thank you. Thanks, Commissioner. Thank you. Commissioner, you daily. Okay.
 I have several items I want to hit on. First of all, Director Jolin's testimony and that of others has highlighted the continued urgency of this housing crisis. And despite a massive increase in investment in housing and homeless services, despite preserving and providing more housing than ever,
 and shelter than ever, our homeless population continues to grow in no small part due to our failure to stem the inflow of cost-burdened and displaced renters into our homeless population. The city is addressing the issue on the supply side. It's not enough, and it is my extremely clear and strong belief that we have left too many
 renting households vulnerable to cost burdening and displacement by the one unit exemption. So while I sense there's not a lot of love for this passing this amendment, at this time I'm leaving it on the table.
 I want to address a few other issues that advocates brought up today. First of all, the 5% threshold. I would love to be able to reduce the threshold to 5%. It's what I wanted initially. 10% was a compromise after a lot of discussion with my colleagues and with the city attorney's office.
 We have prevailed twice now in court and the ordinance, we're now in an appeal process. There is a serious and I think well-founded concern that if we significantly change that threshold, we open up the ordinance to a new legal challenge and there's no guarantee that we would prevail in that new legal challenge.
 So it's my opinion right now that that's too much of a risk. However, I'm going to be continuing fighting for an overturn of the ban on rent control and the preemption on just cause eviction at the state level. And once we get those regulatory tools back, we'll be obviously in a position where we can.
 Change that threshold. I absolutely support making this ordinance permanent, and I think it's fairly clear that that will happen. It's not going to happen today. That is not going to make a meaningful difference, the ordinances in place.
 The utility fix is of great concern. I've heard from many renters who previously did not have to pay water or garbage that they are now being required to do so. I consider that an increase in their rent that should be included in the 10%. If their utilities are being raised beyond the actual increase, that's the landlord raising the rent. So we'll be addressing that.
 I want to let you guys know that I also received a 9.7% rent increase this year. My rent has gone up 75% in the last six years now. I live in a shabby, small rental home that has had no improvements other than
 repairs to essential services for a decade, and that was substandard and unsafe when I moved in. So I continue, although I am in a better position now, to be one of the many faces of our rental crisis.
 very interested in a vacancy tax. I'm concerned with how we actually prove units are vacant. That's something to dive into. I would support providing a hardship exemption for landlords. We really need that office of renter services in place in order to handle...
 I guess, appeals for exemption. I'd also like tenants to be able to appeal to that same body to fight rent increases on units that are substandard. No landlord should be able to raise rents on tenants who are living in substandard housing. I'm close to the end, Mayor.
 I agree with Katrina Holland from CAT that we really need to develop a regional strategy for housing and for tenant protections. And those conversations have begun, and we just can't relent with the pressure on elected...
 representatives at every level, city, county, metro, state. And finally, I can't let the unfortunate comments of one of the last people to give testimony go without saying how disappointing and irresponsible it is to characterize our housing advocates as threatening violence. Thank you.
 And I'm going to take a couple more minutes to tell a little story. So last year I had the unique experience of interviewing a number of tenants who had been profoundly impacted by our rental crisis with the cartoon journalist Joe Sacco. And we talked to a mutual friend of ours who had been involved
 repeatedly, involuntarily displaced from her housing while dealing with disabling medical conditions and a diminished ability to work and afford housing. And she was embarrassed to tell her story to us because Joe travels the world, typically to war-torn countries,
 to interview victims and refugees. And she told us that, and afterwards, Joe said to me that, you know, as being a homeowner for several years, he had no idea how bad things had gotten in our rental market and that he considered what was being done to renters a form of violence. So I just want to put that out there.
 Very good. Please call the roll on Udaly Amendment to Item 10088. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? No. Saltz? Fish? I hope to be able to support this amendment or some hybrid that involves 
 accessory dwelling units, and I think there are some legal issues that need to be, there's some language that needs to be reconciled, and I appreciate the spirit of it because I have been persuaded to reconsider this single unit exemption. But the mayor has asked us to have all of these matters return on December 6th in order to go through an orderly process. I think that's a fair request. No. Saltzman. No. Wheeler. No.
 No, for the reasons I mentioned previously, the amendment fails. 401. To the main motion, any further discussion? Commissioner Fish's amendment? No, I withdraw. He's withdrawing it. Thank you. To the main motion, please call the roll. You, David. It's important that we continue to understand the devastating nature of our housing crisis and the impacts an unregulated market is having on households in every corner of our city.
 I remain deeply committed to this issue, and my office staff dedicate much of their time researching and developing policies that will mitigate displacement, making housing more accessible and stable, and increasing our supply of truly affordable units. I'm hopeful about the future of renters here because I'm confident
 that although we could not come to an agreement today, each of my fellow commissioners understands the nature of this emergency and are also dedicated to helping us solve the problems. I want to remind everyone that this is only a continuation of policies we already have in place. We have more coming that requires each of you to continue to share your stories with us so that we remain focused on what really matters, keeping Portland housed.
 Please pay close attention to council agenda items over the next couple of months because we are all working to make changes that will further stabilize our rental market and improve the lives of thousands of Portland renters. Thank you very much to the mayor's staff, the Joint Office, the Portland Housing Bureau, and my staff, especially Jamie Duhamel, for all your work and dedication to the most vulnerable in our city. I vote.
 Well, thank you to everybody who is here today and everybody who was here before they had to go. I hope when we do consider the permanent rules that we'll have an evening meeting so that it'll be more easy for some people to come. Although it's in the middle of December, or December is kind of dark and that means that seniors may not be able to come as well. So there's factors to consider. Thank you to those of you who were here today and also those who sent in testimony. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for your leadership on this and your continued...
 determination to right the wrongs in the renter-landlord relationships around the city. And thank you, Mayor Will. I haven't done that for a really long time. It doesn't matter who. It's all the same.
 It's not, it's not, it's not. He calls me Commissioner Fritz. I mean, it's just turned about as fair play. There is that. And it's not the same, Mayor Wheeler, because you have the Housing Bureau and you are, have done so much, as was recognized in the first ordinance, you've done so much to improve the lot of people who are living outside, to provide housing, to provide shelter, to provide assistance. It was your staff who finally were able to find the site that Right to Dream 2 were able to move to, and your site that helped.
 your staff who helped them to get their water and other services to that property. So thank you for that, and I know that you, like me, continue to be dedicated to make sure that they have a permanent home for the foreseeable future. I mean, that's the sad part about this is that it's going to be necessary for the foreseeable future.
 So I appreciate the extra time though to make sure that we are addressing things in a thoughtful and comprehensive matter. I agree that we need to create an exemption process based on need. I am very concerned about unintended consequences.
 I was a landlady for a while while my parents-in-law finished up their service in the Salvation Army. And if they had been only planning to move into our first home for a year, I would have had to have included the $4,500 in the rent for that year, and that would have increased the rent by $375 a month. That is definitely not what we are...
 intending to do we are intending to provide affordable housing to a lot of people so that's something to consider I am concerned with the number of emails and letters that I've received about people completely leaving the rental business because they feel that we're becoming over regulated and just too complex I'm also concerned about people who would now will instead of um
 doing the oversight themselves as in a friendly and personal relationship, will hire management companies, which then tax on another 10% to the rent. And again, that's not what we want to do. So it certainly does need to be thought for. I do agree. It sounds like there's only two tenants on the Technical Advisory Committee. I would suggest that make sure that it's more balanced as we do this last push. And I also agree with Commissioner Fish that minority reports will...
 are compelling as well as majority, and we don't expect nor get consensus from many of our advisory bodies. I think we certainly need to add in the fees as part of a rent increase, and I'm hoping that this extra time will allow us to do that. I certainly know that we need more clarity in the code in that Commissioner Udeli and I have a different reading of what it says now, so I appreciate...
 Alan Kessler, who brought out so many different places in the current code where we need some clarification. Overall, we desperately need the new office for education and adjudication of these things, the office of whatever it's being called, of landlord-tenant affairs. We need somebody within the city, which currently we really don't have,
 to be able to explain to people what the rules are. And we need to have a process so that people don't have to go to court to get explanations of those rules. And I hope that happens very quickly. And then finally, on the regional strategy that is finally starting to happen at Metro, I was involved in them in my first term, which was nine years ago now. I served on the Metro Policy Advisory Committee. And...
 There was no discussion at that time about affordable housing. Now it's front and centre, and it's not only front and centre for Portland and Gresham, it's front and centre for Hillsborough and other  Washington County and other jurisdictions in Washington, Clackamas County as well as Multnomah County. So that is progress. Commissioner Newdaly and I serve as the delegates to the Metro Policy Advisory Committee, and I'm hoping that they will 
 really take up this issue of, oh, by the way, why is Portland the only place to have a construction excise tax, thanks to Commissioner Saltzman, which then is used for affordable housing? Why don't the other jurisdictions do that? And what other kind of revenue are we going to maybe think of that could pay for this affordable housing assistance, which is so desperately needed by people who've been living here for years? I. Fish. I want to thank Commissioner Udali for being the architect of this.
 of this important piece of legislation. And in all of our work on the council, at some point people will look back on a signature or signature issues that someone has worked on. For Dan, of course, it's been the children's levy, among many other things. I think this will be among, if not the most important, accomplishments of your service. But more than that, you've been our leader on this whole cluster of issues, and I thank you for your work and your partnership.
 Mayor, this is the second of four of a suite of four issues that you have championed and are bringing to council with broad support that I think are going to make a huge difference, and I thank you for your leadership and the work that you and your staff are doing. I agree with those who believe this should be made permanent, and that is my intent in December to so vote. I also think that it is not sufficiently broad currently in scope.
 And there's a compelling argument that this should not only be citywide but countywide. And as with all of our housing issues, we must bring the full region into these discussions. It is just out of balance. And we have to have some very candid conversations. I want to thank Amira Streeter and Jamie Dunphy on my team. I want to thank the senior staff people of each of my colleagues who are a pleasure to work with. I want to thank everyone who took time out today to come and inform us and share their views. Thank you.
 This is democracy in action, and I think this is an important action, but I think in December we will strengthen this action. Aye. Saltzman. Well, I appreciate all the testimony we had this morning and this afternoon as well, and just also wanted to give a shout-out to the people of the state.
 Give a special shout out to Commissioner Udailey for her leadership on this issue and accomplishing so much in relatively lightning speed as a freshman commissioner in your first two months on the job getting this relocation ordinance passed. It is technically my first month on the job. Was it the first month? That's no consolation nine months later that I haven't. My memory gets hazy, so I thought I'd fudge it and say two months. Okay, thanks.
 In your first month on the job, congratulations. Thank you. Pleased to support this and look forward to supporting it in December as well. Aye. Wheeler. I obviously strongly support this ordinance. I agree with Commissioner Fish.
 that the ordinance should be permanent, and that's why it's coming back in December. As I said earlier, I'm very interested in the amendments that were put forth today, but I can't support them without understanding exactly what it is we're proposing to do. This is not an idea. Excuse me. This is not an idea. This is passing a law.
 And I think it's okay to wait eight weeks to better understand what we're talking about and what the options are. We even had disagreement up here and up here. Excuse me. Margo, I let you talk for five minutes. I get two minutes. All right? Is that okay? Is that fair for a millionaire? Great. Okay. I have a voice. Thank you.
 At any rate, I support the ordinance. I think it's important that we continue to push on this. I don't believe we have the full vision on the table yet. The RELA ordinance that we passed, as Commissioner Udaly just mentioned, was done in response to an emergency situation in our community and considerable testimony from people in this community who are truly struggling.
 And it deserves an all-hands-on-deck approach, not just by the City of Portland. I agree with those who said we need a regional solution to this issue. And I appreciated the State Representative who two hours ago testified that the legislature still has work that it needs to do in order to address this emergency. And I'm committed to doing those things that we can do.
 here in the city of Portland to address those issues. So I vote aye on the ordinance. I want to thank my staff. I want to thank Andrea. I want to thank Cupid. I want to thank Michelle for your tireless work on this. But there's a lot more work to do. This isn't the end. We've only scratched the surface. So thank you all for being here. Aye, the ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Good job. What time is the lunch break, Mayor? Okay.
 Why don't we do this one next? We've had people waiting for two hours for it. Three, actually. Three, thank you. Time's certain. Let's do 1089, and we're going to have to move the rest to this afternoon. Okay, 1089, adopt City of Portland, Oregon, Equal Employment Opportunity Affirmative Action Plan for Minorities and Women, January 1, 2018, to December 31, 2022.
 The city is required to have an affirmative action plan as a federal contractor and has had a plan in place for women and minorities for over 35 years. The plan also includes veterans and individuals with disabilities as added populations for reporting. Colleagues, what we have before you is a five-year plan from 2018 through 2022.
 The Bureau of Human Resources provides at least yearly reports to Council on the City's progress. The plan is a management tool to assess and ensure workforce diversity and equal employment opportunities for all. This tool, coupled with the Bureau's racial equity roadmaps, are important to the City's goals of inclusiveness. Turning the discussion...
 the specifics to Anna and Donnie. Thank you for both being here. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Anna Canwitt, Director of the Bureau of Human Resources. With me is Donnie. Hard to hear you. I'm sorry. Folks, could we bring the conversation down a little bit?
 With me is Donnie Adair, who has had a long history with the city of Portland, including most recently as one of our human resources business partners. But Donnie has been involved with civil rights issues since 1974.
 has a lot of expertise in helping to develop the Affirmative Action Plan, so I personally really appreciate his assistance in doing this on behalf of the city. Before I turn it over to Donnie, I did want to make one note that, unlike the other categories, including people of color, women, and veterans,
 For individuals with disabilities, the city is way behind of the established goal, federal goal of 7%. We reached that in only nine job categories out of 108. So, again, I want to thank you for...
 authorizing a position within the Bureau of Human Resources that will spearhead the strategic plan that you adopted for increasing employment of individuals with disabilities and creating mechanisms for making the environment much more welcome and safe.
 One of the things you'll also see in the plan is some areas  I mean, many areas. We're certainly not saying we're perfect. There's lots of work to be done. But I think in terms of sworn police, adopting the contract that increased wages and some other things, along with some very intentional world-class recruitment that the Police Bureau is doing, is also showing results in terms of more diversity and hiring of women.
 Last, as Mayor Wheeler noted, this is but one tool. It's an important one. There are many others. The Bureau's racial equity plans are just another tool for us to use. But it is key, I think, in these efforts that the Bureau of Human Resources is closely aligned with the Office of Equity and Human Rights because between our two offices 
 We can do a lot of work, both in terms of outreach, but also in terms of city efforts to be sure that this is a welcome and inclusive environment, that we truly are an employer of choice. Surprisingly, that model is not very common.
 I was told by the City of Tacoma, King County, City of Seattle, they don't have that same synergy between the two bureaus, and I think it is immensely important in moving this forward. So I'm very pleased with that, and with that, I'm going to turn it over to Donny Adair. Thank you, Donny. Good morning. I'm Donny Adair, owner of Donny Adair Consulting, 8958 North Wall in Portland, and former...
 city employee, as Anna mentioned, state employee. And I've spent a decade with Emanuel Hospital as well. It's been a pleasure to
 assist the city to put together really a revision of the current plan for 2013 to 2017, which has recently been extended to the end of the calendar year, just so we could do a thorough job of reviewing, revising, and coming up with this plan, which will go to 2022. So about four and a half years, or we're calling it a five-year plan. Okay.
 The thing that makes this plan unique is that affirmative action should not be in the affirmative action office. It needs to be out in the Bureau. So we started back in 2007 getting Bureaus involved in developing their own strategies and actions to eliminate any underutilization that we have.
 And that has worked for the city. They've made steady improvements in the number of minorities, the number of women in nontraditional jobs, and most recently veterans. And with this new initiative on individuals with disabilities, I look for improvement there as well.
 Let me thank the council for their reaffirmation policy statements that all of you submitted. We appreciate the...
 your commitment and without starting things at the Decision-making level at the very top nothing ever really gets done. Nothing is ever successful we work with all 23 offices and bureaus each one of the Executives or directors in those bureaus have also issued
 affirmative statements supporting equal opportunity and affirmative action, and each bureau has looked very carefully at the data provided by human resources and acknowledged where they do have underutilization and put in place an effective plan that will rise to this challenge. So if you look at it overall...
 There are only about eight of the 108 job groups that we have in this plan where we're underutilized for minorities and only seven for women. When you look at it from a bureau standpoint, many bureaus or several of the bureaus have challenges remaining, which you would not think...
 are unique. There are probably challenges that exist throughout our society. For instance, women in technology, getting more women involved, recruiting, retaining, promoting women in technology. Anna's talked about the issue with sworn women
 officers and what the police bureau is doing. And also the fire bureau, which I came out of that organization originally, very proud of what they've continued to do.
 especially in an organization where everybody has to be promoted up from the bottom. It's very hard to get people, particularly women, in the mid-management, upper-management level. We've seen some success, and we lost the woman fire chief, but that will happen again because of the efforts of the Fire Bureau in plans like this.
 When we look at some of the other bureaus, such as Transportation and Parks, Parks is a bureau that has parity with 26 of the 32 job groups that they have, which is admirable, but yet they still have some challenges, primarily in maintenance and trades for women and minorities, particularly Hispanics, and botanic-type jobs. There's been an increase in the availability there, so
 Transportation also has similar challenges with maintenance, trades and so forth. But they are actively working with groups like Women in Trades, working with different ethnic groups in the community to make our recruiting successful. So the good news is that overall Portland continues to make progress. But we also have to recognize the challenges. And I just want to echo two things.
 individuals with disabilities. Portland has kind of given lip service to that, and it is great now that you have some staffing to spearhead that. We've really got to do better in recruiting and retaining and promoting individuals with disabilities.
 The other area that I noted was with your directors and executives. You recently lost some over the last couple of years, and you were down to where the only executive of color was the equity director. And we really appreciate the mayor's leadership in looking and doing open and competitive for the city's largest agency.
 showing and demonstrating that there are competent, qualified men and women, people of color, for all positions in the city. There's no place, no position that we couldn't competently recruit qualified people in a diverse pool. So, you know, having adopted the Charles Jordan standard and having that demonstrated, that leadership by the mayor, means a lot.
 It means a lot. It's going to say to your department heads, when I get an executive position, I need to do open and competitive, and I need to do just as good a job of recruiting, whether it's regional, whether it's national, to fill those positions, because that's very, very important. So those are the highlights that I have. I would entertain questions.
 any questions that you have about the report that you have all, I have read all 751 pages of it. Oh, it is thick.
 I know we're all itching to go to lunch. So, first of all, I know, Donnie, you've read this carefully. And so on page 463, are you standby, everything on that page? Everything on that page. This is the document that Mr. Dare is referring to, and it's the size of the Manhattan phone book. And it contains a goldmine of information and recommendations. Okay.
 Two things. One, Anna, thank you for the work you've done with the utilities on the pilot to try to expand opportunities for people with intellectual disabilities.
 Mr. Adair noted that we're lagging in how we address people with disabilities, and that's a particular area where we have a lot of room to grow and learn. We're learning from our friends to the north in Seattle, and I think it's very important that we try this pilot out, figure out how we can be a more welcoming employer, and then build on it. And second, to Donnie, based on a prior council presentation we had, one takeaway for me,
 is that we have to rethink our whole recruitment strategies. You know, once upon a time, I'm being a little flip here, but once upon a time, I think the city felt like you put an ad in a scanner, you've covered, you know, check a box. And I think now we know that...
 We're looking nationally for the best talent, but we're competing against other public and private employers that want that talent too. And we can't expect they're just going to knock on our door. We've got to identify people. We've got to reach out to them. We have to recruit them. A couple of our most successful recent citywide national searches, I think, bear that out. But that requires a different approach to how we do hiring. And the net effect is we're going to get 
 Better talent. But we can't just post things and use listservs. We've got to go out and actively recruit, or as someone said that day a while ago, poach talent. And so all of us need guidance in how we do that more effectively with the goal of having a more diverse workforce and a better-led city. So thank you for your work. Thank you.
 I do want to thank the affirmative action representatives from the bureaus and offices. Each bureau and office has someone, including your offices, and some of you more than one who have taken on the responsibility for this program in their area, and we really appreciate that. And some of the affirmative action committees and parks and other committees
 bureaus that get involved in this so it isn't just a few people. Most of these bureaus did vet this before their entire management group before submitting that to us. So everybody's aware of what's in the affirmative action plan. We only print.
 the required few numbers of this that you guys require. This is posted on the Bureau of Human Resources website so that anybody in the world can look at all of this information. It's not a secret. It's public information. So those who would want to look at it, it will be a couple of weeks before the new one is posted, but the current one is currently posted. Very good. Any other questions?
 Colleagues, any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? We have one person signed up, Shedrick Wilkins. One person, come on up. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you for reading all of the report. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I commend Mayor Wheeler for, on Monday, having the woman African-American police chief sworn in. Thank you, but I picked her because she was the best applicant. That is a form of affirmative action. I think 30 years ago they tried a woman police chief, and it didn't work out too well, so...
 We'll see what happens. And for affirmative action, my best practice was I supported President Obama, and the following year he won a Nobel Peace Prize in which no president had won one for 90 years. So affirmative action does work in that case. I don't hand out Nobel Peace Prizes like candy. And number three thing, I was a soldier in the United States Army.
 And as a test and basic training, I had to take orders from a woman, African-American drill sergeant, an American Indian drill sergeant. It's not easy. And she ran me through the ringer and made sure that I would, when I was in the Army, that I would follow the orders of women.
 lieutenants or higher up or whatever. Especially if she's your drill sergeant. It's a pretty stressful experience. I'm sure it was. And I didn't say anything or mouth off. I wouldn't have got through the art. Very good. Excellent. I was in the eight. All right, colleagues, any further discussion on this issue? Any further questions? Commissioner Udaly? Call the roll, please, Carla. Udaly? Udaly?
 Thank you for presenting the plan, and I look forward to working with your office on making the city a more welcoming, inclusive employer for everyone, but in particular for people with disabilities. Aye. Well, thank you, Director Calme, and also Mr. Adair, for all your work on this and for nudging us when we didn't get our stuff in on time. And I want to thank Pooja Bhatt in my office who...
 Her work is very much reflected in our plan and I very much appreciate it. Also, she's my Senior Policy Advisor to Portland Parks and Recreation. They have a racial equity plan that is referenced here and which we're hoping to bring to council as suggested by my colleagues so that we all know and buy into the plans that bureaus are doing. I do notice that three
 Three of the categories, and four, are within Portland Parks and Recreation where we're not yet meeting our goal. That's from the technicians and the service maintenance folks in Botany and in the park ranges. So we will make sure that we focus on those particular areas. I'm actually quite surprised that we're doing so well throughout the city. And what we need to do also is make sure that there's...
 succession planning and opportunities for advancement for everybody in every category. So it has been mentioned that there's more representative leadership in all of the bureaus. Hi. Fish. Thank you for your presentation and excellent work. And we have a lot of work to do, but you've given us a clear roadmap. Saltzman. Thank you for your work, Donny and Anna both, and everybody else who helped put together this plan. Thank you.
 And it remains always an eternal call to action to do better. And having the roadmap helps. Wheeler.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you both very much. Colleagues, given the lateness of the hour, here's what I'd like to do. First of all, could I ask a question? Is there anybody here who is being appointed to the Rental Services Commission? Did anybody show up? Could you do me a favor, since we're probably not going to take the vote, could you come up now and introduce yourself to us? Is that a possibility? Thank you for being here. Thank you for your patience. Thank you.
 My name is Alan Hines.
 I'm a member of the disability community and I know how difficult it is for our community to find housing. And I really want to support the city to adopt policies that will be easier
 for people with disabilities and seniors to find and maintain health.
 Thank you very much, and I appreciate your coming in today. And this afternoon you will be appointed to the Rental Services Commission. And I thank you for being here, and we appreciate your willingness to step up and provide both your perspective and your leadership and your advocacy for people in this community who need to be heard on these issues around housing. Thank you, sir. Mayor, why don't we take the second vote on 1094? Yes, take 1094. Please call the roll.
 Sorry, Carl, I'm catching you off guard. Second reading of 1094. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted, so 1095, 96, and 97, which can be read together this afternoon, we'll put at the end of this afternoon's agenda, same with 1098. And with that, we are adjourned until 2 p.m. Thank you, colleagues.
 Very good. Welcome, everybody. This is the October 4th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Wheeler? Here. So I won't read the statement. I think I know it almost by heart. The statement is this. Treat people with respect...
 Expect that when people give testimony at the microphones, they will not all agree with you. If everybody at the microphone agrees with you, you should question what is wrong with all of us. And it's no fun if everybody agrees with you. So just treat people with respect. We don't shout. We don't yell. We don't boo. We don't applause. Just thumbs up or thumbs down always works with great effect in this chamber.
 If you are a lobbyist, please state that you are a lobbyist. Council rules require that. If you're here representing an organization, that's also super helpful. If you choose to disrupt the council, you'll be asked not to do so. And if you continue to do so, you'll be asked to leave. And if you're asked to leave and you choose not to leave, you are subject potentially to arrest for trespassing. We don't want it to go there. Let's all just...
 enjoy the time that we have together and express our views together as a community. So with that, colleagues, I'm reshuffling the schedule a little and I want to run this by you. First of all, I have an absence today at 345. I must go and I cannot get out of that. I just want to forewarn you. I have proposed that we move item 1101 to the front of the agenda. That should take about half an hour-ish.
 Then I would propose we go back to the items from this morning that we did not get to. There are three that we can read together, I believe, to speed that up. And then we'll go back on to the agenda as proposed. Does that work with folks here? Okay, great. So, Mayor, just for those who are here for the time certain, that would mean that the 2.05 time certain is likely to come up at 3? Maybe not that long.
 Question about that. The first one is just a second reading vote. That's correct. So can we just take care of that one? Probably. Hang on. I always enjoy second readings because they go quickly. Which one are you looking at, Commissioner? 1099. Ah, very good. Good. All right. Do you want to start with 1099? Okay.
 Let's do it. 1099. Please read 1099. 1099. Amend the Central City Plan District to increase height and floor area ratio limits on the United States Postal Service site. Very good. Colleagues, the...
 The purpose of today's session is to make a decision on allowing Prosper Portland to move forward with the early implementation of the heightened floor area at the United States Post Office site. Carla, please read the ordinance you did. The USPS site is one of the most significant redevelopment sites in Portland's central city.
 The proposed changes are consistent with the Central City 2035 Plan and the 2015 Broadway Corridor Framework Plan. This project will bring approximately 700 units of affordable housing, a high-density mix of employment, new city attractions including expansion of the park blocks, and signature connections between the Pearl District and Old Town Chinatown, and between the North Park blocks and the Broadway Bridge. Colleagues, any further discussion?
 Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? It was impressive how much consensus we had on this, and I'm looking forward to it getting done. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for everybody who worked very hard on that. We'll next move to item 1095. I'm sorry, it's 1101. I apologize, 1101. If only I'd learned my numbers.
 prohibit transfers of recreational vehicles with malfunctioning or non-functioning wastewater systems. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Over the past years, the Portland Bureau of Transportation has seen a significant increase in complaints of derelict, abandoned, or malfunctioning recreational vehicles or RVs on our city streets.
 More concerning is the amount of reports we receive from community members, businesses, owners, business owners, and others of the extreme cases of these recreational vehicles, ones that have caught fire due to improper electrical wiring, RVs that leak sewage, gas, or other dangerous liquids onto neighborhood streets. These are clear public health and safety hazards that need to be addressed. With this action today,
 We are getting upstream on an issue the city literally spends a significant amount of resources to solve. Colleagues, two weeks. Oh, I'm sorry, Dan. I apologize. Only on page one. One of two. Settling. One of three. We are making it clear to tow lots, businesses, or any other owners of derelict RVs that by knowingly selling and in some cases giving away RVs with malfunctioning wastewater or fuel systems,
 that will leak onto the city right away, that you are putting the health and safety of those who occupy, live, work, or play near that RV at risk. The city spends significant resources to dispose of the hazardous waste or materials, pick up trash, tow, and recycle these RVs. We also recognize that properly dismantling these RVs could be expensive and a burden on owners. So PBOT, in partnership with Metro...
 We'll be hosting an RV turn-in day towards the end of October to provide a way for owners to dispose of these RVs in a responsible way. It will cost the city money, but we believe it's the right and necessary thing to do. We do have invited testimony, and the mayor will introduce those invited panelists in one minute here. And I want to thank them for being here today and for their advocacy and support on this issue.
 And I also would like to recognize the work of both PBOT and Portland Police, who have been thoughtful and thorough on their work to address the increased number of derelict, abandoned, or malfunctioning RVs on our streets. And I also want to thank Mayor Wheeler and his staff for their work in partnership with my office to take this step to get upstream on the issue. And I also want to introduce an amendment that is some technical clarifications that I would like.
 ask that we move at this time as well. And then I'll turn it over to Mayor Wheeler. I'll second the technical amendments. Very good. Commissioner Saltzman moves the technical amendments. Commissioner Fish seconds the technical amendments. We'll call that Saltzman.
 I'll turn it over to Mayor Wheeler. Very good. Colleagues, two weeks ago I had the opportunity to tour the facility where we've been storing these derelict and malfunctioning RVs. Beyond the expense of towing these off the street and the cost to the city and the valuable time and resources it consumes, it was apparent, I will say very apparent, as you'll probably see from the presentation today, that these RVs were a public health and safety hazard.
 These were the extreme of the extreme, with some completely burned out due to electrical issues. The smell of leaking sewage was overwhelming. They were stuffed often with needles and human waste.
 PBOT and our offices have fielded over 4,000 complaints from concerned residents, and we must respond with a multifaceted approach. This ordinance is an attempt to head off these hazards upstream and discourage individuals or businesses from gifting or selling these derelict, malfunctioning RVs at no or a very low cost.
 We do understand that this can be costly to owners, and that's why we're pairing this ordinance with an RV disposal turn-in day. It will still cost the city money. However, it will cost significantly less than it costs to have staff assess, tow, and dispose of RVs as we're currently doing. What we are saying is you can't just give these malfunctioning vehicles away.
 Instead, we are providing an option for turning them in and having them disposed of properly. I would lastly like to highlight the great work and the strides that PBOT, Dave Benson in particular, and the Police Bureau, Sergeant Teague in particular, have had in addressing these RVs. This is a very complicated issue.
 They've been nimble and incredibly thoughtful in their approach to these complicated scenarios, and it goes without saying it is very difficult work. Commissioner Saltzman, I want to thank you and your team for your leadership on this issue, and I'm very appreciative of the work that we've had the opportunity to do together. We have five invited individuals for invited testimony. I'd like to go ahead and call them up first.
 We can probably pull two more chairs up if people don't mind that. We have Dave Benson from PBOT, Robert King, who's the Assistant Chief of the Portland Police Bureau, Randy Teague, who is a Sergeant with the Portland Police Bureau, Jennifer Young, who is the Lentz Neighborhood Association Livability Chair, Corky Collier from the Columbia Corridor Association. Welcome. There we go.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Dave Benson. I'm the Parking Services Group Manager of the Bureau of Transportation. I'm here today to explain the ordinance being introduced by Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Wheeler.
 The purpose of this ordinance is to make unlawful the sale, loan, or other transfer of RVs that leak fuels or have leaky wastewater systems or a reasonable person would conclude that they are in such disrepair that they would be likely to leak.
 This ordinance was also written with exceptions to it. So an individual can transfer an RV to a repair facility, a licensed dismantler, or to the city of Portland for that matter during the RV turn-in day.
 My presentation today is designed to share with you the work we have done in recent months with derelict and hazardous RVs so that you understand why we are making this recommendation. You'll also hear from my colleagues to my left here, Commander Robert King, Sergeant Randy Tighe, and community members who are deeply concerned about this issue. We believe that adopting this ordinance is a way to keep dangerous and hazardous RVs off our city streets.
 In November of 16, City Council provided $150,000 to the Bureau of Transportation for the purposes of dismantling and recycling derelict RVs that qualified as abandoned vehicles, that is, vehicles that aren't operable, have no current registration, have little or no value.
 and no legal owner claims them when they're towed. We made, and you approve this request because an RV at the end of its life cycle has no value, and the disposal process can cost up to $2,000 for an individual if they are lucky enough to find disposal facilities that will take RVs. Tow companies and scrap cars don't want RVs because they don't have any commercial value. This $150,000 helped us partner with tow companies to tow derelict RVs off the street and dispose of them.
 At the time, PBOT increased the number of abandoned auto officers from three to four, as well as our focus, our efforts on chronic abandoned vehicle cluster locations. To give you some sense of how the issue has exploded, in all of 2016, we had 4,000 abandoned RV cases. To date...
 Three quarters of the way through the year, during the first six months, we had 4,000 or doubling what we had all in 16. And through three quarters of the way a year, we've had almost 7,000 abandoned RV reported cases. We are on pace to be close to 10,000 by the end of the year. And this doesn't include the over 20,000 complaints we receive for abandoned cars in the right-of-way each year. In the spring of this year...
 we began partnering with the Portland Police Bureau on a process that you'll hear later talk more about called the Community Caretaking Procedure. In short, this procedure allows the police to immediately seize RVs that pose an immediate public health threat to health and safety because of leaking raw sewage, flammable fuels, sharps in and around the vehicle, garbage or other waste matter that attracts rodents.
 and creates hazardous conditions. These RVs are dangerous to both the public and to those who choose to stay in them. To complement PBOT's, the Port and Police Bureau's efforts, we added an additional four abandoned auto officers for a total of eight officers. These new four officers have formed what we are now calling our vehicle inspection team. They are exclusively dedicated to working on abandoned auto complaints.
 In addition to working to remove derelict, unoccupied RVs from the roadway, they also engage with persons living in RVs, offering referrals for services. They interact with social service providers, contact neighbors and area businesses to hear their concerns, and work closely with Portland Police Bureau and Neighborhood Response Team officers to look for solutions. They are dedicated to helping people in our community, and during the hottest periods of this summer, they handed out water to persons sheltering in RVs. They also distribute heavy trash bags.
 to occupants of RVs to help them keep the areas around the RVs clean and helping to eliminate some neighborhood livability concerns. Their addition has had a dramatic ability on our ability to respond to these RV complaints. We have reduced wait time by about 88%. As a practical matter, it was a few weeks to respond to a abandoned RV complaint. It's now down to a few days.
 Since May of 2017, the tow yards have been full and unwilling to take additional RVs, and the new community caretaking program was launched. Therefore, all RVs were towed as either abandoned auto or community caretaking to the Portland Police Bureau's property evidence yard at Giles Lake.
 Each of these RVs shown has its own story and has to be handled differently. Some have drug paraphernalia, including needles and other hazards that need to be abated. Some need to have waste tanks pumped. Some have missing or obliterated vehicle identification numbers requiring an additional investigation. Some have been completely burned. And the Fire Bureau tells us that so far this year, 25 RVs have burned.
 The handling of the process of RVs is both complex and nuanced depending on the condition, as is the coordination of towing, the lack of which often hamstrungs the police. As a result, PBOT has assigned a full-time staff member to ensure all administrative paperwork is in order
 to move RVs through the demolishing process in a timely manner. We also assigned our towing coordinator to spend about 50% of his time working with our contract towers to make sure the police get the tows when and where they need it. These are just some of the RVs that we...
 Currently have at Giles Lake and each has a story. The one that's up on the screen right now, I'm told, and Sergeant Tye can probably speak more eloquently about it. But the day before it was towed, this was a trailer. Actually had sides and a roof. And when the police came back to tow it, this is what they found.
 So each is different. On this trailer, it was still a vehicle, so we have to go through a rather thoughtful process to make sure we can try to identify an owner, offer them the chance to claim it before we can dispose of it. A lot of these RVs are full of garbage, as you see here. This is just one small, it looks like a Class C motorhome, and that is all the garbage that was inside. We have a company that comes out and cleans out all the waste matter, all the sharps, all the garbage.
 from the inside you see on the slide on your right. RVs towed. Since the community caretaking process was put in place in about May of this year, there have been 100 RVs towed under that program. Since November, when you gave us $150,000, we've towed 156 RVs as abandoned. And not too surprisingly, the motorized RVs, because they're derelict, break down on our city streets.
 So police officers tow them as traffic hazards fairly routinely, and we've towed 43 of those. The outcomes of the RVs towed to the Portland Police Bureau, so far we've taken 72 to the demolisher, 72. The RVs that are remaining out there, we have 96 of them, 64 of which are in the area.
 Our community caretaking tows, and 32 of which are abandoned RVs or was treated as traffic hazard. I should point out that we have to handle these very, very differently. Community caretaking tows are held on site for 60 days, whereas an abandoned RV can be disposed of in a much shorter time. This has been a costly program. The Portland Police Bureau to date has spent $92,000 in personnel costs. PBOT during last fiscal year spent $126,000.
 This year we're projecting somewhere between $1.3 to $1.8 million. Our costs have gone up dramatically, largely because PBOT has five full-time personnel, three half-time personnel, and an additional five staff who spend up to 25% of their time working on this project. And I didn't even count my time.
 So it is very expensive. We've never engaged in a process like this. We hope, we know the costs are high, but we hope with established policies and procedures we'll be able to get them down. RV recycling is about $1,500 a unit. That includes $500 for towing, $200 to clean it, about $40 to clean out the tank, and about $700 to demolish it. So it is a very expensive process, even for the city. Thank you.
 Could I just ask a question at that point? Where is the money coming from? We're using our personnel, are fully funded, and we're using it out of existing resources. Thank you. Revenues, talk a little bit about that. You gave us $150,000 last year. In this year's budget, or actually this year's changes to fees, you added a $9 charge on every vehicle towed.
 And that money is dedicated towards RV recycling. So that gives us a little bit of ongoing funding to your question, Commissioner, or a way to help pay for this cost. Obviously, it's not everything, but it's something. It brings us up to today. We're told, we believe, that there are estimated 650 to 750 RVs in Portland with people living in them. Some of these RVs are leaking sewage or fuel.
 Derelict RVs are often disposed of at little or no cost through Craigslist and other ad sites. I'd like to show you a couple actual ads. This is over the summer. We had ads, and you can kind of zoom in. I'm sorry, I can't. The one on your right says, free to the first person to remove from our lot. You must take and remove it yourself. This was a tower out in Washington County that was giving these things away because, again, remember, they have no value.
 The other one, the gentleman was asserting that his mother and father left it to him and that it's ready to be fully remodeled, but it's not in the best shape, and he wants $200 for it.
 So just so I'm trying to follow all this, the proposed ordinance would prohibit the towler from transferring this vehicle to anybody, even at no consideration, correct? We have limited it to just those vehicles that are either so badly damaged or likely to leak fuels or wastewater. Right.
 But any other kinds of vehicles that are just old, it doesn't prohibit. It's very narrowly tailored. But if this Chevy Winnebago 
 was leaking according to the definitions, then this would apply  this would essentially prohibit a towing company in Portland from offering for no consideration someone to come take one of these things because that would be a transfer. It makes it unlawful to do so, correct? Whether it's for consideration or not. Correct. It's just you're taking this problem off my hands, and we go back to that person who's been storing it and saying you can't do that. You have to  Correct. Okay. Okay.
 here's yet another craigslist um the one on the right is the same toller in washington county is busy out there trying to give away a trailer so these actually do happen we hear rumors every day about businesses giving away rvs to individuals we hear about and i think sergeant ty can speak more eloquently about this about folks going into tow yards and saying i'd like that one right there they put it on a tow truck and take it out and
 dump it somewhere in our right-of-way. And then ultimately we engage with them and we dispose of it. So it is a big problem, and it's a big problem for the towers too. What's the current ordinance in place with regard to sleeping in an RV in a public right-of-way? You cannot have an RV. The most restrictive reading of it is you cannot have an RV in the right-of-way unless you're actively loading or unloading for more than eight hours.
 And that's been on the books for a long time? That's been on the books for a long, long time. Okay, thank you. The current situation and the impact, derelict RVs, leaking fuels, or wastewater are inhabited, are often inhabited and parked on city streets, creating a public safety and health hazard, not only to the public, but the people living in them. So we receive complaints, the police or PBOT tow these vehicles, and the people that receive them are yet deplaced yet again.
 So this process actually harms the homeless by getting these derelict vehicles. This ordinance is just one tool to prevent the most derelict of RVs from being occupied to begin with and being parked in the right-of-way, creating hazardous conditions. And that's the end of my presentation. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. I have a question, if I could, Mayor.
 In your presentation, you said there are about 650 to 750 known RVs with people living in them on our streets. Is that correct? We believe that could be correct. Roughly. And in most instances, if I follow what you said, where they are parked and the way they're being used is illegal. Almost always. Almost always. Yes.
 And there's a certain percentage of them that are unsafe to both the occupants and people in the community. So, you know, the last time I was on Hayden Island and visited that spectacular manufactured home community, one of the things I learned is that they have an RV park where people can come, hook up. They  at a reasonable cost, you get electricity, water, and then there's a general store. Right.
 And it turns out that a lot of people who live there are people that work in jobs like they work for the circus or construction projects or whatever. So they travel around, and they just come there, they hook up, and it's a great deal. It's a wonderful location, actually. As a future action, and this may be more directed to the Housing Bureau, are we thinking about ways of creating safe places for people that have 
 high-functioning RVs where they could go at a low cost and plug in and other things subject to a set of rules and some kind of oversight so that there's not just this piece, which is important, getting the derelict off, but give people a lawful option where they can take their RV at a low cost and operate it.
 Commissioner, it really is an excellent question, and it's really two parts. One, the RVs that we have on our streets, and I think Commander King and Sergeant Tye can also speak to this, are almost universally in very poor condition. Okay.
 They're not going to hook up to anything. I mean, they don't even have power cords to hook up. They are in horrible shape. As you know, Commissioner, you remember you directed us to provide some dollars to repair RVs. We haven't been very successful because the RVs out there are in such disrepair and are so badly maintained that there's no dollars that could repair them.
 So to your question, I don't know if there's too many of those out there that would fit that bill. So just food for thought, and I don't want to  we have a lot on our agenda this afternoon, but it seems to me if we could find a couple locations and in a cost-effective way create something like what they have in Hayden Island.
 where responsible parties, and let's say even go one step further, maybe find a way to contract with FEMA or some other disaster agency to get some of those low-cost trailers they have, so give someone a temporary use as a transition to us looking for permanent housing and other kinds of things. My guess is we could find some dirt, and like some dirt that are close to utility structures, because we're looking for just water, electricity, and sewer.
 So we could create a set of criteria and look for some dirt. We have a couple of ideas, actually, in one of my bureaus. So that's for another conversation, but that's the carrot, not the stick approach. That's how can we positively address it. And, again, the model for me was seeing what happens out in Hayden Island, where it's a very attractive, well-managed thing. Could we create a similar environment for people that are otherwise homeless? Sure. And just to add a little bit to it, and it's a fabulous idea that I think should be explored,
 But Seattle tried much the same thing, and what they found is these RV parks didn't become transitional. They became an in and of themselves. People saw that as their permanent location, and they abandoned their program. The city of Eugene tried the same thing, and they had much the same experience.
 And although you can still camp in private lots in the city of Eugene, they haven't embraced this idea either. So I think there's been attempts around the nation at this, and I think we should talk to our colleagues in other cities to figure out best practices. Thank you. Mayor and city commissioners, if you don't mind, I'd like to make my comments at the end. I'd like to introduce Jennifer Young from the Lentz Neighborhood Association. Jennifer has been a tireless advocate.
 on behalf of children and neighbors in our community, especially in Lentz and Brentwood-Darlington, and has been at the table, worked closely with police and community groups for a very long time in a way that's designed to help make people safer. So I'd love very much to hear from her, and then also from Sergeant Tighe, of course, who in the Police Bureau has singularly been our expert in many regards and has helped to develop and implement these programs. And without him and his tireless work, along with, of course, P-Bot and David,
 Benson and Kezia Wanner, we would not be here today. So if you don't mind, Jennifer. Thank you very much for that introduction. And thank you for having me speak today. I feel very privileged. My name is Jennifer Young. I am a over 20-year resident of the Lentz neighborhood. I'm coming to you as a Lentz resident today, not in my role as a LNA board member, I'd like to add, because I've been working on this for much longer than I've been involved with the Lentz Neighborhood Association.
 I own a small nonprofit social service agency in Lentz as well, and I am an administrator for a reporting site for livability issues. Over two years ago, Lentz began to see an influx of motorhomes, trailers, and RVs arrive in the neighborhood. I began documenting these vehicles, maintaining photo archives and spreadsheets with a lot of help,
 because what we were seeing were very dangerous and derelict RVs. These weren't the kind of RVs that I grew up seeing for recreation. We have, I'd like to say, hosted over 250 of these derelict RVs by conservative counts over the past two years, with, I would say, about 95% being what we would consider derelict or unsafe RVs.
 Most of these vehicles lack tags, many lack license plates, and often they are from out of state. This makes reporting extremely challenging for residents. Many of the RVs do not run, and it's not uncommon to see RVs acquired from junkyards or traded off Craigslist being towed with tow ropes throughout our neighborhood, narrowly avoiding people and cars.
 see it pretty frequently. Our parks, schools, and residential areas have often resembled RV graveyards with up to 20 caravans parked along public streets. The streets and sidewalk access often is limited, and some of these RVs have operated as mobile drug houses, fencing operations, and bike chop shops. Large groups of people tend to congregate at them as well.
 The biohazards associated with the derelict RVs have been a huge issue. We have documented cases of RVs leaking human waste from overfull septic tanks or occupants actually draining tanks into sewer grates or into the gutter. Sometimes we see buckets poured into the street.
 The smells are often unbearable and you can smell them from several feet away. People saying they can smell them inside their houses. It's not unusual to see the sewage flowing when it rains. When we have tried to report, sometimes we're directed to the fire department because it's an immediate health hazard.
 Then sometimes we're directed to BDS, and then most of the time back to PBOT. And PBOT, as Dave so eloquently explained, is just completely overburdened. They're sort of the point of contact for all of this. And it has taken weeks for tow warnings to be issued and sometimes weeks or months for tows to be arranged.
 Many of them simply move or have someone tow them a block or two away, resulting in a big game of whack-a-mole and we have to start the process all over again. We have seen engines pulled out and left on hoist, dripping oil, gas, transmission fluids, especially near parks and schools. We have had, very recently in the last couple of months, two RVs explode.
 They were both in the same location, oddly enough, next to the high school. The one in May was supposedly electrical. The other one was from gas. Both of these explosions burned the trees nearby, signs, utilities. Residents in the first incident were left without utilities for three days. Okay.
 In the latest incident, power was out for several hours, and it was the hottest night of the year, leaving people unable to cool their homes. Luckily, school was out when these explosions occurred. The occupants were unharmed, but this could have easily been a tragedy. We have documented and smelled RVs storing chemicals and probably most likely manufacturing drugs. We've seen dogs being used to guard homes.
 manufacturing drug RVs, which aren't occupied by people. We have to begin to enforce city ordinances and enact measures which will limit the flow and abundance of these dangerous vehicles to our streets. Just as we ask drivers to have a license, registration, operate safe cars, get a DEQ, display their plates, and ensure and respect parking ordinances, we should expect the same from the operators of these derelict RVs.
 This is a crisis and a crisis which is harming the neighborhood, the environment, and the occupants of these basically what I call death traps. It's not good for anyone. So I urge the council to please adopt this ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. So I'd like to just focus more on just kind of extension of what she's talking about. And there's no exaggerations here. I just received a complaint before I walked in here of one that sewer is just pouring out of the bottom of it, and they sent me pictures of it.
 An additional impact that has not been discussed is the Bureau of Environmental Services is also taking a financial impact on this, where these are leaking into the sewer systems. And I got trained by some of the people that work there, and they explained that just to have that initial call, it's $1,000, and it quickly can get up to $5,000 per incident. And so these  BES is incurring these expenses currently. And so that's another hit the city is taking on these.
 And I'd like to talk about one of the things this ordinance is going to stop is the recycling of what we're currently seizing. So if some of these vehicles we're taking, there's drugs in there, there's waste, human waste, there's syringes, there's all kinds of things that are a danger to a person.
 historically these could go to a tow yard and then that tower could give it back to another unsuspecting person who now is believing they're getting this motor home they get this motor home they go out it is full of syringes and bio waste from some unknown person and then they are burdened with figuring out what to do with that and what ends up happening is it gets dumped in the street and or they live in it one of the two things so I know one of the gentlemen who's his
 He lived in a boat and he lived in a trailer and they've both exploded because they're in such poor repair. So when we talk about the community caretaking piece, we're talking about the entire community. It's not pitting neighbors against homeless people. That's not the characterization at all. It's clearly balancing the community health concerns for all people involved.
 And we work closely with social services to address what Mr. Fish was talking about. We do currently find places for them if they are capable of going to a location. So the Joint Office of Homeless Services has paid for application fees. We've located families in these. And the timing of removing the vehicle, balanced against the community concern, was balanced in their favor, so we didn't take it.
 and we found them a place to go so they can go to their work and fulfill their daily responsibilities. So there is a balancing act that's happening as far as maintaining a humane piece to this and then maintaining the community health and safety piece. And probably we tow, my unit has inspected roughly 120 of these motorhomes, a little more than that probably, and we've towed about 60. Okay.
 We told the worst of the worst and we get social services to every person that's involved if they are occupied.
 We have a social worker or an outreach worker that we work pretty closely with. I don't think she sleeps, but she works tirelessly to help. And we have a combination of her helping people in places. We have veteran services, outreach workers that are helping us. And then the other piece of this is oftentimes when we step in to remove these motorhomes, families come forward to offer the people that are living in that place to live because now that last resort is gone. Yeah.
 So sometimes it acts as a catalyst for change. And then there's times that we've worked with transition projects to have beds reserved for those times when there's no place for someone to go. And they've been working very hard to make sure that there is an emergency bed for people that are impacted by this program, the community caretaking program. So we've worked very hard to try to get some balance on the backside of this with the people who are impacted and
 The one piece we can't mitigate is they're being victimized. That's an accurate word, being victimized by someone dumping this hazardous waste dump on them, and they think this is going to be the solution to their problem, and it's the beginning of their problem. And it puts everybody in a bad position. It puts them in a bad position. It puts the officers in a bad position, and we've got to put a stop to it from that piece.
 That's pretty much, I just want to make sure that Mr. Fish knows that we are working and discussing with the Joint Office of Homeless Services about a more efficient way of dealing with these. We've talked about it. We went out and identified a parking lot that had power, had all the services there. But when we start doing a cost analysis, it's prohibitive currently, just mainly because of the disrepair of these motorhomes. It's just keeping them there would be so expensive.
 Most of the local RV parks won't take them if they're more than 10 years old, and some will if they're in good repair, but they have to be in good repair. My team has been successful in going outside the city and finding RV lots that will take people, and we've arranged to have them towed there.
 And when we can accommodate that, we accommodate that. In some cases, we've gotten family to come out and bring the RVs to their private property. So there's  as long as it's not something that is going to blow up and burn a house down. And Fire Bureau expressed to me some concerns about when you have them lined up, when one goes, you can have a chain reaction that can start passing onto houses, taking out power poles. So that's a serious concern. We've had 25 of them already burned down.
 That's pretty much the program in a nutshell. We're just utilizing the community caretaking law, which is a state law that enables us to do non-criminal activities to support the safety of the communities, things that are inherent to our mission to protect people. So that's what the community caretaking law does. So there's never a criminal component to this. We don't search these and charge crimes. It is completely and totally for human life and safety.
 Thank you.
 Very good. I just wanted to start by saying, Commissioner Fish, it's a pleasure to see you. I haven't seen you since I learned of your cancer diagnosis. Someone very close to me that I love very much is recently receiving treatment. I'm very hopeful for you, for your healing, and for a complete recovery. And we'll pray for you and for your health. Mr. King, thank you. And all I can tell you is I'm grateful to live in a city that has the Knight Cancer Institute. Yeah. Because it turns out we've got a world-class facility in our backyard. And thank you.
 The care I'm getting is first rate, and I think we're making progress. Thank you very much. And that's where my family member is, and we're very grateful that they're there as well. Thank you, sir. As you've heard today, this really ultimately is about safety and health and about a way for us. It's an additional tool to use at our discretion to stop this revolving door of putting what really are dangerous people
 RVs back in the hands of people that are trying to find alternatives to housing in a crisis that they're experiencing. It is designed from everyone's point of view to be a humanitarian approach to a difficult situation. And I just wanted to encourage you that we are, all of us in this team,
 both of city bureaus as well as community members, working together to carefully balance the interests of all of those that are involved. And it's complicated and difficult, but we're working through it in a way that I think is ultimately progressing towards a result that is better than the current condition. And then lastly, I just wanted to say that
 One of the advantages of the benefits that I have of having worked in the city for the last 27 and a half years is I get to see people do really amazing work. And in Peabody, Commissioner Saltzman, David Benson, and Kezia Wenner.
 have, and through your leadership and support, have led an effort in PBOT to help in the city and with the police bureau and other city bureaus that is unprecedented in my experience. And they're producing results that are having an impact that are positive in our neighborhoods that are impacting safety and livability in a way that I've never seen before.
 Randy Teig, as a sergeant at East Precinct, is a nationally recognized expert in all of these matters. And he, in many respects, single-handedly has, through his own initiative and his own drive and his own grit, moved all of these things forward in collaboration with so many different people and organizations. And you heard the testimony that he had today for you about...
 the nature of the challenge, and the work that he and his team and NERD have leaned into. And they have delivered very positive results up to this point. I'm extremely proud and respect, admire, and appreciate the work that they have done. And I'm very grateful for Jennifer and so many other people in Lentz and so many other people in Brentwood, Darlington, and so many other community members and families throughout our city who have regularly messaged to us,
 as your representatives, that they are sympathetic and they understand that people fall on hard times. And they want us to be, as a city, supportive in every way that we can. But they also want us to do work to ensure the safety of all that are involved, both safety and health. So when we come to you with this,
 We are coming from the point of view of been at countless and numerous community meetings. We've heard from many other city bureaus. We've heard from representatives of the state of Oregon and the federal government. And there are many, many people who have all been working together to make our neighborhoods and our communities around this issue one notch safer.
 and do it in a way that's humane for all involved. So therefore, I hope that each of you supports this ordinance. Again, it gives us an opportunity to do this work. We will use this tool as an investigative tool, as a deterrent, in a way that is designed to produce the kind of results we've talked about today. Thanks very much for allowing us to testify. Thank you.
 And that completes the invited testimony. Commissioner Udaly has a question. I just wanted to thank all of you for being here today and for the presentation. You've addressed nearly all of my concerns, and I just really appreciate the compassion and humanity that you're bringing to the conversation.
 It's been a long day, so I just want to make sure that I'm not seeing and hearing double. Did you say that we were on track for 10,000 removals or 10,000 derelict...
 We're on track at the end of the year. I think that the actual number is 9,617 cases of abandoned RVs that will be reported to us. We'll be at 30,000 reports of abandoned vehicles this year. So that number are unique vehicles? It's not 10? No, some of them are duplicated. It's not actual. Some of them have, you might get three reports on the same vehicle. Okay. I mean, that is...
 a little bit comforting because that would be one derelict RV for every 65 Portland residents if we did have 10,000. And it makes me very concerned that our homeless count might be grossly off. Interesting. Okay. And Commissioner Fish, I just wanted to let you know that
 We've had an initial conversation with Director Joel in a home for everyone about the possibility of opening up lots. And it is problematic because, as has been explained here, if an RV is 10 years old or less or in really good repair, there's typically somewhere for them to go.
 And then if it's in disrepair, unsafe, obviously we don't want to give it a place to park. And there's not a lot that's in between. It's still something I'm interested in pursuing for those few that might fall into that middle category. But it is problematic. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have public testimony on this item, Carla? I have one person signed up, Scott Pratt.
 Scott, come on up. Three minutes. Name for the record, please. Good afternoon. Scott Kraft. I am not a lobbyist. I don't have to say that, but I like to. Over my 35 years living in Portland, I have held a number of volunteer public advocacy positions. I think for these purposes, the one that is probably most on point is the 30 years I've spent as a board member and
 I think your microphone mic. Voters. There we go. And to me, this is probably the most important part of this problem is the sewage, the gas, the waste, the environmental degradation that is occurring because of derelict RVs. So, and that should be...
 problem that is not absorbed by the city. It shouldn't be a danger to the public, to the citizens of this city. So I strongly urge you to pass this ordinance, make our city a bit more livable, a bit healthier and get rid of the dangers that are caused by these derelict RVs. Thank you very much. Thank you. Colleagues any further questions on the technical amendments?
 Please call the roll on the... Just a quick technical correction on the amendments. Yes. They identify in the preceding paragraph that it's to amend sections B and C, but when you look at the amendments themselves, they show as A and B. I just want to clarify for the record that Council intends for those to be B and C rather than A and B. Very good. Commissioner Saltzman, any objection? No. Very good. Any further discussion on the amendments? Thank you for that clarification. Please call the roll.
 You, Daly? Well, thanks again for the presentation, and thank you to Commissioner Saltzman and his office and PBOT. Aye. Fritz? I appreciate the technical amendments, Commissioner Saltzman. Aye. Fish? I want to compliment everybody on the presentation because I learned a lot, and I want to thank our friend from Lentz for coming. I took copious notes as you spoke, and I thought you gave really helpful testimony, and thank you for doing that. And Commissioner Saltzman, thank you.
 You've already been singled out for some praise in pulling all this together. And, you know, I've served with Dan for nine years. And one thing I've come to appreciate is that if you give him a tough intractable problem, he will usually find a way to solve it. And that's part of his brand on this council. And that's one of the things that I will miss when he finally ends a distinguished career. Aye. Seltzman. Well, I want to thank 
 A lot of people here. I want to start out by thanking the Bureau of Transportation, Dave Benson, Kezia Wanner, Mark Williams in particular for your leadership in making this happen. And also Portland Police Bureau, Sergeant Tagg and Commander King. I don't think this would all happen without the two bureaus joining together to make it so. And I especially want to thank...
 Jennifer Young, for inviting us to the Lentz Neighborhood Livability Meeting in April, because that's really what, that was a catalyst for me. I got angry at what I saw, and what I saw in Lentz Neighborhood.
 dealing with every day. And I felt it was time to deliver on some things. And so what we've done today, I think, is to show that we have a program that works, and this is going to make it even work better by prohibiting the sale of vehicles that have failing waste systems or other threats to residents of our city.
 And I also want to thank Mayor Wheeler for his leadership and directing the Police Bureau to make this all happen too. And this is really a great place we're at, and I hope we're not inundated with more RVs than we already have because the numbers are astounding. It's just hard to believe there's thousands of abandoned RVs out there, but there are. So thank you to everybody for making this program happen.
 I also want to thank, sorry, forgot to thank my staff, always important. Tia Williams, Matt Grum, and Shannon Callahan, formerly of my staff, all had a hand in making this happen too. Aye. Wheeler? So this is a great policy.
 And as with everything we're doing regarding homeless populations in our community, it is a thoughtful balance. On one hand, as you heard from the people giving testimony, we are seeking a compassionate approach to a humanitarian crisis. On the other hand, as we heard loudly and clearly today,
 In Lentz, we also are expected by the public we serve to uphold environmental, public safety, and public health standards. And I think everybody engaged in this process struck a very thoughtful balance. That's the first thing I wanted to say.
 The second thing I wanted to say is thank you to those of you who testified today. I thought that was very compelling testimony, and I thought it nicely covered both of those aspects, compassion on one hand, the community standards, and the law on the other.
 And I want to commend Commissioner Saltzman. I think one of the best decisions I've made as mayor was to make him transportation commissioner. I think he's been very responsive to a number of very complicated issues. It's hard to believe it is October. Pretty soon, Dan, we're going to be talking about ice and snow on the streets again. Yeah.
 And then after that, potholes again. And then we'll get back to more of these issues. But I believe that in every case, you and your team have risen to the occasion brilliantly. Thank you.
 The second thing, I'm joking, this is like the tenth thing. The next thing I want to just say is this is not a Portland-only problem. And I have to keep coming back to this because it occurs to me as I listen to people and I go out and I meet with people in the community, there's a sense of hopelessness insofar as people think this is a Portland-only problem. I want to assure you that it is not. This issue with regard to RVs is all up and down the West Coast.
 And my suspicion, Commander King and Sergeant Teig, is that you're going to be getting lots and lots of calls if you're not already from other jurisdictions asking you how you are doing this. And I encourage us to continue to work with all those jurisdictions across the West Coast to address this issue in both a thoughtful, effective, as well as a compassionate manner.
 way. I want to thank the folks on my staff. As always, if I ever look like an idiot, that's all me. If I ever look like I'm doing something good, you can bet that Serafie, Burke, and Andrea are behind it as they were on this. So thank you for that. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. I'm sorry, that's the amendment. I'm getting ahead of myself. The amendment. Now to the main motion, please call the roll unless there's any further questions, colleagues. Commissioner Eadaly.
 Call the roll, please. Udayli? Aye. Fritz? Well, thanks to everybody who's already been mentioned, particularly Commissioner Saltzman, and also to the Lentz Neighborhood Association. Jennifer Young, sorry, amazing work that you've been doing, but also in partnership with Judy Law and Cora Potter and so many folks who have been working in Lentz for a very long time. And I agree with Commissioner Saltzman that the hearing we had or the town hall that we had in Lentz was extremely compelling.
 So now we'll get the RVs taken care of. We've got the nice new soccer field. We've got the playground fixed. So we'll have to decide together what's the next thing to challenge to go. But it's really great to see good things happening in Lentz. Did I hear correctly, Assistant Chief King? I was acting Assistant Chief.
 Acting Assistant Chief. He did a great job. I thought it sounded very good. So thank you for your longstanding work with the Police Bureau and obviously with the partnerships that you've formed here. And thank you to Janine on my staff and especially to Matt Grum on Commissioner Saltzman, who always gets back to us very quickly. Hi. Fish? If you were the Acting Assistant Chief, did that mean we saw you on Grimm? No, I never did make it to Grimm. All right, well.
 Their loss. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you, everybody, for that. Please call 95, 96, and 97 together. 1095, create rental services commission. Aye.
 1096, appoint 13 members to the Rental Services Commission. And 1097, appoint five new members and reappoint seven members to the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. Colleagues, housing and tenants' rights have been a top priority for me and I know for all of you.
 Meaningful public engagement has been a key part of our approach as we implement our strategic vision around housing access and affordability. To maintain transparency of and enable community feedback on the city's increasing role in tenant-landlord affairs,
 We needed to create a setting for the public to discuss these regulations and for a body to advise the city on these regulations. Therefore, we went through two different recruitment processes to rejuvenate our PHAC, our Portland Housing Advisory Commission, and
 Portland Housing Bureau's BAC, which is our Budget Advisory Commission, and to institutionalize a new advisory body, the Rental Services Commission, or, of course, the RSC. I think we need to pass a subsidiary ordinance about acronyms. This new advisory commission, the Rental Services Commission, or the RSC,
 We'll advise the Housing Bureau Director, the Housing Commissioner, and the City Council on issues of rental housing law and regulations, landlord-tenant programs and services, and provide a forum for public input on rental housing.
 Along with the creation of this commission, we're making 13 initial appointments to this body, reinvigorating our Portland Housing Advisory Commission with five new members and reappointment of seven sitting members. Both PHAC and the RSE, eventual advisory body to the Office of Rental Services, will provide a sounding board on the Portland housing policy issues.
 Today we have an invited panel. We have Director Kurt Krieger coming up first. And at the conclusion of his presentation, we'll have one more panel of invited testimony. Director Krieger, take it away. Thank you very much. Members of City Council, Mayor Wheeler, Kurt Krieger, your Director of Housing.
 This is an opportunity for a base clearing home run. After a long morning of policy, we are bringing forward, as you indicate, a new commission, a rental services commission. I think it's important that you recognize that the technical advisory group that is currently charged with dealing with the
 the necessary policy improvements to the mandatory rental assistance, relocation assistance, will continue its work. We're not going to burden this new group with that assignment. We already have a group that's impaneled.
 They will finish their work and will report to council as directed by Mayor Wheeler. The Bureau has been onboarding with the Geobond Oversight Committee, so we will use the first meeting to make sure that everyone is properly onboarded
 and that they will take up their charge appropriately. So two steps, Ordinance 1095, creating the commission, Ordinance 1096, appointing members to the commission. I'm sensitive to the discussion this morning about balance.
 And while we did not screen people for their tenancy and their tenure, we did look specifically at people who were sympathetic to renter concerns. And I'm confident in saying that over half, 7 of the 13 members, or 54%, are sympathetic to renter concerns. Many are renter advocates or legal service advocates, advocates.
 although they themselves may own a home. And then with Ian Davey representing Home Forward, a social landlord, our largest social landlord, one could reason, although that they have landlord responsibilities as well as tenant responsibilities, that we have a good, solid representation and a well-balanced group here. I know you've gotten...
 Comments about expanding the group or maybe different appointments? I would urge you to consider that if you make any different appointments that you also expand the size of the group from 13 to 15 because this was a carefully constructed group and swapping one person out I think could upset that balance. I'd be happy to respond to any questions you might have about those two items. Would you like me to speak to the PIAAC as well? Yeah, if you wouldn't mind. I'd be happy to. I would like to point out that...
 Our good friend and colleague, Ed McNamara's name is misspelled. It's N-M-C-N-A-M-A-R-A. We have...
 Returning members, Sarah Zahn, Dyke Dame, Elisa Harrigan, Amy Anderson, Betty Dominguez, Maxine Fitzpatrick, and Nate McCoy. I would underscore the fact that the executive committee consists of Sarah, Dyke, and Elisa, so they're well-valued, longstanding members. And then we're reinvigorating the group with Cameron Harrington.
 As you probably know from Living Cully, Ramsey Waite, who has been very active throughout the region throughout his entire career and was, I think, in City Hall.
 with Mayor Bud Clark many years ago, Hannah Holloway, Diane Lynn, and then back to Mara. So we're very pleased that Portlanders are willing to step up and give so generously of their time and their talent. I report to the PHAC itself, and we'll be happy to meet with them at their upcoming meeting.
 Very good, Director Krieger. And, colleagues, I just received a note. We had an invited panel. As you can see, the individuals on the invited panel were also in the chamber this morning for the better part of four hours on a different item. They all have jobs that they need to attend to, so it's my understanding none of them are still here. Deborah Emcee, Katrina Holland, Elisa Harrigan, or Margo Black, are any of them present? No.
 and would like to testify. We had one gentleman this morning who is actually being appointed to the Rental Services Commission. We allowed him to testify this morning. He couldn't be here this afternoon. There are other members from the commission either who would like to have the opportunity to come on up. Please do so. Director Creager, you can cool your heels. Sorry, Commissioner Fritz. I just had a quick question for Director Creager. Go ahead.
 The code section doesn't say anything about term limits. We're about to discuss that in the next item, so I'm assuming that it can be amended. Indeed. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. I'm Christian Brandt. I'm officially, I am a...
 I'm a property manager and president of the Portland Area Rental Owners Association, as well as the Northwest Real Estate Investor Association. With that said, I also do a lot of continuing education for landlords, and I'm a firm believer in the best way to be a profitable landlord is to be one that treats your tenants like people and respects their rights and makes sure that they feel at home. Yeah.
 You know, I have the professional hat. Also happen to be a tenant myself. I'm the second tenant that was referred to on the oversight committee for the relocation ordinance. So I also feel like, you know, when we have these kind of issues that divides two groups that really need to have a symbiotic relationship...
 then we definitely need to approach this in a way that is fair for all those involved. We can't deny that there's a housing issue, and we need to make sure that we do try to create fixes that will solve the problem for the long run as well as the short run. So I appreciate being invited to be on the commission. Thank you, and we appreciate your willingness to serve. Thank you so much.
 Colleagues, any further questions before I open the door for public testimony? Commissioner E. Daly. Mr. Bryant, thank you for your willingness to serve, and congratulations on being appointed. And I'm going to resist asking you why your mentor...
 which is the question that many of us receive. I have a great answer. Yeah, I mean, given your... What was the question? The question is, you know, why are you a renter, given the field that you're in and, yeah. Absolutely fair. So I am a renter because I run my own business, actually, too, because I have a public speaking, continuing education business where I go around the state and the nation and do that.
 also running two nonprofit associations, and I'm a single dad of eight- and five-year-old boys. So I don't have time to fix things. I don't have time to mow the lawn. I will happily...
 more than what I would pay if I owned the place, just to know that no matter what, I can focus on all the stuff going on, keep it organized, and whatever I need is one phone call away if there's a real problem, and I don't have to take that responsibility. Fair enough. Thank you. Christian, Commissioner Fish had to leave momentarily. He passed me a note. He wanted to know, what do you do in your spare time? Okay.
 Just kidding. I do absolutely nothing. When I have spare time, I love my couch. I actually do a lot of hiking, except for when there's nowhere that's not smoky or on fire. Awesome. Very good. Thank you for your service. Is there anybody else here who's on one of the, is an appointee you'd like to speak? Very good. Any public testimony on any of these items? No one signed up on any. All right. Very good. 1095, please call the roll.
 You daily. Well, first I want to thank Mary Wheeler for following through on the promises he made to create an office specifically to manage renter issues in Portland. This is a really important step toward even...
 greater service, support, and protections for tenants as well as landlords. Starting a new office is a huge undertaking, and I'm proud to work alongside other council members and a mayor who gets how important these issues are to individuals, households, and families in Portland. We know that we have a supply problem, and we are working on it, but more than that, we have a stability problem. We have a lack of rules,
 former lack of rules that help mitigate conflicts between two parties who are engaged in one of the most critical types of contracts, which is leases and rental agreements. The agreements made and the expectations set between owners and renters have devastating consequences when not done properly and when one side has very little power and the other holds most of it.
 My office will not relent on making sure that renter protections remain a top priority for this council until or unless such time as we see all Portland renters in safe and stable housing. Thank you very much to the organizations and the individuals who have stepped up to dedicate their time to serving on the Rental Services Commission and the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. I look forward to working with you. I vote aye.
 Fritz. When Mayor Wheeler told me that he was going to form this commission, I was at a loss to take it back because we hadn't actually got the office yet and I was wondering who was going to staff it and all that. The more I thought about it, Mayor, the more I really appreciate you bringing the community in before we've got all those details worked out so that they can help advise on how to set up the office. And I also appreciate Director Krieger's
 assuring us that he's going to be able to manage it, at least for this fiscal year, within its current budget. So I'm very enthusiastic about this. Aye. Saltzman. Well, I want to thank Mayor Wheeler also for setting up this Rental Services Commission. It looks like an outstanding group of individuals, and I'm sure we'll benefit from their advice. Aye. Wheeler. Good work, everybody. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. I'll entertain a motion on 1096. So moved.
 or second. Commissioner Saltzman moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Any further discussion on 1096? Please call the roll. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? This is to appoint those 13 members. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The appointments are approved. Congratulations to everybody on the Rental Services Commission. We look forward to amazing things.
 from you in the weeks, months, and years ahead and know that you have very willing partners here on the Portland City Council. I'll entertain a motion on 1097 to appoint five new members and reappoint seven members to the Portland Housing Advisory Commission. So moved. Second. Commissioner Saltzman moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll, Carla. Udaly? Aye.
 There's some really amazing people who have agreed at your invitation to step up on this. Cameron Harrington, who's an anti-displacement coordinator of Living Cully. Ramsey White, I had to call him out. He was chief of staff at City Commissioner Gretchen Kofori. And I'm sure she's looking down on us and so happy that the housing is getting such great attention under Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Udeli and myself and Commissioner Slotsman. We are all very dedicated to make
 And Nick as well, but he's not here. So, yeah. Thank you, Mayor. So, there's Diane Lynn, who was in charge of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, and Multnomah County Chair, Ed McNamara, who worked with various mayors and has just done some wonderful low-income housing. So, I just appreciate everybody who's being appointed. Aye. Saltzman.
 Yes, these are outstanding appointees, and they join a group of people who are already very dedicated to Portland housing issues who are currently serving on the Portland Housing Advisory Committee. Pleased to support their addition. Aye. Wheeler. I want to thank everybody who is stepping up to serve. Aye. The report is accepted, and the appointments are approved. Next item is 1098, please.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Gresham for $749,573 for the Home Investment Partnership Program. Director Krieger. Kurt Krieger, Director of Housing. The Portland Housing Bureau is the...
 recipient of federal home and CDBG funds, and then we distribute them to our partners in the region, including the City of Gresham. So this $749,573 is a pass-through. We are responsible for compliance. We work cooperatively with Gresham staff to ensure that the projects are executed according to federal rules, and then we have a fiduciary responsibility to report back to HUD.
 So this is an ongoing relationship that we have with Gresham as well as with Multnomah County. Very good, Director. Any questions, colleagues? Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Call the roll, please. Hugh Daly. Aye. Fritz. Well, hooray. We're still getting three-quarters of a million dollars from the federal government that is being shared with the city of Gresham. Aye. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. Selksman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. And next item is 1100. Enhance community service opportunities and strengthen the transparency and accountability of city advisory bodies. And I'm sorry, I'm not sure who opens with this. I'll open. Commissioner Fish, thank you. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. Welcome people who are still here after a long day.
 I am very pleased to co-sponsor this resolution with my colleagues, Chloe Udailey and Amanda Fritz. Here's the run of show. I'll provide a few opening comments, and then other members of the council will make opening comments. We will then place proposed amendments on the table for your consideration. We have an invited panel, and then we'll take testimony. We'll break for dinner. We'll come back and have a further discussion. We'll break and then pick it up at breakfast.
 No, but that's the run of show, and we're losing the mayor at 345. So I will curb the humor and try to get to the meat of this. The premise of today's proposed action is that we make better decisions when we partner with the community and that the city needs to do a better job of providing volunteers who serve on advisory boards and commissions with the tools they need to be successful. Thank you.
 In May, Council directed the City Attorney's Office to develop a package of updates to standardize our policies and procedures and to clarify the expectations of all involved, city staff, community members, and decision makers. Today, we are forwarding that package of reforms and updates to the Council for consideration.
 Like many others, I became interested in this issue after learning that we did not have clear standards governing public service on advisory bodies, nor did we consistently require disclosures of conflicts of interest as a condition of service. The package of proposed reforms and updates before you today was developed by the City Attorney's Office in consultation with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and
 individual council officers and commissioners, city staff, and of course members of the public. The goal in establishing citywide standards is fourfold. First, to advance meaningful public involvement. Second, to provide consistency and clarity on the role of advisory bodies. Third, to daylight conflicts of interest. And four, to give community members greater confidence in the value of their service. Thank you.
 We have before us for your consideration today the following, a uniform application which includes a conflict of interest disclosure form, training materials for both advisory board members and staff, options to track the delivery of that training, a template for standard bylaws, an exit survey to be completed by members at the end of their service, and values to guide our selection process.
 Colleagues, I want to preview for you one of my amendments we will be considering today. The original draft of the bylaws, as filed, contained a restriction on members' abilities to speak freely with the media. This language was not something that any of the sponsors discussed, much less agreed to. So my first amendment...
 emphasis on the pun, will remove the restrictive language while highlighting the need for transparency and the deliberation of the various advisory bodies. With that, I'd like to invite my co-sponsors and other members of the council to make opening comments, after which, Mayor, I will try to organize an orderly process for putting amendments on the table, and then we'll invite our first panel to come forward.
 So colleagues? Commissioner? Yes, thank you Commissioner Fish. So shortly after taking office, my staff was approached by a number of constituents about ideas they felt could help the city be more effective. One of those ideas was asking if the Office of Neighborhood Involvement could somehow provide more direction and guidance to all of the bureaus in how they engage, recruit, and manage advisory bodies.
 The concerns ranged from the fact that, or at least the perception that the same few people were being tapped over and over again to serve on multiple bodies, to what happens to the work product volunteers put so much time, energy, and expertise into creating. I'm pleased to say that this ordinance today is part one of addressing those issues.
 Today we are setting the stage for a more cohesive, collaborative vision of how public engagement with the city via boards and commissions will work moving forward. By standardizing our systems across all bureaus, we are making sure that every volunteer who chooses to spend their time and expertise with the city will know what to expect, understand their responsibilities, and ensure that we are all following the law.
 But we still have more work to do. After the stage is set today, my staff, in partnership with staff from Commissioner Fritz's office, as well as ONI, will begin the important work of creating best practices guidelines for recruitment and retention. I'm looking forward to seeing those proposals come before Council sometime in the spring. I also look forward to hearing from our staff, as well as public testimony, about the work done so far. And now Commissioner Fritz would like to say a few words.
 Thank you, colleagues. I'm really excited about this. I was, as many people know, on the Planning Commission back when it was called the Planning Commission, and I was on it for seven years. So I've had lots of thinking about this over the past how many years? It is a lot.
 I was also engaged in the 2011 Charter Review Commission, and I'd ask Brian Hoop, who's formerly with the Office of Neighbourhood Associations, it does not surprise me at all that you are here today to follow this through, now that we're at the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement.
 So Brian Hoop put together a kind of a survey to find out who was serving on our boards and commissions so that we could appoint a charter commission from these members. And it turned out that there were significant disparities in who was serving on the commissions and committees and the general demographics of the population. So that was really...
 when I started looking at not only that, but with the Office of Equity and Human Rights being formed, how can we invite more people to be engaged in this? Because I found it a wonderful experience being on the Planning Commission. Totally overwhelmed to start off with, would have loved some of these trainings and onboarding and all those, the things that we're now putting into place. And I learned a lot and I felt I had a voice. I knew I wasn't making the decisions, but I was having a voice in recommending to the Commission, to the Council.
 So I'm very, very excited about this process. It does many things. One of it provides clarity. It also provides training. As Commissioner Newdaily said, it specifies very clearly what the legal requirements are and what the aspirational values are as well. Commissioner Fish provided the amendment taking out the language on talking to the media. I support taking that language out, and I lunched my...
 detriment that talking to the media before I talked to any of my colleagues on the Planning Commission was probably not a good thing to do because it didn't help us really discuss things in an open and transparent way. I'm very...
 that some boards and commissions currently don't have any term limits. And over the time that I've been on the council the last nine years, I've had many opportunities to appoint or reappoint. I also had the duty, which was not quite so pleasant, of informing people who had been on a committee within parks for the past 20 years that I thought it would be good to have some new people around the table. And so...
 We need to make more room for people at the table because there are lots of people who want to step up and help our communities, and that's what we're aiming to do, one of the things we're aiming to do right now. Commissioner Fish. So thank you very much, and I want to second what Commissioner Fritz just said. We're not going to prescribe what people can do in terms of talking to the media. Okay.
 But we hope in the selection process and in the training and in the spirit of what we're trying to achieve here that people understand that having discussions at the table with colleagues is usually more fruitful than going around that process prematurely. It doesn't restrict anyone's right to talk to the media at any time on any subject.
 But it's certainly not our intent to regulate that. But our goal is to create a set of protocols that actually enhance the value of people's public service. And that's what this first step attempts to do. I believe there are a total of five amendments which will be offered. Mayor, my suggestion is each one be placed on the table and seconded so that we can get public testimony. And I'd like to begin with Commissioner Udeli. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. So I have slightly updated language to this amendment. Okay. It is add to Exhibit D, Bylaws Template, Section V, General Operating Procedures, a bullet after the first bullet that states,
 When the conflict of interest could result in a direct financial benefit to themselves or relatives, as defined in state law, a public official shall refrain from voting on the issue, although discussion and participation is still allowed. So that is Udailey 1, Mayor, and I think the shorthand way of looking at that is that is a proposal for recusal.
 So thank you very much, colleague. And I second for the purpose of discussion. Okay, so Commissioner Udaly moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Commissioner Fritz. I just handed away all my copies of what I was talking about. Oh, sure. Thank you. So I...
 Earlier we were talking about minority reports, and I know it's very important to the council that we do hear minority opinions. We don't expect our boards and commissions to come to complete consensus, and it's very helpful to us to hear what the discussion was and what the different sides agreed.
 or many sides might agree. So I'm moving to add the following language to the resolution. Whereas the city council seeks to understand not only the conclusions of the body, but also the substance of its deliberations, and for that reason encourages the submission of minority reports along with the majority recommendation. And then there'll be a training slide that we'll see that the city council is interested not only, basically what I just said, we're putting that into a training...
 Members are encouraged to develop and submit minority reports if the advisory body does not reach a consensus recommendation. So, Mayor, I will second that amendment. That's Fritz number one, and it addresses minority reports. Commissioner Fritz. I don't think I have a minority. Okay. So that brings it back to me.
 And I should note, before I offer my amendments, that we have received a letter for the League of Women Voters of Portland, which I've circulated to my colleagues. And in the letter, they address, among other things, term limits and the recusal proposal. So that will be made part of the record. I have three amendments. The first is Fish 1, which...
 deletes the following language from Exhibit D, Bylaws Template, Section X, colon, Communications, and it is the second, third, and fourth bullet points which impose restrictions on the right of members to talk to the media. And Dan seconds that. Thank you. And so that is Fish 1. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I apologize. I'm sorry.
 That we'll call fish one and perhaps as a tip of the hat to Jim Redden, we'll call that the reversal of the so-called gag order and the bylaws. Fish two, so I have two other amendments which I'm going to offer and offer a tip of the hat to Tracy Prince who, in fairness, while there's a lot of people in this room who care passionately about these issues 
 Tracy's passion has been boundless. And we got an email from her outlining concerns she had with the legislation. So I have prepared two amendments for the council's consideration, which are designed to address concerns that she's raised. I am not offering them as Tracy's amendments because she is free to tell me that I got it wrong or to seek to enhance them, but I want to have them on the table for consideration.
 So Fish Amendment 2, add to Exhibit D, Bylaws Template, Section 5, Roman Oral 5, General Operating Procedures, comma. This is the bullet after the last bullet that states, quote, staff are obligated to keep a record of all conflicts of interest that are announced during each meeting. So I offer that as Fish Amendment 2. Second. We have a motion and a second. Fish and Fitz. Okay.
 Okay. That's fish number two. And fish two, we'll just call a conflict record keeping. I have one additional amendment, which we'll call fish three. Add to Exhibit D, Bylaws Template, Section 5, General Operating Procedures, bullet after the last bullet states as follows, quote, if it is found that a member did not disclose a conflict of interest, staff must alert the Bureau Director of that instance. Okay.
 I offer that as Fish Amendment 3. Second. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds Fish Number 3. Colleagues, are there any other amendments that you wish to offer at this time? So, Mayor, may I continue? I'm going to be later offering an amendment on Commissioner Udaly's amendment. Okay. So at this point, it's my great honor to invite our first panel. If you would please come forward. Judy Prosper from the Office of the City Attorney. Thank you.
 Ashley Horn from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, and Kofi Desu from the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And I would like to take a moment as the three of you get settled to especially thank Judy Prosper for her work on this project over the past year. She is quite literally the driving force behind this proposal at the staff level, and we would not be here today without her outstanding work. So, Judy, thank you.
 for your service. And with that, I will recognize Judy Prosper. My apologies, first and foremost. I think I'm far enough away from all of you that no one will get sick. And I'm sorry to my colleagues here. I just came down with something awful. Thank you for that introduction, and good afternoon to you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. As you stated, I'm Judy Prosper, one of the deputy city attorneys here.
 A little bit of background how I became involved in this project. Early in my tenure with the city, I was working with a newly formed board.
 And various issues arose. We started trying to tackle each issue as it came up, and that seemed like an impossible task. So two things jumped out at me. One was that members of the advisory boards did not know of their status as public officials, nor the obligations and responsibilities that flowed from that. And the second was that no one told them.
 So, needing to resolve some of the issues that came up, I called the existing work of colleagues, looked through relevant law, and put together a 50-slide training that was delivered via PowerPoint. It is in your packets. I have it loaded in case there are questions later. I can pull a slide here and there to respond to those. The training is offered as on an as-needed basis as folks request it.
 myself or one of my colleagues will deliver it to new boards, existing boards, or whatever is requested. The crux of it was to introduce the pillars of being a public official and, again, the obligations. I have a slide, and how do I get this? A slide show? Mm-hmm. Just kind of click this here. You don't have to see me. Sorry, this is really hot. Perfect. Yeah, and then it'll just like...
 Thank you. I just want to make a quick note because when we had some...
 We had some focus groups of staff members, and some issues came up that we want to just put forth. And that is to distinguish appeals boards, boards that make final decisions, and any board created by charter from advisory boards, which we're here to discuss today, advisory boards that are created by council, by code, or by a bureau. Okay.
 Appeals boards do make final decisions, even if their decision can be appealed to a higher authority. Boards like FPDR who make final decisions and any board created by charter, including FPDR, is not the subject of our work here today. They're not advisory in the sense that I described. And Judy, can I just jump in? Please. It's very important you make that distinction because we have heard from
 some interest groups that were concerned about the impact of what we're doing on, say, confidentiality agreements that they enter into as a part of being a deliberative body and receiving information. Maybe it's police accountability work or other kinds of things. And so there are a different body of laws and rules that apply to organizations.
 bodies that make final decisions or have a higher level of decision making. We are talking purely about advisory boards that serve at the discretion of the council, and therefore it's a different standard. Exactly so. Thank you.
 Okay, so the three basic pillars of being a public official. There they are. Well, the three basic pillars of membership in a body, and they are being a public official, whether you're sitting in a public or private meeting, and whether you're to keep public records. Okay.
 So my recommendation, of course, and this is part of the plan, is that all members of advisory boards should receive this training in one form or another. There will be additions based on what is decided here today. And then an additional training for bureau liaisons in addition to what the volunteers receive with staff.
 information on how to help them effectively staff those boards. So this next slide, through our work, we've decided, or it sort of shook out when we did an inventory of all the advisory bodies that came back from the May inventory. There are really three types of advisory bodies involved.
 The bona fide governing body of a public body, that's a collective call of ideas to advise this body, a public body council, by a designated group of individuals and is ongoing. The second type is a little bit of a deviation from that, and that are those limited boards that are pop-ups for a specific reason. They're still advising council, but they have a limited duration and they're issue specific. The third, excuse me.
 Pardon me. The third type of board is a little bit different. It's before bringing an idea to council or implementing it at the bureau level. Staff, city staff, are to gather input from a variety of stakeholders or designated constituencies, and then the staff members incorporate those ideas into a final product or proposal. City staff members are the ones doing the work. What distinguishes...
 one and two from three, is that one and two bodies come directly to council. And as an example, if they disagree, if staff disagree with what the body has come up with, the body can come straight to council and give their input and conclusions and such based on their votes at their meetings. A type three board is a board that is advising a person who works for the city that is one of you, right?
 a bureau director, anyone inside a bureau who's managing a project, and the person responsible for the work product is the staff member. So that's sort of a distinction, and maybe we'll get to that later if you have questions. And just to point out here, there are also alternate means of...
 rather than putting together a type 1, 2, or 3 board to gather community input. You can have a town hall, or you can simply have a meeting in your office of various folks who you want to give input on a topic. One other key distinction between 1s and 2s together and 3s is that quorums and votes are not required in the third category.
 in type threes, and you can use other means. I've heard of taking the temperature of the room by using red, yellow, and green flags, by having a show of hands, or how many people kind of feel this way. When you're in a one or two, a board that advises counsel, you have to use the quorum rules per state law, and your votes are going to need to be tallied. Okay, disclosure.
 Oregon state law considers appointees to city advisory bodies public officials and requires disclosures of conflicts of interest. Members of all three categories of advisory bodies are public officials. Under Oregon Revised Statute 244.0203, a person has a conflict of interest when participating in an official action, a vote.
 which could, which is potentially, or would actually result in a financial benefit or avoidance of detriment to the public official, a relative of the public official, or a business with which that person is associated. Additionally, Portland City Code Chapter 1.03, our code of ethics here, requires advisory members to uphold a specific standard of behavior. The language is included as part of the...
 application form which someone will speak to later, advising volunteers from the beginning when they're coming in to volunteer and sign up to get on a board or ask to be selected for a board, they have that information. So some definitions from this slide. So Oregon State Ethics Law defines business with which a person is associated as a
 When during a preceding calendar year, the person is a director, officer, owner, employee of a private or closely held corporation and has $1,000 worth of stock. Or when during the preceding calendar year, a person owns $100,000 worth of stock in a publicly held corporation. And it
 Not only the person, but an appointee or relative is a director of a publicly held corporation. And then again, when an appointee is required to file an annual verified statement. The definition of relative is very vast. Your spouse, your children, the children of your spouse, that is your steps, your siblings, in-laws, your children.
 spouses of sibling, that's in-laws, parents, parents of your spouse, your in-laws the other way, and anyone basically who provides financial support to a member of your household. These are the state, this is the state law definition of who a relative is. Again, these last two bullets.
 are for, I know the text is going over it, but the last two bullets are basically for households of unmarried people, but who provide support to each other. State law counts the monies and the interests as relatives. Excuse me. Could I ask a question on that? Hopefully it'll give your poor voice an opportunity to recover a bit. Thank you for being here. I have often wondered, is the standard here...
 A conflict of interest would be if a sibling had a direct interest in a company and you were making a decision about it. That is technically a conflict of interest, correct? Yes. Yes. So here's where it gets weird. So bear with me. Yeah. Is it the obligation of the person on the body to make a decision?
 to disclose known conflicts of interest, or is it to disclose those conflicts of interest? And the reason I ask, and I'm not personalizing this to anybody anywhere near this room, but what if you are estranged from your sibling and you have no idea what their financial interests are? How does that work? That's a very interesting question. The way I read the statute, it is meant for...
 you know, sort of those folks that you can reach out and touch that are in your realm. I actually don't have an answer to an estranged relative on the list how that would count.
 I don't want to guess what the OGEC would do, but I think logic would have to sort of prevail in that situation. If someone were to bring a claim against someone before the OGEC, I would hope that the OGEC would use logic in that case when they were thinking of a penalty. But you can't disclose what you don't know. Correct. Okay.
 So at that point, I suppose if a strange person comes and says, by the way, I own that property, at that point she would have to say, I just found out my estranged sister owns this. I don't want to sound like the lawyer here, but I'm guessing the Ethics Commission would say something like, what reasonable steps did you take to know, to learn? There's no ostrich defense here.
 And I'm guessing that there's a lot of estranged sibling who served on closely held boards of closely held companies. So you know about that. But the other things I think is probably a subject of a reasonable inquiry standard, my guess. Again, I'm not a practicing lawyer anymore, but I'm just guessing. Okay. I mean, it's an interesting question because I'm not estranged from my siblings. We're close. I have no idea what their business dealings are. I'm not sure they'd tell me if I asked. Okay.
 Thank you. You're welcome. So a public official is required, this is, again, all under Oregon law, to make an announcement of the nature of a conflict of interest each time the issue gives rise. And it needs to be made on each occasion, and each occasion has been determined to mean one time per meeting, not like every single time the subject comes up, me, me. So each time they're met with a conflict of interest, the nature must be disclosed. Thank you.
 So next I'm going to talk a little bit about the bylaw template and sort of its purpose in creating a bylaw template. When we took a look at the templates that came in after the call from May, they were all over the place. There were bylaw templates that were two pages. There were bylaws that were 30 pages. There were bylaws that were created by May.
 The group themselves, some were created. It was just all over the place. And in thinking this through and doing some research, the template is meant to be a technical operating manual for an advisory board. The points included in it are to ensure relevant laws are followed, in this case state law,
 relating to governance of advisory bodies for things such as quorums and voting and to provide basic information about membership meetings and expectations. It is my opinion, my legal opinion, that the bylaws should be created by city staff and approved by either an elected or bureau director or designee. Members of the body and staff can recommend changes, but ultimately it is the elected or bureau director who should approve any changes. Thank you.
 And the reason for this is to assure that the purpose initially set out for a board, an advisory board, doesn't go too far astray. So that there's someone there, if the body would like to suggest doing something else, adding something else, changing a procedure, that there's someone who's aware that that change is being made. Those are sort of the legal issues that I have. I'm going to pass it along to my colleagues.
 colleague Ashley, I'll push the buttons for you. And I apologize. I do have to go, but I leave you and Commissioner Fritz's able hands. Thank you.
 Okay, well, good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm really excited to be here before you today. I really am grateful for your leadership on this issue and the opportunity to address you today. It's been my pleasure to work with the other panelists you see before you and also members of your staff and others who are not up here today, many of whom serve on the Public Involvement Advisory Council, and they've been working on this as well.
 I want to just give a little bit of context very briefly and then get into some points around why these documents, these products that are being brought to you are so important and will add value to the work that we're doing here together. I run, for those of you who don't know, I run a citywide community engagement program. There are three main components to that program, one of which is the Public Involvement Advisory Council, or PIAC.
 At the May session on the resolution that we're bringing reports to you about, we were very encouraged, PIAC was very encouraged to hear the enthusiasm here among all of you that PIAC would be engaged in this work, and PIAC has been involved.
 Another big piece of the program that I run is developing citywide public involvement policy and best practices tools to elevate our work and standardize our work across all of the bureaus across the city. In this work, the third bucket that takes up a lot of time, I do a lot of capacity building across the city, a lot of training and consultation with bureaus and groups of bureaus.
 on issues. Just to share a couple of products that you may have seen come before you over the years, the public involvement principles is a product out of PIAC and the program that we're all very proud of. Also some of the budget advisory committee standards,
 came out of here. Comp Plan Chapter 2 language was a collaborative effort and came out of that program. And also the new racial equity toolkit, which you have heard presentation on from the Office of Equity and Human Rights. My program is one of the co-authors of that tool because we believe that communities should be engaged in government decision-making and reform work, especially in equity matters.
 The whole premise of this program and this work and really bringing people into advisory bodies is the understanding that those who are most impacted by something should be at the table making decisions about it. And so...
 Really, it's important, I think, just to step back and get bird's eye view of what is the role of boards and commissions, advisory bodies. Why are they of added value to you in your work as you're making all of these important policy decisions? It's an opportunity after election to hear from constituencies about matters that are important and to work together to solve problems that are shared.
 In my role, my reason for providing that context, the role that I serve here at the city, I hear from so many people every day about the challenges that they face in coordinating and leading important public involvement work across everything that we do. One of the big trends that I've seen over my three or so years here is just the need for more clarity, guidance, and structure as it relates to advisory bodies.
 PIAC has identified the need for this and is actually working on a number of things that will come before you, we're hoping, in the spring in the form of complimentary recommendations that will dovetail with some of this. I wanna give a, you can,
 Oh, it's not projecting. Apologies. I want to just... I've been told to keep to five minutes, so I'm doing my best to do that. I want to just speak to some of the products that we've all collaboratively worked on and have brought forward to you for your consideration and share some...
 I guess some added context as to why they would be so helpful in improving this work. So this need for a standardized application, I think, is a pretty obvious case. Just as a point of history...
 ONI has served as sort of like the default clearinghouse for applications to all of our advisory bodies, boards, and commissions, except for those that are very specifically housed in bureaus to advise bureau directors and so forth. And that is presented as a challenge in that we don't have a dedicated FTE to manage that presently. And it's something that has come up at various points, some of which predate my time here and since I've been here.
 So I'm really excited about us hopefully adopting a standardized application and also getting to some of the FTE support needs that are present. Can I just amplify that? Yes.
 Third from the last, be it further resolved, of this resolution says, as part of our next budget process, the Austin Neighborhood Involvement will request adequate resources to ensure proper and timely implementation of these policies. So it's baked into here. Yes. And I just want to say that, yes, there are going to have to be resources invested to make this work, and that was a very important part of the draft resolution that the city is committing through the budget process. Okay.
 well, you'll be requesting the resources but presumably the city will look favorably on a reasonable request. I certainly hope so since I am assigned the person who will be responsible for developing an implementation plan and also executing it. So I hope we'll
 be favorable to our request for additional resources in FTE to move that work forward in the future. So let me jump in as well. First of all, thank you for all the work that you've been doing because it's been already too much for just one person. You've done an amazing job with it. Secondly, the intent on the standardized application is not meant to preclude additional
 information to be given via the bureaus to the specifics of whatever they're applying for. Is that correct? Yes, that's my understanding. It
 At PIAC, the Public Involvement Advisory Council, which I staff, we have a standardized application and sometimes we'll ask additional questions of all applicants. And we're actually  so yes, yes, it's okay to have a standardized or uniform one across the city, which is helpful in a lot of ways and important. It's also okay to have more subject matter or specific questions that are asked as long as it's consistent across the board. Okay.
 I wanted to share the importance of bylaws template. Also, I get asked by a number of staff who support these bodies questions about bylaws. And it is so very helpful to have a template that brings us up into compliance with existing state law and also addresses some of the other issues that have been addressed here today before my speaking that are of value and will work.
 will, again, improve and elevate this work. And I think it will clarify a lot of questions that people who are serving on these bodies have. So that's also very important. Another thing, the exit interviews template. So very important that we have something like that to offer people who are serving and giving of their good time, or their time, their goodwill, and their expertise, excuse me.
 And we know sometimes that people have wonderful substantive feedback to provide, and there's been no feedback loop created that's more standardized or official. And so we wonder how much good information we're losing or missing as to why people are leaving or potential improvements that could be made to the body and the work itself. So I'll stop there. Those are just some points in support of these wonderful products that we have.
 I mentioned just a couple minutes ago that I will be developing an implementation plan and executing it. I'll be working with my bureau leadership. SOC is aware that we're being asked to do this and we will be figuring this out together. We estimate that this implementation will take about nine or so months and we ask for some flexibility there considering the FTE considerations that we just addressed.
 also be working proactive. You don't need permanent full-time staff? No, they do. We do. I've been asked to assume this in addition to my existing full-time, you know, full-plate responsibilities, and so I'm saying yes, and I'll be developing a plan with my bureau leadership, and we will be needing additional resources because we have plans
 But what happens once you're through the bulk of this work of implementation? Oh, what work would then that extra FTE need to do? Are we talking one FTE? One is my understanding. Oh, okay. So we're going to be one. Yes. That's different. I hear staff plural. Oh. That raises my cackles. We would be grateful for one. This is the Saltzman line of inquiry on any issue where there's new FTE and there's the potential for it.
 mission creep. I think the point I want to make is that we have over 100 boards and commissions, and we may decide to prune that a little bit because we want to make sure we're getting the maximum impact. But those are commissions that have regular turnover, and that means new members that have to be trained. They have regular inquiries about, you know, what they can and
 Judy is our legal resource, but we really need someone whose job it is to be the liaison, to do some of the training, to track all the disclosures and be the point of contact. And even that person, it seems to me, is more than a full-time job. Thank you.
 The last thing I wanted to say is that we're working proactively and collaboratively with Judy Prosper at the city attorney's office. Judy did take, she's taken a number of leadership roles as it relates to this work and facilitated a couple of roundtables and has gathered
 wonderful substantive feedback from city staff who support these bodies. I'm aware of that feedback, and we are working together to anticipate other questions concerned and also be responsive to them. And especially as legal questions come up, I will be pulling Judy in. And then you know my contact information, so if you have any additional questions, please do direct them to me because I'm the point of contact for this. Thank you. Ashley, thank you for your great work. Thanks. Thanks.
 Kofi, welcome. Thank you. My name is Kofi Desu from the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Edali, Commissioner Salzman, Commissioner Fish, thank you all for setting a new vision for the city's engagement with Portlanders who are willing to provide advice on policies, programs and practices.
 I had the honor to work closely with Ashley, Brian, Judy, Claire, Sonia, and Amira. I'm forgetting one name, please. Jamie. And I want to highlight, is this working? I want to highlight a few points in this process from the perspective of the Office of Equity and Human Rights. The first point is about the uniform application.
 for the advisory bodies. The application form is the first document that provides the mission of the body, the advisory role of the members and the expectations. Although the mission of each body will be different, the informal application will allow the city to be consistent in the process and the data that will be generated such as demographics.
 At the Office of Equity and Human Rights, we believe that it's important that city advisory bodies reflect the demographics of Portlanders. You know well that the city has been providing funding to train community leaders through the Civic and Leadership Program. You're a little too close to the mic there. Sorry. There you go. So, and community organizations have been training leaders, leaders.
 and encouraging them to serve on government bodies. And this is going to be helpful for them. The second point is about the exit interviews. Members of our advisory bodies live with a variety of experiences. That would be a total loss if we don't have a collection system in place.
 The exit interview will provide rich data based on experiences, including the accomplishments, the challenges, and the areas that need improvement. The third point is the establishment of standardized templates of bylaws. This structure will save time for advisory bodies to focus on the analysis and advisory role they signed up for. The city-generated bylaws allow the city to,
 the City Council to lead the vision and the mission of the advisory bodies while remaining open to recommendations from community members. The City created bylaws also help the Bureau Director and the City officials to take ownership of the structures put in place to support the advisory bodies. From the perspective of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, I want to express my gratitude for establishing these structures
 I believe if the city provides the necessary funding, the management of the advisory bodies will be more effective. Finally, the new standardized bylaws provide some flexibility that validate the great work that my colleagues Nicole Chiron and Tatiana Elihalde have accomplished to restructure the Portland Commission on Disability and the Human Rights Commission.
 These two Commissions have removed the positions of Chair and Vice Chair, and they are being more productive than ever before. They have established new steering committee formats, and they are more empowering for all members.
 We encourage everyone to continue the conversation about the importance of inclusive city advisory bodies. We are grateful for your new vision, and we look forward to continue to improve city policies, processes, and practices. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Madam Chair, do you have a second amendment you'd like to offer at this point? I do, and if we can maybe have them both on the table at the same time. This is an amendment to Commissioner Eudaly's amendment on recusal. Thank you.
 I'll second it for discussion if you can explain it. Ms. Prosper brought to our attention and to other speakers that there is city code already in FXC.
 law. And so my amendment, Commissioner Udaly's, which I also support, is when the conflict of interest could result in a direct financial benefit to themselves or relatives, as defined in state law, a public official shall refrain from voting on the issue. The end of that sentence for Commissioner Udaly is, although discussion and participation is still allowed.
 I'm recommending that we change it to and may not participate in the discussion prior to a vote. And that's because under Exhibit B on page 11, this is the existing city code. It says under objectivity, if an individual official's financial or personal interest will be specifically affected by a decision, the official is to withdraw from participating in the decision.
 And we actually had something that came to council last year, or actually over the last term, where a member of the Design Commission was the applicant and yet participated in the discussion, even though he didn't participate in the vote, is I believe what happened. So, Madam President, may I make a suggestion? We have 10 people who signed up. Yeah. Judy is doing heroic service today. She doesn't feel great. Yeah. But she is available to walk us through the...
 the legal issues because we now have three different proposals. We have the current proposal, which is state law governs, Commissioner Udaly's proposal, which has a recusal component, and Commissioner Fritz's proposal, which has a recusal with a prohibition on participation. And they have different legal significance. May I suggest, because of the hour, that
 that we defer on getting a legal analysis of the public testimony. Let's take the temperature of the room and then have the panel come back, give us some legal guidance, and then see where we are as a council. Yeah, that sounds  if that's okay with everybody else. Potentially we could even hear testimony and then carry things over so that the mayor can come back and participate.
 On this issue, the mayor had expressed an interest in participating, but I have a couple of suggestions how we can slice that, too. Okay, let's do that. Judy, can you hang out for another half an hour? You're getting, what is this? This must be some supplemental pay for hardship. So we have ten people who have signed up. Are you ready? Yes, thank you. Please be seated. The first three are Tracy Prince, Terry Parker, and John Hollister. I don't know if he's still here. He may be.
 Well, let's go ahead and go with Mark Belkey. And John Hollister asked me to read his testimony. I don't know if you guys are okay with that. I'm fine. I mean, considering all of the changing around we've done, that would be fine. So you can have three minutes for yours and three minutes for his. Thank you. I'm Tracy Prince. I am the vice president of the Goose Hollow Foothills League. We care passionately about this issue, as you guys have heard repeatedly over the years. Okay.
 We're very proud that we have very strict ethical requirements, and a lot of what you've suggested today follows with our very strict ethical requirements for our board members. Thank you so much for this long overdue resolution. I really appreciate that all the committee emails are defined as public documents.
 and that all committee members are understood to be public officials. I like that it's disclosing your conflict continuously. The term limits are absolutely important. We believe very strongly in that because we believe that that creates a strong citizenry who have ability to engage. That's why I'm not president, because we have term limits, and I'm really glad about that.
 I love the minority reports, which were so important on so many issues. I was really concerned before we entered today that it didn't seem like there was a definition of conflict of interest, but that has been resolved by some of the amendments. And the staff role in tracking the disclosures, which I hope is also made publicly available. And...
 the requirement to recuse, and we absolutely support the requirement that there is no discussion, because then you are able to influence people in a way that other people don't have access to, but you would be in a privileged position.
 I've been in meetings where people have voted to give themselves millions of dollars. It feels awful because it feels unethical because it is. And I've been very concerned that our laws haven't kept up with this. So I feel like this is so crucial because we should not be participating in such an unethical situation. Bad things happen when committee members focus mostly on their own profits rather than the public good.
 Rich developers will still vote to give themselves millions unless we have these rules in place, as they did on the West Quadrant SAC, as they did on the RIP SAC. Their votes to enrich themselves threaten hundreds of historic buildings and privatize iconic views at Salmon Springs and to and from the Vista Bridge and elsewhere.
 I think that people should be focusing on what's best for all of Portland and not just what will make them the most financially. I have a couple of suggestions to strengthen this resolution. Number one, there need to be consequences. Right now, I believe it's an over $1,000 fine to litter your cigarette. Okay.
 So we should at least have a consequence that, I mean, maybe you can build it in a way that is both carrots and sticks because there are ways to get compliance. But I feel like there must be consequences.
 And there needs to be a reporting mechanism for the general public so that when people, for example, saw the West Quadrant SAC members voting in their own financial interest, what mechanism would exist in order for the general public to weigh in on that? Thank you. And I've been asked by John Hollister to 
 Thank you for the opportunity. My name is Terry Parker. I'm a fourth-generation Portlander that's lived in the Rose City Park neighborhood most of my life.
 Frequently, I have labeled many of Portland's Citizens Advisory Committees as stacked decks, with the majority of seats at the table representing special interest agendas. A recent example of this trend was the Residential Infill Project Stakeholder Advisory Committee, organized under the auspices of then-Mayor Charlie Hales. This committee was heavily weighted with developer interests. The broad range of community interests were underrepresented. The committee embarked on a direction with end results that distinctly reflected developer objectives.
 Some of the comp plan stakeholder advisory committees also had a tendency to be slanted as to their focus and perspective. Where stacking the deck predominantly runs rampant is when it involves transportation issues. Although the citizen involvement may be equitably diverse as it relates to race and gender, stacking the deck has been all about fostering social engineering.
 No way does this represent an accurate makeup of the means by which the majority of people move about in Portland. Equity is discriminately absent as it relates to travel mode, where there are usually one or more seats at the table for all alternative modes, and while 75 to 80 percent of the trips in Portland are made by utilizing a car or truck,
 Most, if not all, PBOT committees are entirely deficient of specific representation for drivers who, through the gas tax, are the primary financial stakeholders for all transportation system projects. At the Planning and Sustainability Commission, one of the commissioners has a well-known reputation as one of the most voiceless car haters in the city.
 There is a multiplicity of types of equity. What other sector of city government wholly rebuffs and snubs physical stakeholder equity and representation? Citizen advisory bodies need to proportionally reflect the makeup of the community. At PBOT, that must include seats at the table that proportionately reflect the mode split, thereby including transport...
 taxpaying stakeholder motorists as opposed to just beneficiary non-tax mode representation. I support the intent of this resolution to clearly define transparency and accountability of city advisory bodies. What still made some work is to include language that requires all types of equity, and based on something that
 Commissioner, you daily said earlier, I think there needs to be a limit on the number of bodies that anyone individual can serve on at the same time. That will give more openings to the public. Thank you.
 If you'd like to read Mr. Hollister's, please, Dr. Prince. John Hollister asked me to read this, that he had to leave to attend a Prosper Portland meeting for the unreinforced masonry seismic upgrades. He looks forward to talking to you in the future about what seems to be a pattern on the advisory committees that he had dealt with. The things he's concerned with are the lack of committee transparency issues,
 the potential conflicts of interest by committee members, and the lack of public representation on committees. And by this, he said that he wants to see residents considered primary stakeholders, that right now the planning staff and other staff members and other bureaus determine that,
 the stakeholders are the people who have the most at stake financially. And land use rule number one requires citizen participation. It doesn't require giving the best access to the richest people. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Belky, thank you. So can I ask a question, Terry and Tracy? How long have you been on the 
 I know you're on the Rosewood neighborhood board for a long time. How long have you been on the Goose Hollow board? Five years. Five years? Okay. Does your board have term limits itself? Oh, yes. So I did three before, and then I'm on my  sorry, two before on my second three. I did a big break in the middle. And we have term limits. You cannot serve more than six years per board.
 on the Neighborhood Association. You cannot serve more than two years in executive position. Does Rose City Park have similar rules? Rose City Park doesn't have term limits, but we allow 25 board members, and I think we only have 16 now, so there's various openings. And if we got up to 25 and somebody really wanted to be on the board, we could probably accommodate that.
 I mean, there's no, as I say, there's no term limits. I guess I'm wondering, through this discussion, and maybe it's just a simple question, but does any of this that we're talking about apply to neighborhood organizations in terms of term limits? I wish it would. Okay.
 I wish all the conflicts of interest would apply to all business associations and neighborhood associations. But this proposal, I'm looking at Ms. Prosper. One of the things I will say about neighborhood associations, if you get very involved, there's an awful lot of work. Right, right, yeah. I mean, you can spend 40 or 50 hours. Yeah, and it's often thankless work. Not everybody wants to do that. Right, right.
 So we often hear some arguments against having term limits. Oh, there's nobody else to do the work. But inevitably, when we have two board positions to fill right now, and I thought, oh, my gosh, who will we get? But the more you knock on doors and the more you say, hey, we need some more people, you find them. And so I believe that when there are no term limits, it leads to sort of mini dictatorships, and the will of the people isn't reflected. Right.
 Thank you, Mr. Belkey. Thank you. It's your turn. So I guess I'd, well, I'll just leave it at maybe we should include those organizations in this resolution. Well, that would be very far reaching. I want to cut this off. Sorry. We'll get back to that later. Madam President, I do have a comment and a comment.
 response to Ms. Prince. Neighborhood associations are independent bodies and the city doesn't dictate what their bylaws are. So we could certainly make suggestions, but we're not exactly the boss of them. And as to your concerns about enforcing the standards like recusal, I wanted to let you know that there is language that states that
 that a person serves at the discretion of the commissioner or bureau director in charge. If staff tells us that a person serving on a public body is refusing to recuse themselves, they could be asked to leave. But beyond that, it does make sense to me that an enforcement process would be developed as part of the best practices for retention and recruitment. Thank you so much for pointing that out. And I think that's a good change that the commissioner should have.
 oversight over the people serving and that there shouldn't be this unlimited thing. On the neighborhood association issue, I know we want to move on, but you actually could say, and business associations, you actually could say,
 You will not receive city funding if you do not have a strict conflict of interest obligation. I'm telling you that because in our neighborhood association, we had to vote people out who were clearly stacking the board and trying to vote on their own financial interest rather than what was good for the whole neighborhood. Dr. Prince, let me just  I will look into that. I just want to say something. Commissioner Udeli just used an expression that brought back a flood of memories because I remember the first time.
 My now 13-year-old son, but I think it was when he was about eight, he said, you are not the boss of me. By that he meant I take orders from mom, not from you. So we had to have a little conversation. This question about whether we should have a similar set of guidelines and restrictions that apply to neighborhood associations and business associations, I'm certainly open to that conversation. There's a different legal architecture. I think in fairness, if we decide to do that,
 We should take it  this is a resolution today. We should take it up as a separate matter because I would want to give affected bodies a chance to weigh in on it. But I have no  I'm personally agnostic in terms of having that discussion.
 and if that's something that a colleague or two think is worthy of pursuing, I would suggest that be a complementary piece we do later. And I'm not suggesting that anyone's right to free speech is suppressed. They're always welcome to advocate for themselves, but not on the city dime. Thank you. Mr. Belkin, I really need to get off this conversation. One more comment I've got to make about the Neighborhood Association. No, actually, Mr. Parker, no. I would like you to please be quiet so that we can get on with the testimony. Thank you.
 Fishers, my name is Mark Belkey, and I live in the Goose Hollow area where I serve on the Goose Hollow Foothills League Neighborhood Association. I would like to thank Commissioners Fish and Fritz. Oh, I thought it was a green light. And you daily for bringing this resolution forward. It is a great step in the right direction, and I would hope that everyone else will also support it.
 I was very glad, as were many others, to hear Mayor Wheeler say these two things at the February 2016 Northwest Examiner Candidate Forum. His first quote was, "...to find out afterwards that an advisory committee was loaded or potentially stacked with people who have their own vested interests, that just should not be allowed to happen."
 And his second quote is, what we found with the West Quadrant Stakeholder Advisory Committee was someone could have a direct conflict of interest. They could personally financially benefit from the recommendations being made by that committee to city council. And yet the auditor found under the ethics law that they cannot actually have a direct conflict of interest. That's goofy to me.
 I agree with what the mayor said, and council should also add the changes that Dr. Prince suggested, so that this resolution can be even better. And I also think that the amendments that you are considering are all very good, particularly the last one from Commissioner Fritz. I do feel that this resolution can be tightened up and strengthened to make it even better, so please do that. Thank you.
 One thing I was a little confused on, I only had time to read the 31-page resolution once, and so far anyway, but it seems like the thing about Type 3 committees and commissions, the rules seem that they had a lot of loopholes in there. So I think Type 3 should have more rigorous requirements. I'm not an expert on that, but it just seems there's something wrong there, so I really wish if someone could look into that.
 So anyway, that's all I had. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Next, please. Daniel Solomon, Mary Seip, and Robert Wright. Mr. Sullivan, I believe you're first. Oh, you want me to go first? Sure. My name is Daniel Solomon. Thank you.
 I am a Section 8 renter in the central city. I couldn't believe that it was legal for West Quadrant Stockholder Advisory Committee members to vote to give themselves millions of dollars by raising heights on their own properties. I think they would spend a lot of time in jail if they did that in other states.
 It sounds like the mafia to me, but apparently this has been Portland's normal way of doing business for decades. It's easy to see why the Center for Public Integrity gave Oregon as an F rating in ethics. But I do want to say thanks for taking these amazing steps towards ethical government by requiring disclosures.
 Please vote for Commissioner Fish's amendment to make it illegal for committee members to vote to give themselves millions of dollars by voting on their own financial interests.
 Recent statistics show that Portlanders have a dramatic decline in their trust of local government. This is why. Voters don't like it when you allow rich developers to vote to give themselves millions of dollars as they did on the West Quadrant plant. This makes us distrust Portland's government and distrust our elected leaders.
 Requiring recusal goes beyond state ethics laws, but Portland often leads the way with progressive laws with the state. And I also want to say it was not just with the West Quadrant Plan, but also RPSAC. But again, I want to thank you for helping raise Oregon ethics ratings from an F.
 We got into this situation because city staff members believe that rich developers are the main stakeholders, not Portland's residents. If this resolution doesn't have a statement that residents are the primary stakeholders, then staff will still continue to think of stakeholders as those who have the most at stake financially. Okay.
 This violates land use goal number one, which requires citizens' participation, not just the richest citizens. We residents are the stakeholders who matter most. I'm a Section 8 renter. I'd like to know that my voice will be heard and that a rich developer doesn't have better access than I have to shaping city policies. Thank you for this wonderful resolution. Thank you. Ms. Seip?
 Hi, Mary Syke. I just want to say one thing. The standard application I think is a really great idea, but I'd also like to see something else standardized, and that is how announcements for vacant board positions are made. There does not seem to be any consistency in that. Recently with a board that I've been very involved with over the last three years,
 earlier this year had a board vacancy. And there was no announcement of it. Apparently they just took a qualified person from the last round and appointed them. And I think that's...
 Leaves for some kind of stacking of the deck, and I'd like to see perhaps you also address some consistency and standardization that any time there's a vacancy on any of these boards, that that be publicized and that a whole new application process is undertaken. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Half my time. That's all right.
 Thank you. My name is Robert Wright. I'm a proud native of Portland and have lived in the West End for over 11 years. Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fritz, thank you very much for your leadership to strengthen the transparency and accountability of city advisory bodies, and by direct extension, that of city government. Weakness in these fundamental pillars of good governance were identified and confirmed
 in the Central City 2035 planning process, but could have occurred in other advisory bodies. The public's trust in government from federal through the city levels is at low ebb across the nation. Portland must shed the weight of conflicts of interest, favoritism, hidden agenda, and the perception of good ol' boy decision making. Report and recuse must be the backbone of your proposed resolution.
 reporting financial interests, and recusal from voting on recommendations that may impact those interests. The Polar's resolution had, according to amendments, a chink in its armor, recusal from voting. As drafted, members could vote on recommendations that pose actual or potential conflicts of interest.
 Such voting must absolutely be prohibited and codified in Exhibit D under general operating procedures with the proviso that the entire vote on a recommendation will be null and void if later determined that interest-conflicted voting had taken place. Again, thank you for your hard work on this very important matter. Thank you for your patience in waiting to testify. Next ones, please. The last two I show are Margaret Noel and Roger Leachman.
 Good afternoon. Hello. Thank you for staying. Ms. Noel, would you like to go first, please? Yes. Commissioners, thank you for letting me testify. For the record, I'm Margaret Knoll. I'm representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. The League approves of many of the recommendations that were developed to improve transparency and accountability in city advisory bodies. However, we urge you to consider some changes to the bylaws template. Thank you.
 First, we believe that mandating term limits is a poor policy. We value the contributions of the experienced members who understand the complex issues advisory groups consider, as well as the fresh ideas offered by new members. Both viewpoints are needed. Thank you.
 We believe that each group should have the flexibility to shape its own policies on term limits. We strongly oppose mandatory two-year break after eight years of consecutive service. The selection process for members of the Citizen Review Committee...
 is an example of one way to foster diversity and fresh perspectives, but retain expertise in a group without term limits. CRC members serve staggered terms of three years, at which time they must reapply and be reappointed or replaced. The decision depends on which appointments will cause the CRC to best reflect the makeup of the community.
 CRC members are replaced if there is another nominee whose participation would improve the diversity of the CRC. We recommend that the uniform bylaws template should offer other advisory bodies the ability to adopt a process like this.
 Regarding disclosures of conflict of interest, we certainly agree that financial conflicts must be disclosed. However, we also believe that such conflicts of interest should not require recusal because the advisory bodies do not make the final decisions. They are not the decision makers.
 Instead, we recommend adding to the bylaws template a requirement that all formal correspondence from an advisory body should include, as an attachment, the names, affiliations, and other connections of all the members of the advisory group, and a record of how each of these members voted on any recommendations."
 Information on the backgrounds and interests of all members as entered in their applications should be public.
 Although this information may be included in the group's minutes and other records, it would be easier for commissioners and the public to find it if it is sent with the group's recommendation. And incidentally, I totally agree with the idea that these groups should be balanced. They should include a lot of public involvement and that they need to have citizens who live in the community who volunteer in the community represented. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Leachman, you have the last word. Commissioners, my name is Roger Leachman. I am resident on Southwest Vista, and I serve on the board of the Goose Hollow Foothills League. I think it is salutary to consider why we are here and why this matter is before council. A little over two years ago,
 a group of ordinary citizens resident in Goose Hollow, the Pearl, the Northwest District, and downtown filed an ethics complaint with the ombudsman. I don't need to rehearse that history to you. You know it. They were undoubtedly whistleblowers. Sometimes, certainly not always, whistleblowing results in actions to address the concerns raised. Accordingly, I too was heartened over a year ago
 by the Mayor's remarks at the Candidates' Forum, which Mark Belkey has quoted to you. And I am more pleased than I can say that you are moving forward. But it is important to say that the actions contemplated here derive from grassroots action by citizens, abetted by one courageous journalist. And it would not otherwise be happening, a very American story.
 Whistleblowing and citizen advocacy have their hazards, ranging from character assassination to reprisals and lawsuits. The former is the first line of attack, as it is the first symptom of the kill-the-messenger syndrome. It's on display in the op-ed by Neighbors West Northwest President Felicia Williams in yesterday's Tribune. Both the citizen group and my own neighborhood association are denigrated.
 We're now used to that in Goose Hollow, as we have many pages of the like from her going back a long time. You probably don't want to, you probably want to pass on going through those, and it would be tedious. So I presume that you can see beyond an attempt like this to marginalize Portland citizens and their advocacy.
 And I'm sure you will, and I'm sure the general citizens of Portland see through it. There's a famous phrase that I encountered as an undergraduate in the civil rights movement decades ago. It became the title of a PBS series. Keep your eyes on the prize. Do that.
 This prize is ensuring robust ethical standards, accountability, and transparency, and thereby restoring trust in city processes, which had been strained to the breaking point. I second Tracy's testimony, and there's little point in repeating it since it's on record now. If you heed her suggestions, you will make all progress
 The work you've done, and I applaud the commissioners for that work, move us further along the path to the prize. Thank you. Thank you very much. With that, we're going to close public testimony. So I have a suggestion, Madam President, and thank you for all the testimony. First of all, I have run out of gas, so I have to just tell you that in a few minutes I have to head home. It's been a very long day and actually an outstanding day. Number two.
 The mayor would like to be heard on the question of recusal. It's a significant policy question. Number three, we now have on the question of recusal three distinct proposals before the council. One is reflected in the resolution, which tracks state law. A second is reflected in Commissioner Udaly's amendment, which would mandate recusal. And the third is represented in Commissioner Fritz's amendment, which would go further and prohibit
 participation. I came into this hearing with an open mind about where I would land, and I found the testimony quite compelling. And I can't tell you right now where I'm going to land, but what I would benefit from is the chance to meet with Judy when she's healthy and to go over just the legal landscape so I understand the intended and unintended consequences
 I want to better understand the concern raised by the League of Women Voters, who in their testimony have said they do not support going beyond state law. I want to understand why and how they get to that point. And so my suggestion, if it's acceptable to the council, is that we vote on Fritz I, Fish I, and Fish II, and then adopt the resolution as amended, with the proviso that in three weeks a resolution will come to council with a recusal proposal.
 for discussion and debate, as early as three weeks, it's whatever the will of the council, at which case we could take up as a separate resolution that question and just decide it and have the benefit of the briefings on the interim so that the council, a full council could decide that question, and we have three distinct choices. So that's my proposal. Thank you, Commissioner.
 We just, before everybody gets packed up, we have one more item left on the regular agenda, which is an emergency item. So I would ask you not to pack up quite as quickly, but it'll only take five minutes. I guess I would echo what Commissioner Fish just suggested. But I guess I would like to go further and say that I'd like some more time to think about the term limit question in light of the League's testimony. Thank you.
 Well, the resolution that could be brought back to council could be amended by anyone at that hearing. So my intent would be to bring a clean recusal resolution to council and then allow the council to deliberate that if any amendment would be in order. And, you know, for me, my preference would be in three weeks because that's one of my golden weeks, and the next would be six weeks, but it's up to the council. But I see no reason why we couldn't bring it back in three weeks. Okay.
 and have it even a time certain. Adopt everything else today because a lot of hard work has gone into it, and then make sure the council is clear about the alternatives when we come back, and it just addressed recusal, which I think is a compelling issue that needs us to address. And is everybody else comfortable voting on Fritz 1 and Fish 1 and 2? Yes. Okay, so please call the roll on Fritz 1, which is about minority reports. Eudaly? Aye.
 Fish. I think it's a terrific amendment. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Thank you. Please call the roll on fish one, which is... The restrictions on talking to the press. Right. Deleting those. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish two has to do with something that was...
 suggested by Dr. Prince about keeping records of recusals. And however we end up on the actual policy, we would certainly want the record to be kept, so I think that's fairly non-controversial. If you could call the roll on Fish 2, please. Udaly. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. So I move the resolution. If I might suggest that we just move it over for three weeks rather than passing something that we are going to amend.
 Yeah. That's fine. The mayor's gone in three weeks. That's the- Or maybe four weeks? Five. Five?
 The 1st of November or the 8th of November, I'd show everybody in right now. I'm just thinking, if I... Since we've closed public testimony, I don't think we do need to put it as a time certain, so let's have our schedulers look at that. The one, if we did adopt the resolution... I see, but if we did adopt the resolution today, staff could start working on the various pieces, and we have clearly signaled that the question of recusal is an open question.
 And I would think just to honor all the hard work if we adopt the resolution with an understanding that we will take up recusal as a freestanding issue. Colleagues? Commissioner Daly? Yeah. And I check with legal counsel. I'd prefer to wait. I don't see the harm. I mean, like I said, there was some good testimony from the League of Women Voters. I'd like some more time to ponder what they said.
 in the context of my final vote on the resolution. So, yeah, I want some more time. And I think it's fairly clear to staff who are here and to everybody what points we have concerns about and what points we don't. So that doesn't  unless you have a comment, Commissioner Eudaly, since it's currently the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. I mean, it's just that it would be nice to get going on this. It's a long time coming, and it's a lot of work. Well, if  so 
 I think staff is now clear we're going to move forward with this. If we could have this come back in four weeks. As a time certain? Or it doesn't have to be a time certain. I think it does make sense. Yeah, everybody's here. That would be November 1st. Okay. Let's do that. That work for you, Commissioner Fish? Madam President, could we each take one minute just to make a comment because we may lose some people? Certainly, but do remember I need you to stay for the next item. Oh, right. I've got one more item. Which is 1102. I'll stay. Thank you.
 Go ahead. I just want to, because we're going to obviously lose some people, I want to thank all the members of the public who pushed this issue and helped shape this proposal. And I agree with the last person who testified about the power of grassroots advocacy. I want to thank all of the professional staff people who worked on this, particularly Judy Prosper.
 who is here not feeling well and who really has been indispensable in working this, but all the folks on our panel. I want to thank Amira Streeter and, in particular, and the rest of my team for the work they've put into it. And most especially, I want to thank all my colleagues.
 We do our best work when we engage the public as full partners. We do our best work as colleagues when we listen to each other and engage each other and try to reach consensus. And I'm very proud of a whole series of decisions this council has made in the last few months. It's an honor to serve on this council. So thank you, everybody, who has brought us to this moment. And we have one final issue to resolve, and we have a clear roadmap of the different options.
 And I look forward to calling that question on November 1st. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you. Commissioner Salsman? No comment? I mean, I do have a closing statement, but I was assuming that we'd be passing it. So should I save it for later? I'm going to save it for later. I do want to thank Judy and Brian Hoop and Ashley in particular for working so hard on this. And I will save the rest of my thank yous for November 1st, I guess. Yeah.
 I would add my thanks to those that already have spoken, also Claire Adamsick on my staff, and there's been some really good staff conversations on this issue. It's obviously dear to my heart, and I can't help comment that many of the people who yell at us about our public process are not here participating in the very difficult work of figuring out what that public process should be. So thank you to those who are, especially due to the late hour.
 With that, we will move because we're not voting on anything else. Thank you very much. I hope you feel better soon, Ms. Prosper. 1102 was the last item of the day. I hope you agree with that. Is that right, Carla?
 1102, authorize a five-year price agreement with Relay Resources for janitorial services at multiple Portland parks and recreation locations for a contractual total not to exceed $5,495,216.
 Thank you. I told staff from Parks that they did need to stay because it's very straightforward in the ordinance. This clean, welcoming facilities are an ancestral part of Portland Parks and Recreation's ability to provide exemplary customer service and employee working conditions. By Oregon state law, if Portland Parks and Recreation chooses to contract for janitorial services, the Bureau must award a contract to a qualified rehabilitation facility.
 Qualified rehabilitation facilities organizations provide disabled individuals, people with disabilities or experiencing disabilities, with opportunities to achieve personal independence through productive, gainful employment.
 Using the Department of Administrative Services established procedure for requesting proposals from and selecting a qualified rehabilitation facility firm, Portland Parks and Recreation has selected Relay Resources, formerly known as Portland Habilitation Centre Northwest, to provide janitorial services for multiple sites, including community centres, offices and maintenance facilities.
 Does anybody have any questions on that from the council? Move this by acclamation. Does anybody want to testify on this? No, we're tied up. Seeing none, let's please vote on it. Udaly? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Thank you to all my colleagues. Thank you to this, the attorney. Thank you to the council clerk. This has been a very long day, but we got through it. Aye. Thank you, Madam President. I love Madam President. I love Madam President. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know.